Morning
04 04 1938

The third session of the Conference was held Monday morning, April 4, at 10 o'clock a. m., President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The musical numbers for this session of the Conference were furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice." Elder Joseph Williams, President of the Blackfoot Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

"The Lord's Prayer," (Forsyth-Dews) , was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We appreciate very deeply indeed our Singing Mothers coming here this morning and furnishing us the music. The singing of oui good sisters is under the direction of Sister Charlotte O. Sackett. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege I have of attending this wonderful Conference of his Church. As I sat upon my seat during the sessions of the Conference of the Church yesterday I thought to myself : Is there another place in all the world where a congregation such as this gathers, with one thought in mind, with a devout faith in God our Eternal Father, and with all of the Priesthood, and with all of the joy that comes to him or her who serves the Lord, knowing that he has established his Church in this dispensation, and that we are members of that Church. 

USE OF CIGARET CONDEMNED 

We all have our faults, some more than others. I sometimes think that among the growing faults, of a few at least, of the members of our Church, is the use of tobacco. In a speech I delivered in the United States Senate on June 10, 1929, I called attention to the baneful effects of the use of tobacco, and particularly on the youth and womanhood of our nation. The reason I decided to deliver that speech was what I had witnessed, as to the use of tobacco by women, not only in Washington, but wherever I went. 

At that time it was not so universal, I was going to say, but perhaps I had better modify that and say that the practice had not reached the length that it has today. In that speech I condemned the insidious cigaret advertising campaign that so often appears in the press of our nation, promoted by tobacco manufacturers and their interests, whose only god is profit, whose only thought is the balance sheet, and whose only principle is greed. And above all, I denounced the unconscionable, heartless, and destructive attempts to exploit the women and youth of our country. 

I saw a statement in a New York paper the other day, in which statistics were given regarding the use of tobacco and the amount that was consumed in the United States, and also the purposes for which it was used. I was dumbfounded when I noticed in that report that the women of this country are consuming or smoking a large part of all the cigarets that are manufactured and sold in our nation. 

I am going to try to learn if I can if that practice reaches beyond the shores of our own dear country. I wonder if the women of the world — I mean of the great countries of the world, the civilized countries — are using that dirty, nasty weed as much as are the women of our own dear United States. 

Years ago in the larger cities of our nation saloons nourished on the principal corners, but at that time no tobacco manufacturer had the temerity to cry to our women : "Smoke cigarets, they are good for you." The human appetite is a delicate mechanism, and the attempt to urge 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

that it be destroyed by the regular use of tobacco is essentially wicked. The number of cigarets manufactured in the United States in the year 1913 was 13,000,247,891, and for the year 1928, 102 billion. During those thirteen years the use of cigarets in our own dear America had increased nearly 900%. The cost of our public schools, elementary, secondary, and collegiate, in the year 1926 was $2,255,251,557. The amount expended during that same year for tobacco was $2,087,000,000, or nearly as much as the United States spent for educational purposes on her children and men and women, in the primary schools, in the high schools, in the colleges, and wherever education was given. Is not this a sad picture ? And it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that when it is called to the attention of the people, particularly our people, there should be a reformation. And if what I say here today brings about a reformation, small or large, I will thank my Heavenly Father for it. 

SCRIPTURAL PASSAGES 

I had prepared at my office some of the wonderful statements found in the Bible and other publications of a religious nature, and I took particular pains to copy some that appealed to me personally, and I think they ought to appeal to every honest man and woman in the world : 

Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue. (Psalms 120:2.) 

He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life : but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. (Proverbs 13:3.) 

Death and life are in the power of the tongue : and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. (Proverbs 18:21.) 

The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. (Proverbs 18:8.) 

Who steals my purse steals trash, * * * but he who filches from me my good name robs me of that which not enriches him, and makes me poor indeed. (Shakespeare.) 

There are so many of them. I love to study them. I love to take the Bible and turn to the two pages that I have here of similar quotations, all beautiful in expression and Godlike in purpose. 

SAFETY IN LIVING THE GOSPEL 

My brethren and sisters, I thought yesterday as I sat upon this platform looking over that mass of men and women who believe in the revelations that God gave to the Prophet Joseph, who believe in all of our Articles of Faith (and there is no reason for mentioning them because you are all acquainted with them), I thought that if we live by these things and by the examples of the Authorities of the Church since its establishment by Joseph Smith the Prophet we shall not go very far wrong in this life. 

May God give us strength to live our religion, not only talk about it, but live it, and live it every day. If we do we shall never have any . And another thing, we shall win the respect of people not of our faith when they see we live what we preach. 

May God be with us with his Holy Spirit and bless our families and our loved ones; may his Church grow and increase in numbers and in power, just as fast as our Heavenly Father sees that the people are qualified to carry on to greater heights. 

God bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been on the anxious seat since Sunday morning, and now that I am standing on my feet I do not seem to get very much relief. I think we have had a marvelous Conference — one of the best in all that have gone before. The attendance has been very great. We could have used two Tabernacles the size of this to accommodate the people, but of course we have to do the best we can under the circumstances. 

My thoughts during the last day or two have been running along the line of President Grant's opening remarks, Brother Merrill's talk yesterday and the address given by Brother Smoot today. 

daniel's prediction 

In the early rise of the Church divine authority was given to Joseph Smith, a young man, through the ministration of angels, by which he was authorized to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and this was done in conformity, apparently, with the great prediction made by Daniel the prophet centuries ago, that in the latter days the God of heaven would set up a kingdom which would never be thrown down or given to other people, but should stand forever. 

It seems to me that that was a very remarkable prediction. That kingdom did not have its commencement upon the earth, it came down from above, from the God of heaven. 

LAWS OF FINANCE AND HEALTH 

Early in our experience the Lord gave two very important laws to his Church. One might be designated, properly, as the law of finance, and the other the law of health. And following this many precious and great revelations were given to the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith for its consolation and instruction, but I am prompted right now to go back and dwell for a few moments on those two great laws. 

One law — the law of finance — is known to the Church as the law of tithing, but it means the same thing. No church can prosper, or survive, without some such law as we have. 

The other law, designated as the law of health, is the Word of Wisdom, and this law applies particularly to the individual members of the Church. One law upholds the Church and the other law is given for the temporal salvation of the individual members thereof. 

When the Eighteenth Amendment was repealed, the States of the 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

Union spent very freely of their revenue for hard liquors and for beer, and, as we heard from Brother Smoot here today, vast quantities of tobacco were consumed at an enormous expense, and, sad to relate, our own beloved State of Utah was no exception to the rule. 

COST OF LIQUOR CONSUMED 

It appears, my brethren and sisters, that, as an example, in the year 1937 hard liquor was consumed in the State of Utah to the amount of $4,047,000 in round numbers, and for beer, $4,535,000 in round numbers, and for cigarets, $2,687,000 — giving a total of $11,235,000 invested in these articles that I have mentioned, which articles, if used extensively, sap the very life and spirit of the children of men and work untold suffering and injury. These figures have been given to the people in the public press and were taken from the records of the State. The total, that I have given you does not include cigars and other forms of tobacco or bootleg liquor. I am sure it would be interesting to you to know what the actual purchasing power of $11,235,000 is. I can give you an example that will bring the matter pretty clearly before you. 

With $11,235,000, five temples, each costing $1,200,000, or a total of $6,000,000, could be constructed; forty meeting houses at $50,000 each, making $2,000,000; one thousand homes of $3,000 each, making $3,000,000, and 470,867 paid names in temple work, which is $235,000, making a total, as I have said, of $11,235,000. 

It would also give employment to at least 9,750 men on the construction of these buildings alone, not counting those employed in steel mills, in mines, lumber industries and factories. A half -acre lot included with each of the above mentioned homes would insure the owner against hunger and want. To work in the temples and receive the remuneration of fifty cents per name would give our aged brethren and sisters a feeling of independence and self respect in addition to the joy and satisfaction they would experience in performing a work of that nature. 

The above sum of $11,235,000, if placed at 5% interest, would yield $56,162 per annum — enough to provide employment for twenty-six men at a wage of $6.00 a day, three hundred sixty-five days per year. This is simply a sample of what might be accomplished with the large sum of money that goes for the purchase of these forbidden things so far as the Latter-day Saints are concerned. 

FOREWARNED BY THE LORD 

The Lord perceived from the beginning that there was danger in the articles that are listed here, and so he gave a charge to his people; he warned them and forewarned them of the danger. He knew what the danger was, but he did not point it out. It appeared to him sufficient that he should tell his people that strong drink is not good for the body, that it is not good to be used internally nor externally. It might* be used in some cases for the washing of the body, but should not be used internally; and the Lord, pointing to tobacco, said it was not good for the use of man in any way, but could be used for sick cattle and otherwise if great care were taken. 

How merciful and gracious is our Heavenly Father to give this word of caution and advice and counsel to his people at a time when the real danger in these articles was not widely known. But science has confirmed the Word of Wisdom to this people. We know now where the danger is. We know that in tobacco there is a deadly poison. The Lord did not mention that, but learned men of our day, great practitioners, make this statement, that nicotine in tobacco is a dangerous poison, and that a very little of it in concentrated form would actually destroy the life of a man or a woman. 

The Lord not only points out the evils connected with our living, but also points out things that would be good for us, and altogether this short revelation covers a wide range. It is truly a law of health and those who observe to keep this Word of Wisdom will realize a blessing from it. 

The law is not only of a temporal character but is also spiritual in its operation. 

BENEFITS FROM OBSERVING LAW OF TITHING 

And now in respect to the law of tithing let me say it is about the shortest revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants — just a few words only. But in those few words is expressed the mind and will of the Lord concerning the matter of finance as affecting his Church. I am safe in saying, my brethren and sisters, that if the Latter-day Saints as a Church and as a people would observe this law strictly and pay an honest tithing, there would be sufficient means in the hands of the Trustee-intrust of the Church for every purpose and would cover all our expenses. The only danger, I think, would then be that this people would rapidly become wealthy in the things of the earth, and in that case we would do well to remember the solemn warning given the Nephites when they had all things in common. They increased in riches and in the fine things of the earth until it affected their lives and they became proud and high minded and separated themselves one from another into classes, and finally were destroyed by the spirit of rebellion and wickedness. 

Let me call your attention to this fact in closing, brethren and sisters : When we pay to the Lord his part of our revenue, which is 10%, he does not take it up into heaven. The tithing is turned over to his servants on earth and goes into the treasury or storehouse of the Lord and later it is dispensed again and comes back to the people of his Church. Thus we get it all anyhow and the Church has the benefit of the full amount, but 10% the Lord claims and that should go into his storehouse. This is certainly an interesting phase of the payment of tithes. 

I wish to bear my testimony. I know without equivocation or mental reservation that this is the true Church of the Redeemer, the Church of Christ, the Firstborn, and that membership in this Church is very precious. We who have it must guard it very carefully, make every needful sacrifice and pay to the Lord what belongs to him, and in return his blessing will be given to us. God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

An anthem "The Twenty-third Psalm", (Frank Schubert) was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I sincerely trust, my dear brethren and sisters, that I may make some contribution to this wonderful Conference, which I have enjoyed greatly. 

THE VISION NECESSARY 

It is written of old that where there is no vision, the people will perish. Our fathers had a vision of this work, that inspired them to leave their native homes, in the main in the old world countries. They crossed the plains with a distinct vision of an objective to obtain. We must not lose that vision or we shall perish. Whoever does lose that vision will naturally step aside and desert the great procession. The people will never lose the vision. Some may, but the majority will keep their eye upon the goal. 

AMERICA A CHOICE LAND 

I remember, years ago, being greatly impressed as I read a book written by an eminent authority, a Jew, Israel Zangwell, in which he called America the "melting pot of the nations." He saw coming to this land peoples of all other countries, and under our Constitution and our glorious privileges in America the mixing of the blood of the nations, providing a new race of people in the earth, the American, rich in physical strength, in beauty, in intelligence and leadership. 

I am sure he was right in offering his thought that America would provide a new race, produced under the most favorable circumstances that people have ever known in the earth, which are the conditions that obtain in America, the choice land — the old Book of Mormon prophets called it — choice above all other lands. 

When I think that today one-sixteenth of the world's population lives in these United States, and we have only one-seventeenth of the world's land, yet are producing almost one-half of the world's wealth, and there are no peoples in any other land, whether they be farmers, common laborers, or mechanics or artisans, whose average income is as high as the average income of the families of the United States, I repeat, it is a choice land. 

THE BLOOD OF ISRAEL 

But I am thinking of a superfine melting pot, if you please, that is going forward in America, wherein a very choice stock has been introduced, the blood of Israel, the children of the promise. You remember the old prophets foreshadowed the scattering of Israel, how they should be sifted among the nations, and yet should be gathered again. 

I read an article also some time ago in which the author, discussing the question — Are the Jews the chosen people of God? — granted that they had the right to expect the realization of all the promises offered to their father, Judah; but, said he, "when they aspire to the realization of the great promises bestowed upon Judah's brother, Joseph, they aspire to that which does not belong to them." And then he concluded : "If only somewhere in the world today we could find the descendants of this Joseph, we would indeed find the chosen people of God." 

Have they been found? Yes. It has been the declaration of this people, for more than a hundred years, that the mission of this Church was to find the blood of Joseph, through Ephraim, sifted among the nations of the earth, and for more than a hundred years we have been finding them, one of a city, two of a family, one here and one there, even as the prophets said they would be found, at the cry : "Come out of her," (out of Babylon) "O ye, my people, that ye be not partakers of her plagues." We have been gathering them up from the nations of the earth. 

I read with interest the investigations of the British Israel movement, which seeks to establish the fact that the founders of the British Empire were these descendants of Joseph. They give some very good evidences, and it is not difficult for me to believe that this branch of Israel did play a conspicuous part in the founding of the British Empire; but when they have proven their case they will discover that while that blood was there a large part of it has left England and is here in America. They have lost it. It has come to its own, to the land of Joseph, for Joseph's branch would go over the wall (the ocean) to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills. 

GATHERING PLACE IN WESTERN AMERICA 

This is the land of Joseph. Some twenty-eight thousand converts to the Church, in the hundred years of the preaching of the Gospel in England, have come into the fold in that land, and most of them have come to America. Also from the Scandinavian countries, from the central countries of Europe, from Germany and Holland and Switzerland, they have come in great numbers. This choice stock has responded to the Gospel appeal, to the highest standards that have ever been offered to man, and they have been brought to America. 

They were not left, like many of the poorer emigrants, in the congested centers of the East, but by the devotion and self-sacrifice of our fathers they were brought into this western land, where the old prophets saw them. For in the last days the mountain of the Lord's house was to be established in the tops of the mountains, and all nations, or people of all nations, were to flow unto it. This is the place, and here we came, willingly, because we had to. So we are here, in the right place. 

And what for? To obtain the natural advantages of America? Yes, and to have some superior advantages, advantages of leadership. We have the protection and blessing that comes through the Constitution and the government of this country, through the wealth of the soil. 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

These are ours. And here we mingle and mix the blood of the nations, the choice blood of the nations, the descendants of Joseph producing here, for that is the purpose, the greatest race of men and women that have ever lived, under the most ideal conditions. And what for? Great are those objectives. 

TIMES OF THE GENTILES 

Our mission of gathering this branch of the house of Israel from the Gentile nations was to be accomplished during the "times of the Gentiles." One of our revelations says, that the generation that saw the light break forth would see the close of the times of the Gentiles. When that is accomplished then cometh the day for the rest of the house of Israel. We are not to be alone. You Latter-day Saints must prepare yourselves to become the saviors of all the rest of the house of Israel; even as Joseph saved them long ago, you are to save them, and their day is dawning. 

GATHERING OF THE JEWS 

I look to the Jew. Notwithstanding all his distress and peril through the ages that have passed, he seems to be in another peril, and yet I see the hand of God in it. He was to go to his native land, to the land of promise for Judah, to the Holy Land, and they are going, though many of them are going as our fathers came west — willingly because they had to. Even Hitler is used as an instrument, in the hands of God, of driving them where the Lord wants them. 

Oh you, our half brothers, Oh, that I could speak to you and your hearts could feel it and know that God has not forsaken you! Your hour is coming. Your deliverance is at hand. Do not complain, but be patient, and go where the Lord wants you, for he yet will redeem you. Your hour is dawning. Let there be no doubt about it. 

I would like our Jewish brethren to know that Moses has appeared in this generation and in the Kirtland Temple delivered the keys of the gathering of Israel to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that an Apostle of this dispensation has blessed the land of Palestine for the return of the Jews. We are confident that this blessing will be realized. 

DESCENDANTS OF LEHI 

To the descendants of Father Lehi, who have suffered so long, for whom we received the precious record of the Book of Mormon,- —  it did not come to us for our sake, it was committed into our hands to hold in custody for these millions who are in Mexico, Central America and South America — their day must come. It is coming, and I see the hand of God preparing for their deliverance. But you, you must lead the way. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS TO BE LEADERS 

The distresses that are in northern Europe, in Russia, are only the prelude to the day of deliverance, for great hosts of Israel, of other , are in that north land. Their day will come, but you must lead the way. Your mission is to be the redeemer and pilot and guide for these hosts of Israel. 

We also have a mission to prepare ourselves, through subscribing to the principles of this Gospel, to become the light of the world, the very salt of the earth, in a day when men will lose faith in God, and even the mission of Jesus Christ will be questioned. Your mission is, therefore, to indeed arise and shine. We plead with you to subscribe to these Gospel standards, because they are the rules we must subscribe to, if we shall be worthy to come to live in the presence of God. 

A KING IN PROCESSION 

I was deeply impressed, at the funeral of the late King George of England, by an incident that happened when the kings of Europe came to do him homage. Among them was a European king who the night before had imbibed too much bad English whiskey. He was not on his feet and ready to join the procession the next morning, and an English masseur was sent to work with him and put him in condition. But he was not ready when finally the procession moved, and the English masseur was pressed to hold an unsteady king on his feet. A moving picture was taken of it, and in identifying these kings they could not discover which king this was, with his duffy hat on, with his sweater coat protruding below his other coat, and a pair of white duck pants on. Then they found he was not a king at all, not fit to be with kings. He did not know the rules of the game, and had not the honor and the right. 

I said to myself : How many of us would be fit to walk with the kings and know their rules, their etiquette, their customs ? We would need a good deal of training to be a lady or a gentleman in the presence of an earthly king, and yet we aspire to come into the presence of the Great King! Surely not without preparation! That is what life is for; that is what this Gospel is for. 

THE STRAIT GATE AND THE NARROW WAY 

There came a time, in the mission of the Christ, when he saw great multitudes turn away from him, and he turned to his disciples and said : "Will you go also ?" And the answer : "It is pretty hard, the things you ask us to do, but thou hast the words of eternal life. We know that. Hard as it is, whither shall, we go ?" And then one of the disciples said : "If men have to subscribe to these requirements, are there then to be only a few who shall be saved?" And he answered them: "Strait is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth to life." He meant life in the celestial kingdom, in the presence of God, "and few there be that find it; but broad is the way and wide is the gate that leadeth to death" — the loss of that celestial exaltation — "and many there be who go in thereat." 

We have found the strait gate, the narrow way, the divine authority to pilot men and women in that way. All these things we ask of the Second Day 

Latter-day Saints, whether it be subscribing to the Word of Wisdom, the payment of their tithing, keeping themselves clean and undefiled from the world, are to fit and train and prepare ourselves to walk through the strait gate and the narrow way to that exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God. 

To learn how to live in the presence of the King, that is the mission of this Church in training and preparing men and women. It is the great goal and objective. It is not practicing self-denial just because we are asked to do it, but it is to prepare for eternal living and exaltation. When we do this we shall become the very light of the world. 

God help us to keep our eyes upon these great objectives, which we never shall reach unless we pay the price of subscribing to these requirements of the Gospel, and learning to like it and to live it and to find joy in it. 

God help us in the struggle. God keep before us ever the distant goal; give us the courage to rally our wayward, faltering ones — this is the mission for this Church, not to be like the world, but to become the light of the world — I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers and the congregation sang the hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." 

I am very pleased, my brethren and sisters, that I am permitted to stand before you again, enjoying the measure of health and strength God has given unto me. He has been very kind to me in the matter of health and strength, for there have been very few occasions when I have been deprived of the privilege of doing my daily turn. 

However, there are other things for which I am equally thankful and grateful. Health and strength, so much as we value them, and the power to do, as important as it is, I think, by me, would be little appreciated if I did not have the wonderful associations and surroundings with which I am blessed. I believe that if I had to go off and work by myself, even though I might work from before daylight until after dark, I would get little joy and little pleasure and little profit out of it. 

My joy comes from the privilege of working with my fellows. I am truly thankful that my associates are numbered among the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful that my grandfathers, on both sides of my house, saw fit to embrace the truth and come out of the world to the West, along with the membership of this great Church; that they had a faith so true that it led them to pull up the stakes which they had driven so deeply, and start again in a new country. I thank the Lord that that faith remained with them and ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

 them through to the end of their lives, and I pray that God will so bless me that I may carry that faith in my heart every day that I live; that I shall have a desire to serve Him in righteousness, as I know that I should. 

This is a troublous time and the world is sick. If we can read the* newspapers and rely upon what they tell us, the world is sick and needs a physician. Men are wondering what is wrong, arid how we can correct it. I believe that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has within it the power which, if it were applied to the world at large, would solve all those problems. 

I thank God that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not a political organization; that its members, in affairs ecclesiastical, are not torn by party politics; that they have a common motive of union and unity of purpose which enables them to overcome the bickerings, the jealousies of politics. It will never be, perhaps, that the nations of the world will not be governed by politics, but I would that God might grant that those who determine the politics of those nations might be touched just a little in their hearts by his Spirit, that love and the interests of one's fellows might, in a tiny degree at least, supplant the avarice and the greed and the jealousies that dominate those organizations, so that the Spirit of God might enter in and might lead in the councils of government and committees which represent governments. If it could, it would be a simple matter to recognize the principles of truth and justice that underlie, or should underlie all government. I thank God that we have in this Church those basic principles. 

A man prominent in the philosophy of the world was invited recently to this State to talk to the people on the troubles of the day, and one thought that I got out of his talk was his definition of democracy. He undertook to tell us that democracy does not consist in a set of rules which provide for the election of representatives of the people, whom we name presidents and senators and representatives, but democracy is a condition of the heart; democracy consists in the recognition, on the part of one person, of the rights of another, and the thought that the common good is the determining principle, or should be, in all government; that men who are placed in prominent positions to direct the destinies of people derive that right from the voice of the people. In other words, that the people is sovereign, and the ruler is the servant of the people. 

Our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, taught that when he said : "He that is greatest among you shall be your servant." Verily this is true. 

Democracy is the underlying principle, when it comes to government in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I have stood in this pulpit before and stressed the fact that that democracy is represented in the Priesthood of the Church of God. 

Another man was imported, just recently, to talk to us, a prominent man, an analyst, a student of the times, and he gave as his remedy for the ills of the present day an increase in faith. It was extremely gratifying to me to hear that man say that faith in God would cure our ills, and verily that also is true. I find that condition existing in this Church, and 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

I believe that this quality of faith is the purest and the best that can be found in the world. 

Give me a body of men and women who actually believe that they have a Father in Heaven, in whose likeness they are fashioned, who is actually in control of the destinies of men, and who has a real interest in the accomplishments of his people, and I will give you a people who are willing to go to the end of the road to serve that kind of a Father. 

That is the faith that exists in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We believe verily that when the Prophet Joseph Smith told the world that he had seen God, that God and Jesus Christ were similar beings, and that we are fashioned in their image, he told the truth. Jesus Christ told his followers he would build his church upon the revelation to them of that truth that Jesus was the Son of God. So long as we can keep uppermost in our hearts that testimony, can actually believe in God, our Heavenly Father, and sincerely believe as we do that we have been commissioned to serve his purposes in connection with mankind, we will serve him in righteousness, to the best of our ability. 

Now, there is perhaps too great a lack of service on the part of all of us. I wish that I could serve with greater fidelity the ideals that I have in this respect. I wish that I had a stronger and firmer faith in my own ability to remain firm to my present convictions to the end of my days. I have a faith that God will never desert us, that his promises are real and true, and if we can live up to that faith, and keep it ever bright and green in our hearts, so that it will be the motivating power in our lives, I have no question as to the ultimate result and end of our activities. 

I have faith in God. I have faith in my brethren who constitute the Church .of God, and in their wives and daughters, the women of this Church. I do not know but that the time may come when this body of people will be the nucleus around which this faith will have to crystallize itself to save the civilization of the world. 

Now, we have a great charge and a great duty. Let us prove true to it. Let us dedicate every day of our lives to the service of God and our fellow men, and he will bless us, — bless us beyond our anticipations, bless us with glories that are greater than the accumulation of riches, of many houses and many herds and many flocks. That this may be our happy lot, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

of the Council of the Twelve 

It is my desire, if the Lord approve, to discuss one of the best known principles of the Gospel. It is good at times to review that which we know well. I have in mind the doctrine that only when knowledge is properly used does it become serviceable in promoting human welfare. 

SORROWS AND JOYS MINGLED 

One hundred years ago, the Church, which was then operating in Ohio, and Missouri, was, as it were, on trial for its life. The year 1838  a fateful one. Persecution raged until men's hearts failed them; trusted members of the Church, holding high positions, turned away from the Church and in some cases betrayed their brethren. But, at the same time noble spirits, were found to take the vacant places; two men were then called to the apostleship, were later called to the Presidency of the Church; unexampled acts of courage were performed by the Priesthood; revelations of marvelous value were received by the Church. It was a year of sorrow and also of joy. 

OLIVER COWDERY AND DAVID WHITMER 

Perhaps the event of that troubled year which gave keenest sorrow was the loss of Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer from the membership roll of the Church — two of the three original witnesses to the Book of Mormon, men held in high esteem by the Church. Oliver Cowdery was excommunicated, and for many years remained outside the Church, rather than to confess his error and repent. David Whitmer withdrew from the Church rather than to face trial upon the charges made against him. The absence from the councils of the Church of these fine men who had been so gloriously blessed by heaven was grieved by the whole Church membership. 

Though these men were no longer members of the Church, yet they always maintained the truth of their testimony as found in the Book of Mormon, and their belief in the divinity of the revelations given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Moreover, Oliver Cowdery, after some years, humbly entered the waters of baptism again, and was on his way to plead with David Whitmer to return to the Church, when death overtook him. both affirmed with their last breath the truth of their testimony regarding the Lord's latter-day work. Their knowledge of the truth of the restored Gospel did not leave them. 

Naturally the question arises : How could these men, both of whom had seen the angelic guardian of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated and the plates themselves, and one of whom in addition had been privileged to have converse with heavenly beings, John the Baptist, Peter, James and John — how could such men so conduct themselves as to endanger their Church membership or be content to remain outside the Church? They had knowledge, beyond that of other men, of the reality and divinity of the events which led to the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The answer to the question is simple, well understood by all. These brethren did not use their knowledge in conformity with the order of the Church as set forth in the revelations of the Lord. That is, they entered forbidden paths; they did not obey the commandments of God. The practices of their lives did not correspond with their knowledge. 

KNOWLEDGE NOT ALL-SUFFICIENT 

This historical event within the Church is evidence of the fact that knowledge alone does not and cannot secure human happiness, or move a Second Day  towards salvation. If further evidence of the insufficiency of knowledge is needed, we may survey the great number of men of high intellectual attainment, who, because of their criminal acts, are found in the prisons of the world. Knowledge may become the pathway to evil when not applied as directed by the Gospel plan. 

True, we have been commanded to seek all knowledge; the Lord has also said that "it is impossible to be saved in ignorance", and that "If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." However, it is equally true that the gaining of knowledge is but a first necessary step in a progressive life. Knowledge must be quickened and made alive by proper use. 

This doctrine is made clear in sacred writ. Among the many great truths revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, none is more beloved by the Church than "The Glory of God is intelligence." The word intelligence, as used in common speech, means readiness in learning, quickness of mind. Its higher Gospel meaning is more profound. The intelligent man is he who seeks knowledge and uses it in accordance with the plan of the Lord for human good. This is implied in the revelation from which the quotation is made, for the full sentence reads, "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words, light and truth." When men follow the light their knowledge will always be well used. 

Intelligence, then, becomes but another name for wisdom. In the language of mathematics we may say that knowledge, plus the proper use of knowledge, equals intelligence, or wisdom. In this sense intelligence becomes the goal of the successful life. Knowledge is one of the means by which such intelligence is attained; the use of knowledge is equally as important, for it gives life and direction to knowledge. The whole matter is much like faith and repentance — neither is complete without the other. When faith becomes active through repentance, man rises towards his God-like destiny. Faith itself, built upon human experience, conforming to God's will, is but a type of higher intelligence. Thus it often happens that a person of limited knowledge but who earnestly and prayerfully obeys the law, rises to a higher intelligence or wisdom, than one of vast Gospel learning who does not comply in his daily life with the requirements of the Gospel. Obedience to law is a mark of intelligence. 

The preeminence of wisdom in meeting the urgent needs of men and nations has been recognized throughout the ages. It was Solomon, the young king of Israel, who chose wisdom and knowledge from among all the gifts offered him by the Lord, and in return was blessed beyond measure. It was the statement of the Apostle James concerning the lack of wisdom that led the boy Joseph Smith into the grove where he reWISDOM MAN'S GREAT NEED ceived his first great vision. The world's great need today, in the midst of man-made confusion and horror, is wisdom. Man is rich in knowledge, surpassing every earlier time on earth. He has harnessed the forces of nature until they are subservient to his every wish and whim. But he uses his new-found power as readily to destroy as to make well. That is not intelligence, that is unwisdom. Should the world resolve to seek wisdom as it gains knowledge, the dawn of the hoped-for, longed-for era of peace would rise in the East. 

This thought may be applied to our every duty and task. He who knows the necessity and value of prayer and then does not commune with God in prayer is unwise, and to that degree unintelligent. Whoever learns the Word of Wisdom and does not practice it belongs to the same class. The man who cannot part with a tenth of his income for the Lord is unwise and in the Gospel sense is unintelligent. A great church security program has been announced under divine inspiration. To fail to support this notable movement, which has come to remain with us, implies a failure to put knowledge into action — that is unwisdom. So with every other Gospel requirement. This principle impels the Church at great sacrifice to maintain its educational system, its auxiliaries, its Priesthood organizations, so that the secular knowledge taught in the schools of the land may be fitted actively by purposeful use in human lives, into the Lord's great plan of salvation, the only plan that leads to lasting human joy. 

DISOBEDIENCE IS SIN 

A sombre thought accompanies this doctrine. To possess knowledge, and not to use it, or not to use it properly, is a sin. The failure of the human will to render obedience to God's law is not only unintelligent and unwise, it is sinful. On one occasion the Lord said to the Church, through the latter-day Prophet: "There are many who have been ordained among you, whom I have called but few of them are chosen. They who are not chosen have sinned a very grievous sin, in that they are walking in darkness at noon-day". Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer were in the noon-day of knowledge, yet walked in darkness. Wisdom had departed from them. Therefore they were in sin. So may any man close his eyes in full sunlight and walk in darkness and commit a sin before God. The nations of earth, sated with knowledge, in the full light of a Gospel dispensation, walk in darkness. Therefore, the wages of sin are theirs. Their wars and contentions are sinful before the Lord, and punishment will follow until they open their eyes to the light. 

The divine warning has been given : "If you keep not my commandments, the love of the Father shall not continue with you, therefore ye shall walk in darkness." Obedience to law leads to intelligence and wisdom and frees men from darkness and the charge of sin. 

RESPONSIBILITY COMES WITH KNOWLEDGE 

Latter-day Saints, who have received the greater knowledge, are under the heavier condemnation, if they fail to conform in their lives to the 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

revealed law. Besides, our responsibility is not for ourselves alone, but for the whole human race. Intelligence must garnish all that we do, else how can we fulfil our destiny, so well spoken in ancient days: "I will raise thee up for a blessing among many people." 

The joyful struggle of life must be, if we really hope for happiness, to live lives of knowledge, used as the Lord desires, with intelligence and wisdom. Every wise person will ask himself before every act, Does it conform to the law of the Lord? and at the close of each day, Have I lived intelligently and with wisdom as my guide ? Then, in full light we shall see clearly the path and the goal, and avoid the perils and terrors of darkness. 

May the Lord so help us to live, that in the full noon-day of Gospel light, we may never walk in darkness, but with wisdom perform the duties of our lives. 

ELDER FRANK EVANS 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

It is a rather long way up these stairs. It reminds me somewhat of life itself. As one seeks to reach the point of vantage he may put forth a great deal of effort, he may possibly meet some obstacles in the way, but it is when he reaches his point of vantage that his responsibilities really begin. 

I have been very happy here in contact with our leaders and those to whom we look for instruction and counsel, and I have been very happy in taking part in the fine spirit which has characterized this great Conference. 

Yesterday as I listened to that broadcast I had a feeling of personal gratitude toward those who are taking part. I think I have not talked with any person, either member or non-member of the Church in our mission who has mentioned our Church and its activities who has not referred to the broadcasts of our Tabernacle Choir, and in all cases they have had nothing to say except in the way of praise. I hope sometime they may hear the Singing Mothers. 

I was very happy too to listen to that fine declaration of principles given by Elder Bowen yesterday over the nation-wide broadcast. I realized that many thousand people whom we are trying to reach were listening in, and I know what they will say, those to whom I may speak of it. I know what their reaction will be, they will say, "If you preach principles and doctrines of that kind I want to know more of you." 

There are within the boundaries of that mission seventeen million people. There are twenty-two cities with over 100,000 inhabitants; there are 800 cities of more than 2500 people, and there are seven million people in small villages, and on the 467,000 farms. I believe there is every kind of problem there in that area known to our country — economic, social, religious. I believe that probably all of the religious denominations within the country are represented in that great area, and we have contacted many of them. We find many fine, kindly, and well people, and our missionaries make many favorable contacts with them. 

It seems rather strange that we can expect that fewer than a hundred missionaries can reach with any degree of success at all such a vast multitude of people, but they have the promise of the Lord : 

You shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. (Doctrine and Covenants 11 :21) 

For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor to resist. (Luke 21 : 15) 

In consequence they have gone forward and in the last calendar year they have visited in homes 166,000 people. They distributed 250,000 pieces of literature; they held more than 36,500 meetings; they used the radio on hundreds of occasions, and they entertained and instructed people by the means of music, both vocal and instrumental. They are young men and women who are honest, true, chaste, benevolent, and who believe in doing good to all men. I am thankful to the fathers and mothers who have maintained real Latter-day Saint homes, for there is where these young men and women receive their training. They go into the mission field prepared and you do not find the stain of nicotine upon their hands, nor the odor of intoxicants in their breath. They have been taught correct principles, and if anyone has ever looked with any degree of cynicism upon the teachings of the Word of Wisdom, I wish they could have the example before them that we see in the mission field. I honor and thank those men and women who have persistently taught, who have had the courage and the inspiration to teach and to advise, and to keep before the people these important principles. 

The thought occurred to me yesterday that was expressed I think by Ruskin : 

When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be only for present use or present delight; let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for it. 

I do thank these brethren and sisters. As we lay stone on stone, let those stones be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and finally, when the work is done, may our descendants look upon it and say, "See, this our fathers built for us." 

I believe that the work of the Mission is blessed. I believe that we have had the blessings of the Lord. It is only those who are humble who dare undertake such important work. I pray always for humility to keep within me the spirit of thankfulness and the recognition of the great power which is over us and under which we work and do our service. I pray that the Lord will continue to bless us. I sincerely pray that His Spirit may be with us. 

In conclusion I must take time to mention one thing. My first introduction to the Mission, by the way, was in company with President Don B. Colton at Palmyra on the occasion of the summer conference. Many people have asked me, and they constantly ask me there, as to whether or not that great pageant, "America's Witness for Christ" is to be repeated 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Monday, April 4 Second Day 

this year. I answer of course in the affirmative. It is to be repeated. The conference is to be held again. I think I received more inspiration there upon that occasion than in a like period at any other time in my life — to see the home of the Prophet, to attend those meetings in the Sacred Grove, to see the sacred drama, this great pageant upon the Hill Cumorah, and to witness those other scenes that are so historic and important to us. I thought of the words which came to Moses, "The place on which thou standest is holy ground." 

Yes, the pageant will be repeated this year. The Conference will be held as usual. The Hill Cumorah is now listed on all the principal and official road-maps, and many, many thousands of people travel that way. I hope that many of the Saints from the West may enjoy this occasion with us. You have our heartiest invitation to be there. 

I thank the Lord for all his blessings, and pray for a continuance of the same, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings, O Lord" (Rheinberger), was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

The benediction was offered by Elder William A. Matheson, President of the Chicago Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


