Afternoon
06 04 1938



Rudger Clawson Rudger Clawson Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard John A. Widtsoe Joseph F. Merrill Charles A. Callis Albert E. Bowen 

George Albert Smith George F. Richards 

Joseph Fielding Smith Stephen L Richards 

Sylvester Q. Cannon to be ordained an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to be set apart as an associate of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Ruf us K. Hardy 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor 

It is only fair to say to the good people here that during the administration of Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon and his counselors the affairs of the Church have been managed in a most wonderful and splendid manner, that we have had more buildings erected than in any other similar period since the erection of these buildings has been placed under the direction of the Presiding Bishopric, that the work has been done much better and at much less expense in proportion to the kind of buildings than at any previous time. 

The Presidency have appreciated the great burden of work that was lifted from their shoulders and placed upon the shoulders of the Presiding Bishopric a few years ago, and the Bishopric have done that work in a splendid manner. We appreciate it beyond our power to express it. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants; Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Franklin S. Harris 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L Richards Franklin L. West Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams 

As you have heard read today, Brother John F. Bennett, who was one of the Auditing Committee, has passed on, and we overlooked selecting another man to take his place. We shall fill this vacancy before the next Conference. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

GENERAL COMMITTEE CHURCH WELFARE WORK 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman 

Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman 

Harold B. Lee, Managing Director 

Marvin O. Ashton 

Mark Austin 

Campbell M. Brown 

William E. Ryberg 

Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward 

Theodore M. DeBry, Secretary 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, First Assistant Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, First Assistant Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

On the sacred pages of the Book of Mormon these eternal truths appear : 

Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore they speak the words of Christ. (2 Nephi 32:3.) 

And again: 

For when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men. (2 Nephi 33:1.) 

A man is fearfully and wonderfully made. In this earthen vessel are heavenly treasures — an immortal spirit of which God is the Father, the immortal Priesthood and the immortal gift of the Holy Ghost. Surely we ought not to defile the temple of the Holy Ghost by using things which our Father hath forbidden. 

Quite recently one of the foremost captains of British industry visited Canada, and in the course of a public address gave this forceful admonition: "Do not think," he said, "that education weans you from the spiritual law." He was, of course, referring to education in a broad sense, to the schooling we receive in the University of Life. But when the spiritual law is subordinated to the selfish plans and feelings of men, misery steps in. If the spiritual law were dominant in the hearts of men there would be no wars. With few exceptions every war has been "a rich man's war and a poor man's fight." It is said that three-fourths of the men who fought in the Confederate Army never owned a slave. 

President Brigham Young called Karl G. Maeser, the great educator, to go to Provo to organize and conduct an academy to be established in the name of the Church — a Church school. Before leaving for Provo to start his work he went to President Young and said : "Have you any instructions to give me ?" 

The President looked steadily forward for a few moments, as though in deep thought, then said: "Brother Maeser, I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables  the Spirit of God. That is all. God bless you. Goodbye." That was Dr. Maeser's guiding star. By that spirit he reached the hearts and touched the lives of thousands for good and brought them into that true idealism — the right of the spiritual law to be uppermost in the hearts of men. 

The work of the Holy Ghost is wonderful. The Prophet Joseph Smith said : "You might as well baptize a bag of sand as a man if not done in view of the remission of sins and getting of the Holy Ghost. Baptism by water is but half a baptism, and is good for nothing without the other half — that is, the baptism of the Holy Ghost." The regenerating and cleansing power of the Spirit is a blessing from heaven. 

Jesus Christ tells us that "whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." We are told to rise above all carnal desires, to walk uprightly, conquering self, which will give us the testimony that we are pleasing God. But how can men do these things without that greater power of righteousness in their souls that the Holy Ghost brings to them; that great regenerating force which enables them to cast from them lust, evil thoughts, and the thought of doing things that will hurt their fellow creatures? This great strength, the powerful operation of the Holy Ghost will make one shake at the very appearance of evil. 

There is another office of the Holy Ghost: He will guide into all truth. The Lord Jesus said : 

Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak; and he will show you things to come. 

He shall glorify me; for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 

And again he said : 

But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. 

I hope that every man in this vast congregation will bear in mind this holy truth so that when he returns to his home this great Remembrancer will bring to his heart and to his mind, in the moment of his need, the instructions he has received from this pulpit by the servants of the Lord. 

"He will guide you into all truth." What is truth ? "And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come." What a broad, comprehensive definition of truth the Lord gives! And because we are guided into all truth by that infallible guide, the Comforter, we hold dear to our hearts these great fundamental principles: The divine parentage and the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, his crucifixion and divine atonement, the glorious resurrection, eternal life, the eternity of the marriage covenant, — all of which bring forth joys inexpressible, the unspeakable gifts of God, manifested to our souls by the Holy Spirit. 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart. 

Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground. 

The Holy Ghost is an infallible witness that God is no respecter of persons. Stake presidents, bishops and all officers in the Church may have for their guidance and direction in the duties with which they are entrusted this blessed spirit of inspiration, so that they will hear behind them a voice, "This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand or when ye turn to the left." 

The Holy Ghost is the genius of the Holy Priesthood. Remove from this body of men, clothed with this power, dispossess them, if that were possible of the guiding influence of the spirit of revelation and they would be as unproductive in the ministry as the dry sand on the seashore. 

The spirit of revelation directs the leaders of the Church in the appointment of officers. They pray to the Lord. "Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen." The Lord is the searcher of the heart. He knows the qualifications, the most secret purposes and intentions and dispositions of all men. Every man whom we have sustained by our vote this afternoon, in the position to which he has been appointed, that man, I testify, has been chosen by the spirit of revelation, by the Holy Ghost, which, as I have stated is the genius of the Priesthood. While this spirit remains in the Church— and it will remain forever — we need not be afraid that we will be led astray, for God loves us. He loves the men whom he has appointed and he will move upon them, by the Holy Spirit, to select men whom he has chosen to be overseers of the flock, "to feed the Church of God." 

The Holy Ghost is the testimony of Jesus. "No man," said the Apostle Paul, "can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." The Savior declared that "the kingdom of God cometh not with observation," not by external show, for the world is deceived by outward ornament. "Man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." 

When the Savior of the world stood before that cruel judge, Pontius Pilate, and Pilate, in a sneering manner, addressed this question to the Savior, "What is truth?" the embodiment of truth was before him. Truth personified was there. But Pontius Pilate could not recognize the truth. Why? Because "the kingdom of God cometh not with observation." 

"Except a man be born again," said Jesus Christ, "he cannot see the kingdom of God," and, "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." It has been said by a philosopher, that the eye sees what the mind brings it the power to see. The talented artist, the organist who presides at the console of this world famous Tabernacle organ, reads the music and translates it into wonder101  ul harmonies. I can see the notes as well as he can but I cannot interpret them because the power is not in my mind. I am not a musician. This organist has acquired this technical training. He sees what the mind gives him the power to see and interprets the written notes into this beautiful melody and heavenly music which we have enjoyed at this conference. 

The Latter-day Saints have the Holy Ghost in their hearts. John Wesley rose to a great height of inspiration when he said : "We through the Holy Ghost can witness better things." Because we have the gift of the Spirit we can behold all the wonderful truths of the Gospel. We know the kingdom of God is on the earth. Any man that has the Comforter will never deny that the Constitution of the United States is inspired, but he will revere it for the Lord directed the men who wrote that glorious instrument. 

Jesus asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 

And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 

He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? 

And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon-Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father whiich is in heaven. 

And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. (Matthew 16:13-18.) 

Brethren and sisters, may I in humility and in the spirit of testimony, declare in the fear of God, and in the presence of angels, for I believe there are beings here from the other world listening to what we are saying, that I believe with all my heart and know that this Church is built upon the rock of revelation, and I testify to you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he was a great revelator in the hands of the Lord to deliver unto mankind the glorious truths of the Gospel. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TESTIMONY 

Joesph Smith, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through whose instrumentality the Lord established his Church upon the earth for the last time, thus testifies of the resurrected Christ : 

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him; That He lives! 

For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father. 

Joseph sealed the truth of his noble testimony by his death. 

I testify, that President Heber J. Grant is moved by the Holy Ghost, by the spirit of revelation, to lead and to guide this people. The introduction of this Church Welfare movement has already increased faith. 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

It has decreased selfishness. It has increased the portion of the Holy Spirit which God has given to his people. 

May we sustain our President, his counselors, and all the leaders of the Church. May we sustain the rank and file of our brethren and sisters, and praise God that this blessed gift of the Holy Ghost, the spirit of revelation, shines gloriously in this Church, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I trust I may be permitted to refer to my observations at the last April Conference (1937), and to reaffirm what I then said, in the language in which I then said it. I made then and make now no prediction. I merely gave by way of admonition the benefit of what many responsible men of affairs were then saying. In so far as I am advised, these men have not changed their minds. In my own view, for what it may be worth, conditions appear to me to be in no better way. 

PROFITABLE INVESTMENTS ENCOURAGED 

After that Conference people wrote asking if they should sell this or that property which they held. They were told I had offered no trading or marketing advice, no advice about selling or buying, but warned against speculation, that is, gambling. Others wrote asking if they should run in debt for this or that purpose. 

To the latter it was replied that the Church had always counselled against running in debt, that this seemed still sound counsel, and that if it were ever wisely to be disregarded, it would be in connection with the buying of a home, or a farm, or stocking a ranch, or for carrying on some line of business. The suggestion was added that even in such cases the whole proposal should be carefully gone into so as to make as sure as might be that the inves'tment to be made would be profitable. 

BORROWING BRINGS BURDENS 

I should like now to talk about that question of debt a little more. I shall say nothing new. Everybody knows the things I shall mention. My only excuse for naming them is that sometimes some of us forget what should, in wisdom, be remembered. What I shall say will not so much concern business men who are supposed to know when and how to borrow. I am speaking to the great bulk of us who have little or no business training and experience, and perhaps not too much business ability. I belong with this bulk and have had a chastening experience in debt. 

It is a rule of our financial and economic life in all the world that interest is to be paid on borrowed money. May I say something about interest ? 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 103 

Interest never sleeps nor sickens nor dies; it never goes to the hospital; it works on Sundays and holidays; it never takes a vacation; it never visits nor travels; it takes no pleasure; it is never laid off work nor discharged from employment; it never works on reduced hours; it never has short crops nor droughts; it never pays taxes; it buys no food; it wears no clothes; it is unhoused and without home and so has no repairs, no replacements, no shingling, plumbing, painting, or whitewashing; it has neither wife, children, father, mother, nor kinfolk to watch over and care for; it has no expense of living; it has neither weddings nor births nor deaths; it has no love, no sympathy; it is as hard and soulless as a granite cliff. Once in debt, interest is your companion every minute of the day and night; you cannot shun it or slip away from it; you cannot dismiss it; it yields neither to entreaties, demands, or orders; and whenever you get in its way or cross its course or fail to meet its demands, it crushes you. 

So much for the interest we pay. Whoever borrows should understand what interest is; it is with them every minute of the day and night. 

STATISTICS ON FARM MORTGAGES 

As to running in debt to buy a farm, particularly for the greater part of the purchase price, or for any considerable loan on a farm, I should like to give you the following facts. 

During the recent depression a great insurance company had to foreclose on farm property which had been mortgaged to it for some $65,000,000. The presumed actual value of these foreclosed lands was more than $100,000,000, which is approximately the value of all the farm lands of the state of Utah. The lands foreclosed were among the richest farming lands in this country. 

After the company acquired the lands, it wrote them down about 10 per cent of the estimated actual value, so that they now stand on the books at about $55,000,000. 

The net profit for last year on all these lands taken together was 3.03 per cent on the written down value of $55,000,000. This would be equal to about 1.6 per cent on the full value as of the date of mortgage. 

The very large amount involved and the location of the farms would seem to indicate that this is a fair example of the returns on the better farm lands of the country. 

May I suggest to you farmers and would-be farmers that you can hardly hope to borrow money, relatively large sums of money, at 5 per cent or 3 per cent or even 2 per cent and then pay out, principal and interest, in an enterprise that will net you only 1.6 per cent. That is the simplest mathematics. 

EASY MONEY NOT A BLESSING 

Let me say in passing that it seems to me the worst curse the farmer has ever had — worse than pests, or drouths, or frosts, or even poor 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6  Third Da} 

markets — is the easy money which has been thrown in his path. What the farmer needs is not easy money but good, profitable markets. 

These same principles hold good in all enterprises of all kinds. 

I should like also to say something about long time debts, say 20 or 30 years, for remodeling and improving homes. I am not unfamiliar with the stock arguments and reasoning used to support this kind of borrowing. But we must fully consider this: Any improvement such as bathrooms, modern heating and refrigerating plants, and the like, will, in the course of ten years, probably be old, out of style, and largely obsolete. If the family is the ordinary one, they will at the end of ten years clamor for new, up-to-date furnishings, for another and modern remodeling. When that times comes the family will have to realize that it must go on paying principal and interest for another ten or twenty years on the worn bath tub and basin, the stained and cracked kitchen sink, the smoky furnace, and all the rest. This assumes, of course, that we have been able to keep up our payments for the first ten years and have not lost the whole property before that time, both what we put into the house as well as the house itself. 

INSTALLMENT BUYING DISCOURAGED 

I say this notwithstanding that in my view no home is too good, no comfort too great, no luxury too rich for the very humblest family that can afford them; but for the least essential comforts and for all the luxuries, let me urge you to pay as you go. 

I wish to add something on installment buying — that popular method of running in debt for things and paying for them while you wear them out. Installment buying is a twin brother of longtime loans for remodeling and furnishings. A part of a successful installment plan is a very high, usually hidden rate of interest. 

I know that in speaking of this I am treading on debatable ground. However, I feel something might wisely be said about it by way of caution, 

In 1929 it has been estimated that installment purchases amounted to 6.5 billions of dollars. Dr. Wilford L. White, chief of the marketing division of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, is quoted as saying that "installment contracts entered into during, or immediately prior to 1929 contributed to the last depression." 

Statisticians say that in 1935 there were 3.6 billions of dollars of installment purchases; for 1936 the estimates run from 4.5 billions of dollars to 13.5 billions of dollars; for 1937 installment purchases have been estimated at better than 5 billions of dollars. 

The system has been defended as justifying itself "by providing the luxuries of yesterday for families of limited incomes today by allowing those families to purchase such goods by pledging part of their future earnings." 

Its value has been appraised in this language: "It encourages production of luxury goods, thus reducing the consumption of necessaries. It promotes extravagance, based on the chances of continuing and rising 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 105 

incomes, and thus increases stringency at a time when trade is shrinking. It creates a body of debt that stands in part for something already consumed. It leads to over-production of luxury goods, and, like monetary inflation, leads to a condition which requires for its maintenance larger doses of the same stimulant, shown by its extension to articles which depreciate rapidly." 

A British economist affirms: "It has done much harm in America; it has been drastically limited in many parts of Europe; it is the enemy of real thrift; it is most tempting to the least provident." 

To buy on the installment plan means to mortgage your future earnings. If through sickness or death, or through loss of work, the earnings cease, the property bought is lost together with what has been put into it. 

I venture one suggestion, — until times become more certain, the ordinary family will do well to purchase by installment only the actual necessaries of life, leaving the luxuries to be bought as they can be paid for when purchased. 

I shall not attempt to draw a line between necessities and luxuries, beyond saying that an artisan or mechanic who can ride to work on the train or street car would hardly be justified in buying an airplane for that purpose on the installment plan; or would a farmer already owning a cow pony to go to the pasture for the cows be justified in buying an automobile on the installment plan to be used for the same purpose. 

I can only mention here, again by way of caution, another contributing element of danger in our economic life, that is, those seasonal, crop, or other short term financings which unwisely base operation for future profits on borrowed money. 

TAX-PAYERS MUST MEET PUBLIC DEBTS 

If I might be pardoned, I should like to add another word about two closely related subjects which I have mentioned or referred to at almost every, if not every, Conference since April, 1933; I refer to the enormous expenditures of the people's money and to the ever-growing feeling and belief that a great group of the people can live off the public without working. 

I should like to say again that neither the State nor the Federal Government has any funds except only such funds as it obtains from the people. Neither of them has anywhere a great pile of gold to which it can go for its money. You taxpayers must furnish it all; and every citizen is a taxpayer, either by direct or indirect taxation. Whenever governments borrow, they borrow from the taxpayers who must pay back or repudiate. To pay back large borrowings causes great hardship and burdening sacrifices; to repudiate brings economic and sometimes political chaos. 

CHURCH EXPENDITURES CAREFULLY HANDLED 

Some of our own members seem to be thinking that the Church too has a pile of gold. It has not. All the Church has is the moderate 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Tliird Day 

income it receives from investments it has made out of the savings from your past contributions, and the tithing and donations which you faithful members — usually not the critics and fault-finders — make for the support of the work. You have had a report as to how that money has been spent during the past year. I assure you there are no secret or hidden expenditures. All are recorded and all audited. The Church does not have one cent to be spent by any one for any purpose except upon an accounting made after the expenditure is made under an authority given for the expenditure. May I say here, the Church is not in debt; none of its property is mortgaged; none of its security pledged. 

Now, as to the other point, — the living of one large group without work on the industry, thrift, and sacrifice of the rest of the people. I say again this is virtual slavery for those who furnish the livelihood for the idlers. I know very well I shall be accused of being harsh, cruel, unsympathetic. I am not. But I consider the welfare of the whole people as superior to the comfortable or luxurious idleness of the part. 

To this kind of expenditure belong these old age gratuities or doles, which, to salve somebody's conscience, are called pensions. I mention this matter because it is growing to such large proportions and because it will have such a far-reaching and destructive effect upon the character of the people, young as well as old. 

I may begin by saying these are not properly pensions, a term which has always implied one or both of two things: Either a conspicuous service performed for all the people which merits from the people a special recognition upon infirmity from age or otherwise, or a plan by which the pensioner himself has contributed to the building of the pension fund he receives. These old age pensions so-called have neither of these elements. 

Where these gratuities are honestly due under the law there is no legal objection to taking them. But I warn you who take them not to count too much upon them for they cannot continue to be paid indefinitely. Furthermore, where these gratuities are obtained by falsifying the true condition, by hiding property, by deeding it away in order to qualify for the dole, or by using any device to hide or distort the real situation, this is downright dishonesty. 

I honor and respect old age. I would not see it suffer from want, nor from disease that can be helped. It is entitled to every care, to every act of kindness, to every loving caress which a grateful community and a devoted family can give. 

I have every sympathy with age. I know the difficulties which age has in fitting into modern, economic life. I have had many matured, outstanding men come to me in New York seeking work. Some had been discharged from jobs they had worked up to during a long life of service. The depression had replaced them with young men who had more endurance and who would work for less money. In America at least the human wastage in the depression was far greater than the 107  wastage of the World War. The old man out of work is one of the most pathetic, heart-tearing tragedies of today. 

Some plan must be devised that shall make certain that no aged person shall be cold or go hungry or unclad. But the prime responsibility for supporting an aged parent rests upon his family, not upon society. Ours is not a socialistic or communistic state, where the people are mere vassals to be driven about as animals from one corral to another. We are freemen. So still with us the family has its place and its responsibilities and duties, which are God-given. The family which refuses to keep its own is not meeting its duties. When an aged parent has no family or when the family is itself without means, then society must, as a matter of merest humanity, come to the rescue. This is perfectly clear. 

But it is a far cry from this wise principle to saying that every person reaching a fixed age shall thereafter be kept by the state in idleness. Society owes to no man a life of idleness, no matter what his age. I have never seen one line in Holy Writ that calls for, or even sanctions this. In the past no free society has been able to support great groups in idleness and live free. 

CHURCH WELFARE WORK 

I wish in closing to say a few words about our Church Welfare Work. You have heard a detailed report about its work. It has been operating for two years only. Behind it is merely the purely voluntary contribution by Church members, some 767,000 men, women, and children, and some others who have out of a love for humanity made also gratuitous contributions. 

Of this number of Church members more than 172,000 made cash voluntary gifts in addition to their tithing and other contributions during 1937. This means that as much as 60 per cent of the adult membership of the Church, both male and female, made cash contributions to this Plan for relieving human want. This in itself is a great spiritual, Christian achievement. During this year out of these Fast Offerings and other Church revenues, assistance has been given to some 44,000 persons. 

We have not fully met our problem, but this is only our second year. We feel we have made a good start. We have gained experience. We are conducting a Church-wide budget operation based upon the reports of Bishops as to their estimated needs for this year so that notwithstanding the economic difficulties that overhang the nation, we may more nearly solve our full problem. 

The Church has never said it was going to give employment to all unemployed Church members. It has said it would do what it could to this end. It has done so. It has found employment for some 6,000 of its members, which may represent as many as 30,000 members of families. 

The Church has never said it would try to take its members off governmental work projects. But the Church has repeatedly urged every GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

Church member employed by the government to give an honest, full day's work for a day's pay. 

There are certain elements in the general relief situation in this interwest region where the bulk of our members live which are not always in mind. In the first place, at least half of the population in this area are not members of the Church. A very large percentage of these non-members are engaged in industrial occupations which are particularly affected by the present economic decline. In the next place, for one reason or another not now necessary to consider, it seems fairly clear that no small number of those classed as Church members on governmental rolls are either not on the Church rolls at all or have been wholly inactive for years, many of them since childhood. Too frequently these persons show a fixed unwillingness to give up governmental aid for Church relief. The basic element of the Church program is work in exchange for relief. 

The first effort of the Church has been consciously directed towards relieving the needs of the worthy members of the Church whose prior activity calls for consideration from the whole Church membership. But the Church has not turned its back upon the others; it welcomes their return to activity; it will look out for them just as rapidly as they can be reached. 

So, all in all, I wish to tender my heartfelt gratitude, my sincere congratulations, to the Relief Society — every officer and woman of them — to the Presiding Bishopric, to the Priesthood quorums, to the General Committee, to the Bishops of wards and Presidents of stakes, to regular and auxiliary organizations of the Church, stakes and wards, to our Church periodicals, to every man and woman who has in any way helped in this great undertaking, and particularly to those hundreds who, somewhat careless of their duties in the past, have come forward in these critical times and taken on this new work fighting as veterans against our common enemy — want. We welcome you brothers and sisters. I know that to every man, woman and child, who has given from his abundance or who has offered the widow's mite to help his less fortunate, suffering brothers, there has come a peace and joy that has carried into his heart more of unselfish love for his fellowman than any unlike thing he has ever done. They have realized the truth of the great principle announced by James : 

Pure religion and undented before God and the Father is this : to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. 

After and above all, as was stated in the financial report, while the Church Welfare aims, of course, to help those in need, its real purpose is not merely to substitute Church gratuities for others furnished by charitable or governmental agencies but to rebuild the characters of its members and to promote and to foster the patriotic, civic, and spiritual qualities of the people. 

Discoursing in the Temple on the second day of the week of the 109  sacrifice, Jesus declared the fate of those who should stand on the left hand at the day of judgment. 

Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. 

For I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink. 

I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. 

Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto Thee? 

Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily, I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. 

And these shall go away into everlasting punishment; but the righteous into life eternal. 

The resurrected Christ, breakfasting the seven disciples on the shores of the Sea of Tiberias in the early morning, saith unto Peter thrice : "Peter, lovest thou me ?" Peter thrice replied, "Yea, Lord, thou knowest I love thee;" and Christ thrice commanded, "Feed my sheep." 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." 

ELDER WILLIAM T. TEW, JR. 

President of the East Central States Mission 

Not only do mission presidents preside in the mission field without counselors, but usually they are kept on the anxious seat throughout the conference here. I am thankful for this opportunity of being here this afternoon. I am thankful to President Grant for calling me at this hour. 

Today is the hundred and eighth anniversary of the organization of this Church. All day I have been looking back, in my mind, to that little group of six men in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, in the living room of Peter Whitmer, where this Church was organized a hundred and eight years ago. In a way I have tried to visualize the progress, the expansion, the development, the power and the influence this Church has wielded and how it has grown during this century of progress. 

On the 30th of September, 1937, I noticed the following quotation in the Deseret News. There had assembled, in this city, leaders of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. They adjourned on the 30th of September, with this conclusion : 

That realism must replace sentimentalism, and conviction must take the place of emotionalism, if Christianity is to be employed in the solution of the world's ills. 

We have known that for a century or more. If there is any one thing in the world that this Church does stand for, it is realism and not sentimentalism; conviction and not emotionalism. 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

Brethren and sisters and friends, I rejoice in the fact that I am called to preside over one of the missions of this Church. I rejoice in the young men and young women who are sent unto us in the mission fields. They are outstanding in their characters, in their determination to serve the Lord. Their testimonies are firm and steadfast. They have visions of what they want to do and where they want to go. They carry with them a wonderful influence. I bring you, fathers and mothers, their greetings, their love, their affection, and their regard for you. They are loyal to this Church. 

I feel to confess today that as far as I am concerned I am in perfect accord with the leadership of this Church, with the principles they proclaim. I know, as you know, that the Savior gave us the key of testimony when he said, that if a man will do the will of the Father he shall know of the doctrine. The converse of that is also true, my brothers and sisters : When we cease to do the will of the Father, we lose our testimonies of the Gospel and we forget the doctrine. When we begin to compromise, and sift out, and reject certain phases of the Gospel, we are on dangerous ground. 

I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for membership in this Church, which has stood the test of a century and more of progress, down to this particular period of time. I want to bring you this message, and leave it with you today, that not only we but other churches recognize our position in the world. 

In Fort Wayne, Indiana, on the 11th day of November, 1937, there was announced, by the Council of the Methodist Church a spiritual crusade which was to be launched among their members, looking toward a revival of devotional convictions. The thing that attracted my attention was this : The crusade will begin with a united council, on the furtherance of faith and service, to be held in Chicago. The focus of attention and effort will be upon the' rank and file of the younger generation. Bishop Edgar Blake, of the Detroit area, announced : "You can't build the new order with the old men, men whose hearts are still worshiping the idols that are falling all around us." 

What a pity it is, my brethren and sisters, that after a century of time these men are just now realizing that the idols that they have worshiped for so many centuries are beginning to fall, and that the young men are the ones on whom they should focus their attention. As a matter of fact these idols began to fall more than a century ago when the Lord laid the axe at the root of the trees of false teachings in the Sacred Grove. 

Thank God for our Mutual Improvement organization, for our Church school system. Remember, my brethren and sisters, that conservation of the youth of Zion is desired far above reclamation. 

May we live our religion. May we teach our boys and girls. May the work of the Lord progress and increase until it fills the earth. Let us support and sustain our leaders, our prophets, seers and revelators, not only with our hands but with our actions, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 111 

ELDER DAVID A. BROADBENT 

President of the North Centred States Mission 

Brethren and sisters, I realize that these are valuable moments. I come to you with the greetings of ninety glorious youths laboring in our mission. I have met them all within the month, and they are well, happy, and enjoying their labors. 

I desire, for the few moments given to me, to speak of a phase of missionary life which has not been touched upon by my fellow associates of the mission presidents. 

Recently there was a great gathering of the Ministerial Association of the State of Minnesota, in the city of St. Paul. They spent a long half day upon the question of Mormonism. Among other things that they presented were their objections to such glorious messages as we have just listened to from our beloved President Clark, as being nonreligious, but as being "spiritualized ethics." They took exception to the wonderful message in the book prepared by Dr. F. S. Harris and his associate editor, "The Fruits of Mormonism," because it was prepared by Mormons. 

They took grave exceptions to the most recent article on the Mormon question which has found its way into the Encyclopedia Britannica, because Senator Reed Smoot wrote it, and it was not publicized that he was also a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. It appeared that everything they did and said was like the proverbial "drowning man grasping for a straw." They also made very much of the fact that we are over-advertised in our Church Security Program. 

I sat in this building two years ago, and I recall very distinctly that President Grant suggested to the gallery of reporters who were here: "We want no word published from this meeting. When we are ready to give our message to the public we will give them through the press our position on this matter, and we will add to it as we desire from time to time." 

As this gathering of the ministerial association closed its report, this was the concluding paragraph: (I am reading from their own published statement) 

In the interest of Christianity and Mormonism, our plea is, though not formally stated, for Protestant people to inform themselves on the subject of Mormonism, and likewise to inform themselves on the principles of their own faith, for only then can an intelligent understanding of Mormon problems be effected. 

We are grateful for that admonition on. the part of that great gathering of ministers. 

I have the privilege of living in the same city, as the headquarters of our mission, where one of the greatest national authorities on temperance resides, Dr. W. G. Calderwood. A member of the Minnesota Temperance Organization came to me wanting to know more about the Word of Wisdom, but he said : "I represent one of the great insurance com112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

panies. We have come to the conclusion, since we have been studying for the past three years, that from eighty to ninety per cent of all of the automobile accidents are caused as a result of the use of liquor. We have about come to the conclusion that we can offer two types of insurance and give those who are total abstainers a twenty-five per cent better policy than those who are users of liquor." 

One of the finest ladies from the city of Minneapolis, which is a city of five hundred thousand population, came to me immediately after that meeting, and she said : "I have been assigned, by my Ladies' Christian organization, to bring to them the message of Mormonism." After we studied for two hours or more she said: "This is such a magnificent message that I am sure I shall have to come again." 

Two of the students from the Social Science Department of the University of Minnesota came in and spent the greater part of an afternoon. Each of them was assigned from the Social Science Department of that institution. One of them said : "We want to know the motivating influence of Mormonism." The other : "It is my mission to find out about the organization and the administration of the Mormon Church." When I had spent several hours with them they were totally astonished to find that they had only gotten a very small fraction of the message of Mormonism, as we are teaching it to the world, and have been for the past hundred years. 

While I was touring the mission recently a chief of four thousand Indians of the Fort Peck Reservation came to me. He is a member of the Catholic Church, but his wife is a Mormon. Every creed, probably, that can be found in America is represented among those Indians. He said : "We have been together; we have laid aside all of our differences, political and religious, and we have definitely come to the conclusion that no one can help us or will help us unselfishly in our problems, except as we may be able to get assistance from the Mormon people." 

The banker of Wolf Point, Montana, where these Indians live, made a similar request, a chief business man likewise, saying : "We are holding certain interests, waiting for the Mormons to come and assist us, for we know, through studying their past history, that they will treat our people honestly, and teach them how to get the most value from the soil. 

One of the most significant things that has come out of that particular gathering of ministers was a request from the editor and publisher of a paper that goes to all Veterans. He requested that I should give the Latter-day Saint message for his Christmas issue. I modified a previous message of the First Presidency, and brought it down to date and made it local in touch, and sent it in. I was very much surprised to find that they published every single word, a column and a half, and gave my name and the address of the headquarters of the mission. 

They came back recently and I gave them a second article as a message f or Easter, on the same line, emphasizing "Peace on earth and good will toward men," and love of fellow men rather than war as the Easter spirit. 

I was requested, over the phone, by a director or manager of a rail113  publication, known as "The National Railroad Review," to take space with them, assisting them in a drive for greater state and national security from the standpoint of retirement. The principal heading of this particular issue, was : "The Inadequacy of Pension, as we have it at the present time." 

While I was listening and thinking of the attitude of the Presidency of the Church, and our people generally, I determined that I could not represent the Church in joining with a company asking that we shall require that all men shall be forced to go into retirement at the age of sixty-five and may retire at sixty. The thought of President Grant's wonderful definition of age, came to me while I still held the phone, and I said : "I will take space, and will send the message in." For I knew that all our missionaries are receiving concessions from the railroad. 

I read from that particular issue: 

AGE 

Age is a quality of mind : 

If your dreams you've left behind, 

If hope is cold, If you no longer look ahead, If your ambition's fires are dead, 

Then you're old. 

But if from life you take the best, And if in Life you keep the zest, 

If Love you hold; No matter how the years go by, No matter how the birthdays fly, 

You are not old. 

Compliments of the Church of Jesus Christ 

of Latter-day Saints. 

3240 Park Avenue, Minneapolis. 

For their next quarterly issue, they said : "We gave you a double space for your last article, will you give us another of the same type?" I expect, when I return, to find a similar one, this time giving the Prophet Joseph Smith's definition of religion and salvation. 

God is blessing us. We are gloriously happy in our mission, and the Saints and Elders send greetings. 

May the Lord continue to bless and prosper our eighty-two year old youthful Prophet, that he, with his associates, inspired leadership of the Church, may continue to guide us into all truth. But I pray more fervently — for I know they are being guided — I pray more fervently for me and you, and for all Israel, that we shall not sell our birthright for a cigarette, a glass of beer, a cup of tea or coffee; or for refusing to make the world understand that we are not over-advertised in our great Security Program, but that we shall rally to the leadership which is ours in making it a reality. 

God grant that his blessings may be upon us all, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 ELDER ABEL S. RICH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

It is indeed a pleasure to be back in the valleys of the mountains, and to meet you, my brethren and sisters, and partake of your fine friendliness, after having been away for just a short period. 

I am happy to bring you greetings from the Saints and the missionaries in the Canadian Mission, and to tell you that the fine young people who have come there as missionaries are well and happy, and doing such a splendid and outstanding work that the attention of the people of the world is called to them. It is not uncommon to hear people say: "I would like to have my son or my daughter grow up to be like those missionaries that you have among you." They are coming to us better prepared, with earnestness as well as experience. 

I pay tribute to the educational system of Utah, and to the organizations of the Church, that train in leadership. I was interested to note that half of the missionaries now serving in the Canadian Mission have had one or two years college training. I was just a little disappointed to note that only half of them have had seminary training. I have noted that the additional years of training, and direct responsibility in leadership in the organizations of the Church, makes them more efficient missionaries, and brings them to us very much better prepared. 

The Lord has told us what is expected of the missionary. "A marvelous work," he said, "is about to come forth among the children of men. Therefore, O ye who embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength." 

As missionaries, we realize that we may plant and we may cultivate and we may water, but it is God that gives the increase. Realizing that it is our responsibility to get the message of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ before the people in the clearest and best way possible, we have attempted to study the Gospel thoroughly to prepare ourselves, and then we have made an effort to reach the people that we have not been reaching heretofore. 

With this in view we made a good-will tour of the Canadian Mission, in an effort to meet the business men of Canada. We were successful in arranging meetings with many social clubs : the Rotary, the Kiwanis, the Lions' Club, the Kinsman's Club, the Good Will and Optimists' Club, and many of the schools. We had a splendid quartet that furnished the music. I was privileged to be guest speaker in most of those clubs, and was given the opportunity, for thirty or forty minutes, of explaining Utah and her people, and the reaction was much more favorable than we had hoped for. In the course of the tour we met over thirty thousand people — representative business men of Canada — and some of their reactions were remarkable. 

After one meeting a man in the club arose and said : "Gentlemen, I have been in Salt Lake City. I have been in that historic Tabernacle we have been told about. I know that what has been said about that 115  building, and that wonderful mission on the Temple grounds, and the industry and friendliness of the people of Utah, is true." 

We had such reactions throughout the long tour. We discovered through that tour that the people of the world are not irreligious, but they are disappointed in finding that they are not obtaining help for their personal lives in the churches. 

I read, as possibly you did, in the January number of the Cosmopolitan, an article by Dorothy Giles, entitled, "The Wise Men of Science Come to the Manger," in which she said that Science is no longer positively opposed to Religion, but is seeking diligently to understand it. They are seeking to understand the Babe of Bethlehem, what it signifies, and its great power over humanity. 

"What can we believe?" she said, we are asking of Science, and Science briefly replies : "Religion is not a question of belief, but of experience. No matter what the world thinks about religious experience, the one who has it possesses a great treasure which has provided him with a source of lif e, meaning and beauty, and which has given a new splendor to the world and to mankind. He has peace." 

So I have been proud to belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are truly "a city built upon a hill." The eyes of the world are turned toward us, and those who have visited us bring favorable reports. 

I am happy to be a missionary, and as I think of the hundred and eight years of progress of this Church, and the ideals that guided those sturdy pioneers, that neither persecution from without nor dissension from within, nor the lure of gold, nor the quest of land could turn aside, I am happy for the inheritance I have in the Church. 

I pray that our Father in Heaven may continue to bless us as a people, that our industry, our love for the principles of truth and righteousness, our brotherly consideration, and this great fraternal friendship that has grown up among us, may continue; and that as the eyes of the world are turned toward us, we will continue to be the great missionary, for the thing the world wants today is a religion that works in the lives of its people in motivating love, in building character, and in doing the very things that this great Church has done for us. 

May the Lord bless us, that we may do our part in this great work, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HAROLD W. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I feel very humble in occupying your time at the end of this conference session, and I pray for your faith and prayers while I may occupy this position for a few moments. 

We have been told, and we realize from reading the signs of the times, that we are passing through a dangerous evolution, or I should say, revolution. Perhaps in Mexico we see more closely and feel more intensely this revolutionary movement. Things are happening so rapidly that we are unable to keep up, or to foretell what may be the next step. 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

Brother Ballard, in his talk, drew our attention to the fact that we are of Israel, that we have been gathered out from among the nations of the earth for a glorious purpose, to serve as a city set upon a hill, and to guide those who are honest in heart through this perilous revolutionary period. He has told us that we are charged with taking the Gospel to that remnant of the House of Israel who are not of Ephraim. 

We, in Mexico, have that charge directly. I am glad to report to you that we are making progress, that the revolution and evolution there going on is indeed the work of our Heavenly Father, preparing that people to accept the blessings that have been promised to them through their forefathers. 

We see there, however, the power of the Evil One also laboring and struggling to win souls away from our Heavenly Father and from his cause. We know that he realizes that the time is near at hand when the Gospel will be restored to that people, and that he is making every attempt to thwart those purposes and to make it impossible that those prophecies be fulfilled. 

But I wish to bear to you my testimony that I know, as I know that I live, that this Gospel is true, that it has been restored for the last time, and that the prophecies that our Heavenly Father has made will be fulfilled. He is doing his part. He is preparing the way. We, my brothers and sisters, have the responsibility of carrying out our part also, and we can do this only by accepting and adhering to the instructions given by our inspired leaders, even those instructions that we have here received in this conference. 

I plead with you, my brethren and sisters, to live the Word of Wisdom, as we have been instructed to do; to pay your tithes and offerings; to rally around the welfare work administration, to support it; to demonstrate, with your lives and with your actions, that you do love your Heavenly Father with all your heart, might, mind and strength, and that you love your neighbor as yourself; that in very deed we do become and continue to be what we are charged with being, — a light unto the world, that through our lives and our good works men may come to glorify our Father which is in heaven, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER MERRILL D. CLAYSON 

President of the Southern States Mission 

I bring to you today the greetings of nineteen thousand Saints, situated in sixty-eight branches and ten districts in the Southern States Mission. I sincerely trust that the time will come when these sixty-eight branches may be christened as wards, and these ten districts as stakes of Zion. I only wish, today, that more of our people might be here to enjoy the spiritual feast that this conference affords. It is the life-long ambition of many of these worthy Saints to have the opportunity, some day, to come to this great gathering and enjoy the feast that you people receive here. 

I am happy to report to you today that the hundred and twenty-five missionaries laboring in the Southern States Mission are well and enjoying their labors. I appreciate with all my heart, and more than words can tell, the opportunity of working with your sons and your daughters in that mission. Together, we are attempting to solve the problems that are presented in carrying the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the honest in heart. 

I am grateful that a humble Mormon Elder delivered a Gospel tract at my grandmother's house in England, brought her into the Church, and thus made it possible for me to be born here in the land of Zion and enjoy the wonderful benefits that come to us through the association and influence of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Mormonism does more for its members than any other force in all the world today. I often think that we do not appreciate its great value, influence, and what it has meant to us in our lives. If we were stripped of all its truths, of all the influences that it has contributed to our character and lives and then stand off to one side and see what is left, I believe we would appreciate, more than any other time in our lives, just what Mormonism has meant to us. 

Too often people look at Mormonism, accept two or three of its principles that do not conflict with their philosophy and living, and think that they are Mormons. Others look upon baptism as the beginning and end of their religion. Others use it as a philosophy to ponder over in their more serious moods but never make it a part of their lives. The great blessings that come to us come through the acceptance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its completeness. I am sincerely convinced that the paths that lead to health and happiness, the paths that lead to progress and the abundant life, are paved with the eternal truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

It is my testimony to you people today that Mormonism is a greater builder of character and human personality than all the philosophies and man-made religions of the world. God bless us and help us to see and understand it in its completeness, and live it, and thus bring to ourselves health, happiness, progress, and salvation, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ELRAY L. CHRISTIANSEN 

President of the Texas Mission 

I realize that the time I spend here is precious, and I shall attempt to be brief as possible. 

I am happy to bring greetings from the Saints and the missionaries laboring in the great States of Texas and Louisiana. We have over six thousand Saints and about seventy-five missionaries who are diligently engaged in spreading the word of the Lord among the people there. We feel that we are making definite progress in most respects, and that people are increasing their respect for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we are welcome to be heard in most places where we make the effort. 

I feel it is a great privilege to labor there and go about feeling the Spirit of the Lord guiding us, taking us to the honest in heart. The ac118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

complishments of these fine missionaries, the testimonies and blessings they are receiving give me the assurance that the Lord will bless those who obey him. To see them come into the field, humble, untrained, and sometimes rough in their ways, then to watch them develop so rapidly that they can confound the wise and teach the great, is an inspiration indeed to me. 

I am happy for those young men and women you have sent to us. They are all well. I should make one exception. We have one in the hospital now, but he is doing very well. Outside of that, they are all in good health and happy. And we have some old missionaries as well; three of them. One faithful brother who is sixty-eight years of age this month, who before going into the field himself had sent three sons on foreign missions and supported them with the labor of his own hands, and he is climaxing that service by contributing a great work himself. Besides that, another man who has left a family of ten, is happily engaged in the work of the Lord, and is bringing results. The third one by accident lost a son, and from that accident drew some insurance money. Instead of spending that insurance money on a new automobile, or some other thing, he spent it serving the Lord on a mission himself, and he claims that it is the greatest investment that he ever made. 

We are happy for the faith of the members. They have shown their great faith and devotion by a decided increase in their tithes and their offerings; over twenty per cent increase in tithing, and a ten per cent increase in fast offerings, and they are happy because of that. 

We are simply building on the foundation that has been laid by my predecessors, President Peterson, President Rowan and President Bennion, all of whom have left good names and good works in that field. 

I am thankful for the Temple Block Mission, not alone for the names that they send us, with whom we can make contacts, but for the fine impression of the truth that they give to people who come here. It is a great help indeed to have them receive the right understanding and the right impression. Most visitors who come here we find have a splendid report and opinion of the Latter-day Saints. Anything that any of you can do, by your good works to give the right impression and the truth of Mormonism, reflects directly back into the mission, and makes our work that much more effective. 

How we rejoice when a member from Zion comes into the mission field, who is living up to the word of the Lord! He is a living testimony, and he hardly needs to open his mouth to deliver a powerful sermon on the virtues of Mormonism. The Lord has told us that he has "sent the everlasting covenant into the world, to be a light to the world and to be a standard for my people, and for the Gentiles to seek to it; and to be a messenger before my face, to prepare the way before me". 

Brethren and sisters, if we could only realize the importance of this, and let the Gospel principles be a standard in our lives from day to day, how we should be blessed! We would find great compensation and joy by doing that, even more diligently than we have. The Gospel is a light and a guide. We hear it said that this is a lost generation, that there is a crisis facing religion, and I believe there is generally. 119 

I heard an eminent church man, not long ago, declare to his congregation that what we need now is a realistic, practical theology for the world; that divine guidance is the only solution for its problems; that there is a need of a prophet among us. He hopes that that prophet will soon come forth. 

Thank God that we have that realistic theology, that we have that divine guidance, that we have that prophet! Thank the Lord for the presence and leadership of Heber J. Grant, our president, and these inspired men who are associated with him. 

Let us be examples to the world. Let us arise and shine forth as the Lord has told us to do, and we shall find great joy, as I say, in doing good works. Let us determine to be examples and worthy representatives, and the Lord will bless us. 

I shall not talk longer. I pray the Lord's blessings upon all of you, and we want you to pray for us who are working in the mission in Texas and Louisiana. We are proud of that great country. It is a beautiful portion of our nation, and we are happy to be engaged in the work of the Lord there. 

God bless you all, Amen. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

Newly appointed Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I have had the privilege, my brethren and sisters, of standing before you upon various occasions in general conference, but I have never felt so humble as today. 

I feel very grateful that the Presidency of this Church and the General Authorities have had confidence enough in me to nominate me to be appointed to this new position, and I feel grateful to you, the Latter-day Saints, for your sustaining vote. I love these men and I love the Church, and I am sure the Lord knows that there is not a place in the world that I would not go, because of my love for and testimony of the Gospel. 

I am very happy to be associated with the Latter-day Saints. I am grateful for every opportunity of service that has come to me in the past. I feel that the Lord owes me nothing. All I have done for the Church I have done because I love the Church and because I love the Lord, and the Lord does not owe me a thing. I was grateful that I was able to successfully drop back into my business, so that the people would not think that I was dependent upon the Church. 

Now I feel that, unless the Lord comes to my aid, I shall be a very weak man to follow Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon. I know him well and I love him. He was my mission president when I filled my first mission in Holland. He released me from that mission. 

I have watched him and have admired him, and when the President told me today that he was going to be sustained as an Apostle I was not surprised; I have always thought that that would be his final appointment in the Church. I used to sit as a boy, in the mission field, when he was talking to investigators, and watch him. It was as though the light of 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

truth was streaming from his eyes, as he explained the glorious principles of the Gospel to those who were searching after truth. 

I want to say to you men who bear the Priesthood, and those of you who are in positions of responsibility, whom I may be called upon to contact in this new assignment that has come to me, I hope you will never be afraid of me. I hope you will not hesitate to come into my qffice. I hope you will feel free to write, if there is anything that I can do to help you. I am willing to give all I have, and all the Lord will give to me, to help this work roll onward and upward to the destiny which I know the Lord has decreed for it. I have often said I wish the world could see it as God sees it, and know it as he knows it. Sometimes I wish the Latter-day Saints could see it as God sees it, and know it as he knows it. 

I want to say to you that there is no achievement that can ever come in the lives of my own children that will be so pleasing to me as to know that their lives shall be lives of service to this great Church. 

God bless our leaders, and God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may I enjoy your faith and prayers to enable me to fill my mission as the Lord has appointed, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice beyond expression at the wonderful outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord, from our first meeting until the close. The Lord has abundantly blessed each and all of us who have been called upon to speak. 

I bless you, as far as the power is in me to do so — and I know that I have it — I know as I know the Gospel is true that the Lord wanted me to preside over this Church. Brother Joseph F. Smith's last few words to me, and the last he gave to any man were : "The Lord knows whom he wants to preside over his Church, and he never makes a mistake." By the power of the Priesthood of the living God I bless you, one and all, and the righteous and honorable men and women all over the world, even so. Amen. 

"And the Glory of the Lord," an anthem from The Messiah, by Handel, was sung by the Choir. 

Elder H. Edward Sutton, President of the Oquirrh Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the Monday sessions of the Conference, by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, was under the direction of Sister Charlotte O. Sackett. J. Spencer Cornwall conducted the singing of the Tabernacle Choir at the Sunday and Wednesday sessions. The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper and Wade N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Annual Church Report  74 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 95 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 42 

The vision necessary, 42 — America a choice land, 42 — The blood of Israel, 42 — Gathering place in western America, 43 — Times of the Gentiles, 44 — Gathering of the Jews, 44 — Descendants of Lehi, 44 — Latter-day Saints to be leaders, 44 — A king in procession, 45 — The strait gate and the narrow way, 45 — Preparation needed, 46. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O 59 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 6 

Stabilizing power of an ultimate aim, 6 — Self-government based on observance of correct principles, 7 — U. S. Constitution protects rights of self-government, 7 — Perfection possible, 8. 

Broadbent, Elder David A Ill 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 6 

Broadcast, Church of the Air 6 

Callis, Elder Charles A 98 

The spiritual law brings peace, 98 — The Holy Ghost given men power, 99 — Joseph Smith's testimony, 101. 

Cannon, Bishop Sylvester Q 2 

Importance of obedience, 2 — Results of disobedience come in natural way, 3 — The Gospel a perfect law of liberty, 3 — Observance of law, 3  — Source of unity, 3 — Blessings predicated upon obedience, A — Divine principles, 4 — Positive qualities promote real happiness, 5 — Responsibility of Church officers, 5. 

Changes in Church Officers 80 

Choir Broadcast 6 

Church of the Air Broadcast 6 

Church Welfare Program 77 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 102 

Profitable investments encouraged, 102 — Borrowing brings burdens, 

102 — Statistics on farm mortgages, 103 — Easy money not a blessing, 

103 — Installment buying discouraged, 104 — Tax-payers must meet public debts, 105 — Church expenditures carefully handled, 105 — Church welfare work, 107. 

Clawson, President Rudger 39 

Daniel's prediction, 39 — Laws of finance and health, 39 — Cost of liquor consumed, 40 — Forewarned by the Lord, 40 — Benefits from observing law of tithing, 41. 

Christiansen, Elder Elray L. 117 

Clayson, Elder Merrill D 116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Evans, Elder Frank 52 

Eyring, Elder Carl F. 62 

Financial Statement 74 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 16 

First Day, Morning Meeting.. 2 

General Authorities of the Church 95 

General Authorities Present - 1 

General Auxiliary Officers 

General Officers of the Church 96 

Grant, President Heber J 10 

Experiences in borrowing money, 10 — Incidents in regard to "O Ye Mountain High", 11 — Repentance means forsaking of sin, 12 — An Agnostic's opinion of Joseph Smith's story, 13 — Arguments in tract unanswerable, 14 — Brigham Young's plan for empire, 14 — Officers urged to keep commandments, IS. 

Grant, President Heber J 16 

Telegram from Manhattan Ward Bishopric, 16. Grant, President Heber J 36 

Expresses appreciation for "Singing Mothers", 36. Grant, President Heber J 36 

Authorities absent, 36. 

Grant, President Heber J 88 

Authorities absent, 88. Grant, President Heber J 95 

Presentation of Authorities, 95. Grant, President Heber J 120 

Blesses the people, 120. 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 73 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 46 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 29 

MacDonald, Elder W. Aird . 93 

McKay, President David 16 

A trying period in history, 16 — Result of rejecting Gospel teachings, 17 — Working for salvation, 17 — No need for idleness, 19 — What one Ward accomplished, 19 — Opportunities at hand, 20 — Need and value of cooperation, 20 — Something for each to do, 21. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 31 

Campaign against tobacco, 31- — -Efforts to be characterized by love, 32 — Cost of breaking Word of Wisdom, 33 — Health and wisdom promised, 33 — A light unto the world, 34— Effort required to overcome, 34— Book by Brother and Sister Widtsoe, 35. 

Nibley, Elder Preston 90 

INDEX 123 

Petersen, Elder Alma L 87 

Pratt, Elder Harold W 115 

Richards, Elder George F 27 

A faithful people, 27 — Purpose of life, 27 — The Gospel the law for all mankind, 28 — Our religion a positive one, 29. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 119 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 21 

Intelligence man's chief investiture, 22 — True knowledge and intelligence rewarded, 22 — Intelligence a divine essence, 23 — The family of God, 23— New concept of heaven, 2 / l — Mission of Church for living and dead, 25 — Nature and need of Priesthood, 25 — Divine power exists in earth today, 26. 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 54 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 36 

Seegmiller, Elder William W. 61 

Smith, Bishop David A 57 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 64 

Questions concerning purported revelations, 64 — Key revealed to determine true revelation, 65 — Revelations given in accordance with law, 65 — Joseph Smith's comments on revelation, 65 — Spurious revelations, 66— Know the truth, 67. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 37 

Use of cigaret. condemned, 37 — Scriptural passages, 38 — Safety in living the Gospel, 38. 

Statistical Information 76 

Taylor, Elder John H 85 

Tew, Elder William T., Jr 109 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting ... 95 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 74 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 67 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 48 

Sorrows and joys mingled, 48 — Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, 49 — Knowledge not all-sufficient, 49 — Intelligence quickens knowledge, 50— Wisdom man's great need, 50 — Disobedience is sin, 51 — Responsibility comes with knowledge, 51. 

Williams, Elder Orlando C. 92 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 83 

Woods, Elder M. Charles 88 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 54 DUtisihA. 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, oh sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe..$1.25 (plus 

postage) 

A Rational Theology 

by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by Josiah E. Hickman ..$2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Expert Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

A THRILLING STORY 

of Century One of 

CHURCH HISTORY 

ERE is a new story of "Mormonism," told with a completeness and charm that will thrill Latter-day Saints with a pride of achievement and at the same time win the admiration of the critic, be he friend or foe. In a COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, B. H. Roberts has done a masterful piece of research and has set down the record of Century One — 1830 to 1930 — in a brilliant appraisal of momentous events. The reader with a sentimental interest will be fascinated with this narrative of truth stranger than fiction; the reader who approaches the new work with the critical vision of the historian will find it fair in statement, authentic in fact, copious in detail and sound in judgment. 

A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH was written by Elder Roberts at the instance of the First Presidency of the Church, with a commission to make it exhaustively complete, from the remotest beginnings to the close of the Centennial Conference of April 6, 1930. The final volume ends with an account of the Conference itself, making the history technically inclusive of all that happened in Century One of the organized existence of the Church. Thus it is a fitting commemoration of one hundred years of struggle and achievement. 

This monumental work is not to be confused with any former history, journal or chronicle. Though its nucleus is the history of "Mormonism" published a few years ago in AMERICANA, running serially for six years through that magazine, yet this History is NEW — new in its wealth of material, new in method of treatment and new in its physical representation of the book maker's art. 

Cash Price $30.00 

For further information address your inquiry to 

Deseret Book Company 

44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 









