Morning
06 04 1938


The fifth session of the Conference was held Wednesday morning, April 6, at 10 o'clock, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The musical exercises for this session of the Conference were rendered by the Tabernacle Choir. 

The congregation and Choir sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet." 

Elder Wayland R. Wightman, President of the Nebo Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "He Watching Over Israel" (Elijah), was sung by the Choir. 

ANNUAL CHURCH REPORT 

At the request of President Heber J. Grant, Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, read the financial and statistical report of the Church for the year 1937, also report of changes in Church officers, stake, ward and branch organizations since last October Conference, as follows : 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT The expenditures by the Church for the year 1937 : 

Stake and Ward Purposes : 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and 

ANNUAL CHURCH REPORT 75 

wards for the construction of ward and stake meetinghouses $1,025,082.77 

For ward maintenance expenses 808,287.28 

For stake maintenance expenses 255,222.30 

$2,088,592.35 

Hospitals : 

Expended for the erection and improvement of hospital 

buildings (included in Church Welfare Program) $ 126,204.00 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of the Church school system $ 904,305.81 Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of temples $ 451,043.33 

Relief Assistance : 

For direct aid in the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment. (From tithing funds only. Included in Church Welfare Program} $ 298,807.55 

Missionary Work: 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions $ 975,105.26 

Total $4,844,058.30 

which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for hospital buildings, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Fast Offering Information: 

1937 1936 Increase Pet. 

Fast offerings paid in 

wards $296,443.67 $259,125.46 $37,318.21 14.4% 

Fast offerings paid in 

missions 34,441.48 31,192.15 3,249.33 10.4% 

Total fast offerings $330,885.15 $290,317.61 $40,567.54 13.9% Number who paid fast 

offerings in wards.. 151,056 134,416 16,640 12.4% Number who paid fast 

offerings in missions 21,654 19,370 2,284 11.8% 

Total who paid fast 

offerings 172,710 153,786 18,924 12.3% 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

Average fast offerings 

per capita in wards.. 55.4c 48.9c 6.5c 

Wards showing highest per capita fast offerings : 

Manhattan Ward, New York Stake $ 2.20 

San Francisco Ward, San Francisco Stake 1.78 

Gilmer Park Ward, Bonneville Stake 1.75 

Rosette Ward, Curlew Stake 1.70 

102 wards (9.2% of wards in the Church) paid $1.00 or more per capita. 

Missions snowing highest per capita fast offerings : 

Czechoslovakia $ 1.12 

Palestine-Syrian .66 

Swiss-German .60 

Eastern States .55 

German-Austrian .55 

Summary — Erection and Improvement of Church Buildings — 1937 : Appropriated for ward and stake buildings, seminaries and 

institutes $1,195,319.63 

Amount raised locally (40% ) 679,837.66 

Appropriated for hospital buildings 126,204.00 

Paid by hospitals toward erection of buildings 82,525.78 

Improvements in temples 56,874.00 

Expended for mission buildings and real estate 284,141.09 

Total $2,424,902.16 

(Some of above expenditures included in Church Welfare Program) 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE YEAR 1937 

There were on December 31, 1937: 118 Stakes of Zion, (at the present time, 121); 1,017 wards; 84 independent branches, or a total of 1,101 wards and branches in the Stakes of Zion; also, 36 missions (including the European Mission), 951 mission branches, and 235 districts. 

CHURCH MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes 616,088 

Missions 151,664 

Total 767,752 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in 

the stakes and missions 21,005 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 14,631 

Converts baptized in the stakes and missions 7,322 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 

1937 1,983 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 

1937 30 

Number of local missionaries 70 

Total number of missionaries in the missions of the Church 2,083 Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 2,282 

Total missionaries 4,365 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary Home 1,003 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 83,092 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 30.9 per thousand. 

Marriage rate, 18.7 per thousand. 

Death rate, 6.9 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 59.2% Collected by wards and paid to missionaries $ 91,769.00 

Average cost per missionary, 1937, $30.34 per month, or a total of $364.00 per year per missionary. Average number of missionaries, 1,917, making a total average 

expense for the year of 697,788.00 

Estimated possible earnings per missionary, $900.00 per year X 1,917, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might 

have earned if at home of - 1,725,300.00 

Total estimated contribution of missionaries and 

their families for the preaching of the Gospel $2,514,857.00 

CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM (Including All Church Welfare Work) 

Total Church membership in stakes and missions, men, 

women and children 767,752 

Number of Church members who paid voluntary fast offerings to help the needy : 

In wards 151,056 

In missions 21,654 172,710 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

Amount of voluntary fast offerings In wards : 

Cash $ 281,002.98 

Produce 15,440.69 

In missions: 

Cash 34,441.48 

Total (all expended for relief) $ 330,885.15 

Special donations to the Church Welfare Program $ 66,003.64 

Assistance rendered by Relief Society 

In actual disbursements to needy $ 57,734.67 

In carrying on general work of this society 242,697.29 

Additional assistance extended to Church Building Program (Wards, Stakes and Missions) by increasing from 50% to 60% the Church's contribution to the 

program $ 185,183.60 

Expended from tithes, mostly by local officers $ 298,807.55 

Expended directly by the Church Welfare Committee 98,836.34 

Other donations to Church Welfare Committee 18,807.48 

Expended for the erection, extension and improvement of 

hospitals and for caring for sick therein 203,498.45 

Total $1,502,454.17 

In addition to the foregoing, the following supplies had been assembled and were on hand December 31, 1937, and are available for the needy during the year 1938. 

CLOTHING 

Estimated Value 

Men's clothing, pieces 13,608 $ 5,444.20 

Women's clothing, pieces 10,313 2,533.25 

Children's clothing, pieces 12,100 2,420.00 $ 10,397.45 

CANNED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Fruits and vegetables, cans 516,890 64,611.00 

Fruits and vegetables, bottles 82,393 16,478.60 

Dried fruits, pounds 17,508 1,750.80 82,840.40 

OTHER PRODUCE 

Flour, pounds 221,653 4,876.36 

Potatoes, pounds 1,182,325 7,093.95 

Other vegetables, pounds 201,814 1,009.07 12,979.38 

FUEL 

Coal, pounds 1,051,491 2,638.74 

Wood, cords 2,256 6,768.00 9,406.74 $115,623.97 

In order to render moderate financial assistance to those who were engaged in small farming or business, and who did not have a bankable undertaking, the Co-operative Security Corporation was set up. This company has made a number of small loans (which are largely character loans) but has limited the amount it would lend to any person to at most a few hundred dollars. 

In addition to the foregoing, very large contributions have been made in produce of which no record was at the time made because the mechanics for keeping full records had not yet been perfected. 

Furthermore, there are no available records of the money value of the very great work done by Priesthood Quorums and by the Relief Society with and for individuals, in such matters as assistance in building homes, in planting gardens, making small home improvements and renovations, in making clothing, and many like activities. In some stakes the major part of the whole Welfare Program work has been of this sort. Some of the most valuable assistance has been rendered in this way. 

THE CHURCH UNEMPLOYMENT SITUATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1937, 

IS AS FOLLOWS 

Employable needing employment, Jan. 1, 1937 6,544 

Employable needing employment, Dec. 31, 1937 7,760 

Skilled workmen unemployed, Dec. 31, 1937 1,134 

Unskilled workmen unemployed, Dec. 31, 1937 6,525 

Heads of families needing employment 5,651 

Number employed during year 6,071 

Number of persons used on Church Work Projects during year.... 2,532 Number of persons assisted by Bishops, Relief Society, and the 

General Committee agencies 44,440 

It should be understood that there are, in the aggregate, a considerable number of cases in which relief is being furnished to individual families both by the Church and by governmental agencies, through arrangements worked out between them. The -statistics hereinbefore given represent only the contributions made by the Church in such cases. 

The same principle operates in a considerable number of hospital cases, but the figures given herein represent only the Church contribution. 

The Church has not yet made any effort, or pretended to make any effort, to take its members from governmental work projects; it has merely urged those on such projects to do a full day's work for a day's 

payit should also be understood that Utah and adjacent areas have very large populations of non-members who in considerable part are engaged in the industries. The Church has made no effort to take care of these, leaving them to be cared for by other organizations and the government. 

While the Church Welfare Program aims of course to help those in need, its real purpose is not merely to substitute Church gratuities 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

for others furnished by charitable or governmental agencies but to rebuild the characters of its members and to promote and to foster the patriotic, civic, and spiritual qualities of the people. 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

Y. W. M. I. A. General Presidency Reorganized : 

President Ruth May Fox released as President of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. 

Lucy Grant Cannon, formerly First Counselor, appointed President; 

Mrs. Helen Spencer Williams appointed First Counselor; 

Mrs. Verna W. Goddard appointed Second Counselor. 

New Missions Organized: 

From the two German speaking missions (German- Austrian and Swiss and German) three new mission units were created, to be known as the Swiss-Austrian Mission, presided over by Thomas E. McKay, with headquarters at Basel, Switzerland; East German Mission, presided over by Alfred C. Rees, with headquarters at Berlin; and West German Mission, presided over by Philemon M. Kelly, with headquarters at Frankfurt-on-the-Main, Germany. 

New Mission Presidents: 

Matthew Cowley appointed president of the New Zealand Mission to succeed President M. Charles Woods. 

James Judd appointed to preside over the Australian Mission, to succeed President Thomas D. Rees. 

Kenneth R. Stevens appointed to preside over the Tahitian Mission, to succeed President Thomas L. Woodbury. 

Richard E. Folland appointed to preside over the South African Mission, to succeed President LeGrand P. Backman. 

M. Douglas Wood appointed to preside over the West German Mission, to succeed President Philemon M. Kelly. 

New Temple Presidents: 

President Harold S. Snow appointed to preside over the St. George Temple, to succeed President George F. Whitehead. 

Castle H. Murphy appointed to preside over the Hawaiian Temple, to succeed President Edward L. Clissold. 

New Member Appointed to General Committee — Church Welfare Program : 

Elder John A. Widtsoe appointed as special Social Welfare Program adviser. 

Roscoe W. Eardley appointed as field representative. C. Orval Stott appointed as field representative. 

Other Special Appointments: 

Joseph S. Peery released and Joseph J. Cannon appointed to preside  the Temple Block Mission in Salt Lake City, with headquarters at the Bureau of Information; Brother Peery retained as Bureau Manager. 

Richard P. Condie appointed as Assistant Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir Leader, to succeed D. Sterling Wheelwright. 

Mrs. Belle Smith Spafford appointed editor of the Relief Society Magazine, to succeed Mary Connelly Kimball, deceased. 

Elder and Mrs. Joseph A. McRae appointed to preside over the Church landmark at Carthage, Illinois. 

Lester F. Hewlett appointed to succeed David A. Smith as President of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir. 

New Stakes Organized : 

Smithfield Stake, created by a division of the Benson Stake on January 9, 1938. The new stake embraces Amalga, Clarkston, Newton, Smithfield First, Second, Third and Fourth Wards. 

Coveville, Cornish, Lewiston First, Second and Third, Richmond, Richmond South and Trenton Wards retained in Benson Stake. 

Mount Graham Stake, created by the division of St. Joseph Stake on February 20, 1938. The new stake embraces Duncan, El Paso, Franklin, Layton, Lebanon, Safford, Solomonville and Virden Wards, and Gila Branch from the St. Joseph Stake, and Las Cruces and Lordsburg Branches from the Western States Mission. 

Central, Eden, Emery, Globe, Kimball, Miami, Pima, Ashurst, Bryce and Thatcher Wards retained in the St. Joseph Stake. 

Phoenix Stake, created by a division of the Maricopa Stake on February 27, 1938. The new stake embraces Glendale, Papago, Phoenix First, Second and Third and Tempe Wards. 

Lehi, Mesa First, Second, Third and Fourth, Chandler, Gilbert and Pine Wards retained in the Maricopa Stake. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed : 

Vernal C. Webb appointed president of the West Jordan Stake to succeed President Almon T. Butterfield. 

Alfred W. Chambers appointed president of the newly organized Smithfield Stake. 

James Hyrum Riley appointed president of the Weber Stake to succeed President George E. Browning. 

Spencer Kimball appointed president of the newly organized Mount Graham Stake. 

Jesse A. Udall appointed president of the St. Joseph Stake to succeed President Harry L. Payne. 

James Robert Price appointed president of the newly organized Phoenix Stake. 

Lorenzo Wright appointed President of the Maricopa Stake to succeed President James Robert Price. 

H. Fred Egan appointed president of the South Summit Stake to succeed President Zach J. Oblad. 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

New Wards Organized: 

Evanston 2nd Ward, Woodruff Stake, created by a division of Evanston Ward. 

Grant Ward, Los Angeles Stake, created by a division of Maywood Ward. 

Montebello Ward, Los Angeles Stake, created by a division of Eastmont Ward. 

Smithfield Fourth Ward, Smithfield Stake, created by a division of Smithfield First Ward. 

Bountiful Third and Orchard Wards, South Davis Stake, were created by dividing Bountiful First, Second, and South Bountiful Ward of that stake. 

Duncan Ward, Mount Graham Stake, created by a division of Franklin Ward. 

Independent Branches Made Wards: Hayward Ward, Oakland Stake. Romeo Ward, San Luis Stake. Boulder City Ward, Moapa Stake. 

New Independent Branches : 

Evans Branch, Box Elder Stake, created from a dependent branch of Bear River Ward. 

Flagstaff Branch, Snowflake Stake, created from a dependent branch of Winslow Ward. 

Pittsburg Branch, Oakland Stake, created from a dependent branch of Martinez Ward. 

West Suburban Branch, Chicago Stake, created by a division of the Logan Square Ward. 

Utahn Branch, Duchesne Stake, created from a dependent branch of Duchesne Ward. 

Rains Branch, Carbon Stake, created by a division of Standardville Branch. 

Lordsburg Branch, Mount Graham Stake, taken from a branch in the Western States Mission. 

Las Cruces Branch, Mount Graham Stake, taken from a branch in the Western States Mission. 

Wards Disorganized: 

Frankburg Ward, Lethbridge Stake — members moved away. 

Rockport Ward, Summit Stake — annexed to Wanship Ward. 

Widtsoe Ward, Garfield Stake — annexed to Antimony Ward. 

Mt. View Ward, Curlew Stake — membership transferred to other wards. 

Branches Disorganized : 

Coutts Branch, Taylor Stake, made dependent branch of Raymond First Ward. 

Centerdale Branch, Bear River Stake. 

Wheatland Branch, Malad Stake — membership transferred to wards. 

Those Who Have Passed Away: 

John F. Bennett, member of Church Auditing Committee and senior member of the General Sunday School Board. 

Mary Connelly Kimball, editor of the Relief Society Magazine and member of the Relief Society General Board. Was former editor of the Young Woman's Journal and member of the Y. W. M. I. A. Board. 

William Henry Smart, former president of the Eastern States Mission and of Wasatch, Uintah, Duchesne and Roosevelt Stakes. 

Lucy Emily Woodruff Smith, wife of Apostle George Albert Smith. 

Hyrum H. Goddard, first secretary of the first Y. M. M .1. A. 

Lotta Paul Baxter, former member of Relief Society General Board. 

Henry E. Giles, Professor of Music and Assistant Tabernacle Organist to John J. McClellan. In recent years has served as conductor of the Old Folks Choir. 

Martha Horne Tingey, former General President of the Y. W. M. 

I. A. 

Mary Louisa Woolley Clark, mother of President J. Reuben Clark, 

Heber Manning Wells, first governor of the state of Utah. Willard Telle Cannon, vice-president and general manager of UtahIdaho Sugar Company and former president of the Netherlands Mission. David Bennion, Star Valley Stake Clerk. James W. Eardley, Bishop of Baker Ward, Union Stake. David M. Haun, bishop of West Jordan W ar d, West Jordan Stake. E. Ray Beck, Bishop of Sandy Third Ward, East Jordan Stake. John Peterson, president of Bay Ridge Branch, New York Stake. Richard Ott, bishop of Tropic Ward, Panguitch Stake. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Central States Mission 

I wish I were more prepared, that I might give you a better report of the mission, but I am so thoroughly surprised that I suppose I will be like the minister we frequently tell about who left his sermon at home and told his congregation that they would have to bear with him that day since he must depend upon the Lord, but that he would be better prepared next time. 

It is a great inspiration to come to this Conference; to hear the voices of the servants of God, to mingle with the Saints and to sit in council and discuss the affairs of the Church as the mission presidents have the privilege of doing. I shall return to the mission with renewed vigor, faith and determination to discharge my duty as the presiding officer in that portion of the vineyard of the Lord. 

I am happy to be able to say to you that the work in the Central States Mission continues along in its progressive way. The Lord blesses our people in their gatherings, our meetings are better attended all the 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

time, and they grow constantly. I am sure that faith is increasing and the spirit of happiness, concord and peace generally pervades our gatherings. 

I believe the people of that mission are trying to live their religion; they pay their tithing very well — a little improvement each year over the past, nothing spectacular. They want to do the will of the Lord and they find pleasure in his service. We have the local people doing some missionary work similar to the stake missionaries. For instance, in Kansas City all the men holding the Priesthood, who respond, hold cottage meetings among the non-members of the Church within the vicinity of their homes, and they accomplish much, I am sure. In the summer time they help us with our street meetings, when these street meetings are being held in more than one neighborhood. 

The meeting houses of the mission are most of them in very good condition. We have respectable places in which to meet. We always have our wants and our needs, even as you do at home, but generally speaking I am safe in saying, and happy to say, that the work of the Lord is progressing in that mission. 

A great responsibility is laid upon those who receive the Priesthood. When missionaries volunteer to go into the mission field, they are no longer at liberty to "choose their lives and what they'll be," because they have already chosen to serve the Master, and covenanted that they will do their part in attempting to carry the Gospel message to those to whom they are sent. 

I believe that with very few exceptions the missionaries receive their calls with due respect and reverence, and do the very best they can, human weaknesses considered, to discharge their duty. They live together in harmony, peace, and good will, and if any of them do get out of harmony, the rest of them help them to get back in. There is a genuine feeling of brotherly love among the missionaries. If they become concerned about one of their brethren, they all try to help him into a better condition. 

I rejoice in the privileges we have. I rejoice in the leadership of the Church, in the kindness and gentleness of spirit that is manifested by the General Authorities of the Church in the discharge of their duty. Those who speak of them as being dictators simply do not understand; do not know. I have never known such gentleness and kindness in my life as I have found in associating with these brethren in the limited opportunities that come to me to associate with them. I testify to you that the Spirit of the Lord inspires them and blesses them, and there is wisdom in their counsel. I have never yet made a mistake by observing the counsel that has been given to me by those who preside over me. 

May the Lord give us faith in his servants, faith to do what they ask us to do, for our own welfare and happiness, is my parting prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have the blessings of the Lord with me while addressing you. 

The preaching of the Gospel has always been one of the major activities of the Church. The responsibility for this work rests on the Priesthood, especially on the Seventies, because of the nature of their calling to be special witnesses of the Lord in traveling among the people, both at home and abroad. This assignment to preach and teach will always be ours because the Lord has indicated that during the time that his people are upon the earth, all men and women shall have the opportunity of understanding and accepting the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Before any punishment has been meted out to a people because of their disobedience or their lack of faithfulness, the Lord, in sending his servants to preach and teach among the people, has always given them an opportunity of repenting of their sins and of coming back to him. 

This missionary work has been in existence even from the time when Adam was placed upon the earth. It was given to him that he should preach and that he should teach his family that they should repent of their sins and do the things which ought to be done in order that they might find their way back into the presence of God. 

Perhaps at times we forget this obligation which rests upon us as heads of families. I believe that if we were more faithful we would feel the responsibility of teaching our boys and girls, praying with them, and bearing testimony to them of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We would then have greater influence with them and thus help them avoid many things which are contrary to the word of the Lord. 

When the Gospel has been upon the earth the Lord has indicated that his Priesthood shall preach and teach among the people. All through the early days down to the time of Christ prophets were assigned to this labor, to warn the people, and to entreat them to repent of their sins and come back and worship the Lord in order that they might not be destroyed. When the Christ came upon the earth he preached and taught among the people and chose disciples and chose Seventies that they might represent him in preaching and teaching. When the Christ was crucified and the work was given to the Apostles to preach and teach, they went out and even gave their lives that men and women might know this Gospel. 

When the Church was established in these latter days, missionaries were sent out under all kinds of circumstances and conditions. They went out when they were sick, they went out when they were poor, they went out in the days of persecution, in order to do something for the nations of the earth, that the people might not be destroyed or die without having the privilege of understanding the Gospel of Jesus Christ. This assignment has come down to us through all the days of the Church and 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

we are therefore still sending missionaries into the world to preach this wonderful Gospel so that men and women may not be lost. 

In recent years we have not only been doing this foreign missionary work, but the Church has established in the stakes of Zion the home mission work. The presidents of stakes and those associated with them have seen the value of this work, and they are assigning men and women to go among the people who are living in the stakes of Zion, but are not members, so that they might have an understanding of the plan of life and salvation as revealed to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Reports from the stakes indicate that because of the labors of the missionaries, many of these people are accepting the Gospel and many members who have been inactive in their Church duties are coming back into Church service. 

Our mission in the stakes of Zion is of course to endeavor to convince men and women of the truthfulness of the Gospel. We also have another mission, — that of bringing to the attention of our good friends and neighbors the real value of many of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. As they live among us they have not acquainted themselves with many of the truths that we have in the Church. They know something about the Word of Wisdom; they know a little about the Temple work; they know something about how we care for the needs of our young people, — but the majority of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ have not been explained to them. 

While we have no hope of getting everybody that we contact to come into the Church, we do have the hope, the prayer and the desire to acquaint them with the Gospel of Jesus Christ so that if they move away they can carry with them a correct knowledge and understanding of why we worship God and a correct conception of our religion. 

Just recently I boarded the train at Salt Lake City with a number of other people. Among them was a young lady who, soon after being seated, was approached by fellow passengers for information concerning the Mormon people. As they talked with this young lady they soon found that she was not a member of the Church and that she had been going to school at the University. She had had some contact with the Mormon people, especially with the boys and girls. 

Practically the only thing that she could tell about the Mormon people was that they had a doctrine in the Church called the Word of Wisdom and because of it none of the people of the Church smoked or drank. Of course that was good information. Then she qualified it in a minute or two and said the older people do not drink or smoke but some of the young people do. When she had finished telling what little she knew about the Church she said: "Well, after all is said and done, the Mormon people are a very fine, splendid people." 

As I sat in my seat and listened to her vague ideas regarding the doctrines of the Church I thought of the splendid opportunities we have in Salt Lake City and all of our towns where our stakes are organized, to go to these fine friends of ours and help them to understand what we really believe. We all ought to be missionaries and help our neighbors  friends to understand the principles of the Gospel and perhaps this understanding will gradually grow and increase until they shall become well informed regarding the things we have in the Church. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to keep his commandments and to do the things we ought to do. May we be a good example to the people who live among us. May the Lord bless the missionaries in the stakes of Zion so that they will know how to approach people in such a humble and intelligent way that they shall be convinced that this is indeed the Church of Jesus Christ. May the Lord bless us and help us in this great work, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man." 

ELDER ALMA L. PETERSEN 

Former President of the Danish Mission 

My brethren and sisters : I trust that the short time I stand before you, you will offer a prayer to our Heavenly Father in my behalf. 

I bring to you a greeting from President Richard R. Lyman and his dear wife, who are doing a very fine work in the European Mission. I bring to you also a greeting from President Mark Garff of the Danish Mission, also the Elders and Saints there. 

I am glad to report to you — and I believe that I can say it truthfully — that never before in the history of the Danish Mission have we been so respected and so well thought of as we are at the present time. We had a wonderful harvest in the past three and a half years, and have brought many fine people into the Church. We have brought into the Church some very good Catholic people who have become faithful Latterday Saints and are doing a fine work. 

I would be ungrateful were I not to say that we were very fortunate, while I was presiding over the Danish Mission, to have some fine brethren and sisters visit us. Brother George D. Pyper visited Denmark and visited our Sunday Schools. He did a lot of good for the Sunday School cause in the Danish Mission. We had the pleasure of having President Grant visit our mission, and I do not know of anything that did our mission so much good as the visit of himself and associates. 

I am going to call to your attention just one thing that happened. The day that President Grant arrived in Copenhagen one sister, who was a faithful Latter-day Saint, came to me and said : "President Petersen, if I can but shake his hand I know that I will be well." 

I am just citing that to show you the faith that our Saints have in the work. They are living the Gospel; I think I dare say that many of them are living the Gospel better than we are here at home. I am going to refer to one thing that happened just last month. A large convention was held in the State of New Jersey, where many of the teachers and the professors of different states were present. Helen Keller was one of the speakers at this convention, and after she had delivered her paper the reporters came to her and asked if they might 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

ask her a personal question. She said she would be very glad to answer their questions. This is the question they asked : 

"Miss Keller, if you had the wish of your heart this day, what would you ask for?" 

She said: "If I had the wish of my heart, it would be that peace might come back to the world again." 

God bless her for such a noble wish! If I had my wish today, I do not think that I would wish for that, because I am not so sure, under present conditions, that peace would stay on the earth very long. But if I had the wish of my heart today it would be that faith would come back to the children of men, that faith would come to the nations of the earth, that faith would come back into the homes, that faith more abundant would come back into our Church, for the Lord has said we cannot please him without faith. He has also said that with faith we can remove mountains. 

God grant, my brethren and sisters, that faith may increase. "Ask and ye shall receive," is the Savior's message. May we ask, and may we seek the Lord that faith may come into our hearts, that we may serve God and keep his commandments, and I want to bear testimony to you that if we will live the Gospel we will relieve the head of this Church, the Twelve, and those who preside over us, of many of the problems that they have to battle with today. 

God grant unto each and every one of us that we may have more faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President David O. McKay is home on account of illness; Brother Reed Smoot is not feeling well, and we asked him to stay home today. Elder John Wells is absent on account of a death in the family. 

We have received the following cablegram from Elder George Albert Smith, from Auckland, New Zealand: 

Greetings from Australian and New Zealand Saints. 

ELDER M. CHARLES WOODS 

Former President of the New Zealand Mission 

I have often sat looking from the other end of this house, but I think that perhaps other than from the choir seats, I never before looked out from the pulpit. Realizing there are many people who attend Conference I have often thought, surely it would be an awe-inspiring sight to look over the great congregation. 

My family and I returned from New Zealand night before last, coming home from the coast by way of Los Angeles and the desert. Just prior to our leaving we met Elder George Albert Smith and Elder Rufus K. Hardy. Brother Hardy formerly presided there. We saw them for  day only, as their boat stopped over in New Zealand on its way to Australia. 

I contemplate speaking to you sometime so that I may tell you the many good things that came into our hearts and our home in that land. New Zealand is a land as far south on the other side of the equator as we are north. Its largest city, Auckland, is a city larger than Salt Lake. The climate is not like Hawaii, neither is it like the other islands of the South Seas. The South and North Islands form the great island of New Zealand. It is as large in its extent as the State of Utah. I think it could perhaps be called — as it is very often called— The Britain of the South Seas. You distinguish it from the other islands of the Pacific by the icy fingers which reach skyward on both islands, and by its emerald color so different from the desert that I have just crossed. 

And in passing may I say for the first time I was a little ashamed of my people as I drove up through the south end of this state, and I hope I will not see the same picture when I go farther north. The barns, chicken coops, and other buildings are not a credit to this people, that is all I have to say along that line; but perhaps, having a little of the artistic in my own nature I should say that some paint would do wonders, and if the old gunny sacks hanging on the chicken coops were taken down and something else put there in their place, it would be very helpful. 

Paint does wonderful things for both people and places. I know that in one case it covers a multitude of skins, while in the other a multitude of sins. 

I can also say that I noticed some of your meeting houses in the south end of the State, the grounds of which had been landscaped but are in many cases sadly neglected. I saw only a few from the road. I heard the young man who was driving us home in his car remark that he admired the people for planting the grounds, but he disliked his people for letting them go uncared for. 

I do not know exactly what to say, but to tell you that your boys — or I should say young men — are well. I have taken them to my heart as my own. You have lost a part of your sons for they are partly mine. A man said to me before I left : "Elder Woods, the finest thing that could come into a man's life is contact with fine young spirits." We have found this to be quite true, and perhaps one of the great compensations which is now ours. We expect joy in both this life and in eternity because of these contacts. I have often joked with the Elders, telling them that all a mission president and his family need to do for a livelihood would be to visit their homes and live with them and their relations, continuously feasting with them on the fat of the land and enjoying their wholesome spirits. 

My two sons have been on missions in Germany, so my entire family has spent time in the mission field. I do not know how many years it would be, but we are happy for everyone of them, and the contact with your fine sons has added a charm to all our lives. 

I bring to you a fine report from the Saints, as one has just been read here. I think perhaps it comes from Elder George Albert Smith. 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

I remember having been the cause of sending conference greetings to you a time or two while we were away. 

Really this crowd over-awes me; I am not thinking properly, I am just standing here seeing the sea of faces that are before me. It reminds me of looking down upon the many upturned faces as we stood on the deck of the vessel before we sailed from the shores of New Zealand. 

We have been treated very kindly by the New Zealand government. Our records are constantly used to determine old age pensions, etc. There is a kindly feeling between the government officers and our Mission office. There has also been a most friendly spirit with the office of the American Consul. Mr. Walter I. Boyle, who until recently has been American Consul in Auckland for many years, has often invited us to his home and many social gatherings. 

The Church owns property in New Zealand and the Elders who are among the Maori people have their own homes, the headquarters of the different districts. The Elders laboring among the Europeans are not so fortunate, but are still paying their board as other missionaries do. Your sons among the Maoris are not doing regular preaching, but are acting like bishops and helping with the taking care of the sick, building and gardening and other things to further the mission work. The Elders are all very happy, they love the people of New Zealand and I bring their greetings to you Saints here in Zion. 

May God bless you and make you dear to me again as you always have been, make you more dear than you have heretofore been, and I ask his blessings upon this work and those who are still conducting the great ship of Zion, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER PRESTON NIBLEY 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I am pleased to report the activities of the Saints and the missionaries in the Northwestern States Mission. 

About forty-five years ago my father and David Eccles of Ogden established a sawmill at Baker City, Oregon. They gathered around them a few members of the Church as laborers and executives there, and gradually a little branch of the Church was formed, a Sunday School was established, and, as far as I have been able to learn, that was the first Sunday School in what is now the Northwestern States Mission. As a child I had the opportunity of attending that Sunday School. Returning after an absence of many years, what a great change does one behold. 

There is scarcely a city in the Northwest in which we do not find a congregation of Latter-day Saints. We now have ninety-six Sunday Schools scattered all the way from Alaska to southern Oregon and as far east as Great Falls, Montana. We have a membership of fifteen thousand people. It is interesting to me to note that our people from the stakes are moving into the Northwest. During the year we received  one thousand recommends in the office of people moving from the stakes and settling upon the lands and in the cities of our mission. 

It is also very interesting to me that last year our missionaries found over one thousand members of the Church whose presence we were not aware of until the missionaries discovered them. Some of our people like to move out there and go into hiding, but we like to find them and we have organized branches among the people we have found whose presence we were not aware of previously. 

There are many great agricultural opportunities in the Northwest. They are constructing on the Columbia River at Grand Coulee a dam which will divert the waters of the great Columbia River into central Washington and irrigate eventually 1,200,000 acres; and I want to encourage our people, if the Presidency of the Church agree, to investigate the opportunities of that project. 

During the year that has passed we organized in our mission ten new branches, twenty-five new Sunday Schools, thirty-four Primaries, and nineteen Relief Society organizations, and baptized six hundred people. 

I want to say a word about the missionaries. You are sending us a fine group of young people, and we enjoy them. The missionaries are kept going on their enthusiasm, and I hope that you will write them optimistic letters. When the old cow dies, or the mortgage becomes due, do not sit right down and write your missionary a twelve-page letter about it. Sometimes it takes us two or three weeks to get them back and going and steamed up again. 

I want to pay a tribute to President Edward J. Wood, who presides over the Alberta Temple. I want to say that that Temple under President Wood exerts a fine spiritual influence over our mission, and all our Saints who go there return with something that they did not have before. 

My brethren and sisters, this is the kingdom of God that we are building on the earth. It contains within it the solution of all the problems that perplex mankind. It has only begun to grow; its limits are unknown to us, and of the scope of its work we can hardly conceive. 

In closing I want to read a paragraph from the Prophet Joseph Smith's "Wentworth Letter." In 1842, on the 1st of March, the Prophet in Nauvoo sat down and wrote a letter to Mr. John Wentworth in Chicago, who had inquired concerning the belief of the Latter-day Saints. This is one paragraph from that famous letter : 

No unhallowed hand can stop this work from progressing; persecutions may rage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame, but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear; till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done. 

My brethren and sisters, I testify to you that the words of the Prophet Joseph are true, and I do so in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

ELDER ORLANDO C. WILLIAMS 

President of the Spanish- American Mission 

My brethren and sisters : I am happy with you in this conference session and to receive the inspiration that has come to us. I am thankful above all else for the leadership of this Church, for the knowledge we have that the Priesthood of God — which is the power to officiate in the name of the Lord upon the earth — is directing this Church work and all the movements of it. 

I bring to you greetings from the missionaries and Saints in the Spanish-American Mission. The missionaries — your sons and daughters — are well, and they are happy in the great missionary work that they are performing. I was made glad with the words of Brother Ballard, wherein he said that the day of the other branches of the House of Israel was about to dawn. We feel that the work is opening up among the sons and daughters of Father Lehi faster than we can take care of it. 

There seems to be a new spirit among the people, and the missionaries catch the spirit of it also, and we are laboring diligently, day after day, to preach the Gospel to them to their understanding, and to bring to those who are already members of the Church a deeper knowledge of its principles and a keener appreciation of the heritage that is theirs. We pray continually that the Lord will hasten the day of their redemption, when they will be brought into full knowledge and light of the Gospel, and that they may feel a closer contact with the body of the Church. 

We of the Spanish-American Mission, like others who are laboring among those who speak Spanish, have a love that is deep for those people, and we feel that regardless of the color of their skin they are of the house of Israel, beloved of our Father in heaven, and are one with us. 

I have been moved many times by the testimonies that I have heard as to the truthfulness of the Gospel, but few have moved me more deeply than one recently on a conference tour of Texas, when in a little town down on the Rio Grande we were holding conference and I called on one good brother to speak who had come across the line from his home in Old Mexico. As he stood before me bearing his testimony that he knew that God lived, that Jesus was the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, I was moved deeply by his words and the spirit of them. I saw that good brother not as he stood before me, bent by age and the privations he had endured throughout his life in a struggle for existence, not with a dark skin, but as one of the sons of God, measured by the intent of his heart, by his humility, and as he will appear in the day when they will be a white and delightsome people. 

I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for the opportunity that is mine to labor with that humble, good people, because they are indeed choice, and you need not be concerned because your sons and daughters are called to labor among them. They are loved by that people, they are well received, and they have within their hearts a love that is deep for the people who are the sons and daughters of Father Lehi. 

I do not wish to take more of your time, but to leave with you my  that I know that we are engaged in the Lord's work, and that we are being led by inspiration and revelation through the leadership that is ours in this Church, and if I would leave any admonition it would be that we as a people strive to grow more humble day by day, and that we follow more closely the leadership of the Church. I leave this with you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER W. AIRD MACDONALD 

President of the California Mission 

I am conscious of what is known as the "dizzy heights." I am humbled by the great responsibility that rests upon one who is called to address the Saints of the Lord, but I am grateful to bring to you a report of the California Mission, and to bring to you the greetings of the missionaries and nine thousand fine Saints in that mission. I am happy to bring you word that the call of our Prophet at the last Conference, that "the presiding officers of the Church shall be keepers of the law," has been carried out in the California mission, with the result that there has been a revival, if we may call it that, in the faith of the people. 

I am happy to bring to you the greetings of the missionaries, these fine young men and young women who have been sent into the field, who, with enthusiasm and earnestness, are carrying forward the work of the Lord, with the result that during the past year four hundred and twentyfive baptisms are recorded in our mission. 

We have fifty-one branches out there, twenty-six of them housed in their own chapels. We have organized in the mission six districts, operating as "junior stakes," and we place the responsibility of governing, developing, and building up these sections and branches on the shoulders of local brethren. We are happy to say to you that they have appreciated it and are doing a splendid work. 

Ten Priesthood quorums have been organized, which have given Priesthood activity to men who for years have read of Priesthood work but have had no part in it. A splendid work is being accomplished. 

The highlight of our mission during the past six months has been the recent visit of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. He visited all parts of the mission and preached the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the people. Our people appreciated it and were thrilled at hearing the good old-fashioned Gospel preached and they were greatly instructed by Elder Smith. They will long remember his visit to the mission. 

I am grateful for the opportunity that has come to us to labor in this great missionary work, for, as the Prophet has said, "after all has been said, our greatest work is to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ." So I am thrilled for the opportunity of laboring with these fine missionaries, young men and women who have been sent there to preach the Gospel. I am reminded of what a state official said to me recently in Sacramento : 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Wednesday, April 6 Third Day 

"I do not know much about your Mormon theology or what you teach, but I think you are doing one of the greatest works among the youth of America today." 

I asked him to explain, and he said : "It is in these young men you send on missions who go about the world. If I had a son I would want him to go on a mission for the Mormon Church." 

I thought that was a real tribute. He had seen and witnessed the growth and improvement that comes to these young men and young women who labor in the mission field. 

So, to you parents, I want to say that nothing in the world that you can do for your sons and daughters will ever measure up to the experiences, or the growth and development that will come to them, nor the possibilities for future success, as for the time they spend in the mission field. So I hope that you will regard a mission for your sons and daughters as one of the obligations that the Lord has placed upon you; to see that they have opportunity to engage in this service that will carry them far in their lives. 

I am grateful to report to you the fine work of the Saints in the California Mission, and to bring you the message, you Bishops of wards, that a little branch in California whose obedience to the law of tithing during the past year gave them a $30 per capita record; and another little branch in Arizona where every member who earned during the year paid tithing; a branch that is 100 % in keeping of that law. 

We have more than ten branches in the California Mission that paid tithing per capita above $14. I have labored in the stakes, and I know what it is to try to get some of our people to obey this law. We sing, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," and "Come, Listen to a Prophet's Voice," and when we hear these voices we pay little heed to them. It seems to be the spirit of people to revere the old prophets and to slay the living ones. I want to bear testimony to you that we are guided by prophets of God today, and that the work of this Church and its leadership is in the hands of men inspired of our Father in heaven, and the Latter-day Saint who listens and obeys counsel will always find his footsteps in the paths of righteousness. 

I bear testimony to you that this is the work of the Lord, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I bear testimony to you that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the Book of Mormon is the word of the Lord, that we as a people should be more concerned and more familiar with the truths that are contained in these sacred records. God bless us to be a people that shall be an example to the world, that our good works may lead other good men and women throughout the world to a knowledge of the truth. I want to say to you, in harmony with what I said about our being led by prophets of God, that this recent new work that has been inaugurated in the Church — our great welfare program — -is the key that opens more doors in the mission field today than anything else. Men everywhere are interested in knowing what the Mormon Church is doing for its people, and not alone that they are being cared for, but that the Church is requiring every man to be a worker and not an idler. Intelli men of the world are concerned with the fact that this Church requires labor from those who shall receive its gratuities. 

God bless us to be what we ought to be, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

An anthem, "Send Forth Thy Spirit" (Schuetky), was sung by the 

Elder Leonard G. Ball, President of the Idaho Falls Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

The concluding session of the Conference convened Wednesday afternoon, April 6, at 2 o'clock. 

President Heber J. Grant announced that the Tabernacle Choir would furnish the music for this meeting, and that the Choir and congregation would sing as the opening number, "How Firm a Foundation." 

After the singing of this hymn, the invocation was offered by Elder Taylor Nelson, President of the Oneida Stake. 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were unanimously sustained, as follows : 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 


