Afternoon
05 10 1913

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the hymn : 

Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell, By faith and love, in every breast; 

Then shall we know, and taste, and feel The joys that cannot be expressed. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Franklin S. Bramwell. The choir sang the hymn : 

Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, 

Unuttered or expressed; The motion of a hidden fire 

That trembles in the breast. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Appreciation of words and music of hymns — Membership in Genealogical Society recommended — Ben E. Rich's successful life — Saints should be guided by authoritative counsel —  Gratifying recognition of worthiness of Latter-day Saints — Striking illustrations of benefit of sustaining home manufactures — Spiritual power manifest in the Church today. 

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire 

Unuttered or expressed, The motion of a hidden fire 

That trembles in the breast." 

That is the first verse of the hymn we have just listened to. The last verse is as follows : 

"Oh Thou by whom we come to God, The life, the truth, the way! 

The path of prayer, Thyself hast trod, Lord teach us how to pray." 

I pray earnestly and in humility that that same splendid spirit which has been manifested in all that has been said to us thus far in our conference may also be given to me. I ask earnestly an interest in the faith and prayers of this vast congregation, to the end that I may be able to say something which may be encouraging, and in its nature calculated to benefit those who listen. I was not only particularly impressed with the beautiful sentiment in Montgomery's poem that we have just listened to but I was also impressed with the very splendid music. I had the same feeling this morning . while listening to the splendid poem by Sister Eliza R. Snow. 

"Though deepening trials throng your way 

Press on, press on, ye Saints of God! Ere long the resurrection day Will spread its life and light abroad." 

I was impressed also with the beautiful music of this hymn. Both of the melodies that we have listened to having been composed by our fellow townsman Brother George Careless. I feel very grateful to the Lord, not only for the inspiration that has come to the men and women who have written so many splendid things that we hear from time to time, but I am also grateful for the ability possessed by Brother Careless, B'rother Stephens and many others who furnish the splendid music for our hymns. 

President Anthon H. Lund, President Charles W. Penrose, three members of the council of twelve, and others, form a board of directors of the Genealogical Society of Utah. We feel a deep interest in the work of this society. Classes have been organized where the people are receiving instruction in the work that is necessary to be done in 'our temples. Recently a genealogical day was appointed for all the wards in the Church, where the subject should have been taken up, and we found, in many of the wards, that not one word was said upon this subject, thus showing a lack of interest and a great carelessness on the part of those whose duty it was to arrange suitable services for the occasion. We heard here yesterday thrilling words with regard to the beautiful Gull monument, in stone and in bronze, that has recently been unveiled. We heard regarding the wonderful testimony in stone of our Temple, but without the labors being performed within the Temple, it is like the body without the spirit. We have in very deed the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God unto salvation. We find recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants that this is the Gospel, the glad tidings which the voice out of the heavens declared unto us, that He came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the sins of the world, and to save all the workmanship of the hands of God. One of the great works in this Gospel of salvation, devolving upon us as Saints, is to labor in the temples of God for the salvation of our dead. We feel that the Latter-day Saints, from one end of the Church to the other, should enroll themselves as members in the Genealogical Society, and that they  labor in the Temple as often as opportunity will present. 

I desire to read just a few words that I penned for the Improvement Era, fifteen years ago, and I read them in connection with the death of our beloved brother Ben E. Rich. Ben E. Rich, to my mind, lived a successful life. He died a millionaire in the wealth which is true wealth and which counts with God : 

"Not he who merely succeeds in making a fortune, and in so doing; blunts the natural affections of the heart, and chases therefrom the love of his fellows, can be said to be truly successful, but he who so lives that those who know him best shall love him most, and that God who knows not only his deeds but also the inmost sentiments of his heart shall love him; of such an one only, notwithstanding he may die in poverty, can it be said, indeed and of a truth, he should be crowned with the wreath of success." 

God loved Ben E. Rich. The prophet of God, and all of his associates in the Presidency, and the council of the twelve, and all of the general authorities loved Ben E. Rich. Those who came in intimate contact with him in the Southern States and in the Eastern States, men not of our faith, loved this man; he gained their love, and those who knew him best loved him most, and God who knew the inmost promptings of his heart loved him. Therefore I say this man lived a successful life. I felt T would like to pay these few words of tribute to the memory of one who spent fully one-half of his mature years in proclaiming the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We find it recorded that if we labor all the days of our lives and bring save it be one soul unto a knowledge of the Gospel, how great shall be our joy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father, and if" we bring many souls how much greater shall be our joy. Both by tongue and with his pen, this man has brought many, many souls to a knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus. Christ. God bless his memory. God bless his. family and help his children to walk in his footsteps, and to place the love of God and the Gospel of Jesus Christ first in their lives, is my earnest prayer in their behalf. 

I endorse with all my heart everything that I have heard during this conference. Pope says : 

"Vice is a monster of such frightful mien 

As to be hated, needs but to be seen; But seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." 

Some among us are embracing, to the full extent, the vice of immoral dress, and I lift my voice in absolute and perfect harmony with every word uttered here by President Smith. We sing and have done so during this conference, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet to guide us in these latter days;" there are a great many who ought to put a postscript to that and say, "Provided he guides us to suit our own fancies and our own whims." The prophets of God, from Joseph Smith to the present day, have guided us and they have guided us aright, when we have listened to that guidance; and the mistakes which have been made have been because of our failure to listen to the Prophet whose right it is to guide the people of God. I will give you one practical incident. Brigham Young stood in front of the home of the late Apostle, at that time bishop, Marriner W. Merrill, in Richmond, and he pointed over to  sandy country where Lewiston now stands and he said to Bishop Merrill: "Call some man to go over there and be a bishop, and organize a ward there, and have the people locate there. That will be the most valuable part of this valley, agriculturally, the greatest grain producing part of the country." Brother Merrill told me this, standing upon the spot where Brigham Young stood and he said, "I called Brother Lewis to go over there, and he was subsequently ordained as a bishop, and set apart to preside at Lewiston. After he had been there one season and ploughed up the ground, a wind storm came and took all his fine soil and piled it up in a heap by the fence. He came back and said, 'Bishop Merrill, I would not give my little twenty-acre farm here at Richmond for the whole country over there and I want to come back.' " Brother Merrill said, "Well you will not come back with my consent. If you come back you will have to run away from the call that has been placed upon you. I will not release you; the Prophet of God has said that is to be the granary of Cache V alley and you go back there;" and Brother Lewis went back disheartened and discouraged. Brother Lewis, who afterwards became the president of the Benson stake of Zion, no doubt thanked Brother Merrill that he did not let him run away, seeing that during the last few years of his life, he harvested over ten thousand bushels of wheat a year. I know that the path of safety for the Latter-day Saints is to not only sing "We thank Thee O God for a Prophet, to guide us in these latter days," but to be ready and willing and anxious to be guided. 

I was thrilled through and through with the magnificent reference made to the Gull monument by Brother Roberts, and I was also thrilled with that magnificent poem which Brother Hart read. I thank God for my mother, and so does every true Latter-day Saint who has had a mother who has lived the life of- a Latter-day Saint, and has been true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I am thankful that healthy, vigorous, strong, sweet babies are the best crop of Utah, and I hope and pray earnestly that it will ever be so. I hope that the fashion which is a thousad times worse than are the fashions in dress, namely, that of drying up the fountains of life, will never become popular among the Latter-day Saints. That poem read by Brother Hart was a magnificent tribute to the mothers of the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice that honest men, as illustrated here, in the quotations made by Brother Levi Edgar Young, have to say good things, when they tell the truth, about the Latter-day Saints. I had a letter from a very dear friend of mine many years ago, written from London, and he was at the time general manager for the entire United Kingdom of a great corporation with hundreds of millions of dollars of money; he wrote me as follows : 

"My Dear Heber : Your nice long letter of the tenth came duly to hand. Of course you know, aside from the long- and intimate personal friendship that we have had together, how much I have always been impressed with the genuineness and the sincerity of the men and women who hold your faith. Many times and oft I have said in conversation that the only people I ever knew who lived up to their professions were the 'Mormons' of Utah; and this is true. This it is that inspires respect even where there is a  absence of a belief in the doctrines. Y'our people carry their beliefs into daily life and act as if they think there is something in them. I cannot see how, as a sensible person, I could do otherwise, for if tnere is anything" — and my friend drew a big black line under the word "anything" — "in a belief which involves an eternity of future existence, there is everything;" and my friend drew another large black line under "everything." "If there is anything in a belief which involves an eternity of future existence there is everything." 

Not only have you and I a faith which involves an eternity of future existence, but we have a knowledge of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ which we have espoused, and it does involve an eternity of future existence, and we will have that existence in pleasure, in happiness, in joy, in association with all the good and the noble who have lived the Gospel of Jesus Christ, or we will be expelled from that company, according as we shall keep the commandments of God. How I do pray that God will inspire His people with a determination to live their religion, so that this faith, involving an eternity of future existence, shall also bring to them an eternity of exaltation and joy in the presence of our God and of our Savior. 

I received a letter from William George Jordan, the author of a number of books which we have published in serial form in the Improvement Era, "Individuality of Self Control," "Little Problems of Married Life," and others. He is also the author of, "The Power of Truth," the English edition of which is "Great Truths." I sent him a number of tracts, a Book of Mormon and some pamphlets, and in acknowledging their receipt he thanked me for them and expressed the hope that some day he might visit Utah and learn by personal contact regarding our , people. "From what I know of your people," he said, "your religion more than that of other creeds yields dividends of finer individual lives; no faith is of any value unless it does yield dividends of better lives." I feel that compliments or praise of this kind, coming from those who are not of us, are precious, and should be appreciated by every Latter-day Saint. I rejoice that men not of us discover that for honesty, for sobriety, for uprightness of life, for virtue, that no other people can make a better record than do the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice exceedingly in the magnificent record which has been made by our boys who have gone to Harvard, and to the other universities from one end of the country to the other. For quality and quantity, and for upright lives, the record which our boys have made is one that every Latter-day Saint should be proud of. I rejoice in this record for, because of it, we are becoming better known; people are beginning to recognize what Mr. Jordan has said, namely, that this Gospel of Jesus Christ commonly called by the world "Mormonism" is in very deed yielding dividends of better individual lives. 

I was very much pleased indeed with the reference made here yesterday by Brother Penrose, with regard to supporting and upholding and sustaining our local manufacturing institutions. From the time that I was a boy sixteen years of ago, I never bought but one suit of clothes in Salt Lake City that the cloth did not come from the Provo Woolen Mills. I bought that suit to go to a ball in the Salt Lake Theatre. I had the honor of being a member of the Utah Legislature at the time that  members of the Legislature from Wyoming visited us, and we gave them a ball in the theatre. As my Provo suit happened to be of a light color, I did not want to be the only "white sheep," so to speak, and so I bought a black suit to harmonize with the others; but the next day I gave it away to a poor relative, so that when I stood up to preach I would not be wearing an imported suit of clothes and, provided I wanted to talk home manufacture, that the chips would not fly back in my own face. I never bought but that one suit until the factory closed down. I wear goods that are made in our own knitting factories, I stand up in Z. C. M. I. shoes; they are good enough for me. 

Speaking of home-made shoes reminds me of a little story. A number of years ago, in the Assembly Hall, Bishop George L. Farrell announced that one reason why he bought home-made goods was because he loved Bishop Farrell; he said, "If I buy home-made goods my money stays at home and it floats around and I get a chance to secure a little of it occasionally." You know they say, opportunity has a large lock of hair on its forehead and that it is bald behind, and that if you don't grasp the lock as it comes by, the hand will slip off; and Brother Farrell believed in grasping opportunity. He said : "I have been coming down here to conferences from Cache Valley once or twice a year, for something over twenty years, and, every time I have gone to the depot, when I could possibly get a gold piece I put a mark on it; knowing that the railroad was owned by eastern capitalists. I wanted to see if I would ever get any of that money back, but I never did. When I would  home-made goods I would put a mark on that money, and time and time again, I got my home-made marked money back again. To give you a practical illustration, this identical trip, at the depot at Smithfield, I saw a man who had made some shoes for my children and I handed him five dollars in payment. He saw another man at the depot to whom he owed five dollars and he gave him the five; and he saw another and he gave him the five; and he saw another and he gave him the five, and when the fourth man got it he came up to me and said, 'Bishop Farrell, I owe you six dollars; here is five on account,' and I put my home-made shoes back in my pocket." (Laughter.) I am not vouching for the exact language but I am vouching for the facts, because I heard the talk. So five dollars' worth of home-made shoes paid twenty-five dollars' worth of debts as quick as I have been able to tell it to you, or as it took Brother Farrell to tell it. 

When I heard the Bishop's talk I was interested in a factory and I was trying to get a Salt Lake merchant to buy our goods and he said they were not as good as the imported. I told him he did not know good goods when he saw them; that they were better than the imported; but he did not believe it. "Well," I said, "look here. There is no doubt if you can make something you would buy the home-made goods." "Oh yes." You know of all our father's sons we love ourselves the best; and this merchant was no exception. I said, "I will take orders on your store instead ot cash, and as you make probably twenty-five or thirty per cent profit, you can afford to buy our goods." Then he was loyal enough to do it. 

I gave to those working in the factory ten per cent of their pay in orders and the balance in cash, and I asked them to tell me what they did with the orders and when they told me where the orders went I followed them all up. Those orders were out of our factory an average of six days, and they averaged paying seven hundred per cent. In other words, every five dollar order went through seven hands in six days. They did one hundred per cent of work a day and worked enough in six days to rest on Sunday. Now I once had the bumps on my head felt by Professor Fowler, and he said the biggest bump on my head was a practical bump, and I believe that that practical bump is fully satisfied with these two illustrations, that it is good business to buy home-made goods and thereby keep our money at home. 

A Montana divine in January, 1910, said : 

"I maintain that the Christianity of the present is face to face with a lamentable loss. The Christianity of today has acquired much, but in its getting it has lost its own soul; it has lost the Holy Ghost. No true man will dare to refute this argument; for go where you may in Christendom today you will find that our religion is void of the supernatural element which the Bible' claims it must have in order to exist." 

I differ with this divine in one particular: Go where you may in all the world except among the Latter-day Saints. I maintain that in every land, in every clime, where ever the Gospel of Jesus Christ has gone, from Scandinavia on the north to South Africa on the south, to New Zealand, Australia and the islands of the Pacific, from Canada on the north to South America on the south, go where you will, whereever the Gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith has been proclaimed, and people have embraced it, the supernatural element, the power of God, and the Holy Ghost have always been manifested. "There are periods in the Christian era we look back upon with wonder and admiration. In those days men were convicted of sin and a judgment to come." All over the world, wherever this Gospel goes, men are convicted of sin and a judgment to come, and they repent of their sins and they go down into the waters of baptism, and they do receive a remission ot their sins and they do receive the Holy Ghost, that this man says Christendom is devoid of. "Then the more than human element was visible in our creed." As stated before, the more than human element is visible in the creed of the Latterday Saints wherever the Gospel is proclaimed. "Holy men had heavenly .visions." Holy men and holy women have had heavenly visions, by the hundreds and by the thousands, yea by the tens of thousands since this Gospel was restored to the earth in our day. "Sickness was cured by spiritual power." I stand here today and in all humility before God acknowledge that I am a living monument of the healing power of Almighty God; and we heard the strong, able voice of Joseph W. McMurrin here yesterday, and he, too, is a living monument of the healing power of God. We have them by the hundreds in the Church of Christ. "Holy men spoke with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance." Holy men and holy women have spoken with other tongues. I seldom hear a hymn written by Sister Eliza R. 

Snow sung in any of our meetings, or sing one myself, that I do not thank God for the gift of tongues to that noble woman. She gave to me a blessing when I was a child, predicting incidents in my life, promising me that I should grow to manhood and become one of the leaders in the Church of Christ, Sister Zina D. Young giving the interpretation. I thank God that we have the gift of tongues. My wife, whose body lies in the tomb, gave to me a wonderful blessing by the gift of tongues, every word of which has been fulfilled. I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, I know that the gospel tree is alive, that it is growing, that the fruits of the gospel growing upon the tree are good. I have reached out my hand, I have plucked the fruits of the Gospel, I have eaten of them and they are sweet, yea, above all that is sweet. 

May God help me and you and every soul who has a testimony of the Truth to live the Gospel of Christ so that our good deeds may encourage other men to seek for a testimony of the Truth, is my prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The world recognizing worthiness of "Mormons" — Tribute to industry of prominent Churchmen — Waste decried — Misplaced sympathy for criminals — Joaquin Miller eulogized — America a God-blessed land. 

This vast congregation is certainly a testimony to the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that the work of God is growing. It is certainly an evidence to the world that the people  the Church are loyal to its principles, believe in its destiny, and have unbounded confidence in the promises of God, our Father. I, with you, rejoice in the privilege of meeting in these general conferences. I believe that we all have assembled here for the same purpose. We come to these conferences to receive instructions from the servants of God. W e come here to renew our obligations to Him, and to receive a portion of His Spirit to direct us in our future life. I don't know that I have ever attended a conference that I enjoyed more than this. I can't remember a time when my soul was in so perfect accord with all that has been said, as at this conference. I desire to bear testimony to what has been said by the brethren who have already spoken, calling attention to the mission of the Church, the magnitude of the work, of what the Church is accomplishing in the world, of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, and the establishment of this work, never to be thrown down or given to another people. 

The present position of the Church has not been attained, without unselfish devotion to its purposes, without loyalty to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, without labor, yes labor without ceasing. I am proud to say that the world recognizes the fact that the "Mormon" people, as a people, are industrious, honest, peace-loving, God-fearing, even if they think we are mistaken as to the form of religion, or our idea as to God. 

I remember when I was a boy the Juvenile Instructor came regularly to my father's home, and upon the front page of the cover there was always printed, at that time, this quotation, "There is no excellence  labor." There never was a truer saying; and I doubt whether there ever was a people on earth that has demonstrated the truth of this statement more than have the lives of the Latter-day Saints. 

Our president, yesterday, expressed the thought that he had wasted, in different ways, a part of the time allowed him. I want to say to the brethren and sisters that I don't believe that there is a man living who labors harder and more hours each day than President Joseph F. Smith. If he is guilty none of us will escape. Labor does not always mean manual labor, ' and I say to the people of this Church that if they will labor as many hours and as diligently as the general authorities of this Church, there will be a great improvement in all the stakes of Zion, and greater prosperity in all the homes of the Saints. I often hear men talk of being overworked. Others are overworked and say nothing of it. This is sometimes true of the men we least suspect. This comes forcibly to my mind every time I receive an issue of the "Americana," and read the history of this people written by Brother Roberts. I never read any one of the chapters unless I stop and think of the weeks, and months, of diligent investigation and work required in collecting all the facts and truths presented in such splendid form. The time and effort he has given in writing the history will never be known by anyone but himself. The history when complete will live as a monument to his industry and to his intelligence. I think Brother Whitney and other members of the general authorities of the Church, who are called upon to do special work, are at times overworked, and all of them are doing everything in their power to advance the work of the Lord upon this earth. 

Waste of time, waste of food, waste of substance, of any kind, is displeasing in the sight of God. This has been preached in every stake of Zion. I remember, not many years ago, that I hardly ever attended a stake conference but what some of the brethren asked the people to improve their fences, their sidewalks, and their front yards, and I am pleased indeed to know that that counsel has been followed in many sections. At this conference I want to call attention to one yard that is just as important, and perhaps more so than the front yard, that is the back yard. I was in one of the little towns, in a county in the southern part of this state, not many days ago, and as usual I arose early, before the family was up. I surveyed the back yard. (I believe I can tell more of the reasons for the prosperity or non-success of a man by visiting his back yard than I can by meeting him upon the street, or judge from the appearance of his front yard.) The brother was complaining somewhat of hard times; thought that everything was costing too much money; living was high, and yet I saw in his garbage can that morning enough food that could have been used, if properly prepared, to feed his family the following day. A wicked waste, and such waste is an abomination in the sight of man and God. My brethren and sisters, let us learn a lesson against waste from the great industrial institutions of this country. Take the steel industry. It wasn't many years ago when all their byproducts were wasted, thrown away — actually an expense to the industry to remove them, but today they  used in a hundred different ways. We find made from them material for pavements; we find the blast furnace gas running the powerful engine for moving their great machinery; we find the byproducts made into aniline dyes; iron-ore waste pressed into brickets, and made into high class steel; in fact, everything is now used that a few years ago was thrown away and wasted. So with the packers of this country. There is nothing wasted by them. Every particle of a steer that is now slaughtered is utilized. The steer is converted into the necessaries of life, — from beef steak to buttons, and as one person aptly expressed it, there is not a particle of a beef wasted, with the exception of the air that the animal has breathed. I could go on, my brethren and sisters, and tell you of how every great industry of this country is utilizing every particle of material that they handle; but I haven't the time today to do so. 

The president of the Church warned us yesterday — and it was indeed a timely warning, against breaking some of the admonitions and laws of the Church, and, in doing so, physically weakening the bodies that God has given us. I am in full accord with every word that he uttered. I believe in the word of Wisdom with all my heart. I believe it is the law intended by God to keep our bodies healthy and strong, to transmit to our children, coming into this world, clean bodies; and every child that is born has a right to expect of the father and the mother a clean, healthy body and mind. 

There are other things, it seems to me, that are sapping the life, at least the spiritual life, of the people of the world, and our communities are , somewhat, with the same evil. I have reference to the maudlin, half insane sympathy for the murderer, the unnatural, and the wicked, the desire for sensationalism, the mad rush for pleasure, the desire to become one of the idle rich, or a determination to join the idle poor. What do I mean by maudlin, half-insane sympathy for the murderer, the unnatural, and the wicked ? I simply have to refer you to a case which has filled the magazines and the press not only in this country but all over the world, and, as far as I can estimate, if the space had been charged for by the daily papers of this country as they charge the business men for the space for advertising, it would amount to a hundred million dollars, or more. I have reference to the Thaw case. Who was Harry Thaw ? A man reared in the lap of luxury, a debauchee, a murderer escaping the gallows on the plea of insanity, a man reared in a home where all the luxuries of wealth were given him, but devoid of everything that makes man what God intended him to be. Wasn't it a spectacle to deplore to see the crowds following him from place to place, from jail to the auto, while he was in Canada; ovation after ovation was given him; women presented him with flowers on every possible occasion, and young girls not out of their teens, stood at the jail begging "Harry" to come to the bars that they might see him. Oh God, have mercy on such deluded people. I remember one case here in Utah when a murderer, sentenced to die, was sent flowers by some of the women of our state. Thank the Lord there were but a few so foolish. I take it that such action can only be indulged in by a person hav a diseased mind. There is surely something wrong with them. I do know that there isn't a spark of the Spirit of God in them. 

I was more than delighted with the reading of Joaquin Miller's poem today. I have read it many, many times. I hardly ever pass the old house he made his home while in Washington (it has been moved to Rock Creek Park lately, by the Government of the United States, from Sixteenth Street to a lovely part of the park) but what I go inside. You cannot always tell what a man is by the house he lives in or by his dress. I knew Joaquin Miller, having met him many times in Washington. I don't remember of seeing a man that was so careless in his dress, and yet God inspired him to present to the world, in poetry, some of the most beautiful thoughts and ideals that can appeal to the better part of man. As you enter the living room of the old log house, you see in the corner the old desk that he toiled at for so many years, the place where the inspiration of God came to him to record in poetry the history of our nation and people. I honor his name for his words of commendation and truth for the womanhood of the state I love so well. God bless his memory. 

Before closing, my brethren and sisters, I want to leave with you today my testimony that God lives, my testimony that He will be with and assist any man or any woman who will rely upon and have faith in Him; also my testimony to the power of prayer; and of God's goodness to his people. I am not worried in the least that God will not carry out His part of the compact with His people, if we honor and obey Him and keep His commandments. May God bless this people, may He bless every honest soul in the world; may He bless the different governments in all the world, and particularly the men who make and administer the laws of the respective governments; for we all desire that liberty shall abound upon the earth. I believe that God held in the hollow of His hand this continent for the planting of truth and liberty, and I believe that liberty will continue to spread until it covers the whole earth as the waters cover the mighty deep. So may it be, O Father, and hasten the day is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Mighty Jehovah, accept our praises." the bass solo was rendered by James A. Crawford. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The thing of most worth — What God did for man, and what He requires in return — One Savior, with many assistants — A proper division of labor necessary. 

I am thankful that my heart is in tune with the spirit of this conference, and with all that has been said by the servants of . God under the influence of the Holy Spirit. The keynote to the conference was sounded by President Smith when, on yesterday morning, he uttered these words : "I feel, this morning, as I have felt almost all my life, and I feel it stronger this morning, perhaps, than ever before, that there is nothing under the heavens of so much importance to me or to the children of men, as the great plan of life and salvation." 

The moment these words fell from his lips, my mind flew to that  in the life of our Savior where a young man came to Him and asked what good thing he should do to inherit eternal life. He was told to keep the commandments, and they were enumerated. He answered, "All this have I done from my youth up." The Savior then said, "One thing thou lackest — go and sell all that thou hast, and give to the poor, and come follow me." In other words, Help me to save the world. 

I also recalled some revelations given through the prophet Joseph Smith, in which God revealed to certain men the secret thoughts of their hearts. One of these men was John Whitmer.one of the eight witnesses to the Book of Mormon. The Lord said to him, through Joseph the Seer, in the month of June, 1829 : "I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone; for many times you have desired of me to know  that which wpuld be of the most worth unto you. Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my word which I have given you,, according to my commandments; and now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth to you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls to me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." Peter Whitmer, Jr., another of the eight witnesses, was answered in like manner. 

In a subsequent revelation, given for the benefit of Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, we find these important passages, already referred to in part by Brother Heber J. Grant : 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer, suffered death in the flesh; wherefore He suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto Him; 

"And He hath risen again from the dead, that He might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance; 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth. 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people; 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father. 

"And, now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me." 

Can we wonder that the President of the Church should be moved upon to remind us of these things ? The most profitable work that men or gods can engage in is the salvation of souls. Consequently there is nothing so important to me or to you or to any of the children of men, as that great plan of life and salvation, devised in the heavens and delivered to man upon the earth in a series of Gospel dispensations of which this is the last and the greatest. 

What is this plan? What does it contemplate? What is its nature and its purpose? Paul the apostle wrote : "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ for it is the power of God unto salvation." He might have gone further had it been timely, and shown that the Gospel of Christ is also the power of God unto exaltation. Exaltation is salvation added upon; it is an extension of that idea or condition, just as salvation is an extension of redemption. A soul may be , that is, raised from the grave, and yet condemned at the final judgment, for evil deeds done in the body; or a soul may be saved, and yet come short of the glory that constitutes exaltation. The threefold purpose of the gospel is to redeem and save and glorify the children of God. 

The word "gospel" comes from "godspell," an Anglo-Saxon term meaning God-story, or the story of God. It derives ijts significance from that great central idea of the Christian faith — the coming of God as the Son of God to redeem and save mankind. Abinadi, the Nephite prophet, declared, hundreds of years before the birth of the Savior, that God Himself would come down among the children of men and redeem His people; "and because He dwelleth in flesh He shall be called the Son of God." He is the author of our salvation. He paid our debt; He took the world out of pawn, in which it had been placed by the transgression of our first parents, Adam and Eve. 

And yet, through that transgression, and the consequent fall of man, God's purpose was accomplished, in the coming of a race of spirits to take upon themselves bodies, thus becoming souls, capable of endless increase and everlasting progression. "Adam fell that man might be, and man is that he might have joy." But there would be no joy, no progress — there would be no redemption, no salvation, no exaltation, had not Christ died, that man might live again. The action of our first parents brought death, eternal death, into the world — death of the body, death of the spirit, everlasting banishment from God's presence; and yet it had the great result of giving God's children the opportunities which this life affords for education and development. 

But in order that the plan might be operative, the transgression turned to good effect, God's purpose carried out, and man saved and glorified, there had to be a ransom, a redemption; the scales of eternal justice had to be repoised, and right's equilibrium restored. The life of a God was the price of the world's freedom, and that price was paid by him who is called Jesus the Nazarene, but who was and is no other than Jehovah, the God of Israel, who came unto His own, was rejected by them, was crucified at their instigation, and gave His life to redeem the world. 

Now, this is what the Savior did for us. Has He not earned the right to tell us what we shall do for Him? Did He not have the right to say to the young man, "Forsake all and follow me?" Did He not have the right to say to Joseph, and through him to John Whitmer, to Peter Whitmer. to Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, "That which will be of most worth to you is to bring souls unto me ?" If He could afford to descend from His glorious throne, make Himself an exile of eternity, walk in the dust of His own footstool, to bring these glad tidings of immortality and the resurrection, to open up for us and for all men the opportunities for endless progression, can we do less than to follow Him and do whatsoever He requires at our hands? 

There is but one Savior; there is only "one name given under heaven whereby men can be saved;" but there may be innumerable assistants, innumerable subordinates, saviors in a lesser sense and degree. John the Revelator saw no  than one hundred and fortyfour thousand of such saviors, standing on the Mount Zion, with the Father's name written in their foreheads; and it was said of them, "These are they that follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth." 

The Gospel of Christ represents what God did for man, that man could not do for himself; and it also represents what He requires of man in return. There is nothing possible of achievement that God cannot do. but there ma) r be things that He has not time to do, and which may be done for Him. There are some things, however, that even God cannot do. I speak it with all reverence. For instance, He cannot make something out of nothing, though many pious Christians ascribe to Him that power — if such it can be called. There is another thing that God cannot do — He cannot be present in all places at the same time, in His own proper person. This is God's work, and it can only be done by the power of God; but we cannot expect Him to be everywhere present, nor in two places at the same time, except by His authority, His spirit and His influence. This fact renders necessary a priesthood to represent Him, and a Church such as this to carry on His work — a Church which from top to bottom is one great machine for the salvation of souls. 

There is no one class among the Latter-day Saints upon whom this great work rests, to the exclusion of the others. Take to your hearts the wise counsel and instructions of President Francis M. Layman. How beautifully he met the occasion, and fitted his discourse to the needs of the time — just like a plaster to a wound. There is growing up among us, I fear, a sentiment  only certain men and women ought to be called upon to carry ori the work of the Lord, the work of saving souls. Some think that the First Presidency and the other general authorities, with the heads of the stakes and wards and missions, are the men who ought to do God's work, while the rest go on making money, practicing politics, pursuing and accumulating material things. This is a heresy. The obligation of saving souls rests upon every man and woman in this Church — if not with equal weight, at least proportionately, according to their strength, their time, their opportunities, their abilities; and they cannot get out from under this responsibility on the plea that it belongs only to such and such persons. Did not the Lord say, through Joseph the Seer, at the beginning of this work, "Behold, it is a day of warning, and not of many words : Therefore, let every soul that is warned, warn its neighbor ? v 

I had a conversation, recently, with one of our brethren, while returning home from a journey, and during our talk he said, in substance : "When the apostles visit the stakes, instead of going merely to the meeting house, to the home of the stake president, or wherever they are entertained, why don't they go out on the street corners, or into the shops, where the boys congregate that never attend meetings, that are never seen in the congregations of the Saints ? Why don't they go in the stores and sit on the counter with them, put their arms around them, and try to save them ? What weight it would have if an apostle should devote a portion of his time to work of this nature. As it is, you don't see all that goes on  any stake of Zion. It washes its face, puts on its fine apparel, and assumes its best behavior, to receive the visitors at a conference; and the officers of the stake are naturally anxious to give a good report of local conditions. The result is that you do not get at all the facts. You are not fully informed of the conditions. Would it not be a good work for one or two of the Twelve to do — the extra work that I have suggested?" 

Yes, I had to admit that it would be a good work, an excellent work. But can anyone tell me why it would not be just as' good a work for a high priest, or a seventy, or an elder, in case an apostle could not be there ? Twelve men can't be everywhere. Why wait for the apostles to come, you that hold' the Melchizedek priesthood in the sixty-five stakes of Zion ? Why don't you save your own 'sons and daughters ? 

When the Apostle James wrote, "If any are sick among you" — -he did not say, send for the heads of the Church. He said, "Send for the elders of the Church." Now, there is an army of elders, and the work of administering to the sick might be distributed far more widely, with better results than are now obtained. Men would exercise their priesthood who are not exercising it today, and a few would not be overloaded with work and broken down by doing more than their share. This magnificent Church organization was instituted for the salvation of souls; and if every man in all the councils and quorums of the priesthood, and every woman in the auxiliary organizations, were doing their share of the work, and some were not trying to do more than their share, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  would not hear so much about "nervous prostration," we would not hear of broken-down men, dying prematurely; but everything would work harmoniously and happily. 

God never intended that His work should break men down. He intended that it should build them up. Let us all find out what God requires of us in this great plan of salvation, and then let each one do  or her part, and we will all be happier, we will all do better work, and God will be glorified through our administrations. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Lord will comfort Zion." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lemuel H. Redd. 



