Second Overflow
05 10 1913

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., presided. 

The Forest Dale ward choir again furnished the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Hark! ten thousand thousand voices 

Sing the song of jubilee! Earth, through all her tribes, rejoices — 

Broke her long captivity. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph S- Wells. The choir sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

ELDER SERGE P. BALLIF. 

(President of Cache Stake.) 

My beloved brothers and sisters, I can assure you that I am pleased to be in this conference. I recognize the hand of the Lord in calling together His people that they might be instructed in the words of life. I believe, from the bottom of my heart, when we assemble on occasions of this kind, that if we have a prayerful desire in our hearts to receive the word of God, then those who may be called upon will address us under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and we will be indeed fed upon the bread of life. 

On leaving my home to come to this conference, I had a desire that the Lord would inspire His servants to speak on a subject that very much concerns the stake where I am living. I felt that I would like that we should receive some instructions upon the Word of Wisdom, a principle, commandment, and revelation of God that is not being observed to the fullest extent by the Latter-day Saints today. My heart was full of that desire when T entered the- Tabernacle yesterday morning, and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that my prayer was answered. The Lord directed the words of His servants in accordance with my desires. I believe the same desire was in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, and we all felt the inspiration of Almighty God. It was indeed a revelation and inspiration to us, to hear the prophet of the Lord make the statements that he did in our hearing in that meeting yesterday morning. 

My heart was filled with joy, and I hope that every Latter-day Saint will feel that those words were for them individually, as I felt that they were for our mutual benefit, renewing an important revelation from God. I believe that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and that the Lord, through him, made known to His people, when he gave that revelation, the things that were necessary for their well-being here upon the earth. I want to demonstrate by my life that I believe Joseph Smith was a prophet, by rendering obedience 'to that command, by keeping it in my own home, by teaching it to my children, by living in accordance with the principles of the word of wisdom. 

Another thing that I strongly desired to hear discussed, was the question of reform in dress of our young people. This matter also has been preying upon my mind in regard to the people in Cache stake, and when the Prophet of the Lord made mention of that in our conference, I felt again that my prayers had been answered. I think that the prayers of every Latter-day Saint, of every father and mother were similarly answered. I believe that the Spirit of the Lord made manifest unto all of us that the Lord made known through His prophet the things that are needful to be corrected in our midst. 

I appreciate the teachings that we receive from time to time in these conferences. I trust that every Latter-day Saint fully understands the importance of coming to these conferences with the spirit of prayer, with a desire to be instructed, and with a determination to carry out in our lives the instructions that are given to us by the servants of the Lord on occasions  this kind. In contemplating about the short history of our people, I thought of the time when the great Tabernacle on this block was used first for a conference, in October, 1867, forty-six years ago. When I look at that building today, I know that the Lord inspired the men who designed and erected that great edifice. I have traveled in many parts of the world, including most of Europe, and I never have seen a building that will compare with that one, and I am confirmed in the belief that the inspiration of the Lord directed its construction. 

I was also thinking further of tilings that to me are of importance. On the 8th of October, in a conference that was held in the Tabernacle, the first conference, if my memory serves me right, our present Prophet, Seer and Revelator was called to the apostleship. I feel to thank the Lord for his faithful life, for enabling him to magnify his great calling as an Apostle. He has certainly been an inspiration to this people. His words that we hear from time to time in these conferences should be taken by the Latter-day Saints as being inspired by the Spirit of God. I often think of remarks that are made sometimes by our young people and by strangers; they say, "Where are the great men today, men like Brigham Young, John Taylor, and other leaders?" I answer, we have great men in our midst today. They are equal to the occasion; they are the men God has called and chosen to direct the affairs of His Church today, and I say they are indeed prophets, seers and revelators unto this people. 

I was much pleased the other day when a young man, whom I had never seen before, came into my , and be said "I want to be baptized. I have been here for some time; I have traveled among your people and have become converted through my observation, through listening to the teachings of your people, that you have the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I desire to be baptized. An ideal and object of my life now is that I may go into that Temple on the hill when the proper time comes." This was an inspiration to me; my heart was filled with joy, and I thought of the words of the Lord, that we will be known by our works. I was pleased to feel that the young man must have been associating with people in that stake of Zion who were living according to the principles of the Gospel in their daily lives. He had a laudable desire to go into the house of the Lord, and there receive a wife according to God's law, for time and for all eternity. There was an object lesson to all of our young people, to my daughters, to my sons. My greatest desire and prayer is that my boys and girls may be worthy to go into God's holy house, and there enter into sacred obligations and covenants with the Lord, and take unto themselves wives and husbands that will be theirs throughout the endless ages of eternity. I believe in teaching our young men and young women the sanctity of these holy temples. I believe that they should be taught from their infancy to reverence those edifices, because of the sacred ordinances performed therein. 

My brethren and sisters, I do not feel to occupy the time further. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with His people, that we may live in accordance with this grand Gospel that will redeem mankind through obedience to its principles. I am converted to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know, beyond question in my soul, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I want to live to demonstrate in every act of my life that I know that he was a prophet. I revere and respect his name. I love the Gospel as it has been made known, and I trust that all Latter-day Saints may have a desire in their hearts to be true to the covenants that they have made with the Lord. May we live lives worthy of example, that our light may shine, so that the people of the world will see our good works, and glorify our Heavenly Father. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ORVIL L. THOMPSON. 

(President of Millard Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters. I sense very keenly the responsibility that is upon an elder occupying this position, and I desire earnestly that the short time I stand before you that the Spirit of the Lord which has characterized the meetings of this conference shall also prompt in what I may be led to say. 

I have rejoiced in the spirit of the conference, and all that has been said and done has received my heartiest approval. The words of admonition and of rebuke, if they may be so termed, have appeared to me to come with the real spirit and inspiration of the Lord, and have applied to people over whom I preside in the Millard stake of Zion, and I believe they apply largely throughout the Church. The words of our leaders have been inspired of the Lord, they have been spoken by  shepherds of Israel, watchmen upon the towers of Zion, and it becomes the duty of those who have heard, and those who shall hear or read the proceedings of this conference, to reduce to practice in their lives the wise suggestions that have been made. I bear record, as President Ballif has done, that my prayers have been answered, and things that have worried me, and to which I have given thought and attention, have been spoken in this conference and our duties made plain. I am disposed, as far as I may be given ability, to introduce and to spread this spirit and these teachings among the people where I labor, for I love the people over whom I preside. I am anxious for their welfare, temporal and spiritual. I desire earnestly their salvation and good works, and in connection with them I desire the salvation of the human family, the whole household of faith in particular. I feel that the remarks that have been made, the suggestions that have been given for our temporal and spiritual benefit are timely and proper. They appeal to us, and deserve our earnest attention, and advocacy among all of our people when we shall return to our homes. 

Our brethren have been impressed, even as was the Apostle Paul in some of his epistles to the ancient saints, with the necessity of calling the people to repentance. Since listening to the remarks of the President, in the opening session of the conference, I have compared his appeal to the people, and his instructions, to some remarks made in an epistle written to the Corinthian Saints by the Apostle Paul. I shall read a few verses in the tenth chapter of the First Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians : 

"Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with many of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, . as they also lusted. Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication, As some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents. Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples; and they were written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore, let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man; but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry." 

These were the exhortations of the Apostle to the Corinthian Saints, and were given as an admonition to them. I rejoice in the fact that we have men with us today, servants of the Lord, His prophets, who see the necessities of the people, and give us words of admonition that we may escape the calamities that have come upon other generations and other people, when they have fallen into sin and failed to keep the commandments of God. Therefore I rejoice in the admonitions we have received in this conference, and I  record of their truth, because the Spirit of the Lord has indicated to me that they are true. 

I was impressed with the remarks of President Smith, wherein he said that many of the blessings to which the Saints are entitled do not come to them; many are deprived of these blessings for the reason that they are not in harmony with all of the principles of the gospel, and they are not living their lives as they should do. We should teach the Gospel by our examples as well as by our precepts. I believe that all who hold the priesthood, and who are acting in it and under its authority, realize the truth of the statements of the President. I testify, as did President Ballif, in regard to the inspiration that characterizes the life and the 'labors of the true Latter-day Saint, that the cause is not failing, that inspiration has not ceased, but it is still powerful, and the blessings and the privileges of the Gospel are enjoyed by those who are living the lives of Latter-day Saints. The Spirit bears record today, as it did in ancient days, when the people of the Lord have been keeping His commandments, in regard to the truth of the work. Blessings and inspiration attends the ministrations of the servants of the Lord, and the hearts of the people are made to rejoice when they are keeping His commandments and are entitled to the blessings. 

Last week I was called into the home of a good faithful family, where their petitions ascend to the Lord in the season thereof, as recommended by President Lyman this morning, where the Word of Wisdom is kept by the father and mother and children. I was called to administer to one who had met with a serious accident, and who was lying at the point of death; and while administering to the young lady who was thus sorely afflicted, I received inspiration of the Lord to promise her restoration to perfect health and strength; and, after the ministration was over, to comfort the heart of the anxious mother, I assured her that the Lord had revealed to me that her daughter should be restored to perfect condition. I bear testimony to this as evidence that the Spirit of inspiration and revelation is enjoyed by members of the Church who keep the commandments of the Lord. When we come into homes of the character I have described, we feel the influence, and have the power to call down upon the inmates of that home the blessings of the Almighty. 

These blessings may be enjoyed more fully by the Saints if they will walk uprightly and keep the commandments of the Lord. I rejoice in this fact, and that our leaders receive inspiration of the Amighty from time to time as is necessary, and give wise counsel unto the people. I feel like taking home with me and give to the people for whose welfare I am more anxious than for any others, because they are most closely associated with me, this message, that if they desire to receive the blessings of the Almighty in their families, in the restoration of the sick, the prevention of disease, and the enjoyment of the Spirit of the Lord, they must live according to the laws upon which these blessings are predicated and promised. 

As remarked by one of the speakers this morning, I am proud of the monuments that have been erected commemorating the great achievements of the Pioneers in the settle of these valleys, proud of the homes that they made, and were able to make possible for succeeding generations. I am proud of my connection with the Church, that I am permitted to work in the service of the Lord, that He has given me the inspiration of His Spirit to the extent that I have been able to see the folly of evil and eschew it to a degree, that I have a disposition to seek and to enjoy His favor and blessings. I call to mind this moment the way in which we may do this, as set forth beautifully in another epistle of the Apostle Paul, written to the Ephesians, wherein he exhorts that people to be fully prepared against every evil that may be brought against them : 

"Finally, brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of His might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil; for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked; and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saint's." 

This is the measure of safety that is offered in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the armor with which we should be encased, and being thus equipped we may go forth  and boldly, without fear, shunning sin, death and destruction. 

My brethren and sisters, I bear testimony of the truthfulness of this work, that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation, and that within it are all that my nature and disposition and character require, for in it I find a solace for every requirement of my soul. To it I look for the alleviation of every suffering, and in it I find the most perfect satisfaction of the higher aspirations of life. 

May the Lord help us to live so that eventually we may merit and attain to eternal lives in His kingdom, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A quartette was rendered by male members of the choir. 

ELDER JOHN W. HAM. 

(President of Rigby Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I can assure you that I approach this duty this afternoon with fear and trembling; not that I am fearful of receiving any bodily harm from any who are here assembled, but I in my weakness feel that I am not competent to fill as I should this position that I have been called unto. I can assure you that, while I occupy this position, I rely upon your faith and prayers, and the aid of the Spirit of the Lord, that I may be led to say something that will be beneficial to us all. 

We have assembled from different parts of the land to attend this conference; yea, we have gathered from the north, from the south, from the east and from the west, and have come up here to the headquarters of the Church that we  receive and be edified by the Lord through His servants. I for one feel that I have already been well repaid for the journey that I have made, and the time I have spent, by the instructions received, and the good time that I have enjoyed thus far and I am satisfied that we will continue to enjoy the blessings of the Lord thoughout the balance of this conference. 

As has been stated by Apostle Joseph F. Smith, Jun., I hail from the land of the north, and I am pleased to state to you, my brethren and sisters, that the people in that section of the country are growing spiritually, and that they are a prosperous, happy, and contented people. The Lord is blessing us both temporally and spiritually, and we are growing wonderfully. The membership of the Church of Christ in the State of Idaho numbers about 60,000 souls. I believe, if I am not mistaken, there are now thirteen stakes of Zion in Idaho, and we are still growing and increasing rapidly, and this we are thankful for. 

I think it is fitting that we should assemble in great numbers upon occasions of this kind, that we may exchange views, that we might understand thoroughly and more fully the conditions that prevail throughout this Church in various parts of the land. I am greatly interested in the progress of this work; I have labored in it a little all the days of my life. I thank the Lord that He has given me a testimony, that He has given me of His spirit to such an extent that my feet thus far have been kept safe in the Gospel path. I know that this Gospel is true, and I am satisfied that if we will live its principles we will gain for ourselves an exaltation in the kingdom of our Father. We find upon investigation that this great organization of ours has within it everything that is needful for the welfare, happiness, and advancement of mankind here upon the earth, and above all it has that saving power that will enable us to attain eternal life, if we are faithful unto the end. 

I remember a few years ago a gentleman came into the stake over which I preside, and he was representing a fraternal organization, and he came to me and wanted to know the reason why Latter-day Saints were opposed to "fraternalism," as he represented it. I told him that we were not opposed to f raternalism; that as Latter-day Saints we believe in it, we regard it as a glorious principle, and practice it in its entirety; but, "so far as your organization is concerned," I said, "we feel that we have all the blessings, all the privileges within the organization of our Church that you have to offer, and more too; and, as a consequence, we advise our people against identifying themselves with your organization. This was astounding to him; he could not understand how it was possible. I told him that we had within our Church organization, from the Primary Association to the Relief Society, that which promoted the welfare of all the people, both old and young, giving the young sufficient opportunities for social enjoyment, and that they could receive all the wholesome entertainment and blessings that they could receive in any organization that was created by men here upon the earth within their own church. I told him that our people believe in principles of true fraternalism. When I informed him concerning  Relief Society, and what they are doing, he was most astonished to learn that such conditions and organizations exist in the Church ot Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I went on further and told him that I considered our system the most perfect in the world today; that as Latter-day Saints we paid dues, even as members of his order paid their dues, that we paid tithing according to what we possessed; the rich in accordance with their plenty, the poor in accordance to their ability; that the blessings and the privileges of membership were enjoyed equally by all, rich and poor. I said there is no organization on the face of the earth today that has within it such a just principle as we have got in our Church, and that considering these things in connection with a great many other things we enjoy, it makes my heart rejoice to know that I am a Latter-day Saint. It gives me pleasure to defend this Church,, and I have always taken pleasure in doing so. I have always made friends by taking this course, and so will every Latter-day Saint. 

I can say with the Apostle Paul, "I am not ashamed of the Gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that will receive and obey the principles of the same." There is no reason why we should be ashamed. It should be a pleasure and satisfaction to stand up against unscrupulous men who endeavor to tear us down. The Lord will sustain us in doing this; and I testify to you that it will help us in our business affairs if we will take a manly and consistent stand for this great work in which we are engaged; I know that the Lord will bless us. My testimony to you is that the Lord lives, that He has revealed His mind and will unto 

His prophets in this dispensation, and is doing it today. I have faith and confidence in those who preside over this church, and I know that the Lord will give them His Spirit, that they will be able to guide and direct the affairs of this Church in a way that will be acceptable in His sight. I pray that this may always be our condition, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MARK AUSTIN. 

(President of Fremont Stake.) 

I have no desire, my brethren and sisters, to detract from your minds the theme of this conference that was made known to the Latter-day Saints in the opening address of our beloved President, the Lord's prophet unto Israel, and His mouth-piece unto all the children of men who dwell upon the face of the earth. This is my understanding — as it has been throughout all time, when the Lord has had a prophet upon the earth, He has revealed His mind and will concerning His people. His children everywhere, whether they belonged to the church or not. 

I think the subject of President Smith's remarks is one of the most important things, for the salvation of men while they live, that has been given to us. "How can we hope to have the Spirit of the Almighty abide in unholy tabernacles?" Assuredly it will not, therefore we see the necessity of being admonished, having the subject brought strongly to our attention. When I came into the Tabernacle I heard a brother, who evidently is somewhat weak, remark : "I am afraid those statements are too strong." Strong! Can truth  stated too strong? Can we have called to our attention too strongly the truth upon questions connected with which our very lives hang in the balance? The drinker, the smoker, and other weak men and women object to strong denunciation of their weaknesses. All mankind need to observe the Word of Wisdom, and if the world would adopt this fragment of the Gospel that has been given through the prophet Joseph, what a relief would follow, how much sorrow would be taken from homes, from mothers, from fathers, and children, because of those who foolishly indulge in harmful things. 

Just recently a gentleman who was carrying a great deal of responsibility in a business way, has many things within his charge, said to me : "I read sometime ago the Word of Wisdom, and I have adopted it into my life, and it has made me strong." The splendid body that had been given to him by sturdy Scotch parents he had found was weakening by indulging in things forbidden by the Word of Wisdom. Said he, "When I had observed this Word of Wisdom for two years, I found I was stronger than ever before in my life, my brain is clearer, and I am able to accomplish much work." If men outside of this Church have obeyed this law, how much more should we as Latter-day Saints observe it! I have noticed that most of the Latter-day Saints who have observed this law are able to stand against the tempter in other ways, and are not liable to fall and be led away. Those who ignore the Word Wisdom feel that it is only a small thing. It may appear small to them but it is really great, and is calculated to overcome the power of evil that tries to destroy the race. 

Now, the people of the world are beginning to discover these things, many of them, and how strange it is that some Latter-day Saints have not yet obeyed the principles of that important revelation! Parents should be examples to their children in regard to these matters. The Prophet of God, as true Prophets always have, exhibited great boldness, and spoke plainly to the people. That is what we need, we do not want to be sustained in things that lead down to sorrow and destruction. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us and help us to understand our mission in the earth, that we may be able to be bold in the defense of truth and righteousness. President Hart has set us a good example in this respect. You remember reading in the newspapers that when he was sitting in the Senate at Boise, a gentleman had the audacity to attack his religion. He rose in his seat, and rebuked him, and notified the Senate that never would he stand for it. The result was that all the members of that senate respect him, and all our people love him for it. May God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE H. BRIMHALL. 

(President of Brigham Young University.) 

I am full of gratitude for the blessings that have come to me from my fathers and my mothers, both in heaven and on earth. I feel as I nearly always feel in the presence of an assembly of my brethren and sisters, that I need their faith and prayers; and if I get these I shall not  any occasion to ask for your attention. You have not come here to hear me. You have come here to hear the word of the Lord, and if I have been called by authority to be the instrument, feeble and unworthy as I am, why, the Lord will' 'be. praised for anything that I may say,, and it will depend upon Him and you. 

During the remarks made at the opening of this conference, by President Smith, I was led to reflect, and I felt very keenly that he was actuated by the spirit of boldness and courage that came from his calling,, reinforced by our Father. He did not ask what would increase his good favor among this people. He evidently had but one thought, and that thought was akin to that which inspired the Prophet Brigham when the question came up as to who was to lead the Church, and he remarked "I do not care who leads this Church, even though it were Ann Lee, but one thing I must know, and that is what God says about it." And President Smith has but one consideration, "What is the will of the Lord concerning this people," and He has given it to us — the wih of the Lord. There is a passage of scripture in one of the revelations, wherein the Lord says : 

"Inasmuch as My people build an house unto Me in the name of the Lord, and do not suffer any unclean thing to come unto it that it he not defiled. My glory shall rest upon it." 

Some evil person might have come into that house, some apostate, some enemy might have sneaked in. Our great Temple here has been invaded by evil personsgetting in there and taking pictures,.  as they were; but it was not suffered. You did not consent to it; I did not consent to it; the authorities did not consent to it. Hence .it could not be said that we suffered or permitted these things. President Smith can not sanction anything in Zion that will pollute her. 

We sang here today, "Let the mountains shout for joy;" and when that hymn was being sung I recalled a circumstance of last year when sixty-five eminent scientists were our guests. We were very desirous that they should know the truth concerning the character of our people, and we attempted to tell them the truth, when one of them said, "Don't talk, the mountains shout for you. See the canals at their base. The ground echoes the thoughts and character of your people. See the orchards, see the harvests, the fields; look at your buildings; they cry out what you are. ft all speaks for you, and it gives the lie to all that has been said about you as a bad people." I thought in my soul, verily the prophecy is being fulfilled which said that the mountains should melt away. I believe in the literal melting away of the mountains of ice at the coming of the Ten Tribes from the North; but I believe also it may have a figurative meaning— the mountains of prejudice melting away before this people. I believe what the young missionary said when the minister said to him, "Why, you have Moses and the Prophets : why not listen to them ?" He turned and said to him, "I would have you understand that Wilford Woodruff, in his place, is as great a prophet as Moses ever dared to be.'' I too believe that about President Woodruff. I believed that when. I heard him say, during the  we were dedicating the Temple here, "From this date this people will begin to prevail among the nations of the earth." We, through the action of our fathers and our mothers had prevailed against the desert. We had prevailed against persecution. We had prevailed against the insidious inroads of vice, and we had produced a community of which God could say, through His Prophet, when that glorious house was finished, "They shall now prevail against the prejudices of the world." Have we done it? Think where we then stood politically. Think where we stood financially. Think where we stood educationally, at the time that prophecy was made; and then think where we stand now. Why, we through our proselyting are now confronted with ministers congregating and crying out, "We are powerless. Some laws must be enacted against these 'Mormon' elders." Is that prevailing? The "Mormons" have been branded — the Latter-day Saints — as an ignorant people. What is the condition today? Ask the college presidents of this and other nations about those of our number who are or have been away studying. Who would have said, who would have dared to say ten years ago, that one of the greatest universities in the United States would send to the Brigham Young University for one of its "Mormon" boy professors to come back to Chicago and occupy a professor's chair ? And when our boys go out, they observe something that makes us think. One returned a few weeks ago. He said, "We are on the map educationally." It was said of him : "You are from the Brigham Young University?" "Yes." Of another it was said, "You are from the B. Y. College," and so on. Brothers and sisters, we are prevailing. Why are we prevailing in Zion? We are prevailing because we have refused to suffer Zion to be defiled. Zion cannot be defiled, because the Prophet of God will never consent, and there never has been, and there never will be, an official assent to the inroad of any iniquity among this people. As long as there is always an official phalanx standing up and refusing official sanction to the admittance of any evil in this Church, then Zion, the organization that God has established, cannot be defiled. "Individuals may be defiled," as Brother Maeser used to say. "The Lord has said that this kingdom shall never fail; but he has never said that I shall never fail." 

There is Zion, the pure in heart. There is Zion, this continent. There is Zion, the organization of the Church of God. Zion is glorious. Zion is the bride of Christ. Zion is that which we should defend. She is a ship of eternal state, and I am so glad, so happy to be a part of that great thing called Zion. 

Our President yesterday took the proper stand in refusing to let Zion be defiled. Now what is my mission? To go to my place, back to the Brigham Young University, and say to our force of teachers, we shall still refuse anything admittance into this school that will defile Zion. What is my duty next? To go to my own home, and do the same thing. To the bishops and the presidents of stakes I have nothing to say. They know they are the most responsible men in the Church under the general authorities. I know what is to be done. I know that if nothing had been done in this conference, but to listen to the word of the Lord yesterday, Israel would be well repaid. God bless you. Amen. 

EIDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JB. 

Lives of faithful Church members consistent with Gospel — Professed Christian ministers inconsistently repudiate Christ's mission — Inspiration manifest in our leaders — Saints should be united, and labor for welfare of others. 

I certainly would have been pleased if our brethren had felt disposed to occupy the remaining time. I have rejoiced in their testimonies, in what they have had to say by way of admonition and encouragement to the Latter-day Saints. I feel that we have had a most excellent time so far during this conference. The admonition, the advice, the instruction imparted, have been for our good individually and collectively, and I feel that it should sink deep into our souls. We should feel to rejoice in such teachings as we receive in this dispensation; teachings that are uplifting and will make us better not only as members of the Church but better as citizens in the community. There is nothing in the Gospel of Jesus Christ that is not uplifting. There never was and never will be advice given to the Latter-day Saints from their leaders that will not be for their good, for our leaders have but one desire, and that is the salvation of the people, both temporally and spiritually. 

We ought to rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because it is  the truth revealed again. We are not walking in darkness. We are not led by blind leaders who have taken to themselves authority and prerogatives which do not belong to them; but we are led by and directed through the spirit of inspiration, and it behooves each one of us as members of the Church to heed the warning voice and follow the instruction that is given at our confer. We are, notwithstanding our weaknesses, the best people in the world. I do not say that boastingly, for I believe that this truth is evident to all who are willing to observe for themselves. We are morally clean, in every way equal, and in many ways superior to any other people. The reason is that we have received the truth, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is not to us a dead letter, something perhaps to be followed on the Sabbath day and forgotten on the six other days of the week : but our religion is an every-day religion. We are expected to live in accordance with the principles of truth every day of our lives; for these principles are just as true in the middle of the week as they are on the Sabbath day. I believe, further, that the Latter-daySaints are the only people who are consistent in their belief, and practice. We accept Jesus as the Redeemer of the world without qualification, and that is not done generally in the world, among those who profess to believe in Him and call themselves Christians. Even among many ministers who affix to their names the title of reverend, He is not accepted as the Redeemer of mankind. They are not consistent, because they do not teach and they do not practice the principles that have been set forth by the Savior, and which are recorded in the scriptures. Men stand up before the people in the congregations of the socalled Christian communities, and declare that they do not accept Christ as the Redeemer of the world. They teach the people that they do not believe in the resurrection from the dead. They do not .even accept the eternal resurrection of the Christ. They do not believe that He came into the world to take  Him the sins of the world and redeem us from out sins. They scoff at the idea that He had power to offer Himself a sacrifice for the sins of others. They deny the miracles that the Savior performed, and say they do not believe in them. They call themselves progressive, and declare that they have received greater light, greater understanding, greater development through their researches, through their study and their own wisdom, by which they have come to the conclusion that these things recorded in the scriptures are fables, and were written in a day when the people were inclined to believe and accept as miracles things which did not and could not occur. 

I am just simple enough in my belief to accept that which is recorded in the scriptures. I believe it with all my heart. I know that Jesus is the Christ, that He did come into the world to redeem the world from sin, and that men through acceptance of the principles of the Gospel — those principles which were taught at the opening of our conference — will receive a reward and an exaltation in the kingdom of our God. I know that salvation does not come through any other name than that of Jesus Christ, and that any man who will not obey the principles of truth as Christ set them forth in His Gospel will not receive the remission of sins, and cannot enter into the kingdom which is prepared. for the righteous. 

I desire to read a little from one of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith: 

''Therefore, whosoever belongreth to my Church need not fear, for such shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. But, it is they who do not fear me, neither keep my commandments, but build up churches unto themselves to get gain, yea, and all those that do wickedly and build up the kingdom of the devil; yea, verily, verily I say unto you, that it is they that I will disturb, and cause to tremble and shake to the center. Behold, I am Jesus Christ', the Son of God. I came unto my own, and my own received me not. I am the light which shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not. I am He who said, other sheep have I which are not of this fold, unto my disciples, and many there were of the house of Jacob. And I will show unto this people that I had other sheep, and that they were a branch of the house of Jacob. And I will bring to light their marvelous works, which they did in my name. Yea, and 1 will also bring to light my Gospel which was ministered unto them, and, behold, they shall not deny that which you have received, but they shall build it up, and shall bring to light the true points of my doctrine, yea, and the only doctrine which is in me. And this I do that I may establish my Gospel, that there may not be so much contention; yea, Satan doth stir up the hearts of the people to contention concerning the points of my doctrine; and in these things they do err, for they do wrest the scriptures and do not understand them. Therefore, I will unfold unto them this great mystery. For, behold, I will gather them as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if they will not harden their hearts. Yea, if they will come, they may, and partake of the waters of life freely. Behold, this is my doctrine: whosoever repenteth and cometh unto me, the same is my church. Whosoever declareth more or less than this, the same is not of me, but is against me; therefore he is not of my church. And now, behold, whosoever is of my church, and endureth of my church to the end, him will I establish upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against him." 

Now, there are those who declare more or less than this. They will not repent of their sins. They will not accept Jesus as the Redeemer of the world. They will not believe that He spoke the truth when .He  unto the people that He was the Son of God, and that He . came to fulfill the mission that was given to Him of His Father, to redeem the world from sin. They reject these things. They will not believe them; hence they remain in the bondage of sin, and cannot be redeemed, because they will not receive the principles by which salvation comes. There are many of this class that go around through the country, stirring up the hearts of the people against the truth, declaring that these things are not so, and that it is unnecessary for men to observe these principles, and ordinances that are declared in the scriptures to be essential to salvation. They are destroying the faith of the people wherever it is possible. But we should be strong in the faith; each one of us should be filled with a determination to serve the Lord and to keep His commandments, for we have received the light which shineth in darkness that comes from the Lord. We are not walking in darkness, but in the light of truth as it has been revealed. There is no occasion for the memhers of the Church to go astray, to disregard the principles of the Gospel, for they are so plain and have been set forth in such clearness, that none need stumble or be in doubt concerning them. It is necessary that we should keep them in mind constantly, living worthily before the Lord, that we may receive His blessings. 

Now, at this conference we have heard a great deal concerning the duties of the members of the Church, the responsibilities resting upon those who have been called to hold the priesthood and who hold positions of trust and of presidency ' among the people, whether it be in  stakes, the wards, the quorums of the priesthood or other organizations. We have been instructed concerning our duties, how there is work enough for all of us to do. There need be no idlers among us. We have heard all of these things, and we should remember them and put them into practice, so far as our duties are concerned as members of the Church. The blessings of the Gospel will not come unto us if wc disregard our duties and break the commandments of the Lord, we will not be blessed if we refuse to listen to the priesthood and will not follow the instructions that are given to us from time to time. We have officers in the Church necessarily to take the lead and to instruct the people, and they are inspired men. The bishops,  the presidents of stakes, the- various officers who are called and appointed to take charge of the many departments in the great work of the Lord are men of inspiration, and they have the right to the Spirit of the Lord, and they receive inspiration for their guidance and for the guidance of the people over whom they preside. We should listen to them, and obey their instructions. When we pray we should ask the Lord to pour out His Spirit upon the leaders in the Church, whether they minister as bishops of the wards, presidents of stakes, or in the presidency of the Church. We should not pray merely with our lips : but in every act, in our conversation, in all that we undertake to do, we should try to carry out the expressions of our prayers, and be in harmony with the thoughts that we declare to the Lord in our daily supplications. 

The Lord will bless Zion. He will pour out His Spirit upon the people. He will prosper them if  will remember Him, if they will keep His commandments, if they will observe the covenants that they have made Him and not violate them; if they will hold themselves aloof from the world, and not be partakers of the sins of the world. I do not mean to say that we ought not to associate at any time with those not of our faith, for there are many good people who have not embraced the Gospel. We are not required to avoid them, for our mission in the world is with them, to convert them to the truth if we can. Rut we need not be partakers of the sins of the world; we need not follow the- foolish fashions of the world. We need not corrupt ourselves because many in the world are corrupt. We have received better things. We are walking in the knowledge and the understanding of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and are entitled to that inspiration which will warn us of danger and guide us in the path of duty, and give -us power to resist and overcome evil. We have the right to call upon the Lord in prayer and in faith for help, for guidance, for the assistance of His Holv Spirit, and we will receive it. And I pray that we may be true to our covenants, true to each other; that we will cast out of our hearts all that is evil, that we will not speak evil one of another, or be given to backbiting or contention or strife, for the spirit of wickedness destroys faith and tends to divide and separate instead of uniting and strengthening the people. We must stand united as one — our purposes are the same, our aims are the same. We are laboring in the direction of eternal life and progression. There is no variance among the teachers in Israel concerning the principles of the Gospel. W e are united concerning these things. There is no division among the authorities, and there need be no division among the people; but unity, peace, brotherly love, kindness and fellowship one to another. These are the blessings that we are entitled to, if we will live in accordance with the Gospel, and the Lord will pour out other and greater blessings, even all that we are able to contain. I pray that we will keep the commandments of the Lord, be diligent in the discharge of our duties, and each one labor, not merely for his personal salvation but in the interests of the entire community and the salvation of the children of men. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Send out Thy light;" Sister Nellie Parr rendered the solo. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Stephen L. Chipman. 


