Afternoon
04 10 1913

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art able — Hold us with Thy powerful hand. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Andrew Kimball. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! 

The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

The great privilege of earthly life in the last dispensation — God's predestination — Necessity of harmony with Deity — Christ's spirit pre-existent — 

Knowledge and power — Work of His true disciples — Obedience to eternal principles the way to eternal glory — Effects of disobedience — The ultimate redemption of mankind in different states of salvation — Rules of the United Order applicable today — Exhortations to lives of purity, honesty, fidelity and union — Ultimate triumph of light and truth. 

I consider it a great privilege to  permitted to be present on this grand occasion, to see so many Latter-day Saints gathered in this tabernacle, in spite of the unfavorable weather that is not encouraging to people traveling or coming together in conference. To me it shows great interest on the part of the people, to assemble in such numbers as we have seen them here today, particularly this morning, to listen to the voice of the Spirit, through the servants of God; and I feel sure that all who came here this morning were well repaid. I was, for one; I enjoyed the spirit of the meeting and the instructions that were imparted, and I hope that all of us who were present, as was invoked in the beendiction when we dismissed, will carry with us, wherever we go, the influence that was felt this morning, and endeavor to carry out the instructions imparted, and to encourage others to do so : particularly people who were not able to be here. 

It is a very great privilege to dwell on the earth in this last dispensation. I believe with all my heart that this has been arranged by our heavenly Father. I believe in the doctrine of predestination — not that doctrine as it is taught in some of the so-called "Christian" sects, but I believe in the doctrine taught in the old scriptures as well as in the new, that before the foundations of the earth were laid, plans were prepared in regard to the peopling of the earth and the accomplishment of the Divine purpose in sending the sons and daughters of God to dwell on the earth in the flesh. I believe in the doctrine taught by the Apostle Paul, on Mars Hill, "that God hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell upon the face of the earth,  hath determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation." So that we did not come here by chance but by design. But the Lord foresaw what would occur on the earth; He understood when our parents, "our first parents," as we call them, were placed in the Garden of Eden what they would do. But He was not personally instrumental in their disobedience, any more than He is in the obedience rendered to his divine commandments. He gave the command and left our parents to act upon their own agency, to do as they desired, or as they willed. All was foreseen by our Heavenly Father, and knowing that death would be introduced in the world among its inhabitants, through the transgression of the first pair, He saw that there should be a means provided for redemption, and so Jesus — that is His earthly name, Jesus, our elder brother, called in the scriptures "the beginning of the creation of God," "the first-born of every creature," was chosen to be the Redeemer, to come on the earth at the time appointed and in the place appointed; and He came and performed the work allotted to Him. He did that of his own free will and choice. Sometimes, feeling the weakness of human nature inherited from his mother, he was inclined to shrink from the terrible task imposed upon Him; but He came with one principle firmly established in his soul, which was the necessity of implicit obedience to the Divine Father; so He said: "I came not to do my own will but the will of Him that sent me." He performed the work allotted to Him, as the Father foresaw He would, but it was left to Him, to His own individuality, to His own choice to do or not to do that which He was commanded to perform. 

Now, I merely speak of that as a sample of what we believe, as the Apostle Paul taught, that this selection has been in the mind of Deity, was in the mind of the Father before the world was; and so at different periods in the history of the world, persons selected by the Almighty were sent upon the earth to tabernacle in flesh and perform missions that were necessary for them to undertake. I believe that in reference to the prophets who were raised up and to other mighty men in other positions in life — in civil office, in military affairs, in literary and poetic life. I believe that the poets and philosophers, and sages, as well as the military heroes, wise statesmen and grand leaders of the different centuries, were sent upon the earth at the right time, that they might be able to perform the works that were needful to be done, to carry out in the end the Divine purposes of our Heavenly Father. I believe that He has left the children of men to perform the missions allotted to them or to carry out their own inclinations and wishes and desires, to be obedient or disobedient, as they wish, and that in the end the result will be that the Father will overrule all that is done or left undone, that all things that occur in the history of the children of God will be overruled by our Eternal Father to accomplish the great end and design and purpose which He had in view in sending us here. That, in a few words, is the salvation, the immortality and eternal life of man — man in the capacity of a spirit and a body united; man capable of enjoying all things which the universe brings forth; man able to obey the  of God, or to disobey them, so that we all might learn the virtue of obedience and the folly as well as the wickedness of disobedience, to learn the great lesson that obedience to eternal principles, eternal laws, brings happiness, power, advancement, development, preparation for higher and higher and higher stages of being, and that disobedience brings about the contrary. That is the great end in view. So I believe that in these latter days our Heavenly Father, in bringing about "the dispensation of the fullness of times," sent such spirits to the earth as would be capable of leading out and carrying on the great and mighty work, the greatest of all dispensations on this globe. 

I say, then, that we are privileged to be living on the earth in these latter days. I feel that way in my soul, and I am thankful to my Heavenly Father that I have had the opportunity of coming upon the earth at a time when the fullness of the everlasting gospel has been restored, and authority to preach it and to administer its ordinances and to prepare the way for the coming of the King of kings has been brought about, and that I have had the opportunity of coming here in this good time. I am thankful to God that in my youthful days I was able to see the beauty, to some extent at least, of the gospel thus revealed, that my eyes were opened to see it, while all to whom I was related were blind in their minds in regard to it. I believe that in the providence of God I have come on earth in the last days and that there was a work for me to do, arid I am glad I have been trying to do it to : the best of my ability, ever since I received the gospel, and  today I am privileged to stand in fellowship with my brethren and sisters in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and still be able to do something towards furthering the purposes of our Heavenly Father in this great dispensation. So I am glad to be here today. I am glad to mingle with brethren and sisters who also have received the light, who have not rejected the truth, but who received it eagerly, with honest hearts, and most of whom have endeavored to do their very best to build up the kingdom of God on the earth and to accomplish the purposes of our Heavenly Father, to be in union and harmony with Jesus Christ, our elder Brother, who, as He declared Himself to the Prophet Joseph, or through him to us, was "in the beginning with the Father and was the first-born." We are his brethren and sisters in the spirit, in our first estate, being born of our Eternal Father who begat us. We are the begotten of the Lord, in the spirit; but Jesus, the Christ, was the first begotten in the spirit and the only begotten of the Father in the flesh. 

I say it is a blessed privilege — to be in union and harmony with that great and mighty Being. If we only had the history of our Savior before the world was, before He received the command of the Father to go down and take of the elements and organize them, if we knew how long He had existed in his organized spiritual state, and the works' that He had seen, that the Father had produced, we might be able to understand why He was actively engaged in the beginning of the earth, and why He was appointed to do the work that He had to do, and why that "through Him  by Him and of Him the worlds were made" and that the revelations of the Father to us on this globe have all come by and through Him. But that history is shut out from our minds, whether we knew anything about it before we came here or not. I presume we knew a good deal, if we did not know it all; but when we came here, like Him, in our humiliation, our judgment and knowledge of the past was taken away, or rather obscured by means of the flesh into which we entered. But He was a great and mighty Being; He was the firstborn, and when He was on the earth in the flesh, He said: "The Son doeth nothing but what the Father doeth, and He doeth nothing but what He seeth the Father do; for whatsoever the Father doeth, that the Son doeth, for the Father loveth the Son and showeth unto Him all things that He himself doeth; and He will show Him greater things than these, that ye may marvel." From that we learn from His own lips that before He came here He not only was the first-born, but the Father bestowed upon Him great knowledge and understanding, opened His eyes to see, and showed Him so that He comprehended the purposes and works of the Father, and patterned after them as far as He had the opportunity. And He has promised that the time shall come when the works that He did shall be done by His disciples, those that believe in Him : "He that believeth in me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than these shall he do, because I go to the Father." 

So, if we are in harmony with Him, my brethren and sisters, and are willing to receive the word of the Father, through His beloved Son, who understands and comprehends and knows and has been intimate with the Father in all His great works and comprehends them, if we will be in harmony with Him we will find ample opporunity by and by to learn what He has learned, for it will be imparted unto us. The same spirit, by which He was able to understand and do the works that He accomplished, is given to us, by measure, so to speak, and by and by, if we are prepared for it, we shall receive it in fullness and be clothed upon with the glory of God, with the light of the Lord, that proceeds from His presence, and all the endowments and powers and gifts that come by its full possession. That divine spirit of revelation will be ours to enjoy forever, and there will be no end to the increase of our intelligence and wisdom and knowledge and dominion and power and might, or to the increase of our posterity in worlds without end. Now, these things have become facts in my mind, and I presume they are the same in the minds of the majority of the brethren and sisters gathered here on this occasion, particularly the older members of the Church, who have had experience in it and have been in the ministry and have carried the Gospel to other parts of the world and have brought souls unto Christ. We should endeavor, as far as we have the power and opportunity, to impart these things to others, to teach them to our children, that they may grow up in the ways of the Lord, that they may live so that their eyes will be open to the true light, so that there will be no obstruction between them and the Eternal Father of us all; for though we are the fathers of their flesh, the  Father of their spirits, their organized, intelligent being, is our Father as well — our Father and our God and theirs also. 

Now, as the children of the Lord we meet here in conference, and it is a great privilege to be allowed to be here with a good degree of health and strength, with a desire in our souls to do right. I believe that is the spirit that fills the bosoms of this congregation, our brethren who have come from a distance, the Saints that have gathered in from the various stakes of Zion to worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. As Brother Lund told us, this morning, it was a great blessing and privilege to come up here as ancient Israel did to Jerusalem, once or twice a year at any rate, and receive instructions through the appointed channels. I was pleased to see the attention that was paid to the remarks made by our president this morning; the congregation was interested. What we heard from him was plain and clear and satisfactory, and it was practical; and our religion is in all respects practical. Every truth that has been revealed, although it may be called psychological by some people, and may be viewed as beyond the sphere of mortal life, yet it is all practical : there is something connected with it to do. When we learn a truth, whether it relates to the heavens or the earth, it becomes our duty to make it a part of ourselves and to carry it out in our practical lives, to bring it down to our present conditions and circumstances. To learn the mind and the will of God and then to do it, that is the duty of every Latter-day Saint; and we are here on the earth in this great dispensation, not merely to receive the truth and re in its light, and in the splendid feelings and communion that we have with the powers on high if we obey the commandments of the Lord, but to help to build up God's government on this earth. 

The time is to come, so we read, when every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Lord, the Christ, to the glory of God the Father. What a splendid prospect to have in view! What a grand goal to reach, to aid in bringing about the redemption of the human family. Before that time can come, those that are wicked and corrupt and evil-minded, and who will not be obedient will have to reap the consequences of their own acts. I might repeat the words of the Apostle Paul : "Be not deceived; God is not mocked; whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap;" and (although forgiveness may some time come to the disobedient, first of all they will have to pay the penalty of their disobedience, that they may be brought fully to understand the necessity of implicit obedience to the right and the truth; for everything that God reveals is right and true and beneficial. But the time is to come, away in the distant future, when the inhabitants of the earth, all who have dwelt upon it, with the exception of a few who are unredeemable, will be brought to bow the knee willingly; not by compulsion, not by coercion, not by constraint, but willingly bow the knee to King Immanuel and' worship God, the true God, the Father, in Christ's holy name, and be willing, perfectly willing, to render obedience to his commandments. Of course, the condition in which they will dwell will be consequent upon their doings when they were in the flesh. 

They cannot all be in the same class; that is impossible. There is a difference in the degrees of intelligence. Every one of them has his own identity. Every son or daughter of God has a special identity, and that will always be had. We will not all be of the same height or breadth, nor be exactly of the same outward appearance or of features, but every one will be himself, and we will be cultivated and advanced and developed on our own lines. If sinners are only fit, after punishment, to enter into the Telestial world, there will be no end to the progress along telestial lines; but those who thus come forth will be "bodies telestial and not bodies celestial," and there will be progress on every line and kind of being, for that is the order of the universe. Light and truth will come to us as fast as we are willing to receive it and obey it and put it into practice. That is what we should understand now; and when we come to conference we should come here prepared in our souls to receive good counsel, and then, when we go away, carry it out every day, right where we live, and to do that which is right, to avoid that which is wrong, to listen to the instructions of the man who stands at the head of the Church and his brethren in council who are called upon and authorized to give us advice. 

Now, the Apostle Paul, whom I have quoted from two or three times this afternoon, had something to say to the Saints in his day in regard to the progress they ought to have made; he said : "Now, when for the time ye ought to be teachers it is needful that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and to give you milk when you ought to be old enough to have meat," or words to that effect. What did he mean "for the time ?" Why, for the time that they had been Saints, members of the Church. For the experience that they had had they ought by that time to have been in such advancement that they could be teachers, but they had to be taught again which were the first principles of the oracles of God; and the apostle went on to describe which are the foundation principles of the Gospel: "Repentance from dead works, faith towards God, and the doctrine of baptisms and of laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment;" and then he said they were to go on to perfection; "and this will we do," said he, "if God permit." 

A few days ago, in the Historian's Office* I came across some doctrines and principles, rules of order that were laid down by the President of the Church for the obedience of the people at the time when we, all of us old members, entered into what was called the United Order, by baptism. -Certain rules were given to us, and we agreed that we would abide by them. I thought it would be a very good thing to call the attention of the brethren and sisters to some of these rules, which I will do as briefly as I can, so as not to take up too much time; so that we may come back to some of these simple things that you and I covenanted to do, and see how they fit in with the instructions that were given to us this morning by President Smith : 

"First: We will not take tile name of Deity in vain, nor speak lightly of His character or of sacred things." 

Now, brethren and sisters, whether you were baptized at that time or not, that is a rule that you should observe; that is one of the commandments of the Lord to us, to Latter-day Israel. And, by the way, we need not be tied up always to that which was told aforetime; we are living in a day of revelation. As was explained by the brethren this morning, the book of Doctrine and Covenants contains revelations direct to us in our time, given from the Lord, just as much scripture as anything a thousand or * ten thousand years old, and one of these scriptures teaches us that we should not take the name of Deity in vain, nor speak lightly of His character or of sacred things. Sometimes we are in the habit of being jocular about things that are sacred. That is not right; we should hold them sacred and hold the name of Deity sacred. It always gives me a jar when I hear the name of Deity taken lightly or in a profane way. Sometimes in some of our theatres, expletives are used in which profanity is made manifest. I dislike it very much, and Latter-day Saints ought never to descend to this custom that is had among certain classes of "Gentiles," as we sometimes call them, or as they call themselves. 

"Rule two: We will pray with our families morning and evening, and also attend to secret prayers." 

Are you carrying that out, brethren, you that made that promise and covenant? and you that did not, have been taught that this is part of your duty. The teachers are sent around, or priests rather, acting as teachers, to urge this upon the Saints. The priests are required "to visit the house of each member  exhort them to pray, vocally and in secret, and attend to all family duties." Now, remember that this is incumbent upon you, if you want to carry out the commandments of the Lord revealed through the Savior of men. 

"Rule three: We will observe and keep the Word of Wisdom, according to the spirit and meaning thereof." 

President Smith explained this morning what President Young had to say upon the spirit and meaning of the Word of Wisdom. Don't let us forget that, but carry out in our lives that which we have agreed to do. 

"Rule four: We will treat our families with due kindness and affection, and set before them an example worthy of imitation. In our families and intercourse with all persons, we will refrain from being contentious or quarrelsome, and we will cease to speak evil of each other, and will cultivate a spirit of charity towards all. We consider it our duty to keep from acting selfishly or from covetous motives, and will seek the interest of each other and the salvation of all mankind." 

That is good doctrine, is it not? no matter where it came from; and we should live according to this, abstain from contention and disputations. Sometimes we have a little of that in our midst, and upon subjects that are not worth contending for, little points of doctrine that do not affect our present and will not affect our future, brought up for discussion sometimes in our theological classes, and in our quorum meetings, and they are not worth spending time on, and sometimes brethren write about these things up direct to the president of the Church, when all such questions that are sent up ought to be solved right where they are, in  local capacity, by the help of the bishop, or the president of the stake or some of the good brethren who are acquainted with these points, and they should not be sent up to bother and trouble the president when they are of no particular value or use or practicality. And when you do write, if you have to write, brethren and sisters — for we get letters from the sisters — don't take a poor, miserable lead pencil and rub it over the paper with characters that one cannot decipher without a magnifying" glass; be kind enough to write with ink, if you write at all, and write so plainly that anybody might read it. Now, brethren and sisters, let us observe this in our homes, in our families. Our religion is practical. In the home, where we dwell, that is the place where we should be religious. Be kind and affectionate one toward another, bear with each other's infirmities and weaknesses, and overlook the little flaws that you may see in each other's character, and observe the good things. We are all fallible, all liable to be mistaken, all liable to act out the "Old Adam," as it is sometimes called, in us; but we have to learn to be Saints of the Most High, following in the footsteps of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, that we may be one with Him, and by and by may dwell with Him in glory. 

"Rule five: We will observe personal cleanliness and preserve ourselves in all chastity, by refraining from adultery, whoredom and lust. We will also discountenance and refrain from all vulgar and obscene language or conduct." 

Brethren, have you kept that covenant? Don't you sometimes indulge in conversation, in language that does not comport with your position as Latter-day Saints, to say nothing of holding the priesthood of the living God? Don't forget this injunction, to abstain from vulgar language, anything that is obscene and improper. If you indulge in these things it will bring with it a spirit that belongs to that kind of conversation, but if you want to preserve the spirit of purity and chastity and virtue and holiness before the Lord, abstain from that kind of conversation. 

"Rule six: We will observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, in accordance with the revelation." 

I am sorry to say that this is not fully carried out in Israel. I don't want to find fault, but I know that sometimes we are derelict in this matter. Observe the Sabbath day, according to the revelation. What do the revelations say on it? Read the fifty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The Lord says we are to go to the house of prayer on His holy day, that is, the first day of the week, that is the Lord's day. On that day we are to go to His holy house, and we are to offer up our sacraments and pay our devotions to the Most High; "and on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart, that thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words that thy joy may be full." Don't let us forget the Sabbath day to keep it holy, and to teach that to our children, for so we are commanded of the Lord besides what I have read here in these rules. 

"Rule seven: That which is com' mitted to our care we will not appropriate to our own use." 

If that had been carried out by some of our friends they would  saved themselves a vast amount of trouble and disgrace. When anything is committed to outcare, we have no right to appropriate it to our own use, no right to borrow it, no right to invest it for our own benefit. If public officials, all of them, would follow that out, some of them would save themselves from the penitentiary; all who misappropriate the property of another will eventually get into disgrace, and they might save themselves from that disgrace if they would observe that rule, which is proper for all people whether in public or in private life. Young men, in this congregation, if ever you come into positions where you are entrusted with funds belonging to the public, or to any corporation, or person other than yourself, remember that you have no right to appropriate it to your own use; it belongs to the use for which it was designed in the beginning. 

"Rule eight: That which we borrow we will return according to promise, and that which we find we will not appropriate to our own use, but seek to return it to its proper owner." 

Don't forget that. If you find money in the street or in the car, that does not belong to you, you have no right to appropriate it to your own personal use; and if you borrow money and agree to pay it on a certain day, pay it, or if you cannot, be sure to communicate with the lender that he may understand that you are not going to ignore him and your promise. Many do make such promises, sometimes put their hands to notes and pay little attention towards repaying that which they have borrowed, but if this rule were carried out which we agreed to follow, we  save ourselves and other people a great deal of annoyance and sometimes great financial loss. When you borrow, return that which was lent to you. 

"Rule eleven : In our apparel and deportment, we will not pattern after nor encourage foolish and extravagant fashions, and will cease to import or buy from abroad any article which can reasonably be dispensed with, or which can be produced by combination of home labor." 

We are trying to carry this out, to a small degree, but not to the extent that we ought to do. Patronize home manufactures, promote home manufactures, do all you can to produce right in the midst of Israel that which Israel needs, and you will be the better off for it financially, and you will feel the better for it spiritually. 

"Rule twelve: We will be simple in our dress and manner of living, using proper economy and prudence in the management of all entrusted to our care." 

There are some few other rules here that I will not take the time to read, because they are mixed up with some things we had to do in that Order I have referred to; but all I have read to you, it seems to me, are appropriate to be brought to the attention of the Latter-day Saints now. I would to the Lord that all our girls and women who indulge in these modern immodest fashions had heard the instructions from our president this morning. The trouble is that those kind of persons do not come to meeting as much as others, but we can carry these counsels with us and impart them to others, and mothers in Israel can vise their influence with their eirls to dress modestly and properly, and, as far as possible,  such material and labor as can be had at home. We do not need to send to Paris, to the demimonde, to get a fashion. Indeed, the mothers in Israel, the sisters of the Relief Society, and the Mutual Improvement Associations should endeavor to have such fashions in dress as will be modest and proper and be for the purpose for which dress is made — not to display the form divine but in some respects to conceal it, and to have dress suited to the individual, not to be all running in one style, as if you had to pattern after the fashions of the world. Years ago these instructions were given by President Brigham Young and other leaders in Israel, and it would be a good thing if our Saints today could be brought to see the impropriety of the kind of dress that fashion calls for out here in the west. Respectable ladies in the East and in Europe do not pattern after them, because they know whence they proceed; they come from that order of women that the President alluded to this morning, and it is a shame and a disgrace to our beautiful, modest, nice girls to be attired or half-atttired in such fashion. Brethren and sisters, let us do in kindness all that we were advised to do this morning and get our girls and our sisters to dress themselves modestly and properly. 

Now, you may say that all these are little things. Yes, they are; but the world is made up of little things, and comfort and joy and salvation are made up of little things, things that are necessary, things that are expedient. Let us remember this, that we people in the latter days, sent down upon the earth to build up the kingdom of God in the dispensation of the fullness of times, should take today what the Lord reveals, take today the counsel that is given, take the policies and projects and plans that are revealed today, whether they are in accordance with olden things or not. But we shall find, when we compare the spirit and teachings and real principles that are given to us in the latter day, that they are in accord with that which was revealed of old. Principles never change, through all the eternities, but policies do, and should, according to circumstances. 

I have occupied more time than I intended to and, perhaps, too much for this afternoon meeting. Excuse me if I have. God bless you, brethren and sisters. May His peace be with you. I thank God with all my soul that I am with you in the building up of this great latter-day kingdom. There is nothing like it anywhere. There never was anything to be compared with it, for its magnitude, for the intelligence and light and truth revealed, for the purposes of God made known, and these are only the beginnings of good things. Light and truth will be made manifest, and principles of eternal life will come down from the skies to us, through the appointed channels, and Israel will grow and multiply and increase in numbers, in influence and in power, and by 'and by fulfill the ancient predictions and be the head and not the foot. I thank the Lord for the inventions and developments among us, for the disposition to grow and increase in all that is good, for the musical talent that we have, for the abilities manifest in various directions which I will not take time to enumerate; all these things come from our kind, wise, Heavenly Father; and unto him be  the glory, for ever and ever, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Amelia Margetts sang the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," as translated into the Spanish language by Sister Samantha B. Foley. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

TESTIMONIES IN BRONZE AND STONE. 

I was unavoidably detained from the first session of the conference and, therefore, missed what was undoubtedly the valuable instructions given on that occasion. I rejoice, however, with my brethren, that I have the opportunity of being present this afternoon and partaking with you of the spirit that has evidently come into this conference; and I am delighted, for one, to have my mind refreshed upon the duties and obligations that I owe, in common with you, to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I rejoice in the great truths that President Penrose has presented to us this afternoon. I rejoice to be reminded that the truth remains, and that we find it, notwithstanding the lapse of years, the same as in former times. It certainly is refreshing to have this thought in our minds, namely, that the truth is always the same; but that as the years go by, the volume of it enlarges, and the witnesses to it increase, and more and more the attractions about it multiply as the years go by. In this connection I would like to call your attention to the growth of interest that we find in coming up to the headquarters of the Church and visiting this Temple Block, where  are increasing the number of testimonies in stone as well as in word; multiplying in bronze as well as by verbal utterance, the memorials of God's dealings with His people. 

I would like to read to you, as introductory to inviting your attention to these things, a passage from the old scriptures relating to a certain great incident in the history of ancient Israel. When Joshua was leading Israel from the east side of Jordan to the west side, the Lord apparently desired to magnify His name, both in Israel and among the peoples of that country; and, therefore, with power and an outstretched arm He began the establishment of His people in the promised land. In crossing Jordan, at the flood tide —which occurs at the harvest time — he caused that when the priests took the Ark of the covenant, — which was the sign of God's visible presence in Israel, — when they carried it to the waters of Jordan, the waters were divided, and the priests stood in the bed of the river, the waters being held back by the power of God, while the hosts of Israel passed over dry shod. Joshua was commanded to direct twelve men in Israel, one from each tribe, to go to the place where the priests stood and carry from thence stones, which should be erected as a memorial altar unto the Lord, of the manifestation of His power on that occasion in behalf of His people. I now read what the scriptures say about that incident: 

"Then Joshua called the twelve men, whom he had prepared of the children of Israel, out of every tribe a man; 

"And Joshua said unto them; Pass over before the Ark of the Lord your God, into the midst of Jordan, and take you up, every man of you, a stone upon his shoulder, according unto the  of tribes of the children of Israel; 

"That this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? 

"Then ye shall answer them, that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the covenant of the Lord; when it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off; and these stones shall be for a memorial unto the children of Israel for ever; 

=i: * * # $ 

"And those twelve stones which they took out of Jordan did Joshua pitch in Gilgal; 

"And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean these stones? 

"Then ye shall let your children know, saying, Israel come over this Jordan on dry land; 

"For the Lord God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you, until ye pased over, as the Lord your God did to the Red sea which he dried up from before us, until we were gone over; 

"That all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty: that ye might fear the Lord your God for ever." (Joshua 4:4-7, 20-24.) 

The Lord was anxious, apparently, that there should be a testimony in stone, an enduring monument of the manifestation of His power in behalf of Israel. I think I catch a glimpse of the same spirit in the experiences of modern Israel. For many years, now, with a great joy, I have looked upon this magnificent Temple upon this block, as a collective testimony in stone, to God's presence and power and salvation, among the Latter-day Saints that is mightier, perhaps, than the verbal testimony of any man, because it may be seen by so many, unmoved through many generations, and has been established by the collective mites of a community. They have builded a monument of testimony in stone that God has given commandments to this generation. I was struck not long since, when writing the history of the times in which the foundations of this Temple were laid. I know not how it will appeal to you, but it thrilled me and gave me great joy when I contemplated the circumstances of the Latter-day Saints under which they laid that marvelous foundation, sixteen feet in depth and sixteen feet broad, of solid granite wall. At the time that immense foundation was laid — upwards of ninety-nine feet from north to south, through the towers; over a hundred and eighty-six feet east and west, through the towers — the Saints knew that its walls — nine feet of solid granite in width, in the lower story, and tapering to six feet in the upper story — would reach a height of one hundred and seven feet; with the east tower, two hundred and ten feet high; and the west tower some six feet less in height. They knew that such, in the rough, were to be its dimensions. At the time, less than five thousand Latterday Saints were in this city; and less than twenty thousand Latterday Saints in the territory of Utah; yet they had the magnificent faith to lay the foundations of such a mighty testimony in stone as this has become. Its foundations were laid in the midst of the poverty of the people, and forty toilsome years were consumed in bringing it to the capstone and to completion! Yet there it stands, a magnificent testimony of the Latter-day Saints to the world; an altar erected that stands for the chastity of the individual, the purity of the home, the close linking of man in brotherhood with man, and in fatherhood with 

God; standing for the salvation both of the living and of the dead, a modern witness for God in stone, greater — far greater — than that erected under the direction of Joshua. I may not dwell upon all that it suggests; I can only name these few things, because I want to call your attention to some other monuments. 

Out here on this Temple- square, we have the bronze statue of Joseph Smith, the prophet of the great and new dispensation of the Gospel; and the statue also of his faithful brother, Hyrum Smith, standing upon granite pedestals, properly inscribed, declaring" their mission and their achievements in the world, so far as those achievements can be briefly stated, saying,, doubtless, in the inscriptions what the Prophet Joseph would like to say if he could meet face to face the tens and hundreds of thousands of people who read the burning words of truth which God gave him to speak to this generation. These utterances are recorded upon the bronze tablets, and the Prophet is thus voicing forth his message to the world, and though dead, yet speaketh, in this memorial of bronze and stone, that loving hands have erected upon this square. 

It gave me delight more than I can express to you here, the other day, to take two of my daughters, one of whom I expect soon to go to the east — into the world — and to view with them this beautiful Sea Gull Monument just completed and very recently fittingly dedicated to the purposes for which it was erected. I pointed out to them how it told the story of God's deliverance of the Latter-day Saints in this valley in the year 1848. I rejoice with my whole heart, not onlv in "the  of that great offering as a memorial to God for His goodness to our fathers, not only in its perfections as a work of art, but I look beyond all that to the thing that it represents — our recognition of God's great goodness in delivering His people from threatened destruction — a collective testimony of the people — to the goodness of God to our fathers. It will stand, I believe, through many generations, one of the most beautiful, or to memorialize one of the most beautiful incidents in the many wonderful experiences of the Latter-day Saints. For indeed, Israel was so situated in the summer of 1848, that if God had not wrought out a deliverance for them, then there was nothing but starvation for the people and reproach to the God of Israel who had brought them to this land. For this reason, the Lord felt Himself bound to work out the deliverance which that combination of bronze and stone stands to memorialize. 

The story is told eloquently, better than words will ever tell it, in the bronze tablets around the base of the monument. [The speaker in the revision of his remarks has amplified somewhat the description of the tablets for the sake of completeness.] The graceful Doric column of the monument, surmounting the base, is fifteen feet high, and is topped by a granite sphere, on which two Gulls are seen in the act of lighting upon it — a most graceful thing in itself, and Mr. Young, the sculptor, has caught the action of it true to life. 

On three sides of the high base in relief sculpture the Sea Gull story is told : The tablature on the east tells of the arrival and early movements of the Pioneers. In the left  of the rugged Wasatch mountains there is the man a-field with ox team plowing the stubborn soil, aided by the boy driver, followed by the sower. In the right foreground is the wagon home, women preparing the humble meal, while an Indian sits in idle but graceful pose looking upon all this strange activity that is to redeem his land from savagery and give it to civilization. 

The second tablature — ou the south — tells the story of the threatened devastation from the crickets' invasion. A point of mountain and a glimpse of the placid, distant lake is seen. The pioneer farmer's fight with the invading pest is ended — he has exhausted all his ingenuity in the fight, and his strength. He is beaten — you can see that in the hopeless sinking of his figure to earth, his bowed head and listless down-hanging hands from which the spade has fallen. Despair claims him — -and laughs. With the woman of this tablature it is different. She is holding a child by the hand — through it she feels throbbing the call of the future — the life of a generation of men and women yet to be. Strange that to woman — man's complement — is given such superior strength in hours of severest trial. Where man's strength and courage and fighting ends, woman's hope and faith and trust seem to spring into newness of life. From her nature she seems able to do this inconsistent yet true thing — to hope against hope, and ask till she receives. I do not know in what school of psychology the sculptor studied his art. but he has certainly been true to the great psychological difference between man and woman. But to return to this woman of the second tablature — she. too. is toil worn, and there is something truly pathetic in her body weariness, but her head is raised. Raised to what until now has seemed the pitiless skies; but now they are filled with the oncomingflocks of Sea Gulls. Does she watch their coming with merely idle curiosity or vague wonderment? Or does her soul in the strange Gull-cry hear God's answer to her call for help? God's answer to her they were, these Gulls, in any event, as the Gulls soon proved by devouring the destroyer. 

The third tablature commemorates the Pioneers' first harvest — worthily, too. In the background rises Ensign Peak. In the middle background the log house home stands finished; in the foreground harvesting the golden grain is in progress, both men and women take joyous part. To the right a mother half kneeling holds to her full breast a babe, who "on the heart and from the heart" receives his nourishment, and about her knees two other children play in happy, childish oblivion of toil or care. O, happy scene, of life and joy, "where Plenty leaps to laughing life with her redundant horn." 

On the fourth tablature is the title of the monument. Fortunately it is simple, and not explanatory — the work' of the sculptor tells the story — tells it well and eloquently. Too much narration would have marred it — this is the inscription : 

SEA GULL MONUMENT ERECTED IN GRATEFUL REMEMBRANCE OF THE MERCY OF GOD TO THE MORMON PIONEERS. 

Yes, let us own it. The salvation wrought out in that year of grace, 1848, for the "Mormon" Pioneers,  Thy work, Helper of the helpless, and Supplementer of man's endeavor; giving him of Thy bounteous strength when his strength fails. How shall we honor Thee for Thy tender mercies to menward, but by acknowledgment of them, by holding them in memory, and speaking of them to our children, and to our children's children, to the remotest generation ? 

Though from afar the Sea Gulls came and destroyed the destroyer, it was Thy voice, O Lord, that called them — they did but do Thy bidding — the deliverance was of Thee and by Thee. And though in these grouped symbols of the monument the beautiful agency of Thy merciful act is chiefly present, still beyond and above these to our consciousness the Eternal Cause of such events stands smiling. 

Long may these testimonies of stone and bronze, which our feeble hands have erected, stand on this sacred block as God's witnesses unto the inhabitants of the earth, that He has given a new dispensation of His truth to man, and confirmed it by a manifestation of His mercy and power in the deliverance of His people, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MTTREIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

It is a very delightful thing, my brethren and sisters, to sit and listen to the inspired words that have fallen from the lips of the servants of the Lord, in the remarks that have thus far been made during our conference. It is altogether a different matter to stand up in the presence of this great multitude of people to give instruction that will be for the advantage of those who have  together for the worship of our Father in heaven. I feel, my brethren and sisters, necessity for the companionship and direction of the Holy Spirit, that the few words that I utter may be of some value to some of those who are gathered in this holy house this afternoon. 

I am very thankful that in the providence of the Almighty my lot has been cast with the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, grateful am I for "Mormon" parentage and for being reared under the influence of the Gospel of the Redeemer of men, as it has been revealed in this latter dispensation, through the great prophet, Joseph Smith. I rejoice in my soul, my brethren and sisters, that the power that was able to take my father and mother from a far off land and turn their faces and feet Zion-ward, is still at work among the children of men revealing to them, and to the sons and daughters of those who planted the work of our God in days gone by the wonderful truth of the things of which we have been hearing. Thank God those children are not to be left without evidence and testimony of the truth of the story that has been related to them so (earnestly by faithful fathers and mothers many of whom have now fallen asleep. I have often marveled, at the testimonies of men, as they have borne record in my hearing to the truth of the work of God, and to the knowledge that had been given them concerning the purposes of our Father in heaven. In the days of my boyhood, I have wondered how it was possible that such knowledge could be given to the sons of men. But I humbly and thankfully say, this afternoon, that 

I am today possessed with a joy passing all understanding because of the fact that in the providences and kindness of our Father in heaven, the truth that was made manifest to my own parents afar off, and that brought them to this region of country, has also been revealed to me in the very same manner in which it was shown to my parents, and that is by the power of the Holy Spirit. Thank God we can look into the future with confidence and hope, believing that the same God who has inspired the fathers of the past, and who has given saving knowledge to the fathers and mothers of the present generation, will also be mindful of those who are to come in the future, and that the divine revelation that we have heard of from our brethren, will continue to flow from our Father in heaven to the sons and daughters of all future generations. It is the will of the Father that they shall also be made to know that there is a God in heaven, and that He has established the work in which we are now laboring. He has decreed that His work shall gather strength and power, and that it shall attract the attention of many men. God has said it shall gather from every nation under heaven those who are to be saved and they shall be pricked, by the power of God and be led to the gathering place of the people of the Lord. 

Some of the things that we have heard, my brethren and sisters, may be classed among the deep things of the kingdom, they may seem to be very great and very wonderful, and yet there are other precious things that are easily understood and seem to be very simple. Let us be very thankful for the things that are simple. We should all praise God and be thankful for the testimony that has been borne in our hearing that the winning of salvation in the presence of the great creator is but a simple thing. That it is by the doing of little things that do not call for any very marvelous talent, that men and women will eventually work out their salvation and be approved by our Father in heaven. That gives me hope, it gives me courage to know that God will not make any requirement of me that I am not able to meet, if I will but hearken to' the counsels that are imparted from time to time, and endeavor to do as best I may the things that are allotted to me to do. I feel that every man and every woman who has named the name of the Redeemer, should take comfort in the thought that God makes no requirement of men, neither of communities, that they are not able to meet. God always provides a way for the carrying out of His commandments and for the accomplishment of all His purposes. 

I hope that as a people we will be mindful of the blessings of the Lord that rest upon us so bountifully. Wherever we go, in traveling about among the people, in the north, and in the south, in the east, and in the west, we see that the hand of God has been over the people; that they are being blest and prospered; that the people are reaping bounteous harvests; so bountiful that they scarcely are able to take care of the things that have been given them by our Father in heaven and that are now being garnered from the harvest field. We ought not to be forgetful of the demands of the Lord in our prosperity. We have had reference made in regard to the principle of tithing, to honoring the requirement of our 

Father in relation to this great law. I think we ought to be glad to honor God and to give to Him, whatever may be necessary in the observance of His law, that we may have continued claim upon His blessings. We should set such examples before our offspring that they will always remember in the future of their lives, even after we ourselves may be called away from this sphere of action, that father and mother observed the commandments of the Lord, that they were honest with Father in heaven. Such example will surely bear fruit in the lives of the children, and perchance in a time to come, prick their hearts and bring them to repentance, if they should ever be indifferent, or if they ever incline to waywardness concerning the commandments of the Lord. Do you ever think of the feelings fathers and mothers must have, who do not observe the Word of Wisdom, who are not honest with the Lord in the payment of their tithing, when they discover that their children are growing up around them, and are going to places of worship, and to various organizations that have been established by the commandment and will of God for the education of the rising generation, where they are properly taught the things of God. When they learn the necessity -of yielding obedience to the Word of Wisdom, and of putting away the things that are injurious to their wonderful physical organizations, they at the same time discover that they have lived in the homes of their parents, contrary to the counsel of the Lord. There must be strange feelings take possession of boys and girls under such conditions. Humiliation also must come to parents when they know the chil have discovered that father and mother have not been true to the faith. I think every father and mother should be anxious to so live that when their sons and daughters go out from the home, when they come in contact with officers, and with elders of the Church who are preaching the Gospel of the Redeemer of the world, they will always have something bearing testimony within them : "That is what I have been taught by my father and by my mother; that example has always been set before me in my home. There is nothing strange or new in relation to these things. I have been acquainted with them all my life." I understand, my brethren and sisters, that we are not only to win salvation ourselves, by an observance of the little things, we are also by such example, to win men who are in darkness to the light as it is now manifest. The Word of Wisdom, the law of tithing, the honoring of the Sabbath clay, being honest with our fellow men, being good citizens, being industrious, and sober, and upright, these little things, as they may be termed, can be complied with by all men, and their observance make up a perfect character, that sort of character that is required by our Father in heaven, that men may be saved in His presence when they have finished with the battle of life. 

I thank God for the thrill that comes into my being as I listen to the testimonies of the servants of the Lord, and that I have no feeling of opposition to the counsels and doctrines that have been given us by those who have a right to teach, but that I have the feeling in my heart that what we have been taught, is true. The counsels as imparted are for my benefit and for  advantage, and to assist me in winning the battle in which I am engaged. I am thankful for a knowledge of the truth of the work of God and for the splendid history that has been made by the people of the Lord. The more one studies the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the more he discovers in it, that makes him feel this surely is not the work of men, but it must be the work of God. 

I plead with men to seek to magnify the authority of the holy priesthood, in the preaching of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, preaching it at home as it is preached abroad. I regret, my brethren and sisters, that there is occasion to cry out to men who have been honored with divine authority, and who have been magnified in the eyes of men, in the preaching of the word of the Lord, to return to the path of duty, and live the principles here at home in the wards and stakes of Zion, that they have taught men abroad in the world to receive. We need to remember that the eyes not only of those who are not of us, but the eyes of those who may have been convinced by our own teaching and testimony abroad in the various missions of the world, rest upon us here in Zion, and that we are responsible for the discourse we are delivering day by day, by our conduct and in choosing the path in which we walk, our example is observed by the people. I would like to invite and plead with missionaries that they shall not only bear testimony when they come home to their people, of the hand of God that has been over them, and His blessing that has attended them, but that they will manifest, year in and year out, that their hearts are filled with gratitude because of those blessings, and because God has revealed unto them the truth of His Gospel, and has honored them with the power and authority of His priesthood. 

There is room for every man to work in Zion. There is a cry in every ward, and with every presiding officer, for help that the youth may be cared for, that the organizations of the Church may be looked after, that the principles of the Gospel may be brought constantly to the attention of the people. ^Ve who have received the authority of the priesthood and who have been so marvelously and abundantly blest by our Heavenly Father, should see to it that we are exercising the authority that has been conferred upon us, for the glorifying of the name of our Father in heaven and the salvation of the souls of men. 

I rejoice that I have standing in the Church. I bear record and testimony to the truth of the Gospel. I know it is the power of God. I know it has been revealed from the heavens. I know the Father and the Son have appeared upon this earth, in our own time, and that They taught Joseph Smith the way of salvation; that They also sent holy angels conferring upon Him * the authority of the holy priesthood,  gave him commandment for the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have learned this by the manifestations of the Spirit of the Lord to me as an individual, and I feel grateful for this testimony. I pray that it may remain with me, and that a similar testimony may remain also with you, my brethren and sisters. May our lives be fruitful in evidence that God has revealed to us the truth, and may our light and right living lead other men to an investigation of the message that has been committed to men in our own dispensation. God grant that the hearts of many may be touched, that they also may have their feet planted in the straight and narrow way that leads back into the presence of our Father and to the eternal salvation of the human family. God help us all to endure to the end, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Heber S. Allen. 


