Afternoon
04 04 1937

The second session of the Conference was held Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock. 

Once more the great Tabernacle was crowded, every available space being occupied, and again thousands of people congregated in the Assembly Hall and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice." 

Elder Thomas M. Irvine, President of the North Weber Stake offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "Prayer of Thanksgiving," was sung by the Choir. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO SINGERS AND MUSICIANS 

My brethren and sisters, I am indeed honored to be with you again and to partake of the spirit of this conference. 

I should like again to pay my tribute, for I feel they richly deserve it, to this great Tabernacle Choir mission. The influence which they are radiating for good, and the prejudice which they are overcoming cannot be measured. I am grateful for the devoted service of every member of the choir, for the devoted service of Brother Cornwall, their leader, of Brother Asper, the organist, and of Brother Evans who makes the announcements. Each is doing a splendid job. 

During the course of the conference I believe we are to hear again from the Singing Mothers, under the direction of Sister Lottie Sackett. I should like to pay to them my respects and my assurances of appreciation of the great work they are doing. They are indeed becoming one of the great musical institutions of this Church. May the Lord continue his blessings unto them. 

SAVIOR HAD TWO GREAT MISSIONS ON EARTH 

When the Savior came upon the earth he had two great missions; one was to work out the Messiahship, the atonement for the .fall, and the fulfilment of the law; the other was the work which he did among his brethren and sisters in the flesh by way of relieving their sufferings, and again by teaching to them the great spiritual facts out of which by observance may come eternal life. He left as a heritage to those who should come after him in his Church the carrying on of those two great things — work for the relief of the ills and the sufferings of humanity, and the teaching of the spiritual truths which should bring us back into the presence of our Heavenly Father. 

This afternoon I wish to speak somewhat concerning matters which are directly related perhaps to the work of relieving our sufferings and our human ills, and I shall leave to others primarily the instruction with reference to those great spiritual truths which shall bring us back into the presence of God. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF AUTHORITIES 

I want to read you the last verses of the first chapter of Jacob in the Book of Mormon, and the second verse of the second chapter, as indicating to you the responsibility which I regard the Authorities of this Church to be under as between themselves and yourselves and between all of us and our God. 

For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph had been consecrated priests and teachers of this people by the hands of Nephi. 

And we did magnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us the responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own heads if  did not teach them the word of God with all diligence; wherefore, by laboring with our might their blood might not come upon our garments; otherwise their blood would come upon our garments, and we would not be found spotless at the last day. 

Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the responsibility which I am under to God, to magnify mine office with soberness, and that I might rid my garments of your sins, I come up into the temple this day that I might declare unto you the word of God.'' 

I am not proposing to talk to the people about their sins, but I am hoping to say to you by way of warning and admonition some of the things which have come within my knowledge and of which I feel under a solemn duty to tell you. 

Recently I have had opportunity to discuss world conditions with men from both sides of the Atlantic who are leaders in industry and finance. 

BY WAY OF WARNING AND ADMONITION 

Pursuant to the responsibility of which Jacob spoke, I deem it my duty to tell members of the Church, by way of warning and admonition, of what the near future may bring insofar as these men can foresee. I devoutly hope they may be in error in their judgment; I fear they may speak too near the truth. But whatever the eventuality may turn out to be, I am now giving the soundest human forecast of which I know. 

MILLIONS SPENT ON WAR MATERIALS 

European industrialists make these statements : That European countries are now spending eleven billions of dollars a year on military armament; that Great Britain alone is spending two billion dollars; that European nations are piling up enormous quantities of raw materials used in war, particularly the metals; that one nation has placed an order for the total world output of a certain metal for a year and a half ahead; that stocks of raw materials of all war-like sorts now accumulating are many times greater than were gathered together at the end of the World War. On this statement it is clear that these gathered materials are not now destined for any useful purpose; that they are not for the service but for the destruction of man; that if they shall be used in war, they will be just that much human labor burned up without beneficial return to man — just as if so much money were burned up in a furnace. It will be a tragic and wicked waste. 

PURCHASES REACT UPON COMMODITY PRICES 

These men also assert that these tremendous purchases of war stocks have advanced prices of the materials concerned; that these price advances have reacted on other manufactured commodities, the prices of which have also advanced; that these advances have resulted in advances of labor costs; and that on account of all these advances, there will be in the immediate future a period of prosperity or inflation, which ever you choose to call it, in which the costs of living will go up, and we shall pay more for food, clothing, fuel and shelter. American financiers say this means the value of the dollar will go down — that is, a dollar will buy less and less of the necessaries of life. 

EXTERMINATING WAR AND/OR CHAOTIC DEPRESSION 

These experienced financiers and industrialists further say that this prosperity period will be over — some say in two years, some say in ten, that if war shall come, the period will last till the end of the war; but that if the war does not come, then this prosperity period will end so soon as the nations feel reasonable security in a period of peace. 

These same authorities declare that if war shall come, its ending will leave the world in a state of exhaustion heretofore unknown to modern times; that the depression from which we are now emerging will be but as a shadow of the real hard times which will then come. They affirm that if war does not come, but instead this sense of temporary security, that then the nations will dispose of their excess war materials, that this will close great industries and bring idleness; that the resulting loss of markets and trade will bring ruin to industries, and that the depression and industrial paralysis which follows will be the full equal of that which would follow another World War. They feel that this next world depression will be near, if not quite, a chaos which will, in the existing state of mind of the peoples of the world, threaten the very existence of government, of property, of human rights, of liberty, even of the family itself. 

Everyone who reads the newspapers knows that the naval and military leaders of all nations believe the next war will look to the extermination of nations, not the destruction of armies; that not alone shall the able-bodied soldiers be cut down, but that innocent babes, their mothers, the aged, decrepit, and infirm are to be slaughtered. Great Britain is providing a gas mask for every man, woman, child and infant in the United Kingdom, and the people are being trained to use them as a protection against the poison gas their enemies are expected to use. The next war will not be a series of battles, but of butcheries. 

EUROPEANS PLAN TO HAVE U. S. PAY FOR WAR 

Notwithstanding the fact that our former associates in the World War owe us the money which we lent them amounting to over ten billions of dollars, and also owe us the great bulk of the interest which we, the people of the United States have been paying on that loan, and notwithstanding they took tremendous loot from Germany at the end of the War of which we did not, I am proud to say, take a cent, war loot, counting the German colonial possessions, many, many times greater than the money they owe us, nevertheless there is strongest reason for believing that some of the most skilled, astute, and shrewd diplomats, politicians, and statesmen of all Europe are now planning to have the people of the United States finance the next European war either before the war begins or during its progress. 

Furthermore, certain of these same diplomats, politicians, and statesmen are planning to entice the United States into an offensive and defensive military alliance in order that we shall participate in that next world war by sending our young men to the battlefields of Europe The argument they now plan to use to bring this about is that in this way only can the peace of the world be preserved While this is a most profound fallacy, it will unfortunately find a sympathetic ear among many of the people of this country who do not fully understand international relations. It will require the wisest statesmanship on our part to prevent the United States from becoming again the victim of a world military catastrophe. 

TERRIBLE DEPRESSION INDICATED BY SIGNS 

We shall hope and pray that these men who predict such a dire future are in error. But whether or not these men are seeing false visions or are peering accurately into the future, yet I know of no responsible authority who challenges the forecast that within the next few years we shall, in the normal course, suffer a depression far more serious, affecting intimately far greater numbers of the people, than the one we are now finishing. 

This prospect gives a new significance to the Church Security Plan and gives the final but unneeded evidence of the inspiration which led President Grant to inaugurate that great and far-reaching movement. If that chaos shall come which these men fear, then those only will survive who shall extend the one to the other a mutual, brotherly, loving, unselfish help. In this view we may not believe we are at the end of the Security Plan; we are only at the beginning. 

These men to whom I have referred bemoan with united voice this great world-wide tragedy which they feel they clearly foresee, but which they assert they have no power to avert. Indeed, one feels, rather than sees, that no human power can cope with and ward off this threatening cataclysm. 

Reading together the Scriptures and the signs of the times, and remembering that the measure of time with God is not the measure of time with man, one cannot but consider whether we be not now in the very times foretold by the Savior in his great discourse on the Mount of Olives, and predicted by the prophets from most ancient times. Are not the anti-Christs now walking the earth ? 

STRENGTH NEEDED TO MEET EMERGENCY 

When we see how far beyond the reach of human mind and hand the world today has gone, when we calmly ponder and reflect upon the crumbling of human ideals and institutions no matter how sacred they have been heretofore held, and when we peer down into the unfathomable abyss into which man seems ready to plunge, unless in God's mercy he shall be drawn back, we do glimpse darkly and in broadest outline only, the working of those great infinite forces of right and wrong which had their birth, so far as we know, when Satan and his hosts were thrust from heaven, and truth and falsehood began their millenniums of conflict for mastery. May the Lord give us strength to meet this test if it shall come. 

PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES SUGGESTED 

What may we as a people and as individuals do for oureslves to prepare to meet this oncoming disaster, which God in his wisdom may not turn aside from us? 

First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments, that we may in part claim his blessing as of right, and not as of mercy only. Along this way only lies happiness and salvation. For the Lord has said : 

Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full. * * * * 

Therefore, care not for the body, neither the life of the body; but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul. 

And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, and ye shall have eternal life." (Doctrine and Covenants 101 :36-38.), 

Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague; where we are now in debt let us get out of debt; if not today, then tomorrow. 

Let us straitly and strictly live within our incomes, and save a little. 

Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. You of small means put your money in foodstuffs and wearing apparel, not in stocks and bonds; you of large means will think you know how to care for yourselves, but I may venture to suggest that you do not speculate. Let every head of every household aim to own his own home, free from mortgage. Let every man who has a garden spot, garden it; every man who owns a farm, farm it. 

Let us again clothe ourselves with these proved and sterling virtues — honesty, truthfulness, chastity, sobriety, temperance, industry and thrift; let us discard all covetousness and greed. 

MAN MUST WORK 

We must purge our hearts of the love of ease; we must put out from our lives the curse of idleness. God declared that mortal man should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. That is the law of this world. In the past it has taxed our economic strength and system to keep the relatively very few idle rich. That task shows us that no great groups can be kept in idleness. It surely is not natural to believe that they may. People have been insufficiently fed and clad with every one working who was able to work. Why delude ourselves into thinking that a third of us may live in idleness and all of us be better off ? If a third may be idle, and all be better off than now, then why not a half idle and increase the prosperity; and if half, why not two-thirds, and if two-thirds, then all of us idle and have every man a millionaire, and nobody working. 

Furthermore, to provide by law that a third shall live off the two, is to set up a legal slavery of the two-thirds who work. As one within the age of the proposed idle class, I protest with all the spirit and strength I possess against the infliction upon me of such a curse. May the Lord forbid that this shall come. 

For the decrepit and infirm, from any cause, I have, we all have, the deepest sympathy, as also for those in distress from causes beyond their control. To all such we owe a sacred duty to help. God's law has always been "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy self." This we must do. But side by side with this law is that other law, declared from the beginning, that while man can work, he must work. These are the two great laws, the two fundamental principles behind the Church Security Plan. The aim of that plan is to put those two great truths into the lives of all of us. 

May God give unto us the power always to see the truth. May he increase our faith day by day. May he enable us from hour to hour to live more nearly to him, to keep his commandments, to follow along the lines which he has marked out for us. May he give us wisdom to foresee and to vision the future. May he give us the strength and the power of the Spirit, to prepare for that future, whatever it may be. That these blessings may come to us, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir sang the hymn, "O My Father," Claudius Doty, soloist. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

This morning as I listened to the sincere and earnest appeal made by President Grant to the people of the Church to obey the Word of Wisdom and other commandments of the Lord, I was reminded of a significant saying of Jesus recorded in the 7th chapter of Matthew. This afternoon I wish to associate this passage also with the warning and admonition given by President Clark : 

Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock; 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded upon a rock. 

I commend this passage of the Savior to every Latter-day Saint, and trust that we may be not forgetful hearers, but doers of the word. 

A number of these have come to my mind, each of which is worthy of consideration at this conference, but none seems to me to be more timely and of greater significance than respect for law. Our twelfth Article of Faith says : 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 

MORAL SENSE BASIS OF ALL SOCIAL LAW 

Law, particularly in a democracy, is a system of social order established and enforced by society. Divine law has its origin in Deity; social law sprang primarily from the moral sense of the community. In a democracy in which the will of the people is sovereign, law is successfully operative only to the extent that the moral sense of the community is in sympathy with it. 

The three significant words used in the 12th Article of Faith express the proper attitude of the membership of the Church toward law. These words are — obey, honor and sustain. 

The Article does not say we believe in submission to the law. Obedience implies a higher attitude than mere submission, for obedience has its root in good intent; submission may spring from selfishness or meanness of spirit. Though obedience and submission both imply restraint on one's own will, we are obedient only from a sense of right; submissive from a sense of necessity. 

Honor expresses an act or attitude of an inferior towards a superior. When applied to things it is taken in the sense of holding in honor. Thus, in honoring the law, we look upon it as something which is above selfish desires or indulgences. 

To sustain signifies to hold up; to keep from falling. To sustain the law, therefore, is to refrain from saying or doing anything which will weaken it or make it ineffective. 

We obey law from a sense of right. 

We honor law because of its necessity and strength to society. . We sustain-law by keeping it in good repute. 

One of the principal functions of religion is to develop a sense of confidence in man, and faith in God as the Father of men. If the Church (of Jesus Christ) cannot do these things, then it will have failed in fulfilling its divine destiny. However in efforts to establish confidence in man and social institutions, we must not shut from our minds certain unpleasant facts which tend to undermine confidence and disintegrate the very foundation upon which society is built. 

DISRESPECT FOR LAW AMONG WORST OF EVILS 

Disrespect for law is among the worst of such evils. It is regrettable that the United States today has the reputation of being one of the most lawless of nations. This unsavory reputation is attributed largely to the shattering during the World War of long-cherished ideals and the lowering of moral standards; and it is true that "the war was in every respect a vast school of demoralization." Every rule of morality, public and private, was openly infringed. 

There are those who blame Prohibition for the wave of lawlessness that has been sweeping over the country, but since repeal, the illicit traffic in booze still continues unabated. Drunkenness is increasing, and so is the number of intoxicated drivers who imperil the lives of innocent people on the public highway. In the use of tobacco the law is flagrantly violated and dishonored. 

Note the following : "Any person who sells, gives or furnishes any cigar, cigaret or tobacco in any form, or any opium or other narcotic in any form to any person under 21 years of age is guilty of a misdemeanor." 

And again, "Any person under the age of 21 years who buys, accepts or has in his possession any cigar, cigaret or tobacco in any form, or any opium or any other narcotic in any form is guilty of a misdemeanor or shall be deemed a delinquent child as the case may be." 

VIOLATIONS BODE ILL FOR SOCIETY 

It augurs ill for society when in the face of such a law on the statute books, many high school boys from 15 to 19 years of age indulge openly in this pernicious habit. That such violations occur constantly in our own community none can deny. 

Petty thefts, holdups, and robberies of various kinds and degrees are all too common. 

Illegal possession of corporate property is a new menace. Millions of dollars are being lost to laborers, and bitter animosities engendered by sit-down strikes, a new weapon in the hands of unionism which may prove a boomerang to honest labor. If lawlessness or even disregard for the rights of employes on the part of employers is the cause of sit-down strikes, then the menace of such strife to the stability of society is only increased. 

These things which I have merely named indicate the trend to disregard law and order. Of all crushing taxes that impede the economic recovery of the American people, the crime tax is the greatest. The cost of our crime has now reached the staggering sum of 13 billion dollars a year, an amount equal to the entire revenue of the United States. Every year twelve thousand persons are murdered, three thousand are kidnaped, 100,000 are assaulted, and fifty thousand are robbed. 

America is a land of boasted liberty, but liberty may be either helpful or fatal according to the use made of it. Is it liberty when a group of men with threats of violence prevent an employer from entering his own property ? No! Liberty is shackled and violence rules! "Liberty is an atmosphere of the higher life, and it is only by a slow and patient inward transformation that one becomes capable of breathing it." 

MAN MUST BE MADE WORTHY OF LIBERTY 

Liberty ? — it is respect; liberty ? — it is obedience to the inner law; and this law is neither the good pleasure of the mighty, nor the caprice of the crowd, but the high and impersonal rule before which those who govern are the first to bow the head. Shall liberty, then, be proscribed ? No; but men must be made capable and worthy of it, otherwise public life becomes impossible, and the nation, undisciplined and unrestrained, goes on through license into the inextricable tangles of demagoguery." 

Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are explicitly enjoined to uphold the law. The Lord says in Section 58 of the Doctrine and Covenants, "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." 

Reverence. Akin to the respect for law and a contributing factor toward it is reverence for sacred things. It has been truly said that reverence is the noblest state in which a man can live in the world. If that is true, then irreverent man has a crudeness about him that is repellant. He is cynical, often sneering, and nearly always, iconoclastic. 

RESPONSIBILITY TO TEACH CHILDREN REVERENCE, OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

Reverence and obedience to law should begin at home. Indeed, too much emphasis cannot be laid upon the responsibility of parents to teach their children reverence for God in all things sacred, and to honor and uphold the law. 

The true expression of reverence is found in the Saviour's admonition— "Love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength, and thy neighbour as thyself." 

As a Church in our worshiping assemblies, we have much room for improvement in this regard. Stake officers, Bishops, Quorum Presidents, Auxiliary leaders should make a special effort to maintain more reverence during hours of worship. Children should be impressed with the inappropriateness of confusion and disorder in a worshiping assembly, and should be made to realize that it is the height of rudeness to leave service before dismissal. Young people who ignore such proprieties are two hundred and fifty years behind the times. They should have lived in colonial days when just to make sure that they stayed out the service, young men were locked in their pews by their superiors. 

REVERENCE ON DECLINE AMONG MANY 

Charles Edward Jefferson, the author of "The Character of Jesus," says: 

We are not by nature or by training a reverent people. There are those who say we become less reverent as the years go on. The older people are constantly lamenting that they miss a certain beautiful respectfulness, a lovely reverence which were more common many years ago. There are wide areas of American society from which the spirit of reverence has been banished. Men and women in many circles are clever, interesting, brilliant, but they lack one of the three dimensions of life — they have no reach upward. Their conversation sparkles, but it is frivolous and often flippant. Their talk is witty, but the wit is often at the expense of high and sacred things. 

He has come far down in the scale of being who in order to display his powers finds it necessary to ridicule those things which have been prized by all good men. When one enters the world of our present-day reformers he is impressed by the large number who lack the upward look. Many of these, men are tremendously in earnest, they see the crying evils of the world; their sympathies are wide and their zeal is hot, but they have no sky above their heads. They aim to glorify no Father who is in Heaven. Some of them claim to admire the Man of Nazareth. They extol His character and His teachings. Yet strange to say, they do not imitate His reverence, or cast a single glance in the direction in which His eyes were always looking. One finds this lack of reverence even in the Church. In every community there are those who treat the house of God as they treat a street car, entering it and leaving it when they . Even habitual Church attendants often surprise and shock one by their irreverent behavior in the house of prayer. Those persons are not ignoramuses or barbarians; they are simply undeveloped in the virtue of reverence. / 

Why is it that reverence is apparently in a state of decadence? Is 'it due to our improper reading? The press is constantly exploiting the sordid side of human nature, calling our attention to moral collapse and degradation, and it may be that our familiarity with vice in its varied forms is taking off the edge of our sensibility so that we no longer respond readily to the things which are noble and high. What has the stage to do — do you think — with our loss of reverence? It is lamentable that so large a proportion of plays move in that border-land which lies between decency and indecency. The openly immoral play cannot as yet be endured, but the play that is most popular is often a play which skirts the edges of the realms of the indecent. Theater audiences seem to like a sentence now and then which looks in the direction of the unclean, and to relish an occasional insinuation or remark which leads down to the mud. Our imagination may be so coarsened by the realism through which it travels as to lose the capacity for feeling the rapture of the sense of awe. 

If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar : for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? 

And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also. 

I speak of Reverence in connection with obedience to law because a reverent person is law-abiding. No one can love God sincerely and harbor in his heart enmity for his fellow men. Enmity is sin and "whosoever committeth sin doth lawlessness; for sin is lawlessness." 

Brethren and sisters, the time calls for Latter-day Saints everywhere to demonstrate by deeds as well as by words that we love God, revere sacred things and places, and obey, honor, and sustain the law. God help us in our efforts so to do, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "O, Say, What is Truth?" 

I have been enjoying to the fullest extent the fine meetings of this General Conference. I bear witness that we have listened to servants of the Lord giving us instruction. They were inspired by him who is the Author of our being. Unselfish advice has been offered to us by those whom the Lord has called to teach. 

Conditions in the world at the present time are a problem to me because of the diversity of interests that seem to be operating everyREVERENT PEOPLE LAW-ABIDING Of, the Council of the Twelve Apostles where. Selfishness, jealousy and hatred have taken possession of the human family to a remarkable degree and warfare is in the air. 

HELPED BY WISE COUNSELS 

When I was a child I had great satisfaction in hearing those who addressed us in this building. As a youth I used to come quite regularly to the Sunday afternoon services held here and listen to the great choir and organ and to the instructions of the servants of the Lord. Most of those men have finished their work and passed to the other side, but from their wise counsels I received much that has helped me in my life to choose the better part, and to obtain happiness in the companionship of our Father's children. 

I learned while young to revere those who have been called to direct us in this Church and have continued so to do. 

It is only six months ago that sitting here with us was our beloved brother, Alonzo A. Hinckley. We did not know at that time that he was to leave us so soon. One by one, stalwarts who have given the best that was in their lives to encourage, uplift and bless us are called home to their reward. Others are raised up to take their places who are willing to carry on, and notwithstanding the responsibilities are great and the burdens heavy, men and women just as fine as the world has ever known have accepted the call to service in this Church, and many today are serving unselfishly for the blessings of our Father's children. 

SCRIPTURE TEACHINGS APPROPRIATE TODAY 

President Clark referred to the words of Jacob in the Book of Mormon. I feel to repeat a portion of what he read to us : 

Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the responsibility which I am under to God, to magnify mine office with soberness, that I might rid my garments of your sins, I come up into the temple this day, that I might declare unto you the word of God. 

I recommend that when you go home that you read the second chapter of Jacob, all of it, for it is full of excellent advice and counsel, and if Jacob had been speaking today it could have been no more appropriate. He realized the responsibility of his. leadership among the people and had the courage to counsel them. 

'We are living in a day when we must choose for ourselves as did one of old. Read what this prophet said to Israel in the 24th chapter of Joshua. Read it all. It is excellent advice to us today. In warning the people Joshua said, "Choose you this day whom ye will serve, * * * but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." 

THE PURPOSE OF CONFERENCES 

As I look into the faces of this great congregation of wonderful men and women and listen to the tuneful voices of these sons and daughters of the living God, and realize that we are all here in the house of the Lord to worship and to be instructed, not by man only but by  inspiration of our Heavenly Father, who is 'the Author of our being, my soul is refreshed. 

If we have come in the spirit of repentance and humility, we have a right to receive instruction that is necessary for our development. If we have come to worship with the prayer in our hearts, "Father in Heaven, teach us," we are entitled to receive the promise that he has made that "Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them." 

We are here, not two or three, but a great multitude, privileged as are few of our Father's children in the world. We are living not only in the day in which he has spoken, but we are offered the opportunity to listen to the voices of men who receive his inspiration when they teach us. If therefore we fall into by and forbidden paths we will not be able to blame anybody but ourselves, because if we are teachable, if we are humble, if we are willing to do what the Lord would have us do, we have the information at hand, not only in the records that have been handed down to us by those who have given their lives that we might have the truth, but we also have the privilege of listening to the voices of living oracles who are as unselfish and faithful as those that we revere because of the records that they have left behind. 

The adversary is not asleep. He is deceiving many and leading them to sin. Reference has been made to the fact that in our own community there are those who fail to appreciate their privileges. There are some who are teaching false doctrine; and some who are seeking to persuade men and women to violate the commandments of our Heavenly Father. There are those who pretend to be inspired and who would take the leadership of the people, if they were so permitted. Of course they are not capable to lead and in their own lives are living improperly, and the adversary is using them as tools by which others may be deceived. 

THE PATH OF SAFETY 

There is only one pathway of safety for me in this day and that is to follow those whom the Lord has appointed to lead. I may have my own ideas and opinions, I may set up my own judgment with reference to things, but I know that when my judgment conflicts with the teachings of those that the Lord has given to us to point the way, I should change my course. If I desire salvation I will follow the leaders that our Heavenly Father has given to us, as long as he sustains them. 

If the members of this Church who find fault with the leaders of the Church and criticise those who are giving their very lives to bless and benefit us would only pause long enough to ask prayerfully, "Which of these teachers is it safe to follow ?" they would have no difficulty in finding their right course and would sustain those whom the Lord sustains. 

We are living in a day when we need humility, when we need charity, when we need patience, and we are living in a time when it is the privilege of every man and every woman to do great good by setting righteous examples. I feel sad sometimes when I hear the unkind things that are spoken, not only of people in our Church, but of people in the world. Unkind things are not usually said under the inspiration of the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord is a spirit of kindness; it is a spirit of patience; it is a spirit of charity and love and forbearance and long suffering; and there are none of us who do not need all these virtues that are the result of the possession of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. 

KINDNESS TOWARDS THOSE WHO ERR 

There are those who will make mistakes. There are those among us today that have gone astray, but they are the children of our Lord and he loves them. He has given to you and to me the right to go to them in kindness and love and with patience and with a desire to bless, seek to win them from the mistakes that they are making. It is not my privilege to judge some of these that have made mistakes and are still making mistakes, unless I am so called by reason of the authority that may be conferred upon me. But it is my privilege, if I see them doing the wrong thing, to in some way, if possible, turn them back into the pathway that leads to eternal life in the Celestial kingdom. 

The Presidency of the Church have counseled us today. They are the representatives of our Heavenly Father, not only to this people, but they represent him to all the people of the earth. We would do well if we would magnify and honor these men he has placed at our head. They are men with human frailties, they will make mistakes, but if we will be as charitable to the mistakes that they make as we are to our own failures and mistakes, we will see their virtues as we see our own. 

UNKIND CRITICISM UNBECOMING IN LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I stand here to plead with you, my brethren and sisters, not to permit words of criticism or of unkindness to pass your lips about those whom the Lord has called to lead us. Do not be found in the companionship of those who would belittle them or weaken their influence among the children of men. If you do, I can say to you that you will find yourselves in the power of the adversary. You will be influenced by him to go as far as possible from the pathway of truth, and if you do not repent you may find when it is too late that you have lost the "pearl of great price." Because of your selfishness and your blindness you will have been led away, and your loved ones who have given their very lives in order that you might enjoy the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ will be sorrowing on the other side of the veil because of your weakness and your folly. 

You know we are all tied together by the great work that is being done in the temples of our Father, where families that have not been united before are brought together by the power of the Holy Priesthood. The Lord intended that every one of his sons and daughters should have the opportunity to be blessed, not only here upon the earth, but to enjoy eternal blessings. 

Think of the devotion and the faithfulness of those who day after day go into these temples and officiate for those who have passed to the other side, and know this that those who are on the other side are just as anxious about us. They are praying for us and for our success. They are pleading, in their own way, for their descendants, for their posterity who live upon the earth, many of whom, because they have been unwise, have been betrayed into fighting the Church and Kingdom of God and opposing those who are its leaders. 

INFLUENCE OF HOME 

Brethren and sisters, I plead with you that when you return to your home you see to it that your children are properly taught. Only a few days ago I saw a letter from a man who had probably lived half his life. In writing to his father he said: "Your consideration for your loved ones, your teaching of me, the examples that you set me, have been an inspiration for me to do what the Lord would have me do. I have felt in following in your footsteps I would be safe." That was a wise father, that was a blessed father, who could plant in the mind of his son such confidence. The son has lived much in the world, but because of the conduct of the father — at least he gave his father credit in his letter — because of the example set in his home, he is today one of the stalwarts of this Church. He can live in the world and keep the commandments of the Lord. His anxiety to do good was inspired by the home in which he lived. He did not discover selfishness in the home, but unselfishness. The parents were not anxious to get all that they could and hold it selfishly for their own, but they went about seeking those who needed them, encouraging and blessing them. All the talking in the world would not have put into that man's heart that which he has today, but it was the example that was set by his parents, by those who lived in the home in which he lived. 

I have no doubt there are hundreds of men and women, thousands of them, perhaps, in the communities in which we live and in the world, who would say the same thing of the teachings of their fathers and their mothers. But I fear there are some of us who are influenced by the customs of the world and are obsessed with the idea that we have to follow the crowd regardless of what they believe or do. In that case our example will not be a blessing but may destroy the happiness of our children. 

Permit me to direct your attention to chapter 8 of 1st Nephi in the Book of Mormon wherein the Lord showed to Lehi in a dream or vision the condition of the people of the world and the influences that did and would exist among them. A few would seek righteousness but the multitude would seek pleasure and unrighteousness. He saw an iron rod along a path that could be followed that would lead those who held to it into a place of safety and happiness. Those who held on to the iron rod — and they were the minority — found the tree of life. The majority went into a large and spacious building that was shown to Lehi as the abiding place of those who did not understand or would not receive the truth. They failed to gain an inheritance of celestial glory. Lehi was desirous that his family should hold to the rod and join him at the tree of life, but he was shown that there were those in his own household that would not do so. Are we living such lives that those who follow our example will find the tree of life? 

SAFETY IN LIVING THE GOSPEL 

God has spoken. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, our Lord, is upon the earth, with power and authority. We live in the evening of the fulness of times. The world will soon be devastated with war and carnage, with plague and all the distresses that the Lord has promised unless they repent; but he has indicated that they will not repent, and distress must come. 

You, my brethren and sisters, have been called out of the world. Opportunity has been offered to you to understand what we may expect and what we will receive if we are faithful and labor in kindness and love. Under the leadership of the best men and the best women that have lived upon the earth, Zion's sons and daughters are going forward, and if we will follow the advice and counsel that the Lord has given, our pathway will be one of happiness. It will be a pathway, perhaps not of ease and comfort always, but in the end it will terminate in the presence of our Heavenly Father, and glory, immortality and eternal lives will be our portion. 

Is it .worth the effort ? Shall we close our eyes and in carelessness and indifference follow the crowd, or shall we hold to the iron rod, looking forward and upward, determined that we will earn the better part, and in the end receive the welcome of our Father, Well done, my good and faithful son, my good and faithful daughter; enter into your rest ? 

I am grateful for my membership in this Church and am thankful for all the blessings that are mine. I appreciate the brethren with whom I associate, and am thankful for you, my brethren and sisters, with whom I mingle in the Church, for your fine fellowship and for the wonderful kindness that you manifest as we minister among you. 

SET HOMES IN ORDER 

I pray that you may have wisdom to set your own homes in order today, not delaying. Set them in order while there is yet time. Call your families about you, and if you have failed in the past to give them an understanding of the purposes of life and a knowledge of the Gospel of our Lord, do it now, for I say to you as a servant of the Lord, they need it now and they will need it from now on. 

I pray that the Lord will help us, that he will give us patience and love for our fellows, that we may be worthy of the high calling that has come to us as his servants, holding his Holy Priesthood, or as his daughters, blessed with knowledge such as women in the world do not possess. That we may be worthy of his continued favor and love one another, as he has commanded us to do, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

We are living in a rapidly changing world. The old is giving way to the new. We have new thoughts and feelings, new ways of doing and living. So rapid are the changes that many of us are more or less dazed and in danger of being swept off our feet. In a sense there is a confusion of tongues — certainly a confusion of plans, teachings, remedies, panaceas and whatnots. Some people are beginning to lose their anchorage and drift out into tempestuous seas without chart or rudder. In thus speaking I have in mind tendencies of the times, exhibited by many people. To what extent our people are affected by these things I do not know. I would like to believe that all of us deeply cherish our heritage of truth and stand immovable for the fundamental principles and doctrines that have characterized our Church from the beginning. 

TIME CANNOT CHANGE FUNDAMENTALS 

Fourteen months ago I was asked by a very intelligent lady in London what the characteristic doctrines of Mormonism are. I recited some of the Articles of Faith. Her reply was that most of these could not be characteristic for she knew non-Mormons who believed many, if not all, of these Articles, though, she admitted, there might be some differences in detail. I answered we certainly have some major characteristic beliefs. What are they, do you say? They constitute the chief features of our message to the world. And however rapid the changes of the times in this or in future generations these major characteristics will always remain fundamentals in our religious faith. Time cannot change or efface them. What are some of these ? 

THE FIRST VISION A REALITY 

The first one that I shall name is a belief in the divinity of Joseph Smith's call to set up Christ's authorized Church in this dispensation. We believe in the reality of his first great vision, wherein he saw the Father and the Son, heard their voices, and received messages from them. In this miraculous vision he learned that these two heavenly Beings are separate and distinct personalities in whose form man is made, thus confirming the teaching of Genesis that God created man in his own image. 

From that moment Joseph's ideas relative to the persons of the Father and the Son were correct and definite, and he taught them with convincing certainty, thus restoring to the world long lost precious truths. Their persons are limited in form to the bodies they occupy and are not diffused as an essence or shapeless entities throughout the immensity of space. They are real, living, glorified Personages. They had actually answered his earnest but simple prayer. He knew that they lived, for he had both seen and heard them. This definite knowledge of the personality of God had been lost to the world and with it a solid basis upon which faith could be built. 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

RESURRECTED BEINGS APPEAR 

But further exceedingly important knowledge was later given to the Prophet. The Angel Moroni appeared to him. Who was Moroni ? A tangible, resurrected personage who had lived upon the American continent about fourteen hundred years before. Moroni could be resurrected because Christ had previously been resurrected, breaking the bonds of death and thus achieving a victory over the grave not only for himself but for all the human family. The reality "of a bodily resurrection is a fact which became known to the youthful Prophet. 

This knowledge was made doubly certain when the resurrected John the Baptist appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery May 15, 1829, and ordained them to the Aaronic priesthood. Both of these young men thus learned that tangible, resurrected beings live in the heavens. 

The Baptist came as a messenger from God in answer to fervent prayer. Knowledge is obtained by various means, one of which is by the exercise of faith resulting "in divine revelation. So the Prophet Joseph became wiser than all the learned divines of his day, getting abundant absolute knowledge from God through the visitations of several heavenly personages, including the Father and the Son, and also through numerous revelations. His knowledge was pure truth, for he was taught from on high. His teachings were therefore free from false notions. 

AUTHORITY RESTORED 

Upon him and Oliver was bestowed the holy Priesthood through the laying on of hands of qualified personages sent from the throne of God. Thus the authority to act for and in the name of Christ was again restored to the earth and the Prophet was commissioned to set up Christ's own Church. He energetically went about doing this work. Now while there had been teachers and reformers before Joseph's day who were doubtless more or less inspired, getting glimpses of gospel truths, none of them had received the Priesthood. Hence while their work and sacrifices were necessary to establish religious tolerance sufficient for the coming of the Prophet, none of them could organize Christ's Church, due to a lack of authority. This is a vital point and one on which we cannot compromise. 

We are willing to bless any non-Mormon man or organization for the good he or it may do. But this must not imply that we are ready to grant that what is done by any others, however great the good, is accomplished in the authority of the Priesthood. In fact we hold otherwise. Priesthood is a characteristic of Christ's Church and of none other. 

THE BOOK OF MORMON A PHYSICAL EVIDENCE 

Another outstanding characteristic of our Faith is a belief in the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. I have many times said this book is perhaps the best physical evidence we can offer to the world of the divinity of the Prophet's call. With us this sacred volume is the  remarkable book in print today. It came forth through the miraculous manifestation of God's power. This claim is made for no other book in the English language. And though the Book of Mormon has been ridiculed and various hypotheses advanced to explain it, none of these has stood the test of investigation, hence has gone into discard. The truth is the Book perhaps stands more unimpeachable today than it has ever stood before. Further, countless thousands who have read the Book in the way suggested in the 10th chapter of Moroni have solemnly testified that they know the Book is of divine origin. God revealed this truth to them. There was no other way for them to get a testimony of its divinity. 

FAITH A GIFT 

The truth of this sacred Book is another fact that admits of no compromise. Yet we do not quarrel with honest doubters who do not believe in the divinity of this Book. But we are sorry for their unbelief, recognizing that faith is a gift of God, withheld from everyone who does not fulfil the conditions necessary to have faith. The Prophet Joseph tells us in section 130, Doctrine and Covenants : "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated. And when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." This states a great law that applies not only to the spiritual world but to the material world as well. Should we not be very grateful to our Father that he has given us faith to believe? Not boastfully but very humbly and in deep gratitude we accept the gift of faith as a special favor of the God we worship. 

GOPSEL, TEACHES UNIVERSAL SALVATION 

Another very important and highly distinguishing feature of Mormonism is the doctrine of the universality of the plan of salvation — of the saving and redeeming power of Jesus Christ. The fact that the doctrine of salvation for the dead is a part of Mormonism is a powerful evidence that Joseph Smith was called of God and commissioned to restore to earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its plainness and fulness. Among all the scholars and teachers of religion in this and past generations, where can you find outside of this Church any one who understood or understands the significance of the Apostle Paul's question, "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all"? Or, of Peter's statement, "For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." 

During the winter of 1935-36 there was a series of weekly addresses on religion delivered in London over the radio. Most of the addresses were printed in the Listener, a weekly magazine published by the British Broadcasting Corporation. The magazine printed letters in its forum columns commenting on the addresses. Many of the letters declared Christianity, as the reverend doctors taught it, could not be true for it pictured God as wholly unjust and unfair. To be saved, a confession of Christ in this life was necessary, the preachers taught. Yet the vast majority of the human family now dead, and many millions of people now living had never even heard the name of Jesus Christ. Why, the writers asked, should all of these be damned through no fault of their own ? Can there be a loving and just God who would do a thing so manifestly unfair and monstrous as this ? No! the letter writers said. . 

But the glorious doctrine of salvation for the dead makes everything clear. It reveals God's all-comprehending love for his children, and shows him to be a wise, just and merciful Father. But the Christian ministry knew nothing of this beautiful doctrine. Where did Joseph Smith iearn it? From his divine teachers and the revelations of God. There was no other source from which he could have learned it. Of this wonderful doctrine he knew more than the rest of all the world combined. Was he a prophet of God? Who can make an open-minded, thorough study of the character and teachings of the Prophet and deny his divine inspiration? 

God is the Father of the spirits of all men. Not one of them will be denied the privilege of accepting of their Savior, Jesus Christ. Every one born into mortality will have a chance to hear the Gospel in this life or in the life to come — in the spirit world beyond the grave. Death is only a separation of the spirit and the body. The latter returns to dust and the former to the spirit world to await the time when it will reunite with the body, for the resurrection will be universal and will eventually come to every one born into mortality — unto both the just and the unjust. Not one will be denied. How beautiful and marvelous the plan! 

ACTIVITY IN THE SPIRIT WORLD 

In the spirit world there is great activity. The Elders of this Church who have gone thither are very busy preaching to those who once lived in mortality. Even during the brief period when the body of Jesus lay in the tomb the Master was not idle. "Today," he said to the thief dying nearby on a cross, "shalt thou be with me in paradise" — a place in the spirit world, but not heaven as we commonly understand the term. The Apostle Peter gives us light on this point when he wrote of Christ's whereabouts while his body lay in the tomb : "He went and preached unto the spirits in prison; which sometime were disobedient, when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water." 

Is it not probable that very many more of God's children are today hearing and accepting the Gospel in the spirit world than they are doing here on earth? During the year 1935 ten thousand names were sent to our temples from Germany for ordinance work. And all our temples are busily engaged in doing vicarious work for the dead. This work will continue with an ever-increasing rate. More and more temples will be built and will be kept fully employed. The great doctrine of salvation for the dead is one of the most outstanding and characteristic of Mormonism and helps to stamp Joseph Smith as the greatest prophet who ever  on earth, excepting only Jesus Christ himself. Will the world not yet say there is no exaggeration in this statement ? Very likely. For the world, at the moment indifferent to any religious propaganda, will show an increasing interest in the message of Mormonism. This is not said in boasting. It is only an indication of what will surely come. 

THE LAST DISPENSATION Now, among other things the Prophet Joseph taught was that he inaugurated the last dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times; that God had set up his Church for the last time; that it would not be taken away or given to another people. These ideas, like salvation for the dead and many others, were not Joseph's. They did not originate with him. They came through messengers and revelations from heaven; and therein lies their vast implications. 

INSPIRATION CONTINUES WITH LEADERS OF THE CHURCH 

The Prophet and his brother, the Patriarch, were martyred. Their enemies hoped and believed that the Church would fall with its leaders. How greatly they were disappointed. They had forgotten that new strength to a religious cause always springs from the blood of its martyrs. Brigham Young, the rightful successor to Joseph, became the new prophet and leader. The Church was not born to die. God had so spoken. It should continue and grow until it filled the whole earth. The mantle of Joseph had fallen upon Brigham and in turn successively upon John Taylor, Wilf ord Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith and Heber J. Grant, where it now rests. In his turn each of these was sustained by Jesus Christ and the faithful members of his Church as prophet, seer and revelator and as president of the Church. Faithfully and to the very best of all his strength each of these brethren has served in the position to which God and the Church membership called him. The single purpose of each one has been to guide the Church as Christ directs through inspiration and to function for the good of the people. President Grant is faithful and loyal to this purpose. Can any faithful member of the Church point to one single thing that President Grant has said or done that is not in harmony with this lofty purpose? 

A WARNING OF DANGERS AHEAD 

Brethren and sisters, the times through which we have been passing have indeed been trying to most of our people. And I am sorry that trying times are still ahead. The sure word of prophecy and the signs of the times do not permit me to believe otherwise. We shall not have the peace and security we so greatly desire until we repent of our sins, turn to the Lord in real sincerity, and deal righteously with all men in all our relations with them. 

In conclusion I want to call attention to the fact that many winds of doctrine — social, economic, political — are blowing among the people. Individuals, ambitious for position and power, employing all kinds of propaganda, are and will continue to be busy among the people to win their support. Such things are not new. They have long existed and have been particularly prominent in periods of great distress and chaos. And they are especially dangerous in countries ruled by democratic forms of government. The dictatorships of Europe were born of the distresses of the people. Orderly government in these countries was secured at the price of individual liberty. There the state is everything, the individual only the tiniest cog in a gigantic machine. 

Dangers ominously threaten in this great country of ours. Our government had one great test — the Civil War of the sixties. It will have other tests. But it will triumph so long as the people remain true to their heritage and maintain the ideals of liberty and justice set up by the fathers of our country. 

DIVINE GUIDANCE NECESSARY 

What would I have the Latter-day Saints do? Just this: Remain calm; do not be carried away by prejudiced and emotional appeals. Use your intelligence and try to be wise in all, things. Carefully and prayerfully consider and study every new proposition. Look for the real motives behind propaganda and agitators. Make yourselves worthy of and seek for divine guidance in all of your affairs. Keep your eyes upon God's prophet, the head of the Church, and be faithful and true to the covenants you have made with one another and with God. There is safety in doing these things. May the Lord give all of us wisdom and strength to do them, I pray in Christ's name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Logan Temple 

Brethren and sisters, I am grateful beyond my power to express for the privilege that is mine in standing before you to bear my testimony to the divinity of this great and mighty work. I appreciate the things that have been said to us by the Presidency of our Church and those who have spoken to us during this Conference. There is absolutely no question as to the truth that has been presented to us here this day. 

I believe with all my soul that if you and I can follow the instructions that have been given to us, we will come nearer to our Heavenly, Father. 

I believe also that if we pray more earnestly day by day, we will receive the spirit of light, and of wisdom, and also that sustaining power to uphold and support those who have been placed in authority to lead and direct the affairs of the Church in this day and time. 

I believe with all my soul in that quality of prayer that brings us in close contact with our Heavenly Father. May I say there is a believing faith; there is also a knowing faith. Perhaps we should differentiate between the two. This knowing faith comes to, us through our devotion to God our Eternal Father as we approach him, not only in our family prayers, but in the silent hours of life when we come to him alone, when we unfold what is in our hearts and invite him into our confidence, and  him know and understand that we love his work and those who have been called to preside over us. 

The quality of prayer that is most useful to any of us is that quality that develops the finest there is in human life, that brings us into fellowship with God and our f ellowman, that develops within us that absolute faith that is so necessary in order to retain and obtain the light of truth, which of course is a testimony of the Gospel. 

Any one who is earnest and sincere in his or her prayers cannot in any way mistake the meaning of what was said to us by our beloved President this morning, when he impressed us with the thought that if we observe and keep these commandments that God has given us by the revelations through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, we will retain our fellowship and our knowing faith, that faith that gives us the absolute assurance that this is indeed God's work. President Grant, not so long ago, made this impressive statement : "Let us gather faith as a people. Let us so order our lives that we are entitled to an increase of that faith. I am thankful that I know of no man or woman who has joined this Church and attended his or her sacrament meetings, partaking of the sacrament in remembrance of the suffering of our Savior and his death, who was honest in the payment of his or her tithing, who divided with the Lord as perfectly as he would ask the Lord to divide with them if they were making up an account, who has kept the Word of Wisdom — I have never known of such a person to lose his or her faith." This is indeed a marvelous measuring tape. 

There are many things, I am sure, that have come into your minds and into my mind this day, as we have been confronted, not only with the great things that have been said, but the realities of these things and the sincerity in which they have been called to our attention. Indeed we have been made to feel the divine and powerful leadership of our President and of the Authorities of the Church. It seems to me therefore, my dear brethren and sisters, that the obligation resting upon you and me, as Latter-day Saints, should carry the spirit of humility to seek our Heavenly Father for his sustaining power, that we might be able to retain this testimony concerning the divinity of this work, and uphold and sustain those who are placed in authority over us. They are men of God. 

I desire to bear my testimony concerning the divinity of this work. I know, as I know that I breathe the breath of life, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was the instrumentality through which God operated in bringing to pass the restoration of the saving graces of the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

I am grateful beyond words for the great blessings that have come to me in the various calls that I have had, from time to time, in lifting my voice in the defense of this great work in many lands and in many climes. I am grateful now for the privilege I have in presiding over one of the temples of God, in witnessing the faith of the many people who come to officiate for their kindred dead, who feel the relationship that belongs to the Gospel of our Father in Heaven, to know of a surety that this is a reality, that our dead can be saved through our faithfulness in the discharge of that obligation by officiating for them. 

May God bless us with the spirit of appreciation. May we be humble and prayerful. May we find ourselves always in full fellowship and harmony, exercising that consideration, that kindness, the spirit of the Gospel toward all with whom we associate and come in contact, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

An anthem, "Praise to the Lord" (Christensen) was sung by the Choir. 

Elder James Brown, Jr., President of the Woodruff Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock a. m. Monday, April 5. 


