Morning
06 04 1937

THIRD DAY MORNING MEETING 

Conference reconvened promptly at 10 o'clock a. m., Tuesday, April The Relief Society Singing Mothers furnished the musical numbers for this session. The first selection by the Singing Mothers was "How lovely are Thy Dwellings." 

Elder Stephen H. Winter, President of the San Francisco Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Singing Mothers then sang an anthem, "Crossing the Bar." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church as follows, all of whom were unanimously sustained: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G .Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Rufus K. Hardy 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

OTHER OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Franklin S. Harris 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L Richards Franklin L. West Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams John F. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; D. Sterling Wheelwright, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner ' 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

ELDER MELV1N J. BALLARD 87 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent (We will ask Brother Morris to select his assistants later) with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, First Assistant Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH REVIEWED 

This Church has had an interesting past. It will have a more interesting future. It has ever had outstanding objectives, that have focused the attention of the Church as we have gone forward, step by step, in unfolding the plan and purpose of the Lord in the establishment of this, his glorious work, to be triumphant in the last days. We glory in those achievements of the past. We have reason to be grateful to the Lord for the faithfulness and devotion of our fathers and mothers. We have been through days of trial and of struggle, of migration and immigration; crossing the plains; and colonization work. We have passed through days of misunderstanding when the voice of villainy and slander has had its day. We have seen bonds and imprisonment and even martyrdom. But a new day has dawned for the Church, a day of understanding and a day of demonstration. This day comes at a time when the world needs the very things that the Church is undertaking to accomplish as an example to them. It comes at a time when Christianity is having its most serious struggle, at least in these modern days, by reason of the difficulty churches are having to hold their membership, wherein, we have learned at this Conference, entire nations have turned away from Christianity. Some have said that the world has waited nineteen hundred years for Christianity to reach the zenith of its power, and then it is found helpless to save the world from its greatest catastrophe, and there is a disposition to look for something else. 

Spain's sad condition 

I confess to you that it is a sad picture to see what is happening in Spain today. Spain was, for nearly a thousand years, the mightiest strength of the Roman Catholic Church, in maintaining itself, and it was by the might and power of Spanish soldiers that this church was able to establish itself in nearly all of Latin America; and to see this great nation turning against that church, crucifying priests upon the crosses within their own sacred structures, driving priests and nuns from the country, and raiding the treasury. These men who are the descendants of many generations of that kind of Christianity are engaging in one of the crudest wars that ever has been waged among any people in the destruction of each other. If these are the fruits of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, no wonder the world is losing faith. 

VITALITY IN CHURCH OF CHRIST 

There are many today who are agreeing with what the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith more than a hundred years ago, concerning the brand of Christianity that was in the world then. "They had the form of godliness but they lacked the power thereof." Our Church, I say, comes to the attention of the world, when the world is willing to listen, and is far more concerned in the actual demonstration than in any of our proclamations of theories. For, after all, you can never judge the merit of any plan until you see it in actual operation in the lives of those who believe it. 

This Church has survived all this opposition and stands today making its greatest progress, outranking other churches so far as its percentage of growth and increase is concerned, showing a vitality no other church has equalled so far as I know. No other church in this land has been engaged in building churches as this Church has been during the past few years. It is attracting the attention of the people of the world. But there is something here that is vital, something that holds men in times of trial, supports them in the face of mobs, sustains them in pilgrimages across the plains, keeps them loyal under all these circumstances and now, in the day of prosperity, can still hold its membership. 

My soul rejoices, therefore, in the great undertaking which the Church has set for itself, to demonstrate that the plan of our Father in Heaven is capable of meeting and solving economic problems of the poor and the unfortunate by the vigorous application of those principles which the Lord revealed to the Church in the very beginning. 

When I think of the difficulties in the world to amalgamate people into a brotherhood, I realize we have reached a time when we are about as far away from brotherhood as the world has been in a long time, because each nation is thinking only of itself and within each nation are groups  are affiliated for selfish interests. How difficult it was in the days of Christ to amalgamate the Jew and the Gentile, and yet it was the prayer, one of the last prayers of the Master when he said, as he prayed, that they all, his disciples, "may be one as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee, that they may also be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me." 

BROTHERHOOD IN THE CHURCH 

It was the plan and purpose of the Christ and his Church to make men brothers, no matter what their nationality, to bring them into a brotherhood and a fraternity. I rejoice when I see what has happened in this Church in the gathering of the people from all nations, even as the old Prophets saw them come — one of a city and two of a family, and from every nation — to the "mountain of the Lord's house," to here be amalgamated into a brotherhood the like of which has never been witnessed in the history of this world before, among the peoples of Europe and America, save it was in the days of the Nephites, when they too had a brotherhood for a long period of time. But here we are assembled in this house, English, Irish, Danish, Scotch, all nationalities, into a brotherhood. I am sure that it is the purpose of the Church tjf Christ to create such a brotherhood. 

I read in the Doctrine and Covenants these words from one of the revelations, section 38, verses 24 to 27 : 

Let every man esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me. 

And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself. 

For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other : Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there — and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just? 

Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine. 

Thank the Lord that we are moving toward that glorious picture wherein brotherhood is accentuated. The revelation of the Lord does not indicate that he has taken up either the side of the rich or the poor, and certainly he is opposed to selfishness and to class distinctions and to groups interested only in themselves. Let me read, from the fifty-sixth section, what the Lord has to say concerning both groups : 

Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation : The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! 

But on the other hand: 

Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands! 

But blessed are the poor who are pure in heart, I am sure that in perfect harmony with this revelation I could add "and blessed are the rich, too, who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, whose spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their great deliverance." 

OBLIGATION UPON RICH AND POOR 

This indicates an obligation upon both groups toward each other, the rich and the poor. While the Lord provided an abundance for the needs of his sons and daughters when he created the earth, nevertheless he knew that some would be more frugal and saving and wiser in their accumulation of the things of this world, and others would be careless and indifferent and would soon come to want. There seems to be something essential in the Lord's plan to preserve human life, and that even though some may be careless and not frugal and saving, they too shall have food and shelter and clothing. 

You will find the following recorded in the Book of Mormon, Mosiah fourth chapter and seventeenth to nineteenth verses. 

Perhaps thou shalt say: The man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just. 

But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God. 

 For, behold, are we not all beggars ? Do we not all depend upon this same Being, even God, for all the substance which we have, for both food and raiment, and for gold, and for silver, and for all the riches which we have of every kind? 

That is in harmony with another scripture that says it is far better to feed nine unworthy ones than to allow one to go hungry and in want. 

The Lord has therefore set up a plan by which those who have may give to the assistance of those who have not. In the 104th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which we have quoted often during the last year, as we have visited you in the stakes of Zion, we read: 

Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he_ shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment. 

The Lord's provision is not to take from a fellowman that which he possesses, against his will, but with his whole heart and in the spirit of love for his brother he gives his tithes and his offerings that there may be sufficient to care for the unfortunate, for the needy and for those in distress. 

LOYALTY WILL BRING SUCCESS 

The way the Church has responded to the appeals that have been made has filled my heart with joy. It is wonderful what has been accomplished. Yet not all of us have participated, and we can go farther  we have gone. I am sure that if we shall go forth with a resolve that we can reach a minimum of one dollar per capita with Fast Offerings, it is possible for every stake and every ward to achieve this. Do not, however, regard it as a maximum amount. That is the standard for the poorest families in the Church, a dollar per capita. It should rise from that according to the standard of the living of the membership of the Church. Oh, that every man in this Church would pay his honest tithing; what we could do! Thank the Lord we have loyal men that are doing this. God touch the hearts of those who haven't the vision yet to see how important it is for them to make their contribution, thus establishing right and claim for an eternal inheritance for themselves in the kingdom of God, paying their rent to the Lord, their honest debt to him, and providing the means sufficient to care for the unfortunate and the needy, and supporting great movements of the Church. 

We must keep our eye upon these grand objectives. As the brethren have said, the Church has never set its hand to undertake anything more important than the attempt to solve this great problem. Now we have selfish interests to combat. I am sure in the world there is a spirit that would array group against group, class against class, but it must not find its place in this Church. 

ADVICE TO THE POOR 

You poor brethren, what shall you do ? You must make your contribution. You must not become greedy, nor filled with complaint, nor as the Lord said, having your eyes full of greediness and refusing to labor, you stand as condemned before the Lord as the rich who will not give to your help if you exhibit that spirit of selfishness, and covetousness, and of idleness. You must make your contribution so that you too may get that spirit of brotherhood and not have in your hearts hatred toward those who are well to do. The spirit that is rampant in our country must not find its way into the hearts of Latter-day Saints and get themselves filled with such a venom toward wealth and toward large interests that they engage in the unlawful practices that are so common elsewhere. Latter-day Saints should be distinguished as men that obey and honor and respect the law. I am sure that so far as the masses of the people are concerned, the world never had such blessings and advantages. Let me call your attention to the fact that, so far as the masses are concerned, we are all of us in a more fortunate condition than the world has ever known. It is true that in this age of science and invention wealth can be accumulated faster today than ever before in the history of this world. Originally it was secured by the enslaving of human labor, and the profit went to the master and lord who supervised his people in the state of semi-slavery. We have no longer in the industrial world the slavery of men, but machinery that takes the place of men and makes it possible for wealth to be accumulated, I say, faster than at any period in the history of the world, but let us not f e,el because we have not all become millionaires that we are a group discredited and that we are not getting our fair deal. BLESSINGS COMMONLY ENJOYED 

I remember as a boy there were three men in Logan who possessed a surrey, a team and a man to drive the outfit, and when they turned out we looked with almost envious eyes upon it and longed that we might have such a display of joy and satisfaction to travel about as these our fortunate brethren. When I go to Cache Valley today I find ninety percent of all the farmers and brethren in Cache Valley owning an automobile that cost more than that team and surrey. That is the blessing that has come to the common people that once only the rich knew. 

In 1900 not one family in one hundred owned a horse and a buggy. Today three out of four have cars. One family in thirteen had a telephone. Now one family in two have telephones, and that is only thirtyseven years ago. Modern plumbing and central heating were luxuries. Less than five hundred thousand homes had electricity in 1900. Radio and electrical refrigeration were unknown. Today twenty-one million homes are wired for electricity. Seven million families own electric refrigerators; twenty-two million have radios; blessings that kings did not know anything about. So we are all of us participants in the greater blessings that have come, and if we have not become wealthy and independent and ready to go onto easy street, we are enjoying blessings beyond any generation that has ever lived. 

Now then, brethren and sisters, let the spirit that was in our fathers, that prompted them to make sacrifice, also inspire us to help our brother and our sister. 

EPISODE FROM FATHER'S JOURNAL 

I was reading my father's journal recently and an early episode mentioned was his response to a call from President Young. My father was a bishop in Cache Valley when a call came for volunteers to go down to the Missouri River. There were five hundred eighty souls stranded and unable to come to the valleys of the mountains and somebody had to go and help them. My father writes, "I did not have the heart to call for the six men allotted to my ward, unless I responded first." So he became the first volunteer; left his farm in the care of his brethren, took his two ox teams, drove down to the Missouri river, assisted in bringing the five hundred eighty, and paid his own way; never received a dollar for it, though it required six months to accomplish it. The joy that he had in having done something for some of his unfortunate brethren and sisters was pay enough. From those five hundred eighty, countless thousands have come to own their own homes, to live in these valleys and enjoy the benefits of this wonderful land and privileges within the Church. Let that spirit, therefore, be in the hearts of all of our brethren and sisters today, the spirit of brotherhood. 

TROUBLE IN NATIONS OF WORLD 

My brethren and sisters, I am also exceedingly anxious that the Latter-day Saints shall not only distinguish themselves in this spirit of , that we love our brethren, but that we love them sufficiently to save them from humiliation and from sorrow and distress that will come unless we assist them in the solution of their economic problems. I am also anxious that we shall distinguish ourselves in a time when the whole world seems to be running wild with a spirit of change. When the war' had ended, many of us rejoiced to see nation after nation abandon monarchial forms of government and establish democracies, and, we thought, this is truly the beginning of the golden age for the world. Then we discovered with sorrow that there was much lacking to prepare the nations, that had been for ages under kings and monarchies, to be ready for a democracy. They could not stand the trial of poverty and distress, and capitalizing upon the people's distresses there arose leaders that overthrew these democracies and they established dictatorships that will not bring this world to its peace, nor will they liberate these people but will enslave them, and they will never go forward under the plan of either communism or fascism that robs men of their liberties, of their property and political rights. 

America's destiny 

My brethren and sisters, as we see them, therefore abandoning these democracies the whole attention of the world is focused upon the great democracy of the world, America. Shall it stand; shall it survive ? Yes, because the Lord God of Heaven has established it. I am not afraid of outside enemies. All the perils that threaten this country shall be from within. There shall never come any disaster nor distress that shall destroy America from the outside, if the peoples of this land shall rally to the standards established by our fathers, and maintain the stability of the Constitution and the law, and the order established in this land wherein our fathers long ago agreed that the will of the majority expressed in laws shall be obeyed by the minority. 

God help us as Latter-day Saints to be found still standing by these standards and loyally supporting the law and order and the great democracy established here, that it may live for the blessing of all flesh, as the Lord has decreed it; for after days of sorrow and trial and dictatorships, the world will be prepared, by and by, for the fruits and the blessings of the democracy that shall survive in America. 

THE KINGDOM OF GOD TO BE ESTABLISHED 

Yes, I agree that there are troublesome times, days of sorrow and distress ahead of the world, and that the devil is in the world grasping to maintain his power, yet the Lord God of Heaven has established his kingdom, and he is in the world with it, and it shall be triumphant and victorious. The Lord help us to adhere to these glorious principles, and we shall fulfil the prophecies of old wherein they declare that the ends of the world, the east and the west and the north and the south shall say, "Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." Zion arise and shine. Thy day hath come. 

God help us to prove to -a world that is doubtfuland skeptical about the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that in the real Gospel, restored with its power and its authority, there is a virility and strength sufficient to meet and to solve human problems, and let us go gloriously toward our destiny, as the Lord hath pointed it out, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ABEL S. RICH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

It is indeed a pleasure to join the Latter-day Saints in this great Conference again. I have been inspired by the beautiful music and by the clarity with which the principles of the Gospel have been presented to us by our President, and by the General Authorities of the Church. 

I am happy to see the feeling of friendship and social fraternity that exists among our Latter-day Saints. I think its equal cannot be found in any other group in the world. It is based on what Jesus called a mark of a true disciple, when in speaking to his Apostles he said: 

By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. 

You faithful Latter-day Saints in the stakes of Zion are preaching the Gospel beautifully to the world. The broadcasts from this historic building and organ, the fine sermonettes that come from Brother Evans, your work on the Social Security Program, have reached people in Eastern Canada and touched their hearts, who have never heretofore found interest in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

This letter came to me this morning. It was directed to the Temple grounds here, and forwarded to me by Brother Peery. It suggests what some of these things are doing in the world. The letter is from a young college student, who takes her Bachelor's degree this spring from the Farmington Normal State School of Maine, and says, in part: 

I saw the March of Time the other night, telling how you have been meeting the economic difficulties there. I was fascinated with it. Living here in the east, I have never contacted real historical information concerning the Mormons, and now I would like very much to know something of their history. 

On my recent tour of the mission, when I reached St. John, New Brunswick, a city where we had been unable to make many contacts or get much favorable newspaper work done, a reporter called and asked me if I had anything that would interest the people of St. John, after he has asked me what my mission was. I told him that I felt that I did have something that would interest the people of St. John, and would be glad to give it to him if he would come to my room. He came and I gave him some of the facts about the Social Security Program, something of the way it had worked out. Then he said : "That sounds like a fairy ." When I assured him that it was the truth he said : "It is wonderful. I have not heard anything like it. But," he said, "how do you get your people to do those things ?" I was pleased to tell him that the secret of the response lay in the fact that the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints look upon their President as a prophet of God, who speaks the will of God to his people. 

The same spirit of friendliness and love so manifest in the gathering of the Latter-day Saints here is found in the branches of the Church in the world, which indicates that the secret lies, not in people or in their place of residence, but in the principles of the restored Gospel. This knowledge gives zest to missionary work : to realize fully that the message of the Gospel gives purpose to life, and enthusiasm for living, an interest in the welfare of other people, resulting in the growth and happiness of the individual, gives courage to the missionary to carry on even under many discouragements. 

The missionaries throughout our mission are well, and are a happy group, thoroughly enjoying their work. They are fine examples of what the Gospel does for people. Their buoyant happiness, their courage and kindly interest in the welfare of the people teach well the fruits of Mormonism. You parents are to be congratulated on the home training of these fine young men and women. 

It is my opinion that none of our fine institutions can take the place of the home in training young people in the formation of ideals and correct attitudes. If missionaries come into the field with the right attitude and ideals, and if they have been taught the value of unselfish service, and have grown up in a home where reverence has been shown for the Gospel, and where its principles have been practiced, they have that which makes them successful missionaries. 

If they can have added to these fine essentials some definite knowledge of the Gospel principles, they are so much better equipped for their work. Many come to us knowing but little of the Gospel, and little of the art of meeting people. I have sometimes wondered if in our homes, as Latter-day Saints, we could not do more by way of teaching the Gospel to these young people, that they might come to this important work just a little better prepared. 

Missionaries who have some definite training in music, public speaking and reading, have opportunities to meet clubs and social groups, that help very materially in getting our message before people in such fashion that they will listen. 

On reaching the mission field the missionary is thrown largely on his own resourcefulness and initiative. This causes him to study with a definite purpose, and creates in him a humility and a dependence upon God, that accounts largely for the marvelous growth that he makes during the mission period. 

These lines from Ella Wheeler Wilcox well characterize, I think, the life of the missionary, wherein she says: Lean on thyself until thy strength is tried, Then ask God's help, it will not be denied. Use thine own sight to see the way to go; When darkness falls ask God the path to show. Think for thyself and reason out thy plan; God has his work, and thou hast thine. Exert thy will and use self-control God gave thee jurisdiction of thy soul. All thy immortal powers bring into play; Think, act, strive, look up and pray. 

No matter what our station in life, the blessings of the Gospel are dependent upon our individual response to it. Its blessings and promises and requirements have remained much the same throughout the ages, and the joy and happiness based on its principles have been enjoyed only by those who have made the Gospel a living, active part of their daily lives. 

Speaking through 'the writer of the book of Revelation, the Master commended the Saints for much of their fine living, and then he made these promises to the seven churches, and I believe they have eternal values : 

To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God, and . . . He shall not be hurt of the second death. 

And he that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations, and he shall rule them. . . . 

He that overcometh the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels 

Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, 

and then finally he concludes by saying: 

I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed . . . and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see. 

The present condition of the world indicates that the Latter-day Saints should see the necessity of the possession of this gold that has been tried in the fire, and of this salve with which to anoint our eyes. Within the Gospel principles is found the gold that has been tried in the fire, and in the inspiration of our leadership and the authority of the Priesthood and the blessings of the Holy Ghost is this salve with which to anoint our eyes, that we may see, and seeing, find the way to peace, security and happiness. 

I am happy in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. My testimony and love for it grow as, I see its influence on people. 

May the Lord bless our leaders and us, that each of us may do fully our part of this great work, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers and the congregation sang the hymn, "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire." 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the Eirst Council of the Seventy 

Recently I had the pleasure of visiting the Texas Mission. President Peterson was ill and has since been released to return home. It is regrettable that it becomes necessary every once in a while to release missionaries on account of the condition of their health. 

President and Sister Peterson have certainly done excellent work in the Texas Mission. They have the love and confidence of the Saints and the missionaries. The Saints have been greatly blessed by the Lord in having such fine people to preside over them. 

There were two things that interested me particularly while in the mission field. The first was the integrity and the good spirit manifested by the Saints in trying to do what they could in preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They are interested in having the message go to other people, and they give of their time, and their energy, and their money, in order that they may be helpful in the progress of the Lord's work here upon the earth. 

In one field I found a man, formerly from Wyoming, who, in order to go to Sunday School, found it necessary to travel thirty miles each way. He got into his car with his family, and as they proceeded up the valley they picked up other members of the Church and drove thirty miles in order to worship the Lord on the Sabbath day . 

I not only had the privilege of attending the district conferences, but I had the opportunity of visiting in some of the very small towns where the missionaries have been sent to labor, and where they had found some investigators, and where a few Saints live. 

In going to one of these very small places the presiding Elder of that district asked me if I would accept an invitation to eat in the hqme of one of the Saints. I told him I would be very delighted to visit among the people. He said, "Well, Brother Taylor, I would like to say this, before you accept the invitation, the place where you are going is a very humble home, and they haven't been blessed with all of the comforts that other people have been blessed with." I told him I would like to go and would be delighted to visit with them. 

When I went to this home it was indeed a very humble place, with but few of the usual comforts that men and women are entitled to. When I went into the house I found that one of the men was very much interested in carrying the message of the Gospel to other people and had a supply of tracts. He would go out in the day time and perform his usual labor, and then at night he would go out and leave tracts and do regular missionary work among the people. 

When we sat down to a meal, it was very humble, but good. The table was small, and it was necessary for some of the family to stand up. Because I was visiting among them they went out and purchased a few cup cakes. I am doubtful whether they had had cup cakes in the house for a long time. In the course of our conversation, this good man who was doing so much for the Church, and loved those who had been appointed to preside in certain places in the Church, said that tomorrow he and his brother expected to lose their jobs, and yet he was entertaining me as one of the servants of the Lord, and also going out day and night in order to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. As I traveled among the people I found the same spirit, a spirit of sacrifice and of helpfulness. 

The other thing that came to my attention was the attitude of the people toward the Gospel of Jesus Christ, or toward Christianity in general. They still have the same opinions that they had in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that as long as they have a desire to worship the Lord and are doing the best they can, eventually the Lord will take care of them when they get on the other side. So to them the Gospel only means doing some of the finer things that men and women should do, and somehow they just cannot understand that in religion there must be a certain way of worshiping God the Eternal Father, a right way, a correct way. 

It seems to me that in this enlightened age when perhaps we think better and reason better, the people of the world ought to be able to understand that if there is a right way of doing everything else on the earth, that there could only be one right way of worshiping God. 

You remember when Joseph Smith, as a boy, had been to church and had gone home to reason things out for himself, that even he, as a young boy, could see and understand that there must be a certain way of worshiping God. In his reasoning he said : "I will go and ask the Lord which of all the churches is right." He also said: "Or are they all wrong together?" He could see that there must be a right way, a true church on the earth, or else perhaps that all the churches might be wrong. 

If the Prophet Joseph Smith, as a boy, could reason that way, it seems to me that other men and women, with the intelligence and development that they have, ought to be able to understand that God also has a correct way of worshiping Him. If they think they can find this way by reading the Bible, they will be disappointed because the Bible isn't complete enough for anyone to find the correct way. There are too many things in the Bible that are not plain and will not explain the way of the Lord in its fulness. 

When the Lord spoke to Joseph Smith, He did not send him to the Bible and say: "Organize my Church and develop it, and use the Bible for your standard." That was not sufficient. Joseph Smith could not have done it, because the holy scriptures, as we have them today, are not sufficiently clear in many details. So the Lord gave Joseph Smith the Book of Mormon, the Pearl of Great Price, and the Doctrine and Covenants, in order to avoid the confusion that had resulted from men trying to organize a church with only the Bible as their guide. 

Even in our day, with the four standard works of the Church, we are not successful in our worship of the Lord, without our prophets, seers and revelators to receive inspiration and revelation from God day  day, in order that we may constantly know the Lord's mind and will concerning us. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help us to appreciate the Gospel and the fine things that have come to us, that we may serve him in spirit and in truth, I pray, in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER HAROLD W. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

My very dear brethren and sisters, I deeply and sincerely appreciate the opportunity of mingling with you in this great Conference. I believe that perhaps I appreciate it more greatly due to the fact that after having been here continuously for three years or two years and a half, I was unable to attend the last Conference, and thus I come this morning to this Conference with a renewed interest, having realized what it means to be absent. 

I sincerely and humbly pray, this morning, for an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be guided in what few words I say and what little time I occupy, to say something that will be of benefit to all of you, and that will help us, as members of this great Church, to more fully discharge our responsibilities to the world. 

Sister Pratt and I are greatly enjoying our labors in Mexico, for since the division of the mission in July of last year we have moved our headquarters to Mexico City, and we are greatly enjoying our labors there. There is just one point of regret, and that is that this move prohibits us from enjoying the association of the great number of the youth of Zion who came and labored with us in the border states, among the Mexican people; for in Mexico we are not permitted to bring missionaries from the stakes of Zion, and our few missionaries are made up of young people from the Juarez Stake and from the membership of the mission itself. We feel thus that we are deprived of a great pleasure in association with a cross section of the youth of Zion coming from the different stakes. 

We have been told during this Conference, my brethren and sisters, of the picture that seems to be forecast as to conditions in the world and what is about to happen. This is a rather gloomy picture. Perhaps we who are in foreign missions — I might say especially in Mexico, where the connection with Spain at the present time brings the battlefield so very close — see and realize the possibilities of the development of this gloomy chaotic picture that has been painted for us. We realize that it can, with very great difficulty, be averted. The world seems bound headlong for a chaotic, dark state of night, where darkness and confusion indeed will, as they in fact do today, cover the nations of the earth. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that we, the Latter-day Saints, have a great responsibility in this time of , darkness and confusion, a responsibility that was given to us in a direct charge by our Master two thousand years ago, in which he said : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Ye are the salt of the earth : but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted ? * * * 

Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. 

Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. 

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. 

It has been pointed out to us during this Conference that we have, indeed, that which will guide the world in the solution of its problems today, and as you cast about over the world you will find nowhere else this light that can lead the world in the solution of its problems. Only through our living in accordance with the principles of the Gospel, and letting our light so shine that men see our good works, can we be a light to the world and help them through this hour of darkness. 

I should like each of you to imagine a great chandelier with hundreds of thousands of small globes, with a rather intricate, yet, when understood, simple design, through which each of those globes is connected with the main wire which brings the current from the powerhouse, to supply the power for the lighting of those globes. Compare this, in your minds, to the organization of the Church. Our Father in heaven, the power house, is supplying the power coming to us through the medium of his Son Jesus Christ, transmitting it to their representative here upon the earth, our prophet, seer and revelator; through him disseminated to the General Authorities; from them to our stake presidents; from the stake presidents to our bishops, or in the missions to the mission presidents and to the branch presidents; through them to the different auxiliary heads in the wards and to the block teachers. Thus each of us, every member of this Church, if we are in harmony with this organization, may connect our lamp to the source of power, and gain that strength and that current which will make our light so shine that men, seeing our good works, will come to glorify our Father which is in heaven. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that we are indeed connected with the source of divine power, that will guide us in these days of confusion; and that if we do keep ourselves connected to this organization we will each be a light that will shine in our own corner, and will guide men in their struggle during these troublous times. 

But if any of us fail to uphold our immediate superiors, if we criticise our local officers, if we become out of harmony with them, then we shall be cut off from the source of power, and will not shine; in fact, we will be left in darkness. 

It has been my sad experience, during the past year, since I last met with you here, to see a group of Saints sever their connection with the source of divine power, and to see their lights go out and to see them left in darkness; and others, who were depending upon them for the light, to lose their way and wander in the wilderness of confusion and ignorance. These men did not criticise President Grant. They maintained that they accepted and upheld the General Authorities of the Church. But they did not like their district president, and they criticised 101  mission president, and they continued on until they refused to accept and uphold and sustain those who were placed over them in that locality, and today, as I say, they are left in darkness, to wander in the wilderness of apostasy. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we, as members of the Church, will sustain and uphold, support and magnify each and every officer in the Church — the General Authorities, beginning with President Grant, his counselors, the quorum of the Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric, the general boards of the auxiliary organizations, our stake organizations, our ward organizations — that each of us may indeed keep himself connected to that source of divine power that will permit our light so to shine that men, seeing our good works, will come to glorify our Father which is in heaven, and will find the solution, through us, of the problems that face the world today. 

I pray the blessings of our heavenly Father to be with you, to be with all of us in the discharge of our respective responsibilities in this great plan, and I do so in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER REUBEN M. WIBERG 

Former President of the Tongan Mission 

If it were possible to get a group such as this one together in the Tongan Islands, one could say that he was speaking to nearly fifty per cent, of the population. From that you will readily understand that Tonga is only a mere spot in the South Seas. One writer, having visited that place, put it in words something like this : 

Have you heard of Tonga, 

That lone Pacific realm 

Where a queen rules in splendor, 

By Great Britain's saving grace, 

Where parliament meets biennially only, 

And then just meets to eat? 

It is quite a lengthy little poem, if you would call it that. He pictures some of the things that were nevertheless true, but are not true at the present time. 

Though it is a very small and perhaps insignificant kingdom, even in the legislative set-up and the government, there are many virtues that I feel are worthy of mention. 

We are inaugurating a Church Security Program here in our Church, and we have already heard in this Conference of comment that has come from people outside of the United States, and from prominent men of our country, who are not of our faith, who- feel that it is a wonderful thing. 

In a smaller sense, perhaps, there is something very remarkable about the kingdom of Tonga and its government. All of the land is owned by the government. When a young man becomes of the age of sixteen he may register at the Minister of Lands office and receive a porGENERAL CONFERENCE  of land sufficient for his maintenance, even if he has a large family, and most of them do. 

Whether or not a person registers for land at that age, he becomes taxable, and every person is taxed alike. He may accept that offer of a portion of land sufficient for his keep, or he may not. Fortunate for the one who accepts it, because if he is in any mood at all to be aggressive he can take care of that and much more, and also go into other activities as much as he will. 

I am very happy and pleased with this opportunity, my brethren and sisters. I didn't think the call would come a second time. It has been a year, nearly, since I returned, and I was not in attendance when my name was called in the October Conference. 

I would like to say this to the brethren and sisters here assembled, respecting the people of Tonga — perhaps on your maps you will more readily find this little kingdom under the name of the Friendly Islands — when our boys, your sons, go to that field to labor they are among a class of the most friendly people, I believe, that I have ever met. I think to a great extent the people there are friendly, having overcome their prejudice of years past when the work was in its beginning. One would be impressed, almost immediately, with the friendliness of that people. The missionaries are taken in, even by those who are not of the Faith, and even by those who are under restraint by their religious leaders and advised not to accept literature or to tolerate the visit of a Mormon Elder, but invariably they make the Elders feel welcome. 

During my brief mission there, presiding over that kingdom, as far as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is concerned, I made a request and the response was almost immediate, and equipment was sent there for a visual means of teaching the Gospel, although we don't have much electricity in that country, other than that which can be obtained from a car battery or some other kind of battery. We rigged up and managed to produce little films to show those people some of the things that they may never have the opportunity of seeing here at home, and also many things that go to prove the divinity of the Book of Mormon. Although that book is not in print and has not been published in that language, they are very familiar with it, because it seems even with that handicap the Elders avail themselves of every opportunity to teach the contents of that wonderful book. They hope some time, though they are very few in number and the cost would be great to publish that book, that they may be enabled to assist in bringing it forth in printed form. 

It was also my privilege to labor in that mission at a time when missionaries were very scarce, in fact, so scarce at one time that I was the only Elder upon the mainland, and there was one Elder in one district of that mission 260 miles away. We communicated by mail, which is anything but speedy in that part of the world. 

During that period it became necessary, as you will understand, to call local people into responsible positions to carry on and officiate in the work of the Lord. During that period we had twenty-two branch presidents, all of them local men. We had three district presidents, all 103  them local men. We had officers and teachers in all of the auxiliary organizations, who were local men and women. 

During that period I believe that a keener sense of responsibility was felt among the Priesthood of that mission than ever before. In fact, when I went into the mission there were a number of branch presidents who thought their only responsibility was to conduct the meetings. They couldn't tell you how many members they had in the branch where they were, or very much about them. They did report that they had held a sacramental meeting at such and such a time, regularly every Sunday, and that was about all. 

Many of those men developed a sense of responsibility in a short time, where they felt that they were actually the father of that little branch, and they paid regular visits to their members especially those who were delinquent, and the work developed and prospered under their leadership. 

President Dunn, who has succeeded me, was a former companion upon my first mission in that nation. I almost knew that he would be my successor, when I went into the field, and he felt the same, according to our correspondence while we were separated, he on this side and I on the other side. It was one of the most pleasant days of my life to meet Brother Dunn and welcome him into the Tongan Mission, for I know his worth and his ability as a leader among that class of people, whom he loves and whom I love. I believe that every missionary who goes there, unless something is wrong with the missionary, learns to love those people. 

A great deal could be said about that fine mission, even though it is the smallest we have, but I feel, my brethren and sisters, that perhaps for the one minute that I have left I would like to speak primarily of the feeling of the Latter-day Saints there toward the people at home, the families of the missionaries, and the General Authorities of the Church. 

It is not an infrequent thing, in our little district conferences and in our mission conferences, especially when an elder is leaving, that many of the officers of the branches, the Relief Society sisters and others, will come to the missionary and ask him to convey their heartfelt appreciation to the Presidency of the Church, to the Twelve Apostles, and to the presidents of the organizations, for through the organizations and through correspondence and advice that come from the General Authorities, conveyed to them through the mission president and agencies there, they feel that they are just as close, I believe, as the people in the Western States Mission or in any other mission of the Church here at home. 

They are eager to know all of the advances and all of the plans that are made by the Church. They have always been found to be willing to work in harmony, sustaining the General Authorities of the Church and their desires. 

I pray that the Lord may be and abide continuously with those people in the South Seas, and that the work may grow and progress. It is a comparatively new mission, having been organized in 1917, and a GENERAL CONFERENCE  years after its organization, by legislative act, a law was passed forbidding Mormon Elders to enter that kingdom — not only Mormon Elders, but any Mormons — and under that handicap, for a period of two years we labored without missionaries coming into the field. 

At the time of my departure from that mission in 1925, there were only the Mission President and his wife left, with one district president and one missionary to preside over each of the other two districts. Fortunately, en route to American Samoa, Pago Pago, I met the first incoming missionary. 

In 1924, almost by means that were uncanny, that legislative act was repealed, and Mormons again were granted the liberty to come in. They are glad now to have the Elders come in, I assure you, and they give us every opportunity that we request. Of course there is that element that inasmuch as the Queen herself is the head of the Church, there is somewhat of a feeling of restraint from that source, but it is very little heeded by the general population of the country. 

My time has expired. I pray God to bless us, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Thirty-seven years ago this day I was sitting upon the bench to my right. President Snow sent to me a note, and all that was on it was : "I want to see you at 'my office at the close of these services." I had no more idea, my brethren and sisters, what President Snow wished of me, than I have at this moment how long I shall live. 

I went immediately, at the close of the meeting, to his office, and as I entered the door most of the members of the Twelve were in the room, and President Snow told me I had been chosen to be one of the quorum of Twelve. I had had no previous intimation, so it was a complete surprise. 

HEARINGS IN SMOOT CASE 

It was just a short time after — two years, I may say — that I was elected to the Senate of the United States. There is hardly anybody in this audience, or, I was going to say, in the United States, but what can remember, if they were of age at that time, what took place. The charges that were made against me have been published so often, and I am quite sure that every one here knows what they were. I shall not take the time to read them. 

Last night I picked up the first volume, (one out of five large volumes), containing the hearings in what was known as the Reed Smoot case. All the powers of the churches of this nation used every effort and all the influence that they could bring to bear upon the senators of the United States, to have them vote for my expulsion from the Senate. 105 

SENATOR BEVERIDGE'S INTEREST 

Albert J. Beveridge, a member of the Committee on Privileges and Elections, met me often, asking me every conceivable question as to the beliefs, the aims and the objects of the Mormon people, what oaths we had taken, and everything connected particularly with what is termed in the world the "Hierarchy." 

I read last night, out of Volume I of those hearings, many of the questions which were asked President Joseph F. Smith, Apostle Lyman, and others who were called there to testify. I might add that in all those five volumes my name was mentioned very seldom. It was "the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

QUESTIONS ASKED OF MINISTERS 

Later, in the book, "The Young Man and the World," published by Senator Beveridge, are questions that were asked of many ministers of the United States, and I am going to call your attention to the questions that he submitted to not one but hundreds of ministers of the gospel. 

"The first question was: Yes or no, do you believe in God the Father; God a person, God a definite and tangible intelligence; not a congeries of laws floating like a fog through the universe; but God, a person in whose image you were made ? Don't argue; don't explain; but is your mind in a condition where you can answer 'Yes' or 'No' ?" 

Then he continues : "Not a man answered 'Yes.' " Each man wanted to explain that the Deity might be a definite intelligence or might not, as the case may be; that the latest thought was much confused on the matter, and so forth and so on. 

"The second question: Yes or no, do you believe that Christ was the Son of the living God, sent by him to save the world ? I am not asking whether you believe that he was inspired, in the sense that the great moral teachers are inspired. Nobody has any difficulty about that. But do you believe that Christ was God's very Son, with a divinely appointed and definite mission, dying on the cross, and raised from the dead ? Answer 'Yes' or 'No.' 

"Again, not a single answer with an unequivocal, earnest 'Yes,' but again explanations were offered. In at least half the instances, some or most of the answers were that Christ was the most perfect man that the world had seen, and humanity's greatest moral teacher. 

"The third question : 'Do you believe that when you die you will live again as a conscious intelligence, knowing who you are, and who other people are?' 

"Again, not one answer was unconditionally affirmative. 'Of course, they were not sure as a matter of knowledge.' 'Of course, that could not be known positively.' On the whole, they were inclined to think so, but there were very stubborn objections, and so forth and so on." 

"The men to whom these questions were put were particularly highgrade ministers. One of 'them had already won a distinguished reputaGENERAL CONFERENCE  in New York and the New England states for his eloquence and piety. Every one of them had had unusual successes with fashionable congregations. But every one of them had noted an absence of real influence upon the hearts of their hearers, and all thought that this same condition is spreading throughout the modern pulpit. Yet not one of them suspected that the profound cause of what they called the 'decay of faith' was not in the world of men and women, but in themselves. 

"How could such priests of ice warm the souls of men? How could such apostles of interrogation convert a world ?" 

WITNESSES IN THE SMOOT CASE 

The balance of the chapter is worthy of reading, but I haven't the time. This young man at the time was a very popular Senator of the United States, and as I read the hearings in my case, and his questions that were asked President Joseph F. Smith, when the latter was a witness before the Privileges and Elections Committee, I felt in my soul then, and you couldn't help it if any one of you were to read the proceedings, that what Senator Beveridge wanted to know was why and how the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held together so well, and why its members were willing to sacrifice so much of their time and their substance, and were willing to give their lives for the Church, if necessary, as shown by the testimonies given, and he felt in his soul that there was something greater than the thoughts of man; that there must be some power in the Church and that power was manifested in its representatives who testified in this case. 

It seemed rather hard at the time, my brethren and sisters, that so many of the leading men of the Church were dragged to Washington to testify but I get so much comfort out of the fact that though the Committee on Privileges and Elections had an idea that was anything but favorable to the Mormon people and the Authorities of the Church, I know, from the lips of the men constituting the Committee, that the result of the hearings and of the visit of the President of the Church and members of the quorum of the Twelve and many other leading men gave a complete answer to the false charges that had been made against the members of the Church for so many years. 

A STRONG TESTIMONY 

God never requires anything of this people — never has and never will — that he is not prepared to help them fulfil, and will overrule all things and defeat all enemies that stand in the way of the fulfilment of his purposes. 

A wonderful Church is ours! The power back of it is divine revelation. Church members are loyal to its institutions. It is not an organization for Sunday only. It enters into every-day life and never should be lost sight of in our dealings at home and abroad and in our association wherever we may be or go. 

I have never been ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I have 107  in all my life been placed in a position where I felt that it was necessary that I should violate any law, ordinance or commandment of God. I never expect to be. 

May God's blessings attend this people, his Church, and may his influence and power ever be with President Grant as long as he lives, and with the Authorities of the Church from the highest to the lowest, I pray, in the name 1 of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The musical numbers for this session of the Conference are being furnished by the Singing Mothers, Sister Charlotte O. Sackett, Conductor. 

We have a telegram from President M. Charles Wood of the New Zealand Mission in which he says the Saints and missionaries send Arohanui (great love) and greetings to assembled Saints in Zion. 

An anthem, "Lamb of God," was sung by the Singing Mothers, Margaret Summerhays, soloist. 

Elder Hyrum T. Moss, President of the Rigby Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


