Afternoon
01 06 1919

The Choir and congregation sang: "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Moses Taylor, president of the Summit stake of Zion. 

The choir sang: "Hope thou in 

God," ,solo by Edna Gothberg. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE. 31 

PRES. CHARLES W. PENROSE 

This is a splendid sight, especially to us who sit here on this platform, but the spectacle presented by our congregation this morning, if anything, was still grander because of the order of the seating and the kind of persons assembled, particularly on the lower floor of this building. 

THE SOLEMN ASSEMBLY. 

It was a unique congregation, what we call in this Church a "solemn assembly" of the holy priesthood, the several authorities of the Church being arranged to sit in their proper places, according to their relationship to each other, in this splendid organization which the Lord has established on the earth, and of the spirit and power attending the congregation, and especially the speakers. No such a scene as that we beheld this morning could be seen in any of the congregations of the various churches in the world, Christian, or heathen, or pagan. 

It is something peculiar to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and this order of priesthood, as exhibited here this morning in our meeting, is not of man's formation. It is divine and bears the stamp of divinity upon it in its order and in the relationship that exists between these different bodies of the priesthood, all animated by one spirit. Truly we can say, as the apostles of old said : We have one Lord, and one faith and one baptism," and one hope of our calling. "And God hath set in the Church first apostles, secondly prophets, after that helps and governments, and miracles and signs and gifts and blessings and the various authorities, all for the work of the ministry, for the perfecting of the Saints, and for the edifying of the body of Christ, until we all come in unity of the faith to the knowledge of the Son of God," that we may "grow up unto him who is our living head" in all things. I thank God with all my soul today for this glorious privilege of being present and of being associated with the body of men .who by uplifted hand recognized the authorities of the Church and voted, without a dissenting sign or manifestation of any kind, to sustain them, being of one heart and one mind and led by one spirit. This is not the first occasion of the kind in which I have participated. 

LEADERS OF THE LATTER-DAY DISPENSATION. 

We had a splendid discourse from President Grant in relation to the successive presidents that we have had from the beginning of the Church, from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to the present time. I did. not have the joy and pleasure of being personally acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, but felt familiar with him because of my association with so many with whom he was acquainted, and who received the priesthood of God under his ordination — under his hands, and also by reading his discourses, accounts of his life and works, and receiving by the power of God a testimony of the fact that he was divinely called to usher in the last dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times, in the which as the Lord revealed anciently, he would "gather together in one all things that are in him, both in the heavens and in the earth," and this is that dispensation. And I received when I was a boy, when I first embraced the gospel, a testimony by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost, and by many signs and tokens and manifestations to me, personally, a knowledge of this great fact — that God has opened the heavens in the latter times and once more communicated with man, and that Jesus, who is the Christ, his beloved Son, also has been engaged in this work under his direction, and this Church, which bears his name, is indeed the Church of Christ, composed of Latter-day Saints instead of former-day Saints. ' This testimony was given to me, as I have stated, through my obedience to the gospel in an early day, and since that time, I thank the Lord I have had the opportunity of laboring in this great cause, the greatest thing on the earth, a divine Church, set up not only by divine authority but by divine persons and the actual participation in and direction of Jesus of Nazareth, who is the Christ, the Son of the living God and the Savior of the world. 

I was present when President John Taylor succeeded to the presidency of the Church, after the death of President Brigham Young. I was well acquainted with him, but I was not in Nauvoo when the mantle of the prophet Joseph fell upon him, as we have heard testified of many times; but I became acquainted with brother Brigham until we became very familiar, and I had great joy in knowing that he loved me as well as that I loved him, that we often had an opportunity of holding converse and that he understood me as well as I, measureably at least, understood him, and I know that he was the proper successor and inheritor to the authority that was placed upon the Prophet Joseph, that he was the rightful president of this Church, and that he conducted this Church under the inspiration of the Almighty. And the great works he accomplished are seen, many of them, in the building up of this State now in the American Union. But when Brother John Taylor succeeded to the presidency I was present, when that splendid assembly, the kind of which we had this morning, was established here, and took part in it, and so when his successor was appointed. I was here present when President Wilford Woodruff was called to be the President of the Church and also Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith, our beloved apostle and prophet and president who has recently passed away, and I am thankful in my soul today that I am privileged to be here and take part in the installation of President Heber J. Grant as prophet, seer and revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, his authority extending through all the world. And with all my heart I joined with the brethren this morning in lifting up my right hand in token to the heavens that I accepted these men in their several callings as servants of the Most High, holding the authority of the holy priesthood, which is after the order of the Son of God. 

MEN CAN DO LITTLE OF THEMSELVES. 

I feel as if I could not attempt to add much to the eulogies pronounced upon these great men whose names have been mentioned to us. President Brigham Young, I regarded as one of the most remark men of his time. I was going to say, apart from his calling as the prophet of the Lord, but I do not know that he would have made any great mark in the world but for this calling. For I realize fully the truth of the revelation of God through the Prophet Joseph that the powers of this priesthood, represented here this morning, are "inseparably connected with the powers behind the veil," that alone we are not very mighty; that of ourselves we can do very little; but with those heavenly powers associated with us and we with them, great things have been accomplished and still greater are in progress and will be accomplished. For this is the work of the Lord and it is established in the earth for a direct and divine purpose, and will be accomplished although the means by which it is and will be accomplished may be of themselves not very great or mighty, but the powers behind the veil are with us, not only those great men who performed so wonderful a work before President Grant's coming into the presidency, are with the Lord behind the veil, not only they are with us and thousands of the departed ones who have worked in the ministry, but all the great and the mighty of the ages past are with us, powers of the holy priesthood, held by men of God from the beginning are with us, and in that and the oversight and direction of the Lord Jesus Christ as our living head, we can and will prevail over darkness and error and wickedness and corruption and disorder and confusion, and in the place thereof through this agency will come order and peace and concord and brotherly love and the union and power of mankind when united together by the Holy Spirit from on high. This is being poured out upon those who will obey the principles of the gospel, and the fruits thereof are already being made manifest in the earth, and the time will come when all the predictions of the prophets of oldj concerning the establishment of the reign of peace will be fulfilled, but it will come through righteousness, and righteousness through the preaching of the truth, the word of God, by the power of God, in the authority of God. 

CONCERNING PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I had the pleasure of laboring under the direction of those great men who were talked about this morning, President Taylor, President Woodruff, President Lorenzo Snow, and President Joseph F. Smith. When we had finished our voting we sang the song: "How firm a 'foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in his excellent word. What more can he say than to you He hath said?" I thought, when President Grant sat down, if I was called upon to speak, as he announced that his counselors would have something to say, and after Brother Lund had finished his excellent remarks, what more could I say than to you these have said. I felt very much as a witness did, when called into court to give testimony on a certain case, and had been preceded by a man who told what he knew and who said : "Your Honor, I says as he says," and that was all he couH tell. I was very much in the same condition, but I know that would not suffice, so here this afternoon I take pride and pleasure in adding my testimony to the remarks made -here this morning concerning each one of the presidents of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, from the time of the Prophet Joseph down to the decease of our beloved Brother Joseph F. Smith. I loved him with all my heart, and I am always glad to know that he loved me. 

From the first time we met, we felt as though we were kindred spirits. The first time I met him was about 59 years ago, in Liverpool, and when we struck hands and were introduced to each other our hearts went with our hands, and we have always loved each other from that time to the time that he departed; my love remains and abides in my heart, and I am proud of having been associated with him in the ministry. It was through him, that I was called to the apostleship, and ordained under his hands, and also afterwards to be one of his counselors in the First Presidency. In this, I had opportunities of knowing the kind of a man he was and is. He was one of the grand men of the age. He was great in all things he undertook. He had failings, no doubt, like others had, but they were not very manifest. He was a great man in the ministry. He was, indeed, as was pronounced upon his head this morning, a preacher of righteousness and he was a liver of righteousness. He was exemplary in all his ways, in public and in private, and he had a kind heart as well as a strong mind. In all things that came under his notice and his direction he was strong and mighty, not only spiritually, but in what we call temporal things his judgment was splendid. He was accurate. He was awake and alive to his duties. He loved to perform them faithfully and he did so. I am sure that his labors were acceptable unto God, and when "the books are opened and men are judged out of the things written in the books, according to their works," he will stand in the front rank, and he will shine in the fulness of the celestial glory, with the sons of God who minister before the Most High. 

God bless his family, those whom he has left to follow in his footsteps. He had a splendid family, men and women that ought to be honored, and will be in Israel all their days and throughout all their generations. They will be prospered in all things; the Lord will be with them, and the influence of the great man who stands as a patriarch at their head will be upon them. 

THE MANTLE OF JOSEPH RESTING UPON HEBER. 

I believe in the influence of those who hold the priesthood behind, the veil. The testimony given concerning the falling of the mantle of Joseph the prophet upon Brigham Young, when he became the leader of the Church, has been repeated in these times, and quite recently concerning our late president and the president who has been elected, appointed and sustained today, and I believe that the prophet Joseph will be near to Heber J. Grant when necessary — Joseph F. Smith, I mean. And so in regard to his family. I am satisfied in my own mind, and by my own experience, that the powers on high are with the powers on the earth. Men holding the Holy Priesthood, who have ministered in the flesh and have gone into the world of spirits, and are laboring there in the same great cause as that in -which we are engaged in the flesh, help the brethren in their times of need, and are with them, and stand by them in times  try men's souls. I am assured of this, I say, in my own experience; and this is the power by which we shall prevail over the things of the world. The time will come when the priesthood behind the veil will minister personally in the temples of God to men holding the priesthood in the flesh, revealing matters that are needful to be known concerning the departed that the work being performed for the dead, as well as for the living may go on and be accomplished and perfected properly, and that we may grow up together in Jesus the Christ, who is our living head. 

SOME THINGS THAT PRESIDENT SMITH WOULD SAY. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, there are two or three things that I think President Joseph F. Smith would talk about, if he were present with us today. One is that great truth concerning Jesus of Nazareth. During the later years of his life, President Smith took great pleasure and joy in bearing his testimony to his certainty of knowledge that Jesus is and was the Christ, that he died for mankind, that through him and by him the worlds were made, under the direction of the great Eternal Father, and that he came on the earth in the meridian of time, and laid down his life, voluntarily, for the sins of mankind, that through faith and repentance and baptism, and obedience to all the ordinances of the house of the Lord, men might be raised from the dead and saved and become perfected in the celestial glory, to inherit the fulness of the blessings pertaining to eternal lives; and that through him and by him all the dead, small and great, will come forth from their tombs and stand upon their feet and be judged according to their works, the good, bad or indifferent, of all races and countries and climes, for he is the Redeemer of the world; and "as in Adam all die," so in Christ shall all be raised from the dead. This was one of the themes on which he dwelt before he departed from us, and especially in later years. 

THE CHURCH OF CHRIST THE ONLY CHURCH. 

Another truth is that this Church, to which we belong, is the only Church of Christ on the earth. This is not saying anything against the views or opinions of our friends and neighbors, or people afar off, who differ from us in our views, not at all. We are quite willing that they shall go their way, particularly if they will allow us to go ours. Sometimes they have tried to prevent us, but they have not accomplished very much in their efforts, no matter what they have done, but this work has gone on in spite of opposition as it will go on until everything beneath the eternal heavens is subdued unto the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and divinity shall reign on the earth instead of mortality and wickedness and corruption. 

This Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a special mission in the world and that mission has come from on high, not from the minds of men, not from the reading of books, not inherited from old creeds, but it is the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored to earth in its fulness, in its purity, in its power, in its authority and' its unity with the heavens; and it will prevail. All the different sects and organizations in Christendom and the others that are in heathendom suit pretty well the people who adhere to them. AW right. Let them stay by them, if they think they are good enough; but they are not good enough for Latter-day Saints. We want the truth as it is on high, and as it is revealed from on high to the servants of God on the earth.; and this organization to which we belong is peculiar to itself. 

NO NEED FOR OUTSIDE ORDERS. 

That introduces another point that I am -sure President Joseph F. Smith, if he were here, would touch upon at this conference, and it is this : That when we are in this Church and members of it, we belong to the body of Christ, and there is no need for us to go outside of it for anything in the world, particularly of a religious character. We have no need to dabble in -the things of the world; we have no need to join other organizations that are antagonistic to or out of harmony with this Church. Here is something for the Latter-day Saints to consider at this conference. There is nothing new in what I am saying, but it needs to be impressed upon the minds of our people in every part of the Church, and these men who hold the holy priesthood who have lifted up their hands today to sustain the authorities of this Church should carry with them, when they go home, this spirit and this determination as advice for our people. We will serve the Lord! Let the dying world go to its grave if it will. Let the wicked that are being bound in bundles go to the burning if they do not repent, but as for us, We, with all we are and with all we have, should be in this Church in body and in spirit, in every capacity, and there should be no need and no desire on our part to go outside of the strait and narrow way, the only way which leads to the presence of the Eternal Father and to the gift of eternal life. 

Now, this is not saying anything against people who desire to belong, to other societies. If a man is satisfied with any of the Christian sects, if it suits him or suits his wife, that is his concern. Generally speaking it is the "wife who does the religion in the outside world. I have conversed with a great many very prominent men, some of them members of Congress, and this is what they say : Oh, I don't care about religion, my wife does all that and I go to Church with her." Well, let people who like that kind of thing keep on liking it and if they do not choose to receive what we have — which is perfection in religion, which is Godlike and comes from God, and leads to God — if they do not like that, why they have the privilege of letting it alone. We would not do anything to compel them, if we had the power, to walk in our way; but that is not the point. If men like to believe in the doctrines and principles and sermons that are preached in the world, all right, but as for us, what should we do ? What is the duty of the .elders of Israel and of men holding the holy priesthood, and of the members of the Church who have been baptized into the Church? Their duty is to be with Christ, baptized into Christ, having put on Christ, coming unto him, belonging to him, to be part of the body of Christ, which is his Church, and to have no entang alliances with anything outside. Not to .do any injury to anybody else who does not see as we do, not at all; not to find fault with them for taking their own way, but our way should be the way of the Lord. 

We have no need of anything else. In the troubles that are coming— for the world is menaced now with troubles and strife and division which will bring misery and sorrow and destruction to many souls — let our place be in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the order of the holy priesthood, and we have no need to join other orders to take away part of our time, part of our influence, and part of our means and to hinder us from devoting ourselves entirely to the work of the Lord. Let me urge this upon the attention of my dear brethren and sisters who are here this afternoon. This is the Lord's work and it is marvelous in our eyes. Brother Lund alluded to the revelation of the Lord in the beginning, before there was any organized church of the Saints : "A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men. Therefore, thrust in your sickle and reap." Yes, indeed, a marvelous work and a wonder, just as Isaiah predicted; and one of the signs of it was that the wisdom of the wise would perish and the understanding of the prudent would come to naught; but wisdom and inspiration and knowledge and certainty and power are in the gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed from him and by him and under his direction in the last days. Oh my brethren and sisters, why waste your time, your talents, your means, your influence in following something that will perish and pass away, when you could devote yourselves to a thing that will stand forever? For this Church and kingdom, to which you belong, will abide and continue in .time, in eternity, while endless ages roll along, and you with it will become mightier and more powerful; while the things of this world will pass away and perish, and will not abide in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord our God. 

JOSEPH A MIGHTY PREACHER OF RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

So I say of our dear president, Brother Joseph F. Smith, to whose grandeur of character and faithfulness in the ministry and power and authority from God I add my humble testimony, if he were here I feel assured that he would touch on these questions in a far better way than I could attempt to do. He was a mighty preacher before the Lord. His words were golden. Many of them are treasured up; others have passed away and will be heard perhaps no more until many ages may come in the future. The time will come when all things will be made manifest and the veil of the covering be taken away and we shall see as we are seen, and know as we are known. Our true character will come up and we will be judged and valued for what we are, not for what men have thought about us. In that time all these great things that are hid shall be revealed, from the beginning to the end of time, down through the great dispensations of the past and brought forth in the greatest dispensation of all, the dispensation of the fullness of times. 

Now I add my testimony to the eulogies pronounced this morning so beautifully by our brethren upon the great men who have been with us and who have departed from us. The Lord has proved to us that great as. they were, others can come forth to perform his work, when he is with them; that this work does not depend upon any single individual or any little coterie of individuals. It is the Lord's work, and is marvelous in our eyes. We will abide with it and give it our support, do what little we can while we live on the earth, and when we depart we fully expect, without any doubt in our souls, to go over to the great multitude of men and women behind the veil who are engaged in this same work, carrying it to those who sit in darkness in the spirit world, working for Christ and for the salvation of mankind under his direction, fighting under his banner the powers that are evil and preparing the great day when he shall come, and the Saints with him, arid reign over all the earth in mighty power and glory. God help us to do this. God help us to see things as they are, to withdraw our influence from those things that are not of God, center our affections, our thoughts, our means, our influence, our power, and especially the authority of the holy priesthood in this great Church that the Lord has set up, which shall win its widening way until all the generations of men that can be saved in this world and in the world behind the veil, shall be brought out of darkness into light and bow the knee to King Immanuel, and serve God our heavenly Father and acknowledge Jesus the Christ as King and Lord of all. Amen. 

Edith Grant Young sang: "Who are these arrayed m white ?" 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

In the quorums of the priesthood there is an irresistible, compelling power — The leaders of Israel, what a galaxy of men! — President loseph F. Smith a powerful preacher of righteousness. 

Brethren and sisters, my feelings this afternoon are quite in accord with the views expressed by President Penrose. I think we had a glorious meeting this morning. The gathering in of the quorums of the priesthood and arranging them in their order was eminently proper, and as they sat here filling the body of the house they presented a most inspiring scene. And when they arose and voted for our new President and the General Authorities of the Church, quorum after quorum, with uplifted hands, and finally, when all the congregation  with uplifted hands and voted, it indicated to me that there is in these quorums of priesthood an irresistable, compelling power; I was reminded of the trite saying that in unity there is strength, in division weakness. And surely, brethren and sisters, the Latterday Saints are strong because they have a united priesthood and people. 

The theme chosen and dwelt upon by the speakers this morning Was most ennobling. Our leaders, T ~-poh Smith, Brigham Young;, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith — what a galaxy of men! Where could you find their equal in all the world? These men were brilliant in the knowledge of truth. They were learned in the deep things of God, and they exercised keys and powers bearing upon the salvation of immortal souls. These men, prophets, seers and revelators, held the keys of the kingdom of . Great were they indeed, but men, nevertheless, with their weaknesses and imperfections. However, their record, their faith, their words, their lives are before us, as an open book. Scan them as you will, investigate, look up their records from all sides and you will find no great blemishes. They were pure, good men, free from the sins of the world, and men whom we could safely follow. 

The late President Joseph Smith — I loved sincerely and deeply. I loved him because of his integrity to the work of God. I loved him because of his good example before the Church and before the world. I loved him because of his kindly and thoughtful consideration for his brethren and associates in the ministry and for the Latter-day Saints generally, for he was a most genial and lovable man. I loved him because of the wise counsel and timely admonitions that constantly fell from his lips. He was indeed a powerful preacher of righteousness. The influence of his words will be felt by the coming generations. A . righteous man may die and pass from the earth, but his words of truth and testimony can not die and will not pass away,, but they will live in the hearts of the people and bear Jruit to the honor and the glory of God. 

The following fervent exhortation was uttered by President Joseph F. Smith, at the April conference of 190Z, which was shorty after he had been sustained as President of the Church. Brethren and .sisters give ear to these words : 

"Let us sustain the cause of Zion. Let no man speak lightly of the or of the house of God. Let no man hold in derision the priesthood that the Lord has restored to the earth. It is the authority that He has given unto men. Let no man look contemptuously upon the organization of the Churcxi of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it has been established in the earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom the Lord raised up when he was but a child to lay the foundation of the same. Let no man treat these things lightly or doubtingly, but let every man seek to instill and understand me truth and teach his children to become familiar with those truths of heaven which have been restored to earth in the latter days. I believe with all my soul in God the Father and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I believe with all my might, mind and strength in the Savior of the world , and in the principles of  redemption from death and sin. I believe in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe in all the truth that I know, and I believe that there are many principles of eternal truth that still lie hidden from man and from the understanding of men which will yet be revealed by the power of God unto his faithful servants. I believe that the Lord has revealed unto the children of men all that they know. I do not believe that any man has discovered any principle of science or art, in mechanism or mathematics or anything else that God did not know before man did. Man is indebted to the Source of all intelligence and truth for the knowledge that he possesses and all who will yield obedience to the promptings of the Spirit which lead to virtue, to honor, to the love of God and man to the love of truth and that which is ennobling and enlarging to the soul will get a cleaner and more expansive and more direct and conclusive knowledge of God's truths than any one else can obtain. I believe this because I know it is true. The Lord Almighty iive^. He made the heavens and the earth and the fountains of water. We are his children, his offspring and we are not here by chance. The Lord lesigned our coming and the object of our being here. He designs that we shall accomplish our mission to become conformed to the likeness and image of Jesus Christ that like him we may be without sin unto salvation, and like him we may be filled with pure intelligence, and like him we may be exalted to the right hand of the Father to sit upon thrones and have dominions and power in the sphere in which we shall be called to act. I testify to tnis doctrine for the Lord has made me to know and feel the truth of it from the crown of my head to the souls of my feet. 1 love good honorable men, even men who may be mistaken, as far as ibeir judgment is concerned, but who try to do right. I love them for the reason that they are my brethren and sons of my Father and I would that they might all see the truth as it is in Christ Jesus and accept it and receive all the benefits of it in time and throughout all eternity. If the Lord has revealed to the world a plan of salvation and redemption from sin by which men may be exalted again into his presence and partake of eternal life with him, I submit as a propos : tion that can not be controverted that no man can be exalted in the presence of God and attain to a fulness of glory and happiness in his kingdom and presence save and except he will obey the plan that God 'has devised and revealed." 

Brethren and sisters, if we will take these few precious words to heart, treasure them up in our souls, and conform our lives to them, we will surely attain to a salvation and an exaltation in the celestial kingdom, which is God's greatest gift to man. May the Lord bless us and help us to do his will, ard to follow in the steps of our file leaders, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEO. ALBERT SMITH 

Meaning of sustaining the Authorities — Eulogy of President Joseph F. Smith — An honor to preside over the British Mission — Personal testimony of the Divinity of the Church and the restoration of the gospel — 

Injunction to faithful service — Prayer for mission presidents — The^ world has need of missionaries; let all prepare to teach the gospeL— Farewell remarks — Sustaining the leaders of the Church. I rejoice today in being permitted to meet with you in this general conference and in being permitted to raise my hand to sustain those whom our heavenly Father has called to preside over us. It must be a source of strength to the President of this Church to look into the faces of thousands of honest men and' women and observe them raise their hand in covenant with our Father in heaven, and sustain him in the office to which he has been called as president, of this great Church. The obligation that we make when we raise our hands under such circumstances, is a most sacred one. It does not mean that we will go quietly on our way and be willing that the prophet of the Lord shall direct this work, but it ' means, — if I understand the obligation I assumed when I raised my hand — that we will stand behind him; we will pray for him; we will defend his good name, and we will strive to carry out his instructions as the Lord shall direct him to offer them to us while he remains in that position. So it is a power of strength that has been reared today to our beloved president, Heber J. Grant, and his counselors, as we voted for them in this solemn assembly. 

It is with peculiar feelings that I stand here today. At our last general conference I was stricken ill, and was only able to attend one meeting of the conference, being taken to the hospital from the first meeting in the morning. I am grateful that the remembrance I have of 

President Smith was his wonderful testimony borne on that occasion to us. I look back and feel that it was a privilege to be at that meeting, because it was the last assembly that he addressed in this great building. His work is done. The beautiful tributes that have been paid to him bv loving brothers and sisters of this Church have no effect now other than to comfort those of us who remain, but his wonderful devotion to duty, his magnanimous feeling toward mankind, his tender love of the weak and the erring, will be sources of inspiration to all of us who knew him, as long as we live upon the earth. 

There was no duty too arduous for him to perform, if he felt it was the will of the Lord. He began his work in infancy almost, and I might say in passing that his life was preserved from being smothered to death by a mob when he was a little baby in his mother's arms. He was resuscitated and brought back to life after his little body had turned black as a result of suffocation. He came across the great plains with his mother, and while only a child was a man in . determination, standing by the side of his mother and those who were with her, determined to do his duty and serve God and keep his commandments. When a mere youth he was called to the islands of the sea as referred to here this morning. He had to work his way across the ocean and was willing to do anything that he might be able to reach his field of labor; not going as some of us do today, in a palace car and in a palatial steamer, but he went in a humble manner. He wrought upon the hearts of the people of that land until today there are thousands in the islands of the sea who call his  blessed; and in that land to which I have been called to go, he ministered in his young manhood, devoted himself in faith and devotion to win mankind to repentance, to warn men of the judgments that were impending, calling them from the error of their ways, begging them to turn to the Lord, to receive the gospel, and to accept of the mercy of our Father to those who love him and keep his commandments. 

These are some of the memories that come to me upon my feet regarding this blessed man. Of course, most of you, many of you, know how near he was to me, almost like a father. I had the opportunity of traveling with him from ocean to ocean, and from the north land to the south, all over the United States. I had the pleasuie of watching over him by day and fuidin.? him by night. I have rejoiced in the testimony of the gospel that I have heard him bear in many places, and I have been made glad when I have seen the great strong men of the earth shake his hand and go away with the impression that he was indeed no ordinary man. I have known of people who, out of curiosity, called at the office here in Salt Lake City to see President Smith, and before they have left the ground upon which the building stands, I have heard them say, turning to each- other: "What a wonderful character!" 

Think of him as a little boy whose father was taken from him in his childhood — this little boy who was willing to go where the Lord wanted him to go. He had not the opportunities of college, of universitytraining, but he was lifted up clay by day, under the inspiration of almighty God, until he could stand among his fellows, honored and blessed,. and loved, not only by all Israel, but by many of those who are alien to the gospel of Jesus Christ. What did it, my brethren and sisters? It was the gospel of our Lord. It was devotion to the Father of us all. It was a desire to bless mankind, and a knowledge that our Father lives; that Jesus is th^ Christ, and then a determination to live \-.p to that knowledge in older that he might gain a place beside his beloved father and mother and the prophets who had gone before, to be worthy of their companionship throughout the ages of eternity. 

He was blessed as few men have been blessed in this world — indeed I might say as no other man I know of in this world, — by a most remarkable family, to which reference has been made today, men and women who honor the Lord and keep his commandments, who revere their husband and father. We do well to remember, even at this remote period of time from his passing, the man who has been lifted from poverty to affluence, who was able to stand among his fellows unsurpassed by any child of our father who lived in his day. I am grateful that I have had the touch of his. hand, I am thankful that I have had the press of his lips upon mine, I am pleased that he considers me one of his family, and today I mourn his departure and remember his passing as if it were but yesterday. 

I am grateful to be permitted to Walk along the paths that he has walked, and as I go to that land referred to by President Grant, I desire, with all my soul, to be worthy of those who have preceded me — the great and good men of this 

Church who have presided there in honor and dignity, and among them our beloved brother and president, Joseph F. Smith. There are those sitting here upon this stand who have been there and have performed a wonderful labor. I would like to say to you, my brothers and sisters, that I esteem it an honor — nay, more- than an honor, I esteem it a very great blessing — that the Lord has raised me from the feeble condition that I was in a short time ago, restoring me to such a condition of health that the brethren have felt that it will be possible for me to fill a mission in -a foreign land. I would not undertake; it if it were any other kind of a mission. I know that my Redeemer lives; I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and is exalted at the right hand of his Father. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord. While he gave his temporal life in order that his testimony might be binding upon the children of men, I am sure as I stand here that today he is exalted in the presence of the Redeemer, rejoicing in the development that has come to the work of the Lord since the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth through his humble instrumentality. I am grateful for the testimony that burns in my bosom that this is our Father's, work. 

Be diligent, ye men of Israel, who bear the Priesthood of our Lord. Do not think that you can gain the honor, the distinction and the eternal blessings that President Smith will gain if you do the works that are less than he has done. It is not necessary that a man should be a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, or the Presidency of the Church, in order to obtain the  blessings in the kingdom of our heavenly Father. These are but offices required in the Church, and there % are many faithful and devoted men worthy to fill these offices whose time and talents are needed throughout the Church. Th^re are, in the Church more good men than those occupying these positions, and remember that in the * ranks and throughout the Church there is ample opportunity for every man and for every woman to do something for the blessing of their fellows and for^the advancement of the work of the Lord. 

I see sitting before me today men who have been in the mission-field as presidents of missions, who have come her-e from their fields of labor, honorably released. They have performed yeoman service; tl\ey have devoted themselves to the blessing of God's children. They have left, in the fields from which they have come, men and women who bless them and who will remember them in tenderness throughout all times. I feel in my soul to bless them and welcome them home with their loved ones and pray that they may have their feet planted here among their loved ones in the valleys of the mountains with the same determination to serve God and magnify their calling, as they have manifested while they have been entrusted with presiding offices in the mission-field. I see before me men who have been called to succeed them. I pray that the spirit of their calling may fall upon them, that they may feel the inspiration of the Lord and fully understand the necessity of doing their duty as they go to their fields of labor, that they may rejoice in seeing the children of our Father come to him by reason of their  and their devotion; that they may rejoice, as those who come home have rejoiced and, if possible, that the blessings of the Lord may be more abundantly bestowed upon those among whom they minister, than has been done in the past. 

The world is in distress, in travail, from one end of it to the other. Men and women are looking here and there, seeking where they shall go to do the things that will bring them peace. My brethren, the authority of the holy priesthood is upon the earth. The gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored. The truth revealed from heaven is here and it " is that truth,' that gospel, which, if the world only knew it, will be a panacea for all their ills. It is the only thing that will bring them peace while they remain upon the earth. 

I find here a short section of the Doctrine and Covenants to which I wish to draw your attention. I would like every man who bears the priesthood of our hea'venly Father to remember the words of this particular section. I would like every man to apply it to himself, and* I would like every good woman who has received the blessings of the gospel to apply it to her life; and applying it to our lives, remember that our days are numbered and that the opportunity to magnify our calling will soon be cut short here in this world. This is a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Harmony, Susquehanna county, Pennsylvania, February, 1829: 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to to come fortk among the children of men; 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God. see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day:" That is what I would Jike us to remember. That is the word of the Lord unto Israel, repeated again this day by one of God's servants. The world has need of you and of your ministry. There are no other men in the world, outside this Church, who have the rights that you have, and the privileges, and no other body of men will have the opportunities that come to you. Now that the time is near at hand when the bars will be let down and the barriers overthrown that have been raised to the spread of the gospel, when the sound of the voice of the Lord shall come to you, through his servants, "Prepare to go into the world and preach the gospel," do not do as Jonah did, do not try to hide or run away from your duty; do not make excuses that you do not have the necessary means to go; do not set up foolish things in the way of your vision that will prevent your seeing eternal life in the presence of our heavenly Father, which ca"n come only by reason of faith and devotion in his cause. Let every man set his house in order; let every man who bears the priesthood, set himself in order, and when the call comes from the servants of the Lord, telling him to go into the world to teach the truth, to warn the children of men, as our Father requires they shall be warned, let no man hide behind some foolish thing, to be swallowed up, if not by a great fish, by the foolish things of the world. 

I pray that the Spirit of God may burn in the bosoms of the Latter-day Saints; that the love and charity our Father has for his children may be ours; that we may rejoice when we see his children understanding the truth and that we may be willing to make what may  be termed a sacrifice; that we may be willing to make the investment to bless our kind, going forth with all our might to bring light and salvation to the children of men by preaching unto them the restored gospel of our Lord. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I may have no- other opportunity of saying goodbye to you, before I leave. Next Wednesday I expect to take the train to the coast and then across the ocean to the field to which I have been called. Thank God for the opportunity of going. I am grateful that the knowledge of this truth has come into my soul. I am thankful for the companionship of the men by whom I have been surrounded and with whom I have been permitted to associate. I am grateful for you and for the kindness you have bestowed upon me as I have ministered unto you in your homes in the stakes and wards of the land. God bless you and' yours and all Israel. O, brothers and sisters, pray with all your might that the light may enter into the hearts of the children of men; that they may turn from the error of their ways when the' gospel is brought to them by a humble eider; that they may understand the voice and receive the message and be gathered out from the nations, before the Lord shall sweep the earth again with his scourges, as he has promised to do. This is" but the beginning of sorrow and it is your duty and mine to minimise so far as possible, the sorrows of our Father's children, by blessing them with the message of peace, with the gospel of love, and call them from the error of their ways; that they may rejoice with us, if we are faithful, in the mansions of glory on high. May the peace and blessing of our 

'leavenly Father be upon us all. May we be worthy of the opportunity that has come to us. May we see the magnitude of the work we have set our hands to do and remember the commandment that we shall do it with all our might, mind and strength; that we may stand "blameless before the Lord at the last day. 

With all my heau, I sustain the men whom we have sustained today — President Grant and his counselors- — to preside over us. They have been called by divine power; they have been sustained by this great people, and the Lord will sustain them in their ministry. They are unselfish and they are untiring in going about doing good and blessing those who live upon the earth. I honor them and I love them. I pray that our Father will bless them that they may have joy in their ministry. I pray that these, my brethren of the Council of the Twelve, whom I soon stiall leave, may have joy in their ministry wherever they may go. Brethren and sisters, welcome them into your homes and into the organized stakes as they go among you. They bring to you a message of love, as also do the First Council of Seventy, the Patriarch and the presiding Bishopric, all those who, <is general authorities of the Church go to visit you from time to time. These all are our Father's servants. Honor them, sustain them, and bless them, and our Father will honor and sustain and bless you. I pray that our Father may grant unto you the peace that passeth all understanding. 

May the joy of the memory of that devoted man, President Joseph F. Smith, m whose honor, in part at ieast, we have met here today,  with us. Let us try, so far 

as may be, to measure up to his splendid virtue and. bv and by — it may not be long for any of us — when the Father of us all shall summon us home, that we may find awaiting us on the other shore these splendid men and women who have honored God and kept his commandments, who have earned celestial glory in our Father's kingdom, that we may rejoice with them and they with us throughout the ages of eternity, is my desire! O may the Lord bless us all; may he help us to appreciate the opportunity that is placed in our way and give us a burning desire to blessour kind. May we honor him and keep his commandments, and in the end obtain eternal life and celestial glory with our Father's children wherever they may be in the world, who are worthy, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

Tribute to President Joseph F. Smith — The elements of greatness — The .machinery and the power — Anecdote of Bishop Newel K. Whitney — Jeremiah's call — Joseph and Sidney's vision — Church leaders past and present. 

President Joseph F. Smith was not only a Prophet; he was also a Patriarch— a fatherly man in every sense of the term. Second only to his loyalty and devotion to the work of God, was his warm and tender love for his family — his wives and children. Their welfare and happiness in time and for all eternity were his constant care. 

And how rich was his recompense! In all that numerous flock of sons and daughters, not one "black sheep" is to be found, not one wanderer from the fold of the Good Shepherd. This reflection must have been to him an unfailing source of comfort and consolation. The divinest work of Divinity, the most Godlike of all achievements, is in "bringing to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Next to that, and indeed a very part thereof, is the rearing of a family as President Smith reared his. He fully realized that it represented the nucleus and foundation of his eternal glory. 

His paternal affection, though it began at home, did not end there. It went out far beyond the boundaries of his domestic domain. It embraced God's people as a whole, rich and poor, high and low. All who served the Lord were sharers in his sympathy and esteem. 

Few things pleased the President more than to welcome to his hospitable home, or to public halls owned by the Church, his friends and fellow-laborers, for purposes of entertainment. A marked feature of his administration was an extended series of receptions, given at Conference time, in honor of the veterans who drove ox teams or pulled hand carts over the plains in pre-railroad days, or were occupying posts of hardship, if not of danger, in out of the way sections. 

His kind thoughtfulness for the aged, and his tender concern for little children, were among his most pronounced characteristics. He held that children as well as men and women have rights, ' and that these rights should always be respected. I was present on one occasion when he expressed himself indignantly over the conduct of a woman who, coming late into  public assembly, drew a child out of a seat that / she wished to occupy. I have known him to leave his place on a railroad train to speak a word of comfort to a poor old lady, whose feelings had been hurt by an ill-mannered conductor. Once I saw him, when an excursion was about to start, walk the full length of the crowded train, with no apparent object but to satisfy himself that everyone else was comfortably seated; and not until every chick and child was provided for, did the President of the Church take his seat. 

"Safety first" was his business motto. He never plunged recklessly into an enterprise, however inviting, and always lnolted before he leaped. Like Longfellow's Blacksmith, he "owed not any man," and this was ever his counsel to the people. Nor would he allow the Church to become indebted for a single dollar that it could not pay %i demand. As Trusteein-Trust, he permitted no needless expenditure of the funds entrusted to his care, and he kept and rendered strict account of all monies or other properties that came into his hands as custodian. He was determined that the credit of the Church, which he had helped to make "gilt-edged," should so remain. 

A complete list of the public works connected with President Smith's career would form a lengthy catalogue. Never before in the history of the Latter-day Saints was there such a building administration. Those who criticized him for what they deemed a too active narticioation in commercial affairs, and thought that he should have been engrossed in spiritual things to the exclusion of the temporal,  the fact that from the "Mormon" point of view, the spiritual includes the temporal. 

Every one who truly knew Joseph F. Smith recognized in him a man of mighty faith and religious power — a spiritual giant. A wonderfully impressive public speaker, he was deliberate and slow of utterance until aroused, when his words came like a torrent, with the roar of the cataract or the thunder peal. In forceful and vehement oratory, or what might be termed emotional eloquence, he had no equal in the Church. 

President Smith's dominant traits were his unflinching courage and his unflagging devotion to duty. A man more diligent, more industrious, more zealous in the practice of the principles heprofessed, it would be impossible to find. Honest, tearless, and determined, he did not court martyrdom, but neither would he have shrunk from it, had the choice been between death and dishonor. He was an example of moral rectitude, of clean conduct, of right living. His noble qualities, his illustrious lineage, and his exalted nation gave him a prestige 'all but unrivaled in the annals of the Church over which he presided. From his youth up, throughout his entire career, he stood a stalwart in the land, a man of unblemished integrity, a rock against which the billows of temptation beat and dashed in vain. 

What made Joseph F. Smith such a character? Two things: In the first place, he was a big man — big by nature, and developed by experience. In the next place, Gccl was with him. The machinery is one thing, and the power that moves the machinery is another. 

The two combined constitute great . ness. 

Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter — he it was, if I remember aright — once related to me an anecdote about his predecessor, my grandfather, Newel K. Whitney, the second man called to the Bishopric in this dispensation. It was at Kirtland, Ohio, in December, 1831. The law of consecration had been revealed and was about to be put into operation. The properties of the Saints had to be consecrated for the building up of Zion, and Bishops were needed to handle these properties and administer the temporalities of the Church. Edward Partridge was the first Bishop called, but'' he had been sent down into Missouri, where the foundations of Zion were laid, and another Bishop was needed for Kirtland, — a Stake of Zion. The Lord said: "My servant Newel K. Whitney is the man who shall be appointed and ordained unto this power." (Doctrine & Covenants 72:8.) Newel K. Whitney, staggering under the weight of the responsibility that was about to be placed upon him, said to the Prophet: "Brother Joseph, I can't see a Bishop in myself." 

No; but God could see it in him. He was a natural Bishop — a first class man of affairs. Probably no other incumbent of that important office, the Presiding Bishopric, to which he eventually attained, has;been better qualified for it than Newel K. Whitney. But he could not see it, and he shrank from the responsibility. The Prophet answered : "Go and ask the Lord about it." And Newel did ask the Lord, and he heard a voice from heaven say: "Thy strength is in me." That was enough. He accepted the 

office, and served in it faithfully to the end of his days — a period of eighteen years. 

When I heard this anecdote, it reminded me of the Prophet Jeremiah, to whom the word of the Lord came, saying in effect : "Before I formed thee in the body I knew thee, and I sanctified thee and ordained thee a prophet unto the nations." But Jeremiah, overwhelmed by the call to such a responsible station, exclaimed : "Ah, Lord God, behold I cannot speak; for I am a child." But the Lord said : "Say not, I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. * * Be not dismayed at their faces * * for behold I have made thee this day a defensed city, and an iron pillar and brazen walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof, and against the people of the land. And they shall fight against thee; ' but they shall not prevail against thee; for I am with thee saith the Lord, to deliver thee." (Jer. 1:4-7; 17-19.) 

God was with his servant, Joseph Smith, a man pf great gifts, a mighty soul, sent into the world to be a prophet, a seer and a revelator. But what could he have done if Go rl had not been with him? When Joseph Smith and Sidney Bisfdon saw that wonderful vision of the celestial, terrestrial, and Mestial °dories, they said concerning it: "Being in the Spirit, on the sixteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord, 1832, by the power of the Spirit our eyes were opened," etc. There is the key. It was because God was with them, that they were able to see the Son of God and converse with him "in  heavenly vision." They had eyes — spiritual eyes; they were seers. But what could they see until the Spirit of God came upon them and gave them the use of the seeric gift? The machinery was there, but the power had to be turned on. 

So it was with Brigham Young, with John Taylor, with Wilford Woodruff, with Lorenzo Snow, with Joseph F. Smith; and so it is with Heber J. Grant, our beloved President of today. He has great gifts, a big heart, a kind soul, and because God is with him he will do a great and glorious work. But without God, neither he nor any other man could accomplish anything worth while. 

This is my testimony regarding the First Presidency of the Church. They are the right men in the right place — the men for the time and the hour; and it is for us to stand by them, to hold up their hands, to rally round them and follow them; and God's work will triumph, his Kingdom will come in power and glory, and his holy will be done on earth even as it is done in heaven. Amen. 

The choir and  congregation sang one verse of: "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

A number of notices were read among them a statement that the choir would hold a concert in the Tabernacle, Friday, June 6, 5 p. m., when they would present Mendelsohn's oratorio, "St. Paul;" the Sunday School Union meeting would be held this evening in the Tabernacle; and a special Priesthood meeting in the Assembly Hall, Wednesday, June 4, 10 a. m. 

The choir sang the anthem: "Praise." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Heber S. Allen, of the Taylor stake. 


