Morning
02 06 1919


The congregation was called to order by President Heber J. Grant who presided. 

The choir and congregation sang: "High on the mountain top." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Duncan M. McAllister. 

Murray K. Roberts sang the solo  "My Faith in Thee." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

From the annual reports for the year 1918, we have compiled some information that I believe will be of interest to the Latter-day Saints : 

STATISTICS. 

During the year 1918, there were 14,761 baptisms and 15,963 children were blessed. There were 5,752 deaths, which is the largest number on record for any year. Of this number, 1,054 died of influenza and 862 died of pneumonia. 

MILITARY. 

Over 20,000 members of the Church were in the military service of the United States and its allies at the close of the year 1918. 'Of this number, 383 died in the service. We should have been allowed not less than twenty chaplains and we made application for permission to furnish our quota, but for some reason, unknown to us, we were only allowed to furnish three chaplains,  of whom saw active service at the front in France. 

PRIESTHOOD. 

There has been a better attendance of the priesthood at the ward weekly meetings but there are still 9,078 persons who hold the priesthood whom the Bishops report are willing to labor but have not been assigned to any duties in the stake or ward. 

TITHES. 

There has been a considerable' increase in the amount of tithes paid for the year 1918. The tithing has been well handled by the Bishops. V ery little loss has been incurred, except through the failure to find a market for the large potato crop of the year 1917. 

TEMPLES. 

There were 175,525 baptisms for the dead performed in the temples, and. there were 78,001 endowments for the living and the dead. The Hawaiian Temple is now practically completed at a cost of about $200,000.00. The Cardston Temple is nearing completion and will cost, when finished, about $600,000.00. 

SACRAMENT MEETINGS. 

In consequence of the quarantine and conditions 'prevailing during the epidemic of influenza in the latter part of the year 1918, the attendance at Sacrament meetings has 'fallen off and the visits of the ward teachers have not been as regular as in other years. 

FINANCES. 

The following are some of the expenditures paid out of the tithes and other Church funds during the year 1918: 

There has been expended for assisting the worthy poor . .$ 279,244.30 

For missionary work, and jbuilding iof meeting houses in the missions, imission houses and return fare of Elders. 345,761.51 

For the maintenance / and operation of the Church school system, including the erection of new school buildings . . . 695,561.70 

For the maintenance and operaiton of the St. George, Logan, Manti and Salt Lake Temples .... 170,000.00 

For the construction and equipment of the Hawaiian and Cardston Temples. . 340,036.17 

For the erection of meeting houses (This 'does not include donations for the same purpose by members of the respective wards) . . . 288,766.76 

For the maintenance of stakes and wards in all their various departments 526,002.91 

$2,645,373.35 

Attention has been called to the fact that the work which the Pioneers did in planting trees and in beautifying homes, farms, ward  houses, schools and other buildings, is being sadly neglected in the' Latter-day Saint communities. Our advice and counsel to the Latter-day Saints is to plant more trees, to get the best kinds adapted to each locality and grow itnem wherever they can be grown. 

In my remarks here yesterday I referred to the comments of a gentleman from St. Louis, who makes a specialty of parking and beautifying cities, and who stated that we are not living up to the very splendid record made in this particular by the early pioneers. A gentleman remarked to Brother McMurrin, on one occasion, that our whole city is a park, and it would be indeed a park if we carried out the advice given in early days, by President Brigham Young and others, that we should plant trees in the vacant spaces in front of our homes. 

As stated yesterday, I had the privilege of attending the Demicentennial Celebration ot the completion of the Union and Central Pacific Railroads at Ogden, and regretted that a report was not taken and published of the speeches of four officials of the Southern Pacific Railroad. I have just received a letter from one of the speakers, Mr. J. M. Fulton, enclosing a short extract from his address, on which I had personally complimented him. I desire to read this extract, in order that it may become part of our proceedings : 

But we all do, and must, remember that before either survey or construction of the Central or Union Pacific Railroads had commenced, a hardy, thrifty, industrious, God-loving people had shown that the desert, from the Missouri river to Utah, could be conquered. They were the pioneers who bjazed the trail to where we now are, and it is they who have made of Utah what it is today, but in my judgment, they did not then, do not now, conceive of the great future that lies before them. 

We find in this Valley, a vast production of sugar-beets, grains, fruit, livestock, and everything that man needs, ,and the blessing is that there is a home market for all that is produced. You have vast sugar factories, flour mills, canning plants, and your splendid meat packing establishment, all standing ready to take from the farmer for cash all that he produces. 

This cooperation will surely make of Utah a great and rich land. Nowhere else in the world do I know of such helpful cooperation between the producer and the manufacturer as shown in Utah, nor have I ever known a more hospitable people. It is the blood of those brave men, whom we all revere, who, for their love of God, dared the desert and sought a new land, who are now building and will soon make of Utah one of the greatest states of the Union. Even now, Utah manufactured commodities are finding a market in nearly every state, and in many foreign lands. 

And now, in conclusion, I, want to say to you that on this day you are driving a Spike of Gold into our hearts that will stay put, and we hope so worthy a people as you have a similar feeling for us. 

The chief engineer of the Southern Pacific Railroad, Mr.Wm. Hood, delivered a magnificent speech upon that occasion, paying one of the finest tributes to the pioneers that I have ever heard." I regret exceedingly that the enterprise of our newspapers was such that we only had pictures of the procession, page after page, but nothing 1 of the very splendid remarks that were made. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Home-building characteristics of the Latter-day Saints — One important duty of home-builders — The home threatened in the present world commotion — To save this sacred institution devolves upon the Saints— 

A few fundamental principles to be kept in mind: Honor, obedience, mutual service, eternity of th.e marriage relation — These spell Home, and comprehend the spirit in which the principles of life and salvation should be taught to children— The home of President Joseph F. Smith an example. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in having the privilege of uniting with you in this great spiritual feast. Yjesterday was Memorial day, and I pray that today may be equally rich in the outpouring of ' the Spirit of the Lord. In the most interesting remarks made just now by President Grant, reference was made to the home-beautifying characteristic of the Pioneers. That is just in keeping with the thought that is uppermost in my mind this morning. The Pioneers were home builders in the truest, most f unda-  mental sense. 

I would like to read that important passage from Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the Lord says plainly what one important duty of home-builders 1 is : "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the Living God and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized; * * * and they shall also teach their children to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord." 

We are living in a most momentous age. We see on every hand manifestations of commotion. The  seemingly is stirred as it has never been stirred before. Political institutions are crumbling. Old forms and methods are fast giving way to new ones. Political organizations are being revolutionized, some for better and some for worse. Old fundamental principles of government are tottering. Some have even been replaced by theories that are not tenable, others not practicable, and some that are infamous. 

In the midst of this world-commotion the home, the fundamental institution of society, is ako threatened. In contrast to this fundamental instruction given by the Lord I should like to read what I found, yesterday, written by a man who has taken a general survey of the condition of the world in regard to the home : 

"Many maintain that we are ready for a movement into community living. There are those who raise the question whether family life is a permanent form of social organization for which we may wisely contend. Pr is it but a phase from which the race is now emerging? Some men see signs that the ties of marriage will be but temporary, that children will be born, not into families, but into the life of the State, bearing only mothers' names and knowing no brothers and sisters, save in that brotherhood of the State." 

The author of that paragraph wrote those sentiments before the revolution in Russia, but you who have followed the anarchy that followed the overthrowing of the autocratic form of government in that land realize how literally some men have attempted to strike at the sacredness and the perpetuity of family life. 

Latter-day Saints, the responsibility of saving this sacred institu devolves largely upon you, for you know that the family ties are eternal. They should be eternal. There is nothing temporary in the home of the Latter-day Saint. There is no element of transitoriness in the family relationship of the Latter-day Saint home. That all such ties are eternal should be maintained. To the Latter-day Saint the home is truly the cellunit of society; and parentnood is next to Godhood. The relationship of the children to the parents should be one which would enable those children to carry out ideal citizenship as they become related to the State and to the larger forms of society. The secret of good citizenship lies in the home. The secret of instilling faith in God, faith in his Son, the Redeemer of the world, faith in the organizations of the Church, lies in the home. There it is .centered. C God has placed .upon you parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children. Church schools, Sunday schools, Mutual Improvement associations. Primary and Religion classes are all helps in government, established here to assist in the upbuilding and guidance of the youth, but none of these — great and important factors as they are in the lives of our youth — can supplant the permanence and the influence of the parents in the home. 

There are a few fundamental principles which we should ever keep in mind. First, the eternity of the marriage relation. Oh, may our youth throughout the land realize that they have within their grasp the possibilities of that form of marriage which will contribute more Jto their happiness r in this world and their eternal union and happiness in the world to come than can be obtained anywhere else in the world. Let our young men and women look forward with pride, with eagerness, to the time when, in worthiness, they may go to the House of God and have their love sealed by the bonds of the eternal priesthood. No element that is temporary in such union as that! Nothing that is passing with the years; but binding for time and all eternity. Second, let us hold to that first word in the second part of the fundamental law of humanity, the ten commandments. Those first few commandments refer to our relationship to God. The last few to our relationship to humanity. The second part begins with the word honor — "Honor thy father and thy mother." Let us cherish in our homes as we cherish the lives of our children themselves, that word honor with all the synonyms — respect, reverence, veneration; honoring mother, honoring father, having them honor us as we honor and revere God our eternal Father. Let the element of honor, devotion, reverence permeate the home life. Thirdly, let us never lose sight of the principle of obedience. Obedience is heaven's first law, and it is the law of the home. There can be no true happiness in the home without obedience — obedience obtained, not through physical force, but through the divine element of love. There is no home without love. You may have a palace and yet not have a home, and you may live in a log house with a dirt roof, and a dirt floor, and have there the most glorious home in all the world, if within those four log walls there per the divine principle ot love, love that draws from husband to wife and from children to parents, that blessed obedience and compliance that makes life worth while. 

I believe firmly that parents fail to get obedience from their children during the first five years of childhood. I believe that during that most important period of child life the parents sow the .seeds of obedience or disobedience. Some of us fill that period of child life with too many don'ts, failing to make the child realize that a request from father, a request from mother should be complied with. Mother says : "Don't touch that," to the little child. The little child toddles along and touches it. What is the result? The seeds of disobedience are sown. You don't have to punish the little child. Lovingly, kindly, but firmly, teach the child that there are" rules in the house which should be obeyed. Mothers, fathers, treasure sacredly and sense keenly your responsibility to the child during those first five plastic years of its life. With these home elements I desire to mention another, and that is mutual service, each working for the other. If some of these pernicious theories to which I referred shall prevail and take out from the home the relationship of parents to children and children to parents, and children to each other, they will deprive humanity of one of the greatest means of teaching the true spirit of Christ — sacrifice for each other, salvation through service. O that home is most beautiful in which you find each striving to serve the other, and you find them, too, all through the Church. Here is a  woman whose father, through misfortune, lost his wealth. She is compelled to get a profession, follow it for her livelihood and to assist the parents. The call comes for her brother, younger than she, to go on a mission. He hasn't much means, he hasn't any. The ward, through entertainments and service, pays his fare to his missionary field, and the sister for two years, shares her scanty means to keep him there preaching the gospel of Christ. He comes home in honor, having served his Lord and brought honest souls to a realization of the eternal principles of life. When he throws his arms around his sister in the home greeting, he says : "Sister, I owe you much, I owe you a lot of money, too." She answers: "'Not one cent. I have been delighted to contribute my mite in that great work." Mutual service in the home, the Christ spirit! Two testimonies strengthened through service and self sacrifice. I tell you we cannot afford to eliminate that element from home life. 

Just by way of impressing these principles upon your minds I will say, incidentally, that if I change the order slightly you will find that by combining the first letters they will spell home, and it seems to me they comprehend the spirit in which the principles of life and salvation should be taught to children. Honor, obedience, mutual service, eternity of the marriage relation. God help us as parents to send from our homes true Latter-day Saints, boys and girls who cio not hesitate to bear testimony of their membership in the Church, more than that, boys and girls who are eager to go out into the world and bear testi to the world that the marriage relationship is an" eternal one, that the home is a permanent and eternal institution against which no theory that strikes at the purity and honor of womanhood, that deprives children of fatherhood, or the love of mother, can stand or in any way attack that institution. God help us fathers and mothers to build such homes. While we are beautifying th em without, keep within them the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

In this respect, I know of no better example than the home of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith. His sons, his daughters, his wives, are true to the gospel, true to the truth. Thev loved and honored President Smith, but through that they love and honor that which is even greater — the truth, the gospel. His closing words to his sons and daughters, I think, are a classic. On November 10, 1918, he expressed his heart's truest sentiments to those boys and girls who stood around him saying, and mind you, these are almost his last words: "When I look around me and see my boys and my girls whom the Lord has given to me— and I realize I have succeeded, with his help, to make them tolerably comfortable and at least respectaable in the world — I have reached the treasure of my life, the whole substance that makes life worth living." God sanctify those words to us that we, too, may obtain "the treasure of life — the whole substance that makes life worth living." I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

J. R. Boshard and Elizabeth Evans sang a duet : "Thy Kingdom of Love." ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS 

The surrender of Lord Cornwallis an event of great importance, bearing on today's civil and religious liberty — The past year the most eventful in the history of both Government and Church — Our direct contact with the great world war — The stupendous accomplishment of our Nation in the war — The need of united effort in Church and Nation — Capital and Labor must be brought together in union of interest — We must have just laws and men of character to administer them — Fewer politicans and more unselfish statesmen — God give us men who will stand for the right and for law and order in both Church and Nation. 

"For the former things art. passed away, and he that sat uppL the throne said : Behold I make all things new." 

The proceedings of the conference, my brethren and sisters, and my own reflections, as I have thought of the immediate past, and the probabilities' of the future, have prompted me to read this scripture from tb)e revelation to St. John, upon the Isle of Patmos, as a basis for the brief remarks which I expect to make this morning. 

It is now 137 years since the Surrender of Lord Cornwatlis, and the British Army which he commanded, at Yorktown, which made possible the establishment of the confederacy of the states known as the United States of America. It was an event which meant more to the people of the world than men of the time dreamed. It is true that representatives of the three millions of people who constituted the original thirteen colonies, hoped, and expected that the system which they founded would endure, that the right of self-government would descend  their children, that America would become and forever remain a gathering place, an asylum, for the oppressed and down-trodden of all nations, but that the seed sown at that time would within a period of 137 years result in the breaking clown of kingcraft, the crash of monarchies, and the establishment of free government throughout the civilized .world was neither hoped for nor expected. It was an event of great importance to the, world and particularly so to us who are members of the Church of Christ be-  cause it opened the way for the breaking down of religious prejudice and recognition of the doctrine that just as man was entitled to enjoy life, liberty, and to pursue happiness in his own way, so long as he did not interfere with the rights of his neighbor, so was it his privilege to worship the Lor,d according to the dictates of conscience, let him worship who, where or what he may desire. 

Eio-hty-nine years ago the Church was organized, and since tha^ time it has been the custom of the members to meet together on the 6th day of April in general conference, as we are assembled here today, the present date being somewhat delayed because of circumstances over which we had no control. The purpose of these meetings is to transact the business of the Church, review the past, and plan for the future, that we may determine by comparison the growth and development of the Church. The present is, of course, of greater importance to us than either the past or future, because it is our day,, but our lives are so closely associated with the past and the future is of so great impor- to us, that we cannot confine ourselves entirely to existing conditions. By the experiences of the past, if we are discreet, we learn wisdom. The paths trodden by those who have passed away are paths of safety, or danger, to us 'as they have been to those who have walked in them before us. The pitfalls are marked, the shoals and reefs have been charted, and only a careless or headstrong mariner will fall into the pits, or 

- drive his vessel upon the rocks where others have been wrecked. Since the establishment of the the Church, both Church and Nation have experienced periods of trial which have shaken the very foundations upon which they rest. There have been times when the perpeturity of the government has been threatened by war with foreign powers, and by fratricidal strife; but upon each occasion it has emerged stronger, more steadfast than before. The same condition applies to the Church, it has been assailed by enemies from without and by schisms within, but notwithstanding these efforts to destroy it, it has with each succeeding 1 year grown stronger, extending its power and influence for good as the years have rolled by. We are now met together again, representatives of the Church from all parts of the world, where the gospel has been preached and branches of the Church organized, to review occurrences of the most eventful vear in our history, the 

, most eventful year in the history of the modern world, to consider the requirements of the Church and the Government of which we form a part and. plan for the future, in so, far as we are capable of doing with our finite wisdom and knowledge. 

I refer to both the government and the Church because to me that which is vital to one is of equal importance to the other. Without just laws by which society may be controlled and the rights of the people protected, and honest, conscientious men to administer them, the Church cannot exist. It never has been able to exist without them; and without the influence of the Church, which teaches honesty, morab>^ ^"votion to dutv, respect for the law and the patriotic support of the men who enact and enforce, there cannot, in mv opinion, -"A just government. 

Dunne the past vear the Church has been brought into direct contact for the first time with a great world war. It is true that on other occasions comparatively small numbers of its members have served in the armies of our country, but never before has the effect of war been so universally felt and the people put to a similar test. Believing, as we do, in the divine doctrine of peace, as it was taught by the Redeemer of the world, abhorring the shedding of blood, believing in the universal fatherhood of God and brotherhood of man, war was abhorrent to us; but when our country called, when it became necessarv to take up arms in defense of the principles for which our government stands, we responded as cheerfully and performed our part as bravely as did anv other citizens of the republic. 

During the past year, as has been stated, one of the most desolating scourges of sickness ever known has passed over the land. An unprecedented number of our Church members have been stricken, and many of our most useful and esteemed brethren and sisters have passed away. During the past year the Church has lost, as you all know, its honored, esteemed and beloved president. For seventeen years President Smith had presided over the Church, had directed its policy and to a great extent shaped its destiny. We believed in the divinity of his prophetic calling, had confidence in his wisdom and judgment, felt that -his example and teachings were indispensable to the welfare of the Church, but the Lord saw fit to take him, and call another to stand in his place, a new man to direct the policy of the Church in this new era upon which we are entering, in this new world, for the world of 1919 is not the same world which existed a year ago. The government, like the Church, has passed through experiences, the like of which have never before been known. No nation has ever before, within the same period of time, mobilized from raw recruits, armed and equipped, transported across the sea, furnished commissary for, trained and sent to the battle front such an army of fighting men as has the United States of America. Men may criticise that which has been 'done, raav tell you how it might have been better done, but the fact remains that the most stupendous undertaking which the world has even known has been successfully accomplished. 

One year ago the question of the courage and devotion of the American soldier, when he might reach the old world, was one of common discussion. Since the events winch occurred one vear ago vesterday and today, when American marines and infantry, for the first time went into action at ChateauThierry, that question has been set  rest, for never before in the history of the world have men shown greater courage, greater devotion, greater self-sacrifice than has the American soldier upon the battle fields of France. Men have criticised, and will continue to criticise, that splendid citizen-soldier who has commanded our armies abroad, will tell you that the success of our arms was not due to his intelligence or generalship, but it is a wellknown fact that no American commander was ever before confronted bv conditions so difficult and well nigh insurmountable and that under his leadership the war was brought to a speedy and successful termination. Men have criticised, and 1 suppose will continue to criticise and seek to belittle the man who has stood as the representative of the American people, and American ideals, through this critical and eventful period; will question his judgment, his patriotism, and will not hesitate to grossly attack his character in their efforts to discredit his administration, but the fact remains, and will be so written in history, that President Wilson has been confronted by the most difficult, the most intricate and complex questions which have ever confronted a President of the United States. The Lord be praised that he has managed them as well as he has. 

You may ask : what has this to do with this conference and the welfare of the Church? I have called attention to the fact that we are entering upon a new era, are upon the threshold of a new world. Changes have come to the Church, and many other changes will come. I cannot perceive "ay careful personal observation; that these changes have created a ripple of confusion or dissension in the 

Church. Without exception this splendid body of men who make up the presiding authorities of the Church, stand solidly behind the new Presidency, and if this condition shall continue there can be no doubt regarding the success of this administration; but let me ask you this question : Suppose that we who are nearest to President Grant and his counselors, these presidents of stakes, were constantly seeking occasion to discredit that which they do, criticising their policy without offering a better, sowing the seeds of dissension among the people, suppose that* we, in order to ai. complish our own ambitious purposes, were sowing the seeds of distrust and dissension among the members of the Church, how long would it continue to exist? it would soon be converted into broken fragments without cohesion or power. Not one of us, ' I am sure, desires this condition; and if we adhere to our past and present policy, each man and woman seeking first the establishment of the Kingdom of Heaven upon earth, and the Lord's righteousness, it will never come, but the Church will enter upon this new era with a strength and power of development such as it has never before known. What I say of the Church I apply to the Government. We need it. We must have it, and I can not conceive that we can be true to one and untrue to the other. I can not conceive that I have obligations of duty and service to my brethren and sisters in the Church which I do not owe to my fellow citizens in the State, and if I see danger ahead for my country, it is my duty to declare it as it is to ward off' danger from the Church, and I fancy that I see such danger  my country. The State, like the Church, is entering upon a new era, is upon the threshold of a new world. Without sacrificing fundamentals, old policies and prejudices must give way, selfishness, the curse of the modern world, whether it be personal, community or national, must give way to a broader, more liberal, more statesmanlike policv, The selfishness of the poor, who look with greedy eyes upon the possessions of those who, by their industry and economy, have accumulated plenty, and a desire to take it without the consent of the owner, or giving value received for it, the inordinate selfishness and greed of the rich, who grind down the poor, who shut their eyes and close their ears to the cry of the needy in order that they may add to their ill-gotten gains, are the two great elements of danger which I see for our government. Governments have been wrecked by them since the beginning of time. Why should we close our eyes to the experiences of the past? Some means must be found by which those who toil, who produce the wealth of the world, may more justly share in the fruits of their labors. \ By which those who have in abundance may be protected in the possession of that which is justly theirs. Unless a plan be found bv which capital and labor may be brought together on a basi> of riarhteousness, the time is not far distant when the condition 1; which prevail in the old world will be enacted in our own beloved country. One thing is indispensable to the perpetuity of our system of government. 

It is not so much the enactment of just laws, however important th:.t may be, as it is the character of the men who administer them; 

ir th" best of laws, if administered by selfish, dishonest men, amount to little nothing. What our country needs, is more unselfish statesmen and fewer professional politicians. Personally I can see little difference between the man 

1 who by sabbotage prevents the harvesting of the crops of the West, where the people cry for bread, stops f kf "'heels of the factories in the East, while the people shiver with cold, and the member of Congress who, by sabbotage, under another name, obstructs legislation, stops the wheels of commerce, refuses appropriations designed to proyi.de for the industries of the Country, to feed its army, provide for its navy and- render assistance to a dying world which in anguish looks on and cries for succor, and all to accomplish his own ambitious purposes and satisfy his petty spite. It seems to me that never before were the words 01 T. G. Holland more anplicable than they are today, when we are confronted by these universal worldwide conditions, which either mean the destruction of society or its protection. He long ago said : "God give us men. A time like this requires strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands; men whom the lust of office does not kill, men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; for while the rabble 

with their thumb-worn creeds, their great pretentions and their little deeds, mingle in selfish strife, lo freedom weeps, wrong rules the land, and waiting justice sleeps." 

The Lord has spoken plainly to us who are of the Church upon this question, has told us that many are called but few are chosen. Why (are they not chosen? Because  hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and -aspire to the honors of men, that they forget this one lesson : that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the poweis of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled or exercised, except upon principles of righteousness; that whenever we use it to accomplish our own amibitious purposes, to satisfy 'our own pride or exercise dominion by 'compulsion over the souls of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, amen to the priesthood and authority of that man. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters that this doctrine applies to men who are engaged in the administration of civil affairs, as it does to those who are engaged in work for the Church; for whether men believe it or not, the powers of heaven do dominate this earth, and woe to the man who ignores it. He will reap that which he sows, as many people in the world today are reaping the harvest from the seed which they have sown. And so my appeal to you is to put away from us all, as far as we can, personal selfishness and ambition, to desist from unjust criticism of the men in the Church, and in the State, who stand for that which is right for the maintenance of law and order, for the protection of tht rights of society, that we give patriotic and unselfish service to both the Church and the State, service which is freely given; for a gift given or duty performed, if done grudgingly, counts us for little or nothing. May the Lord help us, my brethren and sisters, to look into this new world with enlarged vision, to comprehend our duties to it, and to each other, and faith perform them. I humbly pray. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have been listening to truth, so we will ask the congregation to arise and join in singing John Jaques's inspired hymn — "O, Say, What is Truth :" 

O, say, what is truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; 

And priceless the value of truth will be when 

The> proud monarch's costliest diadem 

Is counted* but dross and refuse. 

Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize To which mortals or Gods > can aspire: 

Go search in the depths where it 

glittering lies, Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest 

skies, 

'Tis an aim for the noblest desire. 

The sceptre may fall from the despot's grasp, When with winds of stern justice he copes, 

But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, 

And its firm-rooted bulwarks outstand the rude blast, And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. 

Then, say, what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, For the limits of time it steps o'er: Though the heavens depart, and the 

earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, Eternal, unchanged, evermore. 

J. Jaques. 

Following the singing of the hymn, President Grant said: 

Usually, in our conference proceedings, the hymn is mentioned  the first line recorded, but I would request Brother Edward H. Anderson, our clerk, to see that in publishing the proceedings of this conference, this inspired hymn shall appear in full. 

Since our last meeting the vacancy caused by the .death of our beloved President has been filled by my being taken from the Council of the Twelve, creating a vacancy in that Council, and Brother Melvin J. Ballard has been sustained by you here, yesterday, to fill the vacancy in the Council of the Twelve. We will now ask Brother Ballard to occupy the balance of the time in this meeting. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Scourges have a lesson and a meaning of great significance — Testimonies of Nature — The wisdom of men cannot counteract the scourges of God — Through calamities and judgments the Lord often touches the hearts of men — Why the innocent and the good suffer affliction — The answer from the Lord who speaks through the suffering of the good, that all mav repent — Let us therefore resolve to serve God better than ever that we may escape the judgments or tomorrow — Danger in material prosperity — But God is at the helm. 

The circumstance which has postponed the -annual conference of the Church from April until June has already been commented upon. I feel, however, that it is a matter of sufficient importance to call your attention to it again, i believe that the events that have transpired have a lesson and a meaning of great significance to the Latter-day Saints and to . the world. I believe that it is pleasing to the Lord for us to contemplate these things that are occurring, ana to learn the lessons which he intends we should and, therefore, mv mind and my thoughts have been ''welling upon this matter for some time past. I believe that the Lord understood exactly what was to transpire. I read in the , first section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, in the Lord's preface to this book, that he, the Lord, knowing those things that would happen in the last days, the judgments that would come, war and pestilence, etc., spoke through his servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith and addressed the whole world through this humble instrumentality, revealing the fulness of the everlasting gospel, giving command that the elders of the Church should carr\ this message and warning, that this is the hour of God's judgment, and that the Lord had provided the means of escape through the restoration of the everlasting gospel, and that the elders of the Church were to carry this message to the islands of the sea and to the nations of the earth. I believe, as we review the efforts of our brethren — our fathers,/)ur grandfathers, who have endeavored to perform this duty, that they stand with their skirts clear of the blood, of this generation. By thousands and tens of thousands they have gone to the islands of the sea, to the lands of the earth, to countries where they were not wanted, where they were imprisoned, and from which they were exiled, and many of them have given up their lives there, through being; martyred or through disease. They have given their best. Nothing has deterred them. - None of the things of the earth that are attractive to men have swerved these brethren from the  of their duty; so that we have, I believe, a record that is clean and clear, and we have performed our duty towards the world. 

Among those judgments which the Lord said would come — after the testimony of his servants, crying repentance to the nations of the earth, and offering the means of escape through the acceptance of his gospel — should be the testimonies of thunder, of lightning, of earthquakes, of the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, of plague, 01 famine and of pestilence. I believe in my soul that the Lord is speaking to the nations of the earth, following the testimony of his humble servant. You will recall, in the forty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants what the Lord said to his servant, the Prophet Joseph, concerning some of these judgments. I believe that in part at least we find a fulfilment of one of the calamities that the Lord said would come in consequence of the wickedness and the rebellion of the people against that message which the Lord . delivered for the salvation of the world. You will find it in the thirty-first verse. "There shall be men standing in that generation" — the generation in which he was then speaking — "that shall not pass, until they shall see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land." We may have laughed at that. Men have, in the past, tried to relegate the judgments of God into the < realm of accident, things that have happened because of the ignorance of men. I recall, mvself. reading how that the great black plague r*"' 1 other plasties that have infesten the world have been attributed to  ignorance of the people; and writers, modern .scientists, have said, that such a thing never could happen again, because we know so much about the laws of sanitation, how to correct disease and control it; and they have told us that such a scourge could not occur in this day. We stand at the zenith of our knowledge; never- before have men known so much about bacteriology and sanitation; and yet coming from unknown quarters, and making its way — men do not know how — from city to city, from individual to inividual, there has come upon the world this dread affliction that has affected us so that our general conference had to be postponed. I believe in my soul that it is the Lord speaking, even as he has spokei. , before, when men undertook to build so they could preserve themselves against calamities. When they built a tower to reach so high that the floods of the earth could not touch them, he was greater than all their towers. He stands above all man's . feeble efforts to protect himself from the calamities antr judgments that are going to come upon the children of men, if they do not repent. You recall how that after th<* building of what was termed the "non-sinkable ship," the great Titanic, it sailed away from the shores of England, with a boast on the lips the men and women who drank their toast to the wonderful achievements of men in building a non-sinkable ship. Little did they think that in a few houra that great ship would strike an iceberg and go down to the depths of the sea. 

So, no man has been able to build so well, and no man has yet acquired knowledge and informa so that he can secure himself against the hand of the Lord, if he desires to reach him and touch him; for we stand helpless before him. Physicians have discussed the subject of the influenza-pneumonia scourge, and have adjourned -their meetings unable to decide just what it is. They have called it the "unknown disease," or the "X disease." Ordinary nurses have been more successful than skilled physicians in preserving the lives of many. The deaths that have occurred in the world are appalling. Recently w learned that in India alone there have been more than six million persons who have died with this affliction. When I have contrasted the results among the Latter-dav Saints, I believe that I am safe in saying that no community in the world has been touched so lightly as the Latter-day Saints. There are th'^e huixlrc' thousand people living in Portland, Oregon, and T remember that it was reported that two thousand persons perished there during the inflneiii'- 1 epidemic. c ^ there were twir*» °<? many deaths from x that cause in Portland, last year, as there were in the entire Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints, and its population is certainly greater than three hundred tbr-'icand. Yet Portland ha r1 a record, according to the sta tistics, lower than most of the cities in the United States. My heart was touched, because many times we had to administer the last rites for those who did not belong to the Church. The morgues were full, and there were not enough ministers to conduct the services. I remember being greatly affected when we put into one grave three beautiful children, from one family, and laying mothers into the graves, who were taken away from their children, who were greatly in need of their help. 

I recall one circumstance when at the cemetery three funerals were being conducted at the same time, and we were so close together that we had to wait our turn in giving the opportunity for each group of mourners, peacefully, to lay their dead into the ground. My heart was touched, I say, as I listened to .the wail of grief that came forth from each group of mourners as the last rites were said. I withdrew behind a little clump of trees and cried earnestly to my Father in Heaven to know why innocent children, should perish, why mothers should be taken away who were needed in their families — good, true Latter-day Saints, many of them. I received an answer which was satisfactory to my soul, and it was that this was the judgment of God, even as he had said that his judgments would be poured out upoi, the nations of the earth, if they did not repent; that the Lord wa, h speaking to the children of men, be<-?vz the day of the coming; of t\v Redeemer was nigh at hand, an 1 men could not live in their wickeaness and see him. They must repent or they , shall perish, and the Lord was trying to touch the hearts of the children of men through this judgment. 

But why the Latter-day Sain'.s — why should they be afflicted? They have received the message of the gospel, or their fathers, in foreign lands, and have, tn a measure at least, accepted of the means of escape from these calamities. Then the words of one of those revelaiV> ".s came to my mind, which was fully .satisfactory to me. I refer to the ninety-seventh section of tht  of Doctrine and Covenants, with which perhaps you are all familiar. You will rind in the twenty-second verse what I am now reading: 

"For behold, ana lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly — and who shall escape it?" 

"The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yet it shall not be stayed . until the Lord come." 

In that connection I want toi read you something from the fifth section of the book of Covenants, dealing with this . subject; for, lei us not say to ourselves that we are out of the woods, that the trouble is past, and' no more trouble will come. I would to the Lord that we had arrived at thai state, when this would be possible, but we are not there yet. You will find here in the nineteenth verse of the fifth section : 

"For a desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall continue to be poured out, from time to time, if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and the inhabitants thereof are consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my coming." 

That is the word of the Lord. ^ T ow I do not understand that the plague of influenza shall continue until the Lord comes, but I do think that one form or another of chastisement shall follow, with its "seasons for repentance, for the preaching of the gospel, and crying- to the nations of the earth: /'Will .you now listen unto the Lord," and. if they shall not listen, then another affliction will come, until men shall either repent, or they shall perish. For these are  last days, the days preceding the coming of the Redeemer, and he will not come when the wicked stand and flourish. Reading again from the ninety-seventh section : 

\"For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works." 

Now here is the answer for ourselves : '' : H 

"Nevertheless, Zion shall escape, if. she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. 

"But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire." 

Mv brethren and sisters, why should we hope to escape, who have been baptized into this Church, yet ignore the commandments of the Lord? For there are among us those who do not keep the Word of Wisdom, some of us do not pay our tithing; we do not sanctify ourselves by adding unto our faith, virtue; to virtue, knowledge, to knowledge, temperance, and patience, and godliness, and brotherly kindness. Why should we claim exemption — we who know the truth, we who have been warned, we who will testify that we believe God has spoken — why should we escape if we do not keep the commandments of the Lord? And T say this with a feeling in my heart of deep appreciation that the Latter-day Saints are, notwithstanding all this, the best people in the world; and I have received a witness to my soul that the innocent children and faithful Latter-day Saints were not taken because they were wicked, nor because the families that were touched needed to be chastised more than others, but that the Lord was speaking through those who  been taken — these one thousand who have gone from us. . The Lord is speaking through them to the whole Church, crying repemance unto us, calling us to set our houses in order, to keep the commandments of the Lord. 

When I read that wonderful statement in the concluding verse of the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom, wherein the Lord promised that those who would seek to keep these commandments, that he would make them immune, that the destroyer should not destroy them unnecessarily, before their day and time. As I read the statement that those who were guilty of the excessive use of tobacco had fallen easy victims to the influenza, I thought that the Lord, in giving us the Word of Wisdom, was trying to make the Latter-day Saints 1 immune, so that they might stand in the midst of the plagues and judgments that are to come. We will not escape them; we will be touched by them; but I want to testify to you that when the Latterday Saints turn to the Lord and keep his commandments, and serve him in all things that have been required, these judgments shall not harm us; and our loved ones shall not go from us until the day appointed for them to go has come. But if we shall be touched, it is because the Lord is preparing us to stand in our places to be a light among the nations of the earth, the salt, the very savor of the world; and we cannot be that except we keep the commandments of the Lord. 

So in my own mind and soul, I have resolved that I am going to serve God better than I have ever done; that I am going to learn this lesson, that I do not want any more whippings; that I want to be willing and amenable today, so that the judgments of tomorrow need not fall upon me. I know that many of our brethren and sisters who have perished were worthy to go; and those who need repentance have stayed, that they may repent. I pray in my soul that the Lord will comfort and bless those who have been bereaved; for he knew whom he could touch. Many who h.'.ve suffered the loss of their loved oneshave been able to endure it, because they had faith; and had it touched other families, it might have wrecked them. The Lord knew who could stand this affliction, and so he has administered it, I believe, for the wise purpose of calling us unto him, calling us back to the standards of our fathers. 

I glory in the achievements of the past. I glory in the material growth and .development of this Church. It shall not suffer under the administration of the man whom the Lord has called now to lead and direct the affairs of this Church; for he is competent fully to take care of those matters. But I do feel, brethren and sisters, that there is dansrer that in the material growth of this Church we may lose sight of the other features that are more essential. I feel there is danger, in the midst of this material prosperity, that we may be disposed to build ourselves up financially rather than to devote ourselves to the accomplishment of the great work that the Lord laid upon the shoulders of our fathers, namely, to convert the world and to save ourselves. The financial prosperity that has come to the Latter-day Saints is but a steppingstone, if we only consider it properly, to prepare us to fulfil the  obligations that rest upon us, and not to excuse ourselves from carrying the message of the gospel to a world whom the Lord is trashing, and whom he will thrash. Let us prepare our hearts to go when the time shall come, and make the kind of sacrifice our fathers have made, and do our part in spreading the truth among the nations of the earth. This is my earnest desire. 

I bear witness that this is the Lord's work; that he is at the helm. The light is in the ship, and it will go steadily forward. I know, as I know that I live, that this is the work of our Father. I know that Jesus Christ lives, that he is the Redeemer and Savior of the world. I know it as well as I know that I look upon your faces today. When the day shall come that, like Thomas of old, I may thrust my hand into his side or feel the prints of the nails in his hands and feet; or like Mary, I may bathe his feet with my tears, I shall not know it any better than I know it today; for I know that he lives, that he is the redeemer of the world and that he did speak to the' Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that this is the Lord's work; that he is in it, and it will rise triumphant and go forward. 

My heart rejoices in the privilege of being identified with this work. T feel thankful that I have the confidence and the love of my brethren, and oh, my heart rejoices that I do have their love and confidence. I felt very humble in my soul when President Grant informed me, as I stated yesterday, that the Lord had made it known to him that I should continue my labors in the ministry, and that I should be one of the special witnesses of the Lord Jesus, and I said: 

"President Grant, if I thought I could be worthy to be pne of the special witnesses of the Lord, Jesus, it would be the happiest moment of my life; for I esteem that the highest honor that could come to man.'' But my ideal of the kind of men 'they ought to be was so great, and I found myself not measuring up to that standard, which I have in my own mind. Yet, with the help of the Lord and the patience of my brethren, I will do as I have said : I will try to be what you want me to be — a servant of the people; and with all the power and strength of my mind and soul I shall try to be faithful to this trust and to be a worthy representative of the Lord Jesus in the  earth. I feel small; I feel little; I feel insignificant; but knowing, as I have known through the thirteen years that I have spent in the missionary field, that the Lord will help the weak and make them strong, I depend upon him and your love, your fellowship and your support. I know this work will go forward. I know that the spirit of the prophet now rests upon the president of this Church; that is my witness and testimony. The dogs may bark, but the grand, majestic Caravan, the Church of the living God, will move on triumphantly. God bless it forever and ever, and help us to keep loyal and true to it and put ourselves in the way so that we may receive the divine favor of our Fatherland escape the afflictions of the world. If we shall be faithful and true, I know that every promise and blessing that has been pronounced upon our heads will be realized and verified, which may God grant in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir ' and congregation sang: "For the strength of the hills," and the benediction was offered by Patriarch Frederick A. Mitchell. 


