Overflow
01 06 1919


An overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, Sunday morning, June 1, 10:45 o'clock, presided over by President Seymour B. Young, of the First Council of Seventy. 

The music was furnished by the Latter-day Saints University students choir, under the direction of B. Cecil Gates. 

The choir and' congregation sang : ''How firm a foundation, ye Saints 

of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in his excellent word." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy. 

The choir sang: "I put my trust in thee." 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren, sisters, friends, and strangers — We bid you all welcome here to our general conference. We hail this as. a very auspicious day for the renewal of the gatherings of our annual conference, which was postponed on account of conditions that were very unpropitious during the regularly appointed time, 6th of April, last. 

This is the anniversary of the birthday of President Brigham Young, the great pioneer of this western country. Hence I consider this a very proper day for holding our deferred general annual conference. In the large Tabernacle, we have just completed the grand ceremony of sustaining by the votes of the presiding quorums of the priesthood the general authorities of the Church. They were sustained by a rising vote of the quorums of the priesthood, separated and seated in  portions of the tabernacle; then followed the sustaining vote of the entire congregation. 

It is suggested that we now give you the same privilege, of rising when you cast your vote sustaining the general authorities of the Church. This is the 89th annual conference of the Church. 

It is proposed that we sustain Heber J. Grant as Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

All arise, and all who favor this proposition will signify it by raising the right hand. (Unanimous vote.) 

The other general authorities of the Church were then presented and sustained in like manner, and as presented in the assembly at the Tabernacle. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

When the king of England dies, a herald is sent out to make the announcement, which he does in this form : "The King is dead. Long live the King." No sooner is the announcement made that the king is dead than it is followed by the other sentence, Long live the king. It is an announcement which means that though the king has just died, yet England has not been an instant without a ruler. In one breath the passing of one monarch is made known, and the all hail given to his immediate successor. That is the theory of the British constitution, that while kings may come and go, the British sovereign always is, and there is no lapse in succession to the throne. In some such way that is true of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints also. From the time it was organized by divine ap of God there has never been a moment when there has not been a President of the Church of Jesus Christ in the earth. And although presidents may come and go in the future, my faith is that there will never be a time when there is not an immediate successor in the presidency. The constitution of the Church makes this provision. 

The presiding authority in the Church consists of three high priests, who constitute the presidency of the high priesthood of the Church, and also the presidency of the Church. They are chosen, upheld and sustained by the priesthood of the Church, and also by all the congregations of the Church, for all things must be done by common consent in the Church, and no officer in the Church; from the presidency thereof down to the humblest branch president in the Church can hold his place and exercise the function of his office otherwise than by the consent of the body of people over whom he is called to preside. There is none exempt from this constitutional regulation of the Church. It was so from the begin r ning; for although the Prophet Joseph Smith had received the keys of the holy priesthood, and God had communicated to him his mind and his will, yet when it came to the organization of the Church, and the time had arrived for him to exercise the authority which God had given him over others, he was informed that he must call the brethren and sisters together who had been baptized, and obtain their consent to organize the Church. This great question was submitted to that little band of people, the organization being effected, of course, by six members in order to comply with the law of the State of New York re religious organizations. The question was submitted to them, and they voted upon it, and they sustained Joseph Smith as the first elder and Oliver Cowdery as the second elder of the Church, and thus this Church by divine appointment of officers and their being sustained by the membership of the Church, was brought into existence — this great institution now known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Today we are repeating the things that were done from the commencement, and are privileged to exercise the same right in saying who it is that we will accept from our hearts to be the general authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

We stand at the point where one presidency leaves us, and another is inaugurated. I think it is fitting that we should not only have our minds drawn out towards the man who is taking on new responsibilities, viz., President Heber J. Grant, but that we should also remember in loving kindness the faithful labors of him who, so short a time ago, was the President, and very worthily the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, viz., President Joseph F. Smith. Those of us who were in close association with him and who knew him and worked with him, cannot, I think, look upon this inauguration of a new president without calling to mind the devotion, the fidelity, and the splendid administrative abilities of Joseph F. Smith, son of Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the Church, the second presiding Patriarch of the Church, succeeding the father of the Prophet Joseph, who was the first presiding Patriarch of the Church. This man Hyrum Smith was a man upon whom the Lord conferred very splendid and very great blessings, especially in regard to his posterity. Blessings and promises that had been previously pronounced upon the head of Oliver Cowdery were also gathered up and placed upon the head of Hyrum Smith and his posterity after him. And truly the blessing has been realized in the posterity of Hyrum Smith, for I think there is no other man in the Church from the beginning until now who has been more abundantly blessed in his posterity than has Hyrum Smith. He was blessed in his two sons, the late Patriarch John Smith, who for so many years was a prominent figure in our community, and known throughout the Church, many thousands of the Saints receiving patriarchal blessings under his hands. Hyrum Smith was likewise blessed, and splendidly blessed, in the person of his great son Joseph F. Smith, who for so many years devoted himself to the work of the ministry in the days of his youth, and finally was brought into the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, while yet a young man, which position he held for many years. At the inauguration of the administration of President John Taylor he became a counselor to President Taylor. He sustained the same position to President Wilford Woodruff, and then to President Lorenzo Snow; and finally he came to the presidency himself, and held that position for more than seventeen years. And under his administration the Church was truly and greatly hlessed, [blessed not only by the wisdom that was manifested in his counsels, but also blessed by the example of his righteous life. So that when he passed away he passed away in honor and much be by the people. The blessing pronounced upon the head of Hyrum Smith is not only manifested in the person of John Smith, the Patriarch, and President Joseph F. Smith, but from the loins of President Smith there came forth men and women who were highly honored in the community, and who have found place for ministry in the Church. Two of his sons have been brought into the apos'tolate of the Church, faithful men. One of them, Elder Hyrum M. Smith, as you of course recall, passing away about a year or more ago; but he left a name and a fame that is honored in Israel. I am glad to say that President Smith is still honored by one of his sons being sustained this day as one of the Twelve Apostles. President Smith, then, was honored in his life; and worthily represented the second Presiding Patriarch in the Church; and this succession of righteous men in the family of Hyrum Smith shows that the blessings of the Lord pronounced upon the heads of his servants are not mere words, but represent substance, represent realities. So God has magnified this family in the Church, and has especially honored this branch of it as he promised to do in one of the revelations now extant in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. 

My brethren and sisters, it would not be proper for me to occupy further of your time, but I just wanted to call your attention to these few things in relation to this day in regard to the incoming administration by your legally taken votes, according to the constitution of the Church which God has established. Of course, however, Heber J. Grant has been the president in reality from the time that President Smith 

/. GOLDEN 

passed away, for when the first presiding quorum of the Church for any cause is disrupted and goes out of existence, the man holding the authority stands in the second quorum, of the Church, viz., the President of the quorum of the Twelve, and the authority to act is his until the Church can be assembled, as we are now assembled, and proceed with the organization as it has been done toda>. 

I congratulate the Church upon the noble men who have become God's representatives as the presidency of his Church in this dispensation. We this day inaugurate the seventh president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; they represent a line of men who for simplicity of life and character, for greatness of soul, for bigness of faith, for fidelity to the trust which God and the Church imposed in them, stand unparalleled in the religious history of the world. Thank God, not only for a prophet, but for all our prophets, the presidents of the Church, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

As stated, by President Seymour B. Young, it is desired that the First Council of the Seventy speak in memory of President Joseph F. Smith. I have known President Smith from my early youth, and have listened to his teachings, as an apostle and as the president of the Church during the greater part of my life. 

I remember, in the early .days of my youth, of " the people of this Church looking forward hopefully when the time should come that the prophecy made by the servants of God would be fulfilled, viz: that 

KIMBALL. 23 

President Joseph F. Smith would become the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I can think of no man who has been president of the Church, who has had greater opportunities and advantages than he has had. President Smith was chosen and ordained an apostle in his youth. He was favored, as I remember it, by being sent on a mission to the Hawaiian Islands, when he was 15 years old. He was hedged about and privileged in associating with great men, and his life and labors were in the service of the Lord, as a special witness and an apostle of Jesus Christ. President Smith was trained, instructed, and prepared for this great appointment as prophet, seer and revelator by the greatest men who ever lived, in my judgment, in the history of the world. 

I am proud of the fact that I am a natural born heir, and was given birth in this land of liberty and freedom. We are not .called upon to cry out, "All hail to the king." I thank God, I belong to a Church which is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It does not belong to President Joseph F. Smith, and he made no such claim, but it belongs to God the Father, and to his Son, Jesus Christ. There are no such things as earthly kings in Christ's Church. There never will be any king-men in Christ's Church. For when his disciples came to him, he tried to teach them the great lesson : whosoever will be greatest among you, let him be servant of all; and when these same apostles asked the Savior, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" he called a little child to him and said : "Except ye be converted, and become as little children ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." Joseph F. Smith was like that. He was a man of great integrity. Few men had greater integrity or greater faith. He loved God with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his might and that is all a man can do. 

Time will not permit me to say more. I have always honored and respected and sustained President Joseph F. Smith, and I am glad of it. But I discovered, in the time that I have labored in the Church, that he was human just like the rest of us. I want to learn the lesson, Cursed be the men who trust in man. You want to learn that lesson, if you are to be tested and meet difficulties, and you will not stumble and lose the faith. I place my trust in God, the eternal Father, and it is my business to get a clear and true conception of God, and of Jesus Christ,  and to realize that these men whom we have sustained are servants of the people : they are servants of God, and we sustain them, and we uphold them. If there were no people, there would be no need of a Church, so that we all say — at least I do — God save the people. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

It is only natural that I should greatly love President Joseph F. Smith. I imbibed it from my father. He was very closely associated with my father, and my father with him in the ministry, in laboring in the house of the Lord and otherwise in the building up of the Church and kingdom of God on the earth. From my earliest, boyhood I have always loved Joseph F. Smith, and  his name was first presented no one voted more neartily than I did to sustain him as the prophet^ seer and revelator of the Church and the president of it in all the world. And throughout my life I have been more or less familiar with his labors and ministry. But I will not undertake, my brethren and sisters, in the few moments that are allotted to me to speak of his great work among the children of men, but I think more of those particular labors that have had a direct influence and bearing upon me and upon my life, for I can truly say that there is no man in the Church that has exerted a greater and more powerful influence over me in my life than Joseph F. Smith. No man has so moved me from the bottom of my soul as he has done. Tears' have welled up in my eyes, and my heart has been filled with joy and with the testimony of the truth under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord as it has been manifest in this great man. I have listened to him when it seemed to me that God was speaking to me direct, and_tfie words he spoke sank so deeply into my heart that I have wondered why it was that all who heard him upon that occasion did not feel and know that the gospel is true, that they who heard it as it was proclaimed by this great man and restored from heaven through the instrumentality of his illustrious uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith, were not thoroughly converted and convinced as to the truth of it. The occasion to which I now refer was a funeral service held in honor of a dearly loved sister of mine, Emma Wells, who died in the year, 1877. He was the speaker upon that occasion. He spoke forth the words 

ELDER JOSEPH 

of eternal life. He explained the srospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There were many there, kindred and friends and outsiders, nonmembers of the Church, a goodly number; and I marveled that any one could go from that service without being convinced in their souls that he was a servant of God, and that he spoke the truth as it had been revealed from heaven. It was the plan of life and salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it has been restored in its purity. Upon various occasions he has thus filled my soul with the testimony of the truth and has exerted a power and influence over me which I hope will always remain with me. 

When I think of the influence his ministry has had upon me and upon my life, and then contemplate his extensive labors in this community, I have wondered how many thousands have been thus filled with joy and with the testimony of the truth. And if it be true that when a man labors all his life and succeeds in saving but one soul, great will be his ioy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father, then what must be in store for this great man as he goes back into the kingdom of his Father, having labored nearly all his life in the ministry and brought so many souls unto the knowledge of the truth. I praise God for having sent such a noble spirit into the world. . I thank him for his noble life, for his worthy example in this community. I thank the Lord for his labors among the people, for great good has been the results. I honor his memory today and ioin my brethren in tribute to this true servant of God for whom I have alwavs had unbounded love and admiration. May his children, who have 

W. McMURRIN. 25 

been so blessed and favored of the Lord in being born of such goodly parents, continue to enjoy the blessings pronounced upon the posterity of their martyred ancestor, Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

JOS. W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

We have but one theme, my brethren and .sisters, to dwell upon this morning. We were instructed by President Heber J. Grant, when we were appointed to come to this meeting, to devote our time and the remarks that we made to the memory of President Joseph F. Smith. I don't know just how my fellow laborers feel in approaching a task of this character. I feel that it is impossible for me to say anything quite up to the standard of the man. 

Joseph F. Smith, (n my feelings, is one of the greatest men, if not the greatest man, with whom' T have ever been acquainted. I have never been in his presence without being impressed with the feeling that he was indeed a servant of the living God, and that he was a prophet of the Lord. Thirty-eight years ago, when I was laboring as a boy missionary afar off, a brother related to me the prophecy that has been referred to by Elder J. Golden Kimball, that was delivered in the Ogden tabernacle forty or fifty years ago. I do not know just how long ago. President Woodruff declared in that prophecy that the time would come when Joseph F. Smith would stand as the mouthpiece of God. In making the declaration he invited the fathers and mothers in the congregation to write down the prediction, that their childen after the parents present were dead and gone, might read and know that God had spoken in relation to the future life of Joseph F. Smith. We are all witnesses to the fulfilment of the inspired prophecy. While listening to what has been said in this meeting, I have been impressed in much the same way as my brother, Elder Rulon S. Wells, has just stated. I have often felt, when listening to words spoken by President Joseph F. Smith, that the very word of God was being declared, and that the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost was resting upon the mouthpiece of God in a most remarkable and unusual manner. 

I had the very great pleasure, just about two years ago, of being one of a party invited by President Joseph F. Smith to make a journey to St. George. The brethren and sisters forming the party visited one line of settlements in going to St. George, and another line of settlements in returning to Salt Lake City. President Joseph F. Smith spoke in all of the meetings that were held, both going and returning, and notwithstanding the fact that he was under bodily ailment at the time, the spirit of his great calling rested upon him most marvelously, and he expounded the doctrines of the everlasting srospel in very great clearness. The hearts of thousands of people were made glad through his inspired teachings and testimony. 

I always felt in his presence that I was indeed in the presence of God's anointed servant, and always rejoiced in knowing that he was a man filled with prophetic power; and, above all else, that he was a  who had consecrated to the » very uttermost his time, and talents, to the upbuilding of the kingdom of God. 

I believe that President Joseph F. Smith was just as true to the work of God, just as true to the Prophet Joseph Smith, just as true to his brethren in the holy priesthood as any man who' ever lived. I believe that President Joseph F. Smith accepted the wonderful mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, and understood that he was to be saved through the atoning blood of the Redeemer of the world by obe_dience to the doctrines of the gospel, just as fully and completely as any man that ever lived. President Joseph F. Smith, in my judgment, gave his time, and his thought, and his ability in the most . unselfish manner for the benefit and blessing of the Latter-day Saints, and for the advancement of the work of God. I thank God that it was my privilege occasionally to be in his presence. I am grateful for the words of blessing that he has spoken to me individually. I thank the Lord for the impressions that have been made upon me by his splendid life. I believe those impressions are of an indelible character, and that they will be beneficial to me, and be a blessing to me as long as I live in mortality. 

I also thank God for the splendid family of President Joseph F. Smith. IJhave been very happy in my association with some of his boys, and know them to be true men. I am not closely acquainted with all of his sons. I believe, from what I know of them that they are all true men; I have had close companionship with Hyrum M. Smith, with Joseph Fielding 

Smith, with David A. Smith, with E. Wesley Smith. I am proud of their acquaintance. There are no better men in my judgment to be found among the people of the Latter-day Saints. 

God bless the family of our late President, and may the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that was always the greatest thing in the thought of President Smith, be the greatest thing in the affections of his sons and daughters, and their children, and their generations after them for ever and ever. 

My brethren and sisters, let us all be faithful. By good lives we can all honor our fathers. We have all had godly fathers, fathers that have been true to the work of God and to the great founders chosen to introduce it, they have ever been willing to lay down their lives if need be for the work revealed in this dispensation , I hope that not only the family of our great president will honor forever the name of their distinguished sire, but that we will all honor our good fathers, and our good mothers, and that we may all recognize and be sure of the fact that we are also enlisted in the cause of Christ, and that we will give to the full, allegiance to the Master. 

We are all called to be expounders of the faith of the gospel that made the men who have been our leaders as great and noble as they were. It was the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and living closely to the principles of that gospel, and consecrating their time and service to the advancement of the work of God, that made them ail mighty. God help every one of us to be true and steadfast to the same faith, that we also, when we have finished the race we are run , may have companionship with the great leader of .Israel whose memory we honor this day. I pray the blessings of God upon every one in this congregation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy). 

It is fitting and proper that this special conference should be convened on the 1st day of June, the 89th anniversary of the holding of the first conference ever held by this Church. 

Of course, none of you will understand that Brother Roberts, in using the beautiful and appropriate illustration that he did in the opening of his remarks, meant to uphold kingcraft, because, as most of you know, Brother Roberts has just spent many months at the front, willing to go "over the top," in the contest of democracy against autocracy; but he meant to point out that the Church could say, as Tennyson has his brook say, that "Men may come and men may go, but I go on forever." And it is a very appropriate thing that as men go and men come in these leading positions that we should pause briefly to pay a just tribute to the memory of those who have gone. 

I feel it a great honor to say a few words in commemoration of that great character, Joseph F. Smith, |the greatest preacher of righteousness, in my opinion, of this dispensation. I have been with his son Hyrum very much, and I think it is appropriate, in view of his recent demise, to mention his name. I have heard him deliver more than fifty sermons in succession, and after each of which I could say "that indeed is worthy of an apostle of our Lord and Savior." And yet the training of his father was such that I always placed his father first as a great preacher of righteousness. 

I may be pardoned if I relate a personal incident which will illustrate the effect of his preaching and his spirit upon myself. Under peculiar circumstances, I came into a meeting at Logan at which he spoke and at which he presided. I had taken a long trip by team through the mountains and held many meetings. It had taken, me through the mountains from Cache county to Rich county, from thence to Bear Lake county, and from thence to Wyoming and back to Gem Valley, as they call it now, and through Oneida county. We had held many meetings, and it was cold and there was much loss of sleep and much fatigue, so that when I came into that meeting I was thoroughly exhausted both in body and mind, and it was only by force of circumstances that I was induced to go into his company and the company of the Saints. But under the inspiration of his speaking as the Spirit of God seemed to flow from him to his audience and back again to him, the result upon me was such that at the close of the meeting I was as free from fatigue and weariness as I ever was in my life. I paid special attention to my condiv tion, and could not detect the slightest weariness either in body or in mind. A veteran newspaper reporter who was in attendance to report the speaking, became so absorbed that he failed to take any notes of the inspired talk of President Smith. 

I think that the Prophet Joseph F. Smith, had more elements of greatness in him than any other  that it has been my privilege to know. He was great in a larger number of ways than any other man I ever knew. He was great in courage, and stern in righteousness, and yet there was a rare combination of kindness, meekness and gentleness. He was as kind and loving as a child. In fact it could be said of him that he had "the heart of childhood taken up and matured in the power of manhood." No man would have met death more willingly, in my judgment, for his convictions. He was a man great in his fidelity to his people and to the truth, and great in his testimony of the prophetic calling of the Prophet Joseph and of the divine mission of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He had elements of strength so combined that he was indeed a truly great man; the favor of God was upon him. I think he exemplified more than any "other man I ever knew the fulfilment of the scriptural injunction and promise to "seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness," and all other things should be added thereto. 

Here are some lines that I think of, in connection with the life and character and ministry of our late lamented Prophet: 

"He was one who never turned his back, 

But marched breast forward; Never doubted clouds would break; Never dreamed, though right were worsted, 

Wrong would triumph. He held, we fall to rise, are baffled 

To fight better, sleep to wake." 

He was such a man as Holland describes or asks for when he exclaims : 

"God give us men. The time demands Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and willing hands; 

Men whom the lust of office does not kill; 

Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; 

Men who possess opinions and a will; Men who have honor; men who will not lie, 

Men who can stand before a demagogue 

And damn his treacherous flatteries 

without winking; Tall men, sun crowned, who live 

above the fog In public duty and private thinking!" 

I pray the Lord to bless the memory of President Joseph F. Smith and his posterity. His works will live after him. He has left an impression upon the Church that will be enduring. I had the deepest love and the greatest admiration for him during his life, and I regret that I did not let him know at least a fractional part of the love and admiration I had for him and his ministry and the things he accomplished. May the Lord bless his memory and bless us that we may follow the good example he set for us, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy). 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that all that has been said this day in reference to the character of President Joseph F. Smith is quite true. 

I look upon a man as great when he stands for great principles; and that is the standard by which we should judge people. When people stand for principle, and know by their faith in God that the principle is true, it is always a mark of true greatness; and when a man links up his life with God, becomes one with God, and he and God are friends, you may depend upon it you, have the truest standard of greatness that can be possibly created. 

The glorious thing to me in the life of President Joseph F. Smith was not only his wonderful strength of character, his true conception of life, .his splendid idealism of religion and his great faith in God; but his living the divine injunction "unless ye can become as a little child ye cannot enter the kingdom of heaven." He was great in his power to understand life and to see God. His faith was one of the most sublime things I ever knew. He never compromised with wrong or with evil in any form. Man to him is free, but free to do right, not free to do wrong. I remember a statement that he once made concerning the meaning of liberty which I shall never forget. Said he: "Liberty is obedience to just law." That to me is one of the most wonderful ideas concerning liberty and Americanism that I have ever heard. Obedience to law is liberty. What kind of law? Law that is founded, on truth. Law that is an expression of God's will to his people. Therefore, he was very democratic. He was very loving of his fellow man. How true it was that he showed his love for God' because he loved his fellow men so much. He feared no man. He loved his God, and with his great linking of truth with God's truth, he lived a truly inspiring life. Standing upon the principle of right living, he truly entered the kingdom of heaven. "Unless ye become as a little child, ye cannot know God." To me he was very great, very courageous, very brave, very true, and above all, he was the child of God. He looked up, and with sublime faith made his life divine. 

May we see the beauty of his- life, the truth of his words, the greatness of his soul, the magnanimity of his spirit, his great relationship to God. Amen. PREST. SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I want to thank Brother B. Cecil Gates and those who have been with him in giving us good 'music today. 

I also want to speak in regard to President Joseph F. Smith, as this day has been chosen. 

At the funeral of his son, Hyrum M. Smith, just as the family were taking leave of the remains in the Beehive house, I entered the house that morning, and while standing a little way from the bier of our beloved apostle, there came from another room President Joseph F. Smith, the father of the beloved deceased. He saw me and came directly to me, and putting his arms around me drew me to his bosom, and we kissed and embraced each other. And he said, "Seymour, we have been boys tcgether." And when we thus embraced I found that we were both weeping. President Joseph F. Smith has been indeed a remarkable man. He has maintained the love of his people from the beginning of his ministry to the end of his life. I don; t believe that he had an enemy in the world, or an enemy that could give any reason for his enmity; because all men saw in Joseph F. Smith, our re president, a man who stood high in the estimation of humanity, and of God our eternal Father. 

President Heber J. Grant has now been sustained by the congregations of the Saints, and by the special quorums of the priesthood, and I beseech for him that love, reverence, and sustaining power that he so well deserves and has so well merited through his life of devotion and faithful labors all the days of his life. For I have known him since the days of Nauvoo, and I say that I have never known better and truer men, than President Joseph F. Smith and President Heber J. Grant. We are all glad today that so noble a man has been chosen by the people and sanctioned by the voice of our heavenly Father to be the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. May the Lord add his blessings to you fathers and mothers, boys and girls, friends and strangers, who are here attending our general conference, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"We thank thee, O God for a prophet," was sung by the choir and congregation. 


