11
Morning
09 04 1905
Pkest. Jos. F. Smith. 

Attendance Exceeding All Previous Conferences, an Evidence of Increasing Faith.— Blesses All Who Desire to Do Good and Establish Peace.— Strong Declaration of Loyalty to the Nation and to the Government. 

I would like to say to this vast congregation that I am delighted to see you here and to note the interest which is manifested by the/ Latter-day Saints in this conference. I sincerely hope that the same calm, peaceful spirit which has pervaded the meeting hitherto will continue to be with us until the close of this seventy-fifth anniversary of the organization of the Church. Let every man and woman holding a membership in the Church exercise that faith which it is their right to exercise, and let them remember that the Lord hears and answers the prayers of those who petition Him in faith, nothing doubting, for the peaceable influence of His Holy Spirit, for the light thereof to shine upon their understanding, and for the strengthening of their good resolutions to serve God and keep His commandments. Thus far I do not think this conference has been surpassed for the number of those in attendance, and for the warmth of fellowship that has been manifested on the part of all that have assembled here. I pray God, my Heavenly Father, that this spirit of union, fellowship and love may continue to the end of the conference, and that this spirit may spread to the uttermost bounds of the Church, that the people may be renewed, strengthened, built , and established in the truth of the Gospel of the Son of God. 

I feel from, the depths of my heart to bless the Latter-day Saints, and I cry for blessings upon the heads of all people who have in their hearts a desire to do good and to establish peace and goodwill among the children of men. I pray not only- for the prosperity of Zion, but for the prosperity of our nation. We must always bear in mind that we are not only citizens of the Kingdom of God, but we are citizens of the United States, and of the states in which we dwell. We have ever been loyal both to our State and Nation, as well as to the Church of God, and we are at the defiance of the world to prove to the contrary. We have been willing to fight our country's battles, td defend her honor, to uphold and sustain her good name, and we propose to continue in this loyalty to our nation and to our people unto the end. 

Now, I did not design to speak this morning. May God bless you, May peace dwell in your soul. May the love of God pervade your hearts and minds. May light and truth shine upon your understandings. May wisdom be given unto you. Be( prudent in all your acts. May you be devoted to the cause of iZion and to the upbuilding of the Church and people of God throughout the length and breadth of the land. Let every officer of the Church be loyal to his calling, loyal to his people, and loyal to everything that is good, pure, noble and godlike. Let no man shrink from his duty for fear of consequences, nor from the responsibility that rests upon him by reason of the calling which he has received through the holy Priesthood. Let us remember that the Gospel has come to stay, and to be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We have ourselves and mankind to save from the errors and sins of the world, and from those evils to which men are , that they may come to the marvelous light of the Gospel of Christ and be made free from the law of sin and death, in the glorious liberty of the children of God. May He bless you, and may peace abide in your hearts, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen 

HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Evils of internal dissension.— The instigator of crime as dangerous as the criminal. — President Roosevelt's courage, and honest policy.— God will vindicate His people. 

My brothers and sisters, the meetings of this Conference, so far should have brought to the hearts of all present unlimited joy and satisfaction, in seeing the unity with which the Latter-day Saints have come together and transacted the business pertaining to the Conference. In the opening remarks of President Smith, he made use of that simile of the Apostle Paul, wherein the Church of Christ is likened to the perfect body of a man — a man in whom the mental faculties and the physical powers are in harmony; one without blemish. You know that when a man is at war with himself, when the flesh wars against the spirit, when the yearnings and the great desires of the heart are denied by an inexorable will, there is internal strife, and that individual, if he be conscientous, suffers the fiery pains of a living hell. And as with a man, so with a family. If in a family there is strife, quarreling, false accusation, partiality, we know what the inevitable result will be, unless it is checked. As in a man where this internal strife exists, if it be not checked, distress must follow, so if these conditions are not checked in a family, it means the disintegration of that family, and the scattering of its members. So in a community, or in an organization, or in a church; if the members thereof are at war one with another, ifthey are not in harmony, if they are divided, if they are contentious, then, unless these conditions are changed it is but a short time until the organization, or the community, or the church, or the state, or the nation, is dismem and destroyed. It was this condition which disrupted the French people to such an extent. It was their civil 3trife and fratricidal revolution, wherein they fought and slew one another, wherein the blood of noble and peasant flowed until the people grew weary with the bloodshed. The same thing also distracted our own great and glorious country during the civil war, wherein citizens of the same country, who had previously fought shoulder to shoulder against a foreign power, were themselves found in deadly strife. There is no telling what might have happened—worse than did happen— had it not been that the eye and the hand of God were over this goodly land, wherein He raised up a man, whom I verily believe was impired to guide the ship of state, that it might not be broken to pieces on the shoals and rocks of slavery and secession. I believe Abraham Lincoln was raised up to do God's will. 

I have rejoiced in hearing the patriotic sentiments of the brethren who have spoken, showing forth their love and loyalty to the country of which we form a part. I, too, love my country. I know that the Latter-day Saints love this nation. However, I see dangers today in this land of freedom and liberty, just as there have been dangers in our midst in times past. There are those who abuse the great privileges of freedom and liberty, and who prostitute the powers and talents God has given them, and use them to the hurt of their country and its people, rather than to the good and blessing of the land and its inhabitants. Abraham Lincoln, the man who held together our country, through whose wisdom the men of the north and the south were again united in the bonds of brotherhood, was put to death by an assassin. Of course, he who committed the rash deed was put to death also; but I ask you, were the ends of justice met when the murderer was himself put to death? Was the life of the one equal to the life of the other? Not at all. The ends of justice were no more met when the slayer of Abraham Lin-. coin. was put to death than recompense would he made if the combined debt of . the world were to be paid with a counterfeit penny. Another of the noble sons of America who stood at the head of the nation, James A. Garfield, was likewise slain by the hand of an assassin, and this assassin also was put to death. But was the country and the people compensated for the loss of President Garfield by the death of his slayer? No. And in later times, so recently in fact that it still brings sorrow to our minds when we think of it, another president of the United States has been slain by the hand of an assassin, who was promptly taken and executed for the crime. But I ask you again, "Was recompense made in the death of this man? Put the life of this foreigner anarchist, this man with the unpronounceable name, in the scales with the life of William McKinley, whom he slew, and would the scales of justice be balanced? Not at all. 

These men were the assassins, but, in my estimation, they were not the real murderers. The real murderers are still at large, and still have influence among the children of men. Who are they? They are men who live in this country of freedom, who have vouchsafed to them every privilege of liberty, and who pervert these privileges. Some of them edit newspapers, some occupy pulpits, and some speak from public platforms; they are the artists who picture noble men before the community as fiends incarnate; they are writers who describe them as being monsters, as being wicked, cruel, ambitious, as men reaching out to rob the poor, to oppress mankind, and to have flow into their own hands the proceeds of the work of the laborers. Christ said upon one occasion that he who looketh upon a woman to lust after her has committed adultery already in his heart. I say that the man who looks upon another with murder in his heart, and who, by speaking and writing, incites the feeble-minded and vicious to strike the blow which takes from the country her noble men whom they hate, is in fact the murderer. Such men  murder in their hearts, and they are no less murderers than they would be if they committed the .deed itself. So with the man who covets that which does not belong to him; in the court of Almighty God, he will be deemed a thief, just as though he put forth his hand and took that which belonged to his neighbor. And when the Lord, in His courts on high, dispenses strict justice, these ignorant, foolish or vicious individuals who have been induced to take the lives of good men, through the lies that have been circulated about their victims, will be found no more guilty than will those who commit the murder in their hearts, and whose writings, speaking or pictures have incited the criminals to strike the deadly blow. This is what I believe. Today, in our land of boasted freedom and liberty, whenever the President of the United States attends a public function, or goes abroad, he must needs be surrounded by a corps of secret service men, detectives and policemen, who watch him and everyone who comes in contact with him, and look for suspicious characters. Why? Is it because President Roosevelt is a coward, that he dare not go abroad without being protected thus? No; no man will say that the hero of San Juan hill is a coward. No man will say that one who boldly, and almost alone, stands out against the oppression of the people by wicked men and by trusts, is a coward. No man will say that President Roosevelt is a coward when he dare stand unswayed against the 'Combined cry of tens of thousands of men and women incited by prejudice. He is not a coward; he is a brave man. But because there are those in the land who, enjoying the liberties of a free country, describe and depict him as being ambitious, desiring to be an emperor, and wear a crown; because there are men who use their talents in cartooning him thus, representing him to be an oppressor of the people and criminal in his desires — these men, through their writing and speaking from the platform and the pulpit, have made it necessary that the President of the United States,  though he be, must be surrounded by a corps of secret service men, night and day, in order that his life may be preserved. I say that those who make this necessary are criminals. Why do not men use the gifts God has given them in portraying before the country the virtues of their fellow men, in magnifying their good deeds, and in imputing to their honest purpose good instead of evil? Why do they not magnify honorable men in the eyes of their fellows, rather than exaggerate imaginary faults, and arouse hatred in the hearts of the ignorant against men whose lives are spent in behalf of the people and in defense of righteous laws and justice? 

My brethren and sisters, there is but little true justice done among men in this day and age. The laws that men make are necessarily human, and men will err; but, in the day of God's judgment absolute justice will be done. Then it will not only be the acts' of men that will be taken into account, but it will be the thoughts and intents of their hearts that will also be considered when they are judged. When men in the court of Almighty God are so judged and found unworthy, and they are shut out from the presence and love of their Pather,there will be no meed then to argue with them as to the truth of hell Are; they will know it without argument, you can depend upon it. 

Well, we believe that in President Rposevelt we have an unprejudiced friend; and we know that in the Latter -1 day Saints President Roosevelt will find .loyalty to the government and the greatest friendship toward him. There are no people in the nation more friendly to him; and they will remain so just so long as he remains true to the cause of humanity. Furthermore, we will continue true to Old Glory, and to our glor. ious country, even though all the world should prove unjust to us. We are a true people. I believe that President Roosevelt is a man who has the courage of his convictions. He is fairly well acquainted with us, and he is not a man that is moved by public clamor or pre. I believe that he will honestly and truly stand by his great policy of a "square deal to all men," and that he will accord us our portion of the "square deal." I do not believe he is the weak and vacillating man that a predecessor of his was who, knowing, our condition, said, "Your cause is' just, but I can do nothing for you." I believe he is a man who, so long as he believes our cause is just, will be willing to do something for us. We assuredly will do all we can to sustain him, and all other good men. I believe these are the sentiments of the ten thousand Latter-day Saints who are gathered in this building today. I believe they are the true sentiments of *every member of the Church, and we will demonstrate it in the future, as we have done in the past. 

May God bless us. May the Church of Christ never be less united than it is now. Like the nation of which we are a part, we have gone through trials of internal strife, but we do not have them now. In early days, in our weakness, we saw the witnesses to the Book of Mormon, who had stood shoulder to shoulder with the Prophet Joseph Smith, turn away from him, and oppose him. We have seen his counselors leave him; we have seen members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles leave the Church and lead away many others. That was our internal struggle, but we have overcome it. It has been proven that God is over us, and He will not permit internal strife nor external persecution to destroy His work in the earth, no more than He permitted civil strife to destroy this great country, over which He has had His all-seeing eye from the very beginning. Let men do what they will; let those whom Elder Rich dignified by comparing them to the wolf (to my mind you could compare them more consistently to the penny fice, which makes only a noise) howl all they will, we will go right straight along, doing the will of Almighty God, and He will justify and vindicate us in the eyes of men, in His own due time. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and make you ever as faithful and even more faithful than you are today, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
