13
Morning
09 04 1905
Elder Jesse N. Smith. 

(President of Snowflake Stake.) Brothers and sisters, I feel that I am one of the least among you; but notwithstanding my humility and my nothingness, I have received a witness of the truth of this work. I can relate how it happened that my lot was cast among the Latter-day Saints. I do not suppose there was any natural goodness about me to boast of, but I had very choice parents, and they had a great interest for me, as I have discovered,  I revere them. If any of the fathers have wayward sons, probably if they will take the course that my father took, they may be enabled to interest those sons in this work. My religious impressions commenced from my earliest childhood. My father seemed to make his religion first and foremost. He attended very strictly to his family devotions. He did not seem to be hurried. At evening he read from the Scriptures, he and my mother sang, and we had family prayers. My religious life, I may say, my testimony, dates from these things. My father soon passed away in death, but - 1 can never forget him. I felt that he was a minister of God. I lived in very great poverty, in much humility, privation I may say. I was taught early to pray, and I understood the meaning of those words in the Lord's prayer, "Give us this day our daily bread," because we did not have much laid by. When I was enabled to go to school, there were no free schools then; contracts were made by the parents; and I had a very meagre supply of books, almost none at all. I heard . that they were using the Book of Mormon in the schools, so I took my father's Book of Mormon with me. It was the first edition. Our honored Patriarch was in that class with his Book of Mormon; young Joseph Smith, the son of Sidney Rigdon, the son of William Marks, and the son of Peter Haws were also in the class. I was in good company, but they all had books of the second edition, with new and beautiful binding, and I felt I was a little behind them. As I was going to school one morning, and passing the Prophet's place, he was walking in the garden, and he answered my salutation. I think he would answer a child's salutation just as readily as that of a grown person. He came up to the fence and spoke very kindly to me. He said, "You are going to school?" "Yes." "What book do you. read in?" "I read in the Book of Mormon." "Come in here." I passed in at the gate and he made me a present of a Book of Mormon of the ne"W edition, with the beautiful binding. I could then hold up my head with the  of the class. He gave me this injunction: "Read it in school and read it at home." I have done so. I believe the Book of Mormon. I have believed it from my childhood. I have been a great reader, but it is to me the most interesting of all books. I felt that that was the greatest treasure that could be bestowed upon me. And when I read that David Whitmer, one of the witnesses to the Book of Mormon, and his family, had a superstitious regard for the sacred record that was in his keeping, and they felt that no harm would come to them while they were the custodians of that record, I could comprehend that. My family have almost the same feeling for the sacred volume that was presented to me by the hand of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In traveling around among the people as a missionary, which I do considerably, I find many young people just starting out in life. I call on them in their humble homes. When I find the Book of Mormon on their shelves and see an indication that it is read and considered, I feel thankful, for I have a sort of testimony that in that home there will be no family jars and no seeking for divorce. I have looked after these things In a humble way. I find that there is power in this Gospel, and that the faithful and the true believers are favored of God. Peace, blessed pence, comes to their homes. Their homes are homes of faith and prayer, and the Christian virtues cluster around their family altars. 

I thank the Lord for what I have received in the Gospel; chief of all, that I have received a degree of faith, blessed faith. I have been free from doubt. At the death of the Prophet and Patriarch, the people for a moment seemed helpless, and there sprang up many aspirants, who sought leadership and dignity and honor in the Church; yet I was blessed, I had no doubt, and I realized that the Twelve were the men to look to. It was given me of the Lord. Fortunately I was present at that wonderful meeting where President Brigham Young spoke with the voice of Joseph Smith, and I heard that familiar voice. That strengthened the testimony of many. It was most wonderful. That voice which, as was said of the blessed Redeemer, spake as never man spake! I sincerely hope to remain faithful to this cause. It has not been difficult for me so far. I hope I may have grace ana the favor and blessing of the Almighty to continue. 

The people where I live are not numerous, but I believe that, almost universally, they are content and satisfied. They sustain the authorities of the Church in word and in deed, and they are greatly blessed. I think it very unfortunate to be discontented, to be an agitator, to delight in turmoil, to seek to stir up strife. I think there is far more happiness, there is far more opportunity to be of help to our fellowmen, to be conservative in our feelings and in our spirit, and help along, instead of trying to hold back. I regard it as the highest blessing to know the will of God and have a disposition to do it. 

I pray that we may all be preserved in righteousness, that we may build up the kingdom of God, and bequeath the legacy of righteousness and good works to those who shall come after us. Amen.
