17
Afternoon
09 04 1905
Elder Jesse W. Knight. 

(2nd Counselor in Presidency of Taylor Stake.) 

My dear brothers and sisters, this is the first time in my life I ever stood before an audience in this house to sneak, and I trust I may be able to make you hear. It gives me pleasure at this time to stand before you as a representative of Taylor Stake in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints, and to speak in behalf of the people of that stake of Zion. We have held ward conferences in the Stake, and they have been well attended. We have also unanimously sustained all the general authorities of the Church. I do not believe there ever was a time when I felt better than at the present in regard to the truthfulness and the onward progress of this work. I rejoice to know- that the authorities of this Church have all our interests at heart. They do not forget any of us, not even the people that are far off. The people in the north country last year suffered somewhat from drouth, and this season the Church has come to rescue by advancing means to help some of the people to get seed grain. I mention this to show the interest and the anxiety that the authorities of the Church have for the Latter-day Saints wherever they are, and that no matter how far we get away from headquarters, we are not forgotten. I wish to say, we appreciate these things, and I know that those who live near by do not feel that they are being robbed when we are helped in this way. This community has grown out of toil, labor, industry, and the mutual support of one another: and we feel that without the support we get from our fellow-men it would be hard to carry on this gi eat work. I rejoice to know that the La:ter-day Saints are writing their history upon the soil, by industrious toil, and by the building up of new settlements and towns, and in branching out into various parts of the world. I can see what this is cooing for the Latter-dav Saints. If we were left in crowded cities, we would soon have the;lums and the beggars; but as it is, throug'i the counsel and the wisdom of those who are nlaced at the head of the Church, when they have seen young men crowding the streets with nothing to do, they start some industry in some new country, and enable these young men to make homes for themselves. I rejoice to say that the Latter-dav Saints in Canada are building up many new homes and establishing themselves there: and many young people who, if they had remained in this country would possibly be working for small wages, or perhaps loafing their time away, have gone into a new country, taken advantage of the opportunities placed before them, and have become factors in building up a community. I do not think the people should feel to mourn when their sons and daughters desire to launch out for themselves, when they have not sufficient means and property to keep them at home. I think it is a good thing for them to go out into these new countries and establish homes for themselves. This is only one phase of the Church of God; but I think it spea*B well for the wisdom which has been manifest from the beginning of this Church when the leaders do these things. We rejoice to know that we have established in our country, through the advice of the President of the Church, an industry which is furnishing employment for the people, and which is building up that community. 

I feel to bear my testimony at th»s time. I do not think it would be wise for me to speak long, but I trust that the spirit which has been with us this  will continue. I know that this work is true, and that the Lord is blessing His people, especially those who are sustaining the authorities and helping to spread this nvork rather than to tear it down. I hope that the time will never come when I will feel that my voice is more potent than the voices of ten thousand people, and that I will never see the time when I will think I am so smart, and that the leaders of the Church have lost all their wisdom and are such terrible hypocrites and robbers, that my hand will be lifted against any of them. I say that we have the right to vote as we feel, but we should also exercise wisdom and judgment. I do not think that one man can have all the wisdom and brains for such a large community as the Latterday Saints. I pray God to bless us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
