2
Morning
06 04 1905
President John R. Winder. 

Satisfactory Condtions of Church Affairs. — Interesting Incidents Connected With the Work, Under God, of the Prophet Joseph Smith. — Hardships of the People in Early Days.— Settlement of the Saints in This Valley, Their Temporary Exit and Return. — Unity of Latter-day Saints in Relation to Sustaining President Joseph F. Smith, as Head of the Church. 

My brethren and sisters, it affords ms a great deal of pleasure this morning to have the opportunity of standing before you to endorse every word that I have heard spoken by President Joseph F. Smith. Particularly am I pleased to be able to endorse everything he said in relation to the financial condition of the Church, and everything pertaining to the expenditures. I can say to you, my brethren and sisters, that your funds are perfectly safe in 'his hands. First of all, I wished to make this statement. 

When I look over this vast congregation of thousands of people, representing many nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples, my mind goes back to the day 'when the boy Joseph Smith, It years of age, went into the woods to pray to the Father, and when the Fath and the Son appeared to him ana gave him some instructions as to how he should proceed. The thought comes to me that no sooner did he make known what had taken place than persecution commenced. From that hour his life was sought. In every way the effort was made to destroy him and his influence. Seventy-five years ago today he was enabled to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with a very few members. Persecution did not cease then. On the contrary, it continued from year to year. Then when I think of the trying circumstances in which he was placed, the wonderful work that he accomplished during the few years he was permitted to live upon the earth, the translation of the Book of Mormon and the presenting of it to the people and to the world; also the production of the Doctrine and Covenants, and the announcement of many glorious principles introduced for the salvation of the living and the redemption of the dead, I marvel at the great work that he accomplished in the short space of 14 years. Then I thought of the time when the people were compelled to leave Nauvoo and come to this country, the hardships they had to endure, the travels across, the plains, the many difficulties they had to encounter, and after they had arrived here the energies they put forth to establish industries for the good and benefit of the people, including manufactures of various kinds. Of necessity they constituted the governments here — the city councils, the legislatures; in fact, they were all that there were in the country. This, however, did not continue for many years. It was wonderful how the Lord blessed the people in the commencement of their labors. 

I remember also how, just ten years from the day when the pioneers arrived in this valley, as we were celebrating that event at the head of Big Cottonwood, the word came that a great army of the United States was forming to come up and attack the people in these valleys of the mountains. I remember what occurred during the remainder of that summer and the following winter. We were very ousy during the winter manufacturing boxes in which to store flour and secure what provisions we could, because the word was that we would have to leave this beautiful city and sacrifice our homes. The report was that it was the flower of the United States army that was coming out here to exterminate the "Mormons." Not only did this army threaten us, but the Indians around us were excited, and were robbing the people of horses and cattle. In this condition we remained during the win' ter and until the next April. That was 48 years ago. The people were told that it was necessary to leave this city, and not an objection was raised. We were of one heart and one mind. The move seemed to be inevitable. Men could be seen gathering up a yoke of cattle or two or three horses' and hitching them to an old wagon as best they could, they would put into each wagon a family and all of this world's goods that they could collect, and then march away. 

The road from here to Utah county was lined with teams passing from this city, the people not knowing whether they would be permitted to return again. I remember that it was a serious condition with us at that time. It should be remembered that all this was brought about by misrepresentations that were made to the President of the United States. He sent out a certain gentleman to discover the particulars, and after he had learned the facts a commission was sent here to investigate. The matter was investigated, conclusions were arrived at, and the army, which had wintered at Fort Bridger, was permitted to come through the city and pass over the Jordan river. But when that army passed through the city, every house was closed, and not a person was to he seen; houses were shut, windows boarded up, and everything apparently deserted. As the soldiers marched through, the line was more like a funeral procession than a conquering army. A few of us were left to take care of the city, but all the rest had . Peace was afterward brought about, and the people were permitted to return to their homes. 

I am referring to these things, my brethren and sisters.to verify the statement of President Smith this morning, that this is the Lord's work, and that He overrules all these conditions for the good of His people, who will do His will and keep His commandments. If you will look back and reflect, you will discover that every event I have mentioned led to one result — the Church took on new life, new energy, and advanced, increased and multiplied the more rapidly. 

After the return of the people from the south we had a season of prosperity. Factories and all kinds of businesses were established, and the growth and increase were wonderful. There are many intervening events of a like character that I will net have time to mention, but they must be in the minds of many of you. We had peace for a time; but I remember that, just eighteen years ago today, conditions were such in this city that it was thought advisable to hold the general conference in Provo. There are some incidents which I remember that I do not think it would be wise to mention, and I do not care to do it; but I come along down to the condition that we are in now. 

Last Sunday was the monthly fast day. Monthly fast meetings are held in the 620 wards throughout Zion, and in the branches abroad as well, I believe. On such occasions every person present has an opportunity to speak his or her feelings. The meetings are generally so conducted that all are invited to express their feelings, to bear their testimonies, and to voice their thankfulness to the Lord for His goodness and mercy toward them. I attended two meetings last Sunday — one in the morning arid one in the afternoon. At these meetings I heard at least forty persons speak and bear testimony, and I think almost every person that spoke testified that they sustained and proposed to sustain President Joseph F. Smith as the president of the Church  Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Not a dissenting- voice did I hear in relation to this matter. And I believe, brethren and sisters, if I were to call upon this vast congregation and ask the question, "Do you sustain President Joseph P. Smith as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day gaints?" I would hear the expression, "Yes, I do," from every voice. 

Well, brethren and sisters, let us do it as well as say we will do it. If we will do so, the Lord will continue to bless and prosper us, no matter what transpires. As has been said, this is His work, and His hand is stretched forth, and He will control all these matters to bring about the best results. 

May the Lord help us, brethren and sisters. Don't you think I feel thankful this morning for the health and strength I enjoy and for the blessing of the Lord in extending my life until I am almost eighty-four years of age, and enabling me to stand here and express my feelings in relation to these matters? May the Lord help me to say always, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." God bless you all forever. Amen.
