3
Morning
06 04 1905
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 

it affords me great pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to add my testimony to those which have already been borne in this meeting and to express the faith I have in the ultimate triumph of the work of God upon the earth. I have been deeply interested and impressed by the remarks at the  of this conference, and by the evidences of the great work which our Father is accomplishing among the children of men. In reviewing the conditions which prevail at the present time I have been led to remark, What a great and wonderful work it is that we are engaged in, and how the Latter-day Saints who have been carrying on this work, under the inspiration of the Lord, have attracted toward them the attention of the whole world. To me it is something marvelous that a little band of people— only a few hundred thousand— should be so conspicuous in the history of this world and become so universally known. We have traveled as missionaries into many parts of the world, and I doubt if there is any community or any people that has not heard of the Latter-day Saints and of this work with which we are identified. Of course, they have not been informed in all cases as to the true standing of this people; they have not received correct information regarding us; but we have been spoken of and heard of in the remotest parts of the world. It is astonishing, too, what a great amount of hatred has been engendered among the people of the world towards the Latter-day Saints. We are generally regarded in the world as being a very wicked people, and have the reputation among the children of men of being the worst people upon the face of the earth. I have wondered at this myself. I have not only been familiar with the opinions of men in the world, but it has been my lot to be acquainted with the Latter-day Saints, having been born in this community and having spent nearly all my life here, and I have observed that they will compare favorably with any people on the earth. There is nothing in the lives of the Latter-day Saints to warrant the opinion that prevails in the world. In many places we are regarded as a band of cut-throats, an evil and a licentious people; but we know that this is not the condition that prevails among us. When I was in England a few years ago we held a conference  the city of Nottingham, and while we were there literature was scattered among the people containing illustrations supposed to represent life In Utah, and this literature was published by a well known anti-"Mormon," Mr. Jarman. The Latter-day Saints were depicted there in the vilest terms. On the front page was a picture representing a "Mormon," sitting on a pole fence with a wide sombrero hat on his head, in shirt sleeves, a vile expression on his face, and in his hand a blacksnake whip. Out in the field before him were five or six women working "with pick and shovel, and plough, while he, presumably /he husband of these women, was directing them, and making them work as slaves. It is this kind of misrepresentation that is inflaming the minds of people against us. Even many good honorable men and women have been taught to believe us wicked and degraded. While Brother McMurrin and I were crossing the ocean a few years ago we happened to be in company with a number of school teachers of the city of Philadelphia who were going upon an excursion to Europe. We became acquainted with them, and explaining our religion to them. We gave them some idea of the character of the people out here, and they looked upon us as representatives of the people. As we were about to disembark, one of the professors came up to me and said, "I never knew, Mr. Wells, until I met you gentlemen here, that there was such a thing as a "Mormon" gentleman. I never knew but that the "Mormons" were the vilest kind of people, without any culture whatever. I was taught to believe them wicked and vile from the days of my infancy. Not only that, but I wish to make a further confession: I am a teacher in one of the public schools of Philadelphia, and I have taught my pupils to believe that, too. But I give you my word that when I return to my school I will try to undo the mischief I have done." 

Is it any wonder, my brethren and sisters, that many good people have  deluded and led astray, and that we have become hated by the people of the world? It may not be very pleasant for us to contemplate the fact that the world do not like. us. I regret that that is the condition. 1 do not, however, regret that I am identified with this people, nor have I any regrets for the Latter-day Saints themselves. No; it is the heritage of the saints to be hated of the world; and I find consolation in the words which were quoted by Prest. Smith: "If ye were of the world, the world would love its own; but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hate you." Neither should we feel sad and discouraged on account -of these conditions which prevail in the world; for the Savior said further: "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." 

My brethren and sisters, those are feelings that fill my bosom with regard to the attitude of the world toward us. I feel sorry for them, not for us. Rather I feel to rejoice that I am identified with the people of God, notwithstanding the enmity of the world toward us. They do not love the. leaders of this people; but we, who know them best, know them to be men of God. We know that there is nothing in their lives that will warrant the attacks that are being made upon them by the world. Let us uphold and sustain them by our faith and prayers, and by our obedience to the will of God, that we may be faithful and true to the covenants we have made with the Lord. Let us not be discouraged or concerned about the ultimate triumph of this work; for God is at the helm, and He will lead us triumphantly into His rest. We have no cause to fear. Let them oppose this work as they will, they will utterly fail in every attempt. That they may be fustrated in all their evil machinations, that they may be defeated in all that they undertake to do against the cause of Zion, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
