4
Afternoon
06 04 1905
President Anthon H. Lund. 

The Tithing Used Only for Legitimate Purposes. — Establishment and Wonderful Growth of the Church.— Doctrines Taught by Joseph Smith Harmonize With the Scriptures.— Religion and Rights of Non-"Mormons" Respected by Us. 

I will read a few verses of the hymn 

that we have just been singing: 

What though our rights have been assailed ? 

What though by foes we've been despoiled? 

Jehovah's promise has not failed, Jehovah's purpose is not foiled. 

His work is moving on apace, 

And great events are rolling forth; The kingdom of the latter days — 

The "little stone" — must fill the earth. Though Satan rage, 'tis all in vain; 

The words the ancient Prophet spoke, Sure as the throne of God remain, 

Nor men nor devils can revoke. All glory to His holy name, 

Who sends His faithful servants forth, To prove the nations — to proclaim 

Salvation's tidings through the earth. 

I am pleased to see this large congregation. I enjoyed the forenoon services very much. I enjoyed the glorious testimonies borne and the good instruc given. I hope that while I shall address you the same spirit may direct me that inspired my brethren who spoke to us this forenoon. 

Like Brother Winder, I feel to bear my testimony to the truth of the statements made by President Smith in regard to the tithing. I know that the tithing is used for the purpose of building up the Church of Christ upon the earth, and only for that purpose. President Smith, does not expend any of the noney of the Church without sharing the responsibility of doing so with his brethren. The accounts and books are kept, as has been stated, in such a way that not one cent could be diverted for any selfish purpose without it being known. The books are open for the inspection of the Saints. All the means that come into the Church are accounted for, and an auditing committee looks over the accounts and they certify that the books are correctly kept. In addition to the things mentioned by the president this morning for which the tithing has been expended, I will say that during the last year more has been spent to help build meetinghouses both at home and abroad than in any other year that I remember. A great deal of Church means has gone to the various missions, and also to the poor of the Church; and besides that, more ifas been paid to our Church schools than ever before. I believe that all the Latter-day Saints approve and sanction this way of spending the tithing. Our Church schools are progressing nicely. We do for them all that we can. We feel that they are a necessity in Zion, and that the Saints cannot do without them. We are proud of them, and we wish we were more able to help them, because we believe that much good is being done through them. 

In establishing our Church schools it was not the design to have them antagonistic to the state schools. When strangers travel through our communities they are struck with the beautiful sehoolhouses we have erected. When I say "we," 1 include all citizens of the state; but as the Latter-day Saints are in the majority they can share at least 

equally the honor of having erected such fine school buildings in which to educate the children. We are proud of the institutions of higher learning established by the state, and we look to them to do much for our young men and young women in the line of education, and to save them from spending so much and so many years in the east, as they can just as well, and even better in several courses, stay at home and take what these institutions give. 

Our Church schools have an object which can not be reached in the state institutions. We want our young men and young women instructed in the principles of salvation. We want them brought under the influence of the Spirit of the Gospel. Hence we .have these schools established in our midst. Of course, it costs much to keep these schools; but we feel the cost is far outweighed by the good which is accomplished in them. 

I am reminded that this is the 6th of April, and that the Church is 75 years old today. Seventy-five years ago a few persons met in Peter Whitmer's house, and according to the commandments given of the Lord the Church was organized This was done even in that early day by the same principle which 1 has governed the Church ever since, namely, that of common consent. The Prophet Joseph had translated the Eook of Mormon. Oliver Cowder> had been h's scribe. The book had already been published. These two had received the lesser Priesthood under the hands of John, whom we know as John the Baptist. Afterwards they received the Melchisedek Priesthood under the hands of Peter, James and John, who were intrusted by the Savior to hold the keys of the Priesthood upon the earth. When He ascended to heaven He left the authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel with the Apostles, and Peter, James and John no doubt held the presidency of the apostleship. These persons were sent to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them the Melchis(ec?ek Piriesthood. Remember, thete  no church organized at that time, and therefore there were no offices. In conferring the Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver they were not ordained to any particular office, but the Priesthood itself was conferred upon them. They were instructed, however, that when the Church was organized they should ordain each other to the office of Elder. When those who had been baptized met together seventy-five years ago today, they opened their meeting with earnest prayer, and then they laid before those present what the Lord wanted them to do, and they were accepted unanimously to teach the things of the kingdom of God. Then they ordained each other to the office of an Elder. They partook of bread and wine at that meeting, the first time that the sacrament was administered in this the dispensation of the fullness of times; and then they confirmed all those present, who were members of the Church, and ordained some to different offices in the Priesthood. The Holy Ghost was poured out upon them, and they rejoiced that the Church had been organized and that they were members of it. It was a very small beginning; only six members participated in the organization, that is, so far as the incorporation of the Church was concerned; but there were a few additional members in the Church. The six that I refer to were: Joseph Smith, Jr., Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Hyrum Smith, Samuel H. Smith and David Whitmer. From that small beginning I see today this large congregation before me, and I am amazed to contemplate the great work that has been done in all parts of the world. 

When the angel said to Joseph that his name should be known for good and evil in all the world, how improbable this seemed to be, that a farmer's boy, in the backwoods,) should be known outside of the few villages where he was known at that time! But this prediction has been fulfilled. Those whom I see before me today have come from many different lands, both from the west and the east. Many different nationalities are represented here. His name has indeed become known in all parts of the world. We receive letters from many different lands inquiring- about our religion and asking that Elders be sent to them. They have heard of the name of Joseph Smith. We rejoice this day that we have heard his name, that the Gospel came unto us, and that we have received the knowledge of its truth. 

While they were yet together in the meeting in which the Church was organized, the Prophet Joseph received this revelation: 

"Behold there shall be a record kept among you, and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an Elder of the Church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ." 

We who have studied his history can bear witness to the fact that he was not only called a prophet, but that he was indeed a prophet, and also a seer, which is a still greater calling; that he was shown the past, and also what should come to pass, and he was made the means as a revelator of bringing forth the Gospel of Christ in plainness and in perfection. As a teacher, he proved that his teachings were divine. It is true that they come in conflict with many of the opinions held by the theologians of the day; but whenever they come in conflict with them, the theologians' views are in conflict with the doctrines of the New Testament. He taught that God lived, that Jesus Christ was His Son and our Redeemer, and that the Holy Ghost was one of the Godhead. He taught that the Son was like the Father. We know that the Son possessed a body. We know that He has promised that our bodies shall be changed and made like unto His glorious body. This is a promise unto the Saints. He was the express image of His Father. If, therefore, He has a glorious body — and we know He has — then the Father also has a body. Now, this teaching comes in direct conflict with the teachings of the world. But it is not con to the teachings of the Bible. Read the Bible from Genesis to Revelations, and it sets forth a personal God, and that man was created in His image. We hold this to be a glorious doctrine. Then he taught us the relationship of man to God— that we are His children. Though this has been called a presumptuous doctrine, it is one that inspires the Saints and makes them feel thankful to know that God is their Father, and they look upon all human beings as their brethren and sisters, connected in the sacred relationship of brotherhood. Can teachings be more ennobling than this? We not only hold this as a belief, but we are trying to carry it out practically and show men that we do love them. We have been and are, willing to make much sacrifice for those who have not heard the truth. Why, this mere handful of Latter-day Saints send forth missionaries into the world by the hundreds. Why do they do this? It does not help them financially. They do it because it is a duty they owe to their fellowmen, and therefore, when they are called they go forth gladly. They do not ask what their salary will be, nor where the money will come from. If they have the means, they are willing to make the sacrifice and spend their time in this labor of love amongst their fellow-men. 

Why should those who are not of our faith be so opposed to us? They say we have a false doctrine. But is it false? Have they proved \it to be so? We invite a comparison of the principles we believe in with those taught by Jesus Christ and His apostles. If our principles are contrary to those that they taught, then they cannot be true; but if they are like them, then is it not probable that they are true? And we can prove that it is not only in the letter that they are alike, but that the spirit which accompanied the preaching of the Gospel formerly is still in the Church, and the word is clothed with the same power. Therefore, we say they are just the same. 

I feel to bear my testimony unto this congregation that Joseph Smith was a  of the Lord, that he proved himself worthy of the name he was called to bear; and that he not only taught the principles of the Gospel, but, as a prophet, was able to tell the Saints what should come to pass, to warn them against certain courses, to tell them what the future had in store for them, and also to prophesy what should befall this nation. Read the 87th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and his history, and you will see that as a prophet he foresaw the future both of the nation and of the Saints. The Lord did not leave him nor the Saints in the dark concerning these things. And we have seen his prophecies fulfilled. 

Brethren and Sisters, this is the work of the Lord, and whatever opposition it may meet, always remember that the Lord is stronger than those who oppose Him, and that He will carry the work forward to triumph. This work will be as "the little stone cut out of the mountains without hands," it will fill the whole earth. We do not believe, however, that the rights of anyone will be taken away, but this work will be a protection to all, whether they belong to the church or not. Those in our midst who are not of us need have no concern or fear as to what the Mormons will do with their neighbors. We have shown in the past that their rights have been protected equally with our own. Where we are in the majority we do not step on their toes or attempt to take their rights from them. On the contrary, we feel that they are entitled to just the same privileges as we are. But the majority have a right to vote as the" please. Even politically our people have tried to give those in their midst equal rights with themselves. When it comes to business, some have feared that we are going too far in that line; but if they will examine into this matter they will And that as a people we are mostly farmers, tillers of the soil, and the cream of commercial business has been taken by our non-Mormon friends. But we do not find fault with this. They have a right to pursue any business  like. We simply claim the same right to enter into any line of business that we desire. There is enough for all, and all have a right to engage in business, whether Mormon or gentile, and there should be no friction on this account. Go down Main street and look at the merchants' signs, and you will see that the Mormon merchants are few. Why, then, should they find fault with us, on this point? We say to the Latter-day Saints, pursue your even course. "Do what is right; let the consequence follow." Amen.
