6
Afternoon
06 04 1905
President Joseph F. Smith. 

"As this is the seventy-fifth anniversary of the day on which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, we will present the general authorities of the Church for your vote this afternoon, and I would like to say that it is expected that all the Latter-day Saints will exercise their right to vote for or against those whose names are submitted. We would like you to exercise perfect liberty and freedom in the expression of your own thought and faith and fidelity in the lifting of your hands." 

President Smith then presented the authorities of the Chruch. All the voting was unanimous with, two exceptions; and President Smith invited  who had so voted to state their grievances to the proper authorities, and they would be considered. The list of names as sustained is a follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith and Charles W. Penrose. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller, as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian, and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Orson F. Whitney, A. Milton Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, John 

Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, John R Winder and Charles W. Penrose. 

Arthur Winter, secretary and treasurer to the General Church board of education. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

Evan Stephens as director of the Tab choir; J. J. McClellan, organist; Tray Y. Cannon, assistant organist, and all the members of the Tabernacle choir. 

The choir sang the anthem, "From afar, gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock." 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop Robert T. Burton. Amen.
