8
Afternoon
07 04 1905
Elder Rudger Clawson. 

Remarkable Development and Numerous Changes in Church Affairs.— Toung People Should be Prepared for Futur,Responsibilties.— Predictions of Ancient Prophets Now Being Fulfilled. 

Brethren and sisters, I have greatly rejoiced in the spirit of this conference and in the great gatherings of the Latter-day Saints within this building. There was a time when the Latter-day Saints were weak in numbers. That time was the 6th day of April, 1830, Today, however, the people of the Lord are strong — strong in faith, strong in experience, and reasonably strong in numbers. Today we have 55 stakes of Zion, with 629 wards, and 14 missions in the world; and there is no ward in Zion but has a larger membership than the whole Church had 75 years ago. I remember the Time, although I was but a boy, when a great canvas was stretched across the center of this building, because at that time the place was too large and it was difficult even to fill one half of the building with Latter-day Saints. Today the Tabernacle is not adequate. I do not remember to have witnessed so large a gathering at the first session of our conference as we had yesterday morning, and we have today a vast congregation of Latter-day Saints, numbering perhaps between 8,000 and 10,000. This is a very remarkable showing. It is encouraging to witness the growth and progress of the work of God. 

Some very wonderful changes have occurred since the organization of the Church. I call your attention to the fact that there are but few people within the sound of my voice today who were acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, or who saw him in life. Most of his eontemporariss have passed away. I call your attention to some oiher changes that have taken place, suggested to my mind by the remarks of President Lund when he alluded to the fact that this was the seventy-fifth annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Since our organization as a Church five Presidents have passed away; six counselors to the Presidents, 11 Apostles — nearly a full quorum of those who were faithful — have passed into the spirit world; 11 members of the First Council of Seventies, and three Presiding Bishops have also gone. But this change is not so remarkable, in my opinion, as what has occurred in our own time, within the brief period of 13 years. Since the year 1892, two Presidents of the Church have passed beyond— Presidents Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow; one counselor in the Presidency, President George Q. Cannon; the following Apostles: Franklin D. Richards, Abraham H. Cannon, Brig-ham Young, Jr., and Abraham O. Woodruff; three of the First Council of Seventies: Jacob Gates, John Morgan and Edward Stevenson; and of the other general authorities, Brother Karl G. Maeser, general superintendent of Church schools, and Brother George Goddard, first assistant general superintendent of the Sunday  of the Church, and John JaQues, assistant Church historian. Thirteen years ago there were 33 stakes of Zion; today there are 55 stakes, or an. increase of 22 in 13 years. Of the 33 Presidents of stakes then living 11, or onethird of the number, have passed away. So that in all 21 of the general authorities of the Church out of the 26 have closed their labors here and passed into the spirit world. To me this is very remarkable, and it shows that great changes are going on, almost without notice. What may we expect, brethren and sisters, in the course of 20 or 30 or 50 years to come? Whether we disguise it or not, the fact still remains that the boys and girls of today will be the men and women of tomorrow. The authority resting upon the men of today will speedily descend to their children; and this emphasizes the need and the importance of the quorums of the Holy Priesthood and the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Many parents among us are very busy men and women; they are engaged in the various avocations of life, in order to provide for their families, and they do not seem to have very much time to devote to the teaching of their children. But a way is provided in the quorums of the Priesthood and in these organizations whereby the children may be taught in the things of the Lord. We have various grades of the Priesthood in the Church, from the Deacon up to the High Priest. There is no principle in this Church of so great importance and consequence to us as the authority of the Priesthood. This authority sl.ould be fostered and nourished, and the quorums should be strengthened and supported by the Latter-day Saints. Every man, every young man, and every boy who holds the Priesthood should do his duty. We should also foster and encourage the auxiliary organizations of the Church. The Relief society, the Sunday school, the Mutual Improvement association, the Primary and the Religion class, all should have our support; and parents should see to it that their children are sent to these places 

ELDER RUDG 

of instruction, that they may be prepared and fitted for the great responsibility that will rest upon them in the near future. And notwithstanding, brethren and sisters, that prominent men and women, pillars of the Church, men and women of power, of strength and of faith, are passing away, still the Church goes on. That is characteristic of this work. I call your attention to the fact that some very remarkable predictions have been made concerning the work in which we are engaged. It was known of old. Even Daniel the prophet saw this work. You will remember, doubtless, the great vision of Nebuchadnezzar, which he could not call to mind. He had had a vision in the night time, in which he beheld wonderful things; but it was taken from his mind. He sent for the astrologers and wise men of Babylon, and he wanted to know from them what his vision was, and also the interpretation; but the wise men could not help him. If he could only recall the vision, why then they might give to him the interpretation; but he could not do it. Then Daniel, of the despised Hebrew people, was called in to make known the vision of the king; and Daniel used these very remarkable words — words that I consider remarkable in view of the present attitude of the world on the question of revelation: 

"There is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days." 

Here was declared a God who revealeth secrets and speaketh to the children of men, a God of revelation. That was the God that Daniel worshiped, and that was the God who would make known to the king what he had seen in the vision of the night. Daniel thereupon interpreted the vision. The king had seen a great image of gold, of silver, of brass, of iron, and of iron and clay mixed together. The image represented kingdoms of the world that should reach from Nebuchadnezzar's reign down to the end of time, the head being typical of Babylon as it existed in those ancient days. Other 

R CLAWSON. 35 

kingdoms were to follow Babylon, until the feet and the toes were reached, which were typical of kingdoms which should be established in the latter days. And Daniel said: 

"In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

The Prophet Isaiah had his eye upon the same event, and if he had been here yesterday and written the things that are published in King James' translation of the Bible, and which were inscribed thousands of years agr he could not have set forth the condition of this people more clearly than he did. If I remember correctly, the words of Isaiah were something like this: 

"And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say. Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

And again Isaiah says: 

"O Zion, that bringest good tidings get thee up into the high mountain." 

And again: 

"For the Lord shall comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody." 

This vast congregation are living witnesses of the literal fulfillment of these words of the prophet. Was not this land a veritable wilderness in the year 1847? Has it not been transformed into a garden like Eden? This land has become choice above all other lands. We want no better. And I am inclined to think that the Lord can lead us to no better land than we have at the present time, unless a special blessing is conferred upon the land beyond what we have received. And in this conference we have seen the joy of the people; we have witnessed their gladness. We have heard the voice of thanksgiving from this stand, from the lips of the Elders of Israel. Here in this choir we have heard the voice of melody. Isaiah must have had his eye upon these occasions; and in the great visions that were given to him he must have witnessed the gatherings of the people of the Lord. Oh, how our hearts have been made to rejoice upon this occasion! 

Brethren and sisters, I testify that this is the work of the Lord. I testify to you that I have witnessed with my own eyes that Isaiah was a prophet of God, and that Daniel was a true prophet. Their words are finding fulfillment. This is the work of God, and not of man; and any man, in the Church or out of it, who pits himself against this work is measuring arms with the Almighty, and his effort will be futile, his folly will be manifest in the eyes of the people. You will remember, brethren and sisters, that the Prophet Joseph obtained a promise from the Lord as he went forth to preach the Gospel of repentance unto this generation. The Lord said to him: 

"Wherefore, let them bring forth their strong reasons against the Lord [not against Joseph and his brethren, for they were but the representatives of the Lord]. Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, no weapon that iS formed against you shall prosper; and if any man shall lift his voice against you, he shall be confounded in due time." 

Mark you, these are not the words of Joseph Smith the Prophet, but the revelation of God to him. This is the work of Jesus Christ, and not the work of Joseph Smith, nor of any of his successors, nor of any man upon the earth. I rejoice in this testimony. I rejoice in the teachings of this conference, and in the blessed words of comfort and consolation which we have received. I rejoice in the union of the Latter-day Saints. They begin to  forth the fruits of seventy -five years of experience in the work. The words of President Lyman sank deep into my heart when he referred to the experience and to the faith and faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints. That is my testimony and it has been confirmed in my visits to the Stakes of Zion. I rejoice in my fellowship with the Latter-day Saints, and in my acquaintance and association with the authorities of the Church, with the Presidencies of the Stakes, and with all the brethren and sisters. May the Lord bless us, and may He sustain His work, and bring us off victorious and triumphant, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
