9
Afternoon
07 04 1905
Elder J. G. Mcquarrie. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.)Yesterday afternoon I had the pleasure of sitting shoulder to shoulder with six other Presidents, co-laborers in the mission fields of the United States, and I wish I could explain the feeling of strength and sympathy that passed through my being in thus associating with my fellow-laborers. Ella Wheeler Wilcox expressed in a poetic way a truth intensely felt by the Latter-day Saints, when she said: 

"There is an unseen cord which binds 

the whole wide world together; Through every human heart it winds 

its one mysterious tether. It links all races and all minds within 

their span allotted, And death alone unties the strand 

which God Himself hath knotted." 

But I would like to change the last part of that, and say that even death does not sever these cords of brotherhood and fellowship that God ties in our hearts and in our souls. We cannot overestimate the strength of sympathy. The idea of government in the Church is the voice of God and the consent of the people, and hence those who officiate in any of the offices of the Churchmust look for their strength, not only in the favor of God but also in the confidence of their brothers and sistersThe most touching appeal I have read from the far east was written by a (Russian officer complaining because, when they looked to Russia for strength they found division, contention and lack of sympathy among their own people, and literature was scattered in their ranks urging the men to lay down their arms, while they were facing a foe moved on and stimulated to almost superhuman strength by the sympathy, the unity and the power of sentiment that came to them from their own country. Those who are interested in the missionary work want to know what we are doing in the field. Perhaps they think we come here with the idei that we are going to tell about great things we are doing out on the battle line; but we come here with different feelings. Our thoughts are something like this: We are going to the strongholds of Zion; we are going to see the unity of the home guard; we are going to look upon the sources from which we may draw strength to continue our work; we are going to hear the voice of inspiration, and clasp hands with our leaders and with our co-workers. This is the way I feel today. I want to clasp hands with those whose hearts beat in unison with my own. 

There is so much that should be said that what I have to say seems to me of so little importance that I do not feel like taking much of your time to tell it; yet perhaps there is no part of the work of Zion that is not important. In listening to the reports that have been made, the earnest testimonies that have been borne, and the voice of inspiration we have heard in this conference, I feel that I can be a stronger and a better man. Longfellow said that we desired to walk beneath the shadow of great names. This is illustrated by the fact that churches bear the names of great men. As men, we are timid in relation to our own opinion, and feel like resting our faith beneath the shadow of great names; but as Latter-day Saints we are taught to rest our faith beneath the shadow of bat one name — that of Jesus Christ. 

But while we know that we should not pin our faith to men, we also realize that we can receive strength from each other. 

I have labored in the mission field as a traveling Elder, as a conference president, and as a mission president, and I understand the feelings of the Elders as they go up against the stone walls of prejudice that seem to confront us. Individually we feel we are accomplishing very little, but when the Elders report to their conference presidents, and they in turn report to the mission president at the close of the year, and we figure up how many homes have been visited by Elders bearing testimony of the restored Gospel.how many hundreds of thousands of tracts have been delivered, how many books have been sold or given away, how many meetings have been held, and sermons preached, and baptisms performed, then we realize that something has been done. And when we think of this record being united with those of all the other missions in the world, and then contemplate the compilation of such for the last seventy years, we realize that it comprises one of the grandest, one of the most glorious missionary reports ever recorded in the history of the world. And when the clouds of envy, and hatred, and persecution shall have rolled away, and when the future historian shall trace to their source the many streams that have united together- to form the millennial sea of peace, it will be conceded that a stream of powerful influence has flown down from the mountains of Israel. 

In a recent magazine article written upon the so-called "Evil of Mormonism," the writer said: "We must first admit and understand the inherent power of Mormonism, before we can cope with this religion. The energy and zeal put forth by the Mormon Elders ought to put to shame any Christian denomination in the world." This is said, and yet they have only commenced to learn what a great work is being done by the Latter-day Saints. 

I bear my testimony to you who have made great sacrifices, to you who have performed many noble deeds, and to the Elders in the world laboring for the spread of truth, that these actions and deeds will not fade away in the gray mist of the past and be forgotten, but they will rise like a glorious scroll upon the horizon of the future, and stand as a justification of the righteous and condemnation of the wicked. I feel strong in the support of my brethren and sisters and the Elders with whom I work. One young man, when he was told by his opponents that they were going to overcome the work with which he was associated, said, "How are you going to do it? We are here to work for it; we are here to sacrifice our means for it; we are here, if necessary, to die for it; how are you going to stop it?" With thousands of such men and women, and with God on our side, we will eventually be victorious. Even if assassins put such men to death, their death, like the guns of Concord, would send an echo round the world, and probably would be a more effective testimony than our preaching. 

As there has been some voice, some word, some murmuring heard through the land against our prophet-leader, it is natural that his friends should rally to his support and give expression to their feeling. This morning, President Ben E. Rich bore testimony to the fact that he knew President Joseph P. Smith had his ears open to hear the voice of God, and was ever ready to heed the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. I want to bear my testimony to the fact that he also has his ears open to his fellowmen, and that he sympathizes with them. He has not forgotten, as others have often done, "That the love of the Lord and of man are one." When I stood here six months ago I had a rather heavy heart, because our mission was without a home. We had been forced to leave our headquarters because of the agitation then going on, and were obliged to take shelter with the conference president in a little room about 10x18. I thought I would appeal to the authorities of the Church and see if we could not get some aid to establish  firmer in t^he city of New Tork, where it was important that the Latter-day Saints should be well represented and established; but, I accidentally heard that the funds of the Church had already been so divided, there had been so many calls, that word had been sent out that improvements not already started should not be commenced during that year. Still I felt I must ask for aid, and I testify that my appea'i received kind consideration, and five thousand dollars was given to us to make the first payment on a place we might call our own in the city of New Tork. Part of your tithing has gone there, my brethren and sisters, and I hope you do not regret it. 

Last Monday I was in the city of Chicago. It was the first time I had th; privilege of visiting the headquarters of the Church there, and while looking for the number I saw in bold letters across the front of a beautiful edifice the words "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." I have seen many churches the last four years, but I had never before seen the name of Jesus Christ written across the front of any of them. We should feel honored in erecting churches to His name, and I trust a similar building may soon be seen in the city of New York. 

Since we have been established in our own home, my notice has been called to a prophecy recorded in Nephi, 14th chapter, 10-12 verses. I hope you will read it, my brethren and sisters. It was a source of inspiration to me, because it describes the great struggle that you and I have to make. Nephi speaks of the great battle between righteousness and wickedness which should continue until there would be only two churches — the Church of God and the church of the devil; that the latter*would have great dominions in all parts of the world, and that the Church of the Lamb of God should also be upon all the face of the earth, but its possessions would be small. Now, we have been gathering people from all nations, and no effort has been made until lately to obtain possessions, even small ones, in various parts of the world. These have not been secured for the purpose of fulfilling that prophecy. Instructions on this matter did not come to us from the President of the Church; but the movement seemed to come as an inspiration, almost simultaneously in all parts of the world. When I asked President Smith a year ago, as I was returning to my mission, if he had any counsel to give me, he said: "You have our confidence, and the time has come when men must go out into the world and live near enough to the Lord that they can receive their inspiration from Him, and build up Zion wherever they are called to labor, without the personal assistance and continued counsel of the general authorities of the Church." I testify that this desire to have places of our own in the world has burned in the hearts of the Saints, and it has been forced upon the Mission Presidents, until now from Norway and Sweden, from England and Denmark, from the islands of the sea, and from "all parts of the United States, we hear reports that they are established upon their own ground. I thank the Lord we now have a place we can call oui own, and we feel that Zion is becoming more firmly rooted. When I read this prophecy recorded in the 14th chapter of Nephi, I thought that possibly the prophets of old even saw this little work that we are doing. What a glorious thing it is to join with the Prophets of old fulfilling their words, and accomplishing the purposes of God. 

My brothers and sisters, there is, it is true, some agitation throughout the country against us, and many things are being said to injure our reputation. But why should we worry about our reputation? Let our anxiety be for our characters. No one can soil my character but myself. No one can soil the character of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but the characters of its members may be soiled by their own misdeeds. A short time ago I read in the New York Herald the statement that after all that had been written and spoken, there was no source to which a  could go to get reliable information in regard to the "Mormon" people, because that which had been written had been blackened by prejudice or colored by zeal. I was glad that I could answer the writer by saying: There is one history written that zeal cannot color and prejudice cannot efface. That history has been written with the iron pen of industry. Its scroll has been rolled out from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, covering like a beautiful veil the great desert of America. That history has been engraved with winding streams, checkered fields, and fruitful gardens. It has been illustrated with great cities, nestling villages, and happy homes. It is vitalized and vivified by hundreds of thousands of happy men and women, rejoicing in the blessings of liberty and an intelligent faith in God. And this history will live, while yellow journalsm will die and be forgotten. The men and women who have written this history will be remembered and honored by thousands who reap the fruits of what they have sown, while those who have vilified and persecuted them will go down either to disgrace or oblivion. 

God grant that we may live up to the high ideals that have been given to us, that we may be able to preserve the heritage that has been intrusted to our care, and bequeath it, not lessened, to those who may follow after us. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
