Afternoon
06 04 1905


PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

The Tithing Used Only for Legitimate Purposes. — Establishment and Wonderful Growth of the Church.— Doctrines Taught by Joseph Smith Harmonize With the Scriptures.— Religion and Rights of Non-"Mormons" Respected by Us. 

I will read a few verses of the hymn 

that we have just been singing: 

What though our rights have been assailed ? 

What though by foes we've been despoiled? 

Jehovah's promise has not failed, Jehovah's purpose is not foiled. 

His work is moving on apace, 

And great events are rolling forth; The kingdom of the latter days — 

The "little stone" — must fill the earth. Though Satan rage, 'tis all in vain; 

The words the ancient Prophet spoke, Sure as the throne of God remain, 

Nor men nor devils can revoke. All glory to His holy name, 

Who sends His faithful servants forth, To prove the nations — to proclaim 

Salvation's tidings through the earth. 

I am pleased to see this large congregation. I enjoyed the forenoon services very much. I enjoyed the glorious testimonies borne and the good instruc given. I hope that while I shall address you the same spirit may direct me that inspired my brethren who spoke to us this forenoon. 

Like Brother Winder, I feel to bear my testimony to the truth of the statements made by President Smith in regard to the tithing. I know that the tithing is used for the purpose of building up the Church of Christ upon the earth, and only for that purpose. President Smith, does not expend any of the noney of the Church without sharing the responsibility of doing so with his brethren. The accounts and books are kept, as has been stated, in such a way that not one cent could be diverted for any selfish purpose without it being known. The books are open for the inspection of the Saints. All the means that come into the Church are accounted for, and an auditing committee looks over the accounts and they certify that the books are correctly kept. In addition to the things mentioned by the president this morning for which the tithing has been expended, I will say that during the last year more has been spent to help build meetinghouses both at home and abroad than in any other year that I remember. A great deal of Church means has gone to the various missions, and also to the poor of the Church; and besides that, more ifas been paid to our Church schools than ever before. I believe that all the Latter-day Saints approve and sanction this way of spending the tithing. Our Church schools are progressing nicely. We do for them all that we can. We feel that they are a necessity in Zion, and that the Saints cannot do without them. We are proud of them, and we wish we were more able to help them, because we believe that much good is being done through them. 

In establishing our Church schools it was not the design to have them antagonistic to the state schools. When strangers travel through our communities they are struck with the beautiful sehoolhouses we have erected. When I say "we," 1 include all citizens of the state; but as the Latter-day Saints are in the majority they can share at least 

equally the honor of having erected such fine school buildings in which to educate the children. We are proud of the institutions of higher learning established by the state, and we look to them to do much for our young men and young women in the line of education, and to save them from spending so much and so many years in the east, as they can just as well, and even better in several courses, stay at home and take what these institutions give. 

Our Church schools have an object which can not be reached in the state institutions. We want our young men and young women instructed in the principles of salvation. We want them brought under the influence of the Spirit of the Gospel. Hence we .have these schools established in our midst. Of course, it costs much to keep these schools; but we feel the cost is far outweighed by the good which is accomplished in them. 

I am reminded that this is the 6th of April, and that the Church is 75 years old today. Seventy-five years ago a few persons met in Peter Whitmer's house, and according to the commandments given of the Lord the Church was organized This was done even in that early day by the same principle which 1 has governed the Church ever since, namely, that of common consent. The Prophet Joseph had translated the Eook of Mormon. Oliver Cowder> had been h's scribe. The book had already been published. These two had received the lesser Priesthood under the hands of John, whom we know as John the Baptist. Afterwards they received the Melchisedek Priesthood under the hands of Peter, James and John, who were intrusted by the Savior to hold the keys of the Priesthood upon the earth. When He ascended to heaven He left the authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel with the Apostles, and Peter, James and John no doubt held the presidency of the apostleship. These persons were sent to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them the Melchis(ec?ek Piriesthood. Remember, thete  no church organized at that time, and therefore there were no offices. In conferring the Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver they were not ordained to any particular office, but the Priesthood itself was conferred upon them. They were instructed, however, that when the Church was organized they should ordain each other to the office of Elder. When those who had been baptized met together seventy-five years ago today, they opened their meeting with earnest prayer, and then they laid before those present what the Lord wanted them to do, and they were accepted unanimously to teach the things of the kingdom of God. Then they ordained each other to the office of an Elder. They partook of bread and wine at that meeting, the first time that the sacrament was administered in this the dispensation of the fullness of times; and then they confirmed all those present, who were members of the Church, and ordained some to different offices in the Priesthood. The Holy Ghost was poured out upon them, and they rejoiced that the Church had been organized and that they were members of it. It was a very small beginning; only six members participated in the organization, that is, so far as the incorporation of the Church was concerned; but there were a few additional members in the Church. The six that I refer to were: Joseph Smith, Jr., Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Hyrum Smith, Samuel H. Smith and David Whitmer. From that small beginning I see today this large congregation before me, and I am amazed to contemplate the great work that has been done in all parts of the world. 

When the angel said to Joseph that his name should be known for good and evil in all the world, how improbable this seemed to be, that a farmer's boy, in the backwoods,) should be known outside of the few villages where he was known at that time! But this prediction has been fulfilled. Those whom I see before me today have come from many different lands, both from the west and the east. Many different nationalities are represented here. His name has indeed become known in all parts of the world. We receive letters from many different lands inquiring- about our religion and asking that Elders be sent to them. They have heard of the name of Joseph Smith. We rejoice this day that we have heard his name, that the Gospel came unto us, and that we have received the knowledge of its truth. 

While they were yet together in the meeting in which the Church was organized, the Prophet Joseph received this revelation: 

"Behold there shall be a record kept among you, and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an Elder of the Church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ." 

We who have studied his history can bear witness to the fact that he was not only called a prophet, but that he was indeed a prophet, and also a seer, which is a still greater calling; that he was shown the past, and also what should come to pass, and he was made the means as a revelator of bringing forth the Gospel of Christ in plainness and in perfection. As a teacher, he proved that his teachings were divine. It is true that they come in conflict with many of the opinions held by the theologians of the day; but whenever they come in conflict with them, the theologians' views are in conflict with the doctrines of the New Testament. He taught that God lived, that Jesus Christ was His Son and our Redeemer, and that the Holy Ghost was one of the Godhead. He taught that the Son was like the Father. We know that the Son possessed a body. We know that He has promised that our bodies shall be changed and made like unto His glorious body. This is a promise unto the Saints. He was the express image of His Father. If, therefore, He has a glorious body — and we know He has — then the Father also has a body. Now, this teaching comes in direct conflict with the teachings of the world. But it is not con to the teachings of the Bible. Read the Bible from Genesis to Revelations, and it sets forth a personal God, and that man was created in His image. We hold this to be a glorious doctrine. Then he taught us the relationship of man to God— that we are His children. Though this has been called a presumptuous doctrine, it is one that inspires the Saints and makes them feel thankful to know that God is their Father, and they look upon all human beings as their brethren and sisters, connected in the sacred relationship of brotherhood. Can teachings be more ennobling than this? We not only hold this as a belief, but we are trying to carry it out practically and show men that we do love them. We have been and are, willing to make much sacrifice for those who have not heard the truth. Why, this mere handful of Latter-day Saints send forth missionaries into the world by the hundreds. Why do they do this? It does not help them financially. They do it because it is a duty they owe to their fellowmen, and therefore, when they are called they go forth gladly. They do not ask what their salary will be, nor where the money will come from. If they have the means, they are willing to make the sacrifice and spend their time in this labor of love amongst their fellow-men. 

Why should those who are not of our faith be so opposed to us? They say we have a false doctrine. But is it false? Have they proved \it to be so? We invite a comparison of the principles we believe in with those taught by Jesus Christ and His apostles. If our principles are contrary to those that they taught, then they cannot be true; but if they are like them, then is it not probable that they are true? And we can prove that it is not only in the letter that they are alike, but that the spirit which accompanied the preaching of the Gospel formerly is still in the Church, and the word is clothed with the same power. Therefore, we say they are just the same. 

I feel to bear my testimony unto this congregation that Joseph Smith was a  of the Lord, that he proved himself worthy of the name he was called to bear; and that he not only taught the principles of the Gospel, but, as a prophet, was able to tell the Saints what should come to pass, to warn them against certain courses, to tell them what the future had in store for them, and also to prophesy what should befall this nation. Read the 87th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and his history, and you will see that as a prophet he foresaw the future both of the nation and of the Saints. The Lord did not leave him nor the Saints in the dark concerning these things. And we have seen his prophecies fulfilled. 

Brethren and Sisters, this is the work of the Lord, and whatever opposition it may meet, always remember that the Lord is stronger than those who oppose Him, and that He will carry the work forward to triumph. This work will be as "the little stone cut out of the mountains without hands," it will fill the whole earth. We do not believe, however, that the rights of anyone will be taken away, but this work will be a protection to all, whether they belong to the church or not. Those in our midst who are not of us need have no concern or fear as to what the Mormons will do with their neighbors. We have shown in the past that their rights have been protected equally with our own. Where we are in the majority we do not step on their toes or attempt to take their rights from them. On the contrary, we feel that they are entitled to just the same privileges as we are. But the majority have a right to vote as the" please. Even politically our people have tried to give those in their midst equal rights with themselves. When it comes to business, some have feared that we are going too far in that line; but if they will examine into this matter they will And that as a people we are mostly farmers, tillers of the soil, and the cream of commercial business has been taken by our non-Mormon friends. But we do not find fault with this. They have a right to pursue any business  like. We simply claim the same right to enter into any line of business that we desire. There is enough for all, and all have a right to engage in business, whether Mormon or gentile, and there should be no friction on this account. Go down Main street and look at the merchants' signs, and you will see that the Mormon merchants are few. Why, then, should they find fault with us, on this point? We say to the Latter-day Saints, pursue your even course. "Do what is right; let the consequence follow." Amen. 

Sister Lottie Owen sang sweetly, "Palm branches." 

ELDER JOS. E. ROBINSON. (President of California Mission.) 

For the few moments I stand before you, my brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your prayers of faith. I rejoice in the testimony of Jesus. I rejoice in the testimonies of my brethren which have been borne this day. It recalls to my mind a conversation I once had with a gentleman, when he said: "All you brethren speak the same words, bear the same testimony, and treat doctrine and principle alike." I told him it was in fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah: 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; .with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." 

The Lord has established Zion. The watchmen lift up the voice together; they see eye to eye, and their testimony is one in relation to peace, to salvation, to the fact that God reigns, and that if His people do right they need have no fear of the consequences. 

I am glad to report the California mission in good condition. We do not make many converts in that great State of pleasure and of wealth; but those who do come into the Church are of the better classes, and they grow more stable and more consistent in their faith day by day. 'The Saints are growiner and developing in faith and in the knowledge of the Gospel. They rejoice in the triumphs of truth. They sorrow at the ignorance of the world and those who shape the shaft of villification and contumely against the Lord's anointed. We have pleasure in the visits of many of the worthv sons and daughters of Zion to that mission. We have pleasure also that some who may have been froward and who have got outside the influence of home love, have had their testimonies rekindled. They have had the opportunity of comparing the Gospel of Jesus Christ with that taught by men, and their bosoms have swelled with sride and joy because of the new and everlasting covenant which God has established with their fathers, to their soul's good and to their reclamation. They bear testimony to these things, and return home renewed in faith, in zeal, and in courage, and with a desire to keep the commandments of God. 

We have heard today a little concerning the beginning of this work. We have been told of its wondrous growth in numbers, and in power; that it is known among all nations; that the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith is spoken of throughout the earth for good or ill, according to men's concept of his work and character. Those who have taken cognizance of the advancement in modern thought cannot but note how in seventy-five years the little leaven of the Gospel has influenced and modified the precepts and concepts of men in relation to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Many have come to view the fact that faith alone is not sufficient to save; their concept of God and His attributes and powers have been changed; the old bottomless pit hell has been repudiated; a belief in that horrible heresy, the damnation of little children who are not baptized has been relegated to the past; and the concept of a personal God has grown. They believe today more in progression, as taught, though imperfectly, in some of their ideas of evolution. They sense  the capabilities of man, his relationship to Deity, the powers which He possesses, and with which, in the future, he will be able to develop until he may become like his Father in Heaven. Many understand the fact that like begets like, and that within man is an embryotic Deity. We have some such teachings as this from the learned professors of the great schools in our mission. They have learned to be more merciful, and hav^ come to see that the Gospel of Christ reaches out farther to save than was thought seventy-five years ago. They are now preaching the doctrine of a probation after death, a life beyond the veil, wherein mankind may have another opportunity to adjust themselves to the Gospel plan. They are also teaching tithes and offerings. One man there is teaching temple-building. Some believe in apostles, others teach the gathering. So, as I said in the beginning, the little leaven is leavening the whole lump; and although they wili not admit it, their concept of God and His work and word has been most wondrously modified by the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Many of the scientific truths which he enunciated, and which were elaborated upon by Apostle Pratt, have been accepted and are now being taught in the schools of our land. I noted not long since that Professors Lodge, Curry and Crookes gave voice to what the press called a "stupendous theory" in relation to matter. They declared that spirit was matter, only finer and more subtle; and that atoms could be divided ad infinitum. Orson Pratt, getting his key from the Prophet Joseph Smith, taught the same doctrine and wrote his "Absurdities of Immaterialism" 60 yeara ago. So that, not only in religious matters, but in scientific as well, the rev*>~ lations of the Lord have had their influence in the world. Seventy-five years ago physiology and hygiene were not understood and taught, as they are today. Men have arisen one by one and voiced the laws of health as we have them in the Word of Wisdom; and  States have made it incumbent upon the teachers in their various schools to teach to the rising generation the health laws that are embodied in the Word of Wisdom. Not only that, but great corporations, the railroads particularly, have partaken of this spirit, and those who indulge in strong drink or use tobacco find it difficult to get employment with them, and if they do get it, the work is generally unimportant. 

I rejoice that the Saints of our mission sustain the Church with their tithes and their offerings, and sustain with their confidence and prayers President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, and the qxiorum of Twelve Apostles. I would like to remind you, my brothers' and sisters, of the words of Christ when He told His disciples to beware of the leaven of the scribes and Pharisees. They thought He referred to bread; but afterwards He explained the matter to them, and they sa'sv that He referred to their doctrines and teachings. Now, as our teachings have modified th« thought of the World, at least in religious matters^ let us see to it that the leaven of the gentiles does not modify or change the testimonies we have that, God has set His hand to gather Hfs elect from the four corners of the earth; that the north has been made to give up, that the south has kept not back, and that the sons and daughters of God have been gathered from the east, from the west, and from afar off, to be taught of His ways and to walk in His paths. When philanthropists and humanitarians arise and declaim against Mother Goose rhymes, such as the one that deals with old Daddy Long-legs, as being improper teachings for our children, what will we say of papers and books that aim their shafts at the anointed of the Lord? 

Will we have such books and papers in our homes? Will we have the adversary, like a serpent, enter therein to poison the atmosphere^? Can we expect that our children will learn things more healthful morally from such sources than those which are conveyed in the Mother Goose rhymes and jingles? Beware of the leaven of the Sadducees and Pharisees! Keep your  before the Lord. Betray not His Holy Priesthood. Be humble and faithful, and await the day when the prophecy of Isaiah shall be fulfilled wherein he says: 

"Arise, shine! for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. 

"The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto thee; but the Lord shall be unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory." 

God grant it. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI PRATT, 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, 1 have listened this day to that which I came to conference to hear. My heart has rejoiced in the things that we have heard. I am glad that I am here. I have come from the northwest, where I have labored for almost three years, to meet with the general body of the church at these great conferences, for which privilege my heart is filled with gratitude and thanksgiving to the Lord. I rejoice in the mission over- which I have been called to preside, notwithstanding the indifference of the people against most anything that bears the name of religion is so great that it is like the hide of a rhinoceros, scarcely penetrable, and it is all our Elders can do to get the privilege of having perhaps One gospel conversation in tvs'0 or three days, and oftentimes that will be with people who have recently come from the east. In the year just past we baptized about seventy-five souls in that mission; about half of them were the children of people already in the Church. 

I have to say that the Latter-day Saints whose sons have been sent up to our mission may be thankful to the Lord for the spirit that begins to burn in the hearts of those young men. Only the other day, in the great town of Seattle, on the Puget Sound, myself and counselors (one a son of Jesse N. Smith, the other Brother George W. Quibell) met with the Elders in Priesthood meeting. There were twenty-seven of us in all, and we' had that spirit and power which has never been manifested to me in such great abundance as it was in the four and a half hours of that Priesthood meeting, one of the best I have ever been in — and I have been brought up in the midst of the Priesthood. Every soul present spoke by the power of inspiration, their hearts were melted, and they bowed their heads and wept for joy. They felt that they never wanted to commit a sin against the Lord, or even any folly, but desired to walk the straight and narrow path that leads up to eternnl life. They felt like going with tears to sow the seed of eternal life among the people in that land. 

We held meetings in Tacoma, sailed across the sound, and went over to the Island of Vancouver, and in our meetings there was a power that it was blessed to feel. We had liberty of speech, liberty of the Holy Spirit, and the Saints and strangers that came there will not soon forget these splendid meetings. We are not, however, setting the lakes nor the ocean on fire up there; but are working faithfully every day. Our missionaries are carrying literature from door to door, and whatever the result may be, we are doing the best we can. We hold meetings in the evenings, often upon the streets, and we sometimes have a baker's do^en to listen to us, and at other times from four to six hundred persons. 

We have heard the voice of inspiration through our Prophet who stands at the head of the Church, and in our field we know that he is a prophet of the living God; for we can testify that our hearts have burned within us when we have listened to his voice and testimony; and when we have yielded obedience to his counsel, we, too, have received revelation and inspiration from on high, such as men can only receive upon principles of righteousness. 

This, brethren and sisters, is my testimony, and I bear it wherever I get a chance. I talk to men upon the trains, on the steamboats, on the streets, and in the homes of the people, and I find  the intelligent American citizen is not holding great condemnation over this people. Men are testifying to us of the confidence they have in us and in our leaders; and we feel greatly gratified at the manner in which some of the foremost men in Portland and Seattle speak of the industrial character of our people, and of the splendid way in which we unite together to bring about and make successful the great industries that have been established by us. 

I wish to close my remarks by bearing my humble testimony that I know, and have known for many years, that God is with this people. I remarked this morning, as my mind meditated upon the apostate condition of some who have stood high in this Chxrch, where are they? where is their power and where is their influence? This work never stopped a minute when they disapproved of what the prophets had done; on the contrary, it grew in numbers, in union, in power and strength. The light of those apostates has gone out, and their works are forgotten, but this people will continue to rise in might and power, and be prospered in the earth, for God has planted them; and Zion shall remain forever. Amen. 

ELDER JOS. A. McRAE. (President of Colorado Mission.) 

My brethren and, sisters, I rejoice this afternoon with you in having the opportunity to attend this seventy-fifth anniversary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I want to bear my testimony to what President Smith said this morning in relation to the growth of this great latter-day work. In the field where I have been appointed to preside the church was never in better condition, and I do not know the time when the people were trying to live nearer to the Lord and were more willing to sustain President Joseph P. Smith, his counselors, the Twelve Apostles, and all the leading authorities of the Church. We have had some opposition in our work, but most of our trouble has been indifference. 

However, at the present time there is a spirit of inquiry among the people, and they want to know something- about the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. About two weeks ago I took by surprise the Elders who are laboring in the city of Denver, and asked them to report to me the number of homes where they could go and read the Book of Mormon and tell the people of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and we counted 101 homes in that city where the Elders could go any night they choose and read the Book of Mormon to the people. We have established in many homes Book of Mormon classes, and have advocated doing this wherever practicable. We go there on specially appointed evenings, read chapters to them from the Book of Mormon, and they have the privilege of asking questions. This gives us the opportunity to confine our remarks to the subject in hand, instead of wandering about. We have discovered that this has accomplished a great deal of good. The people have begun to inquire about the Book of Mormon, and many have desired a copy of it. We are pleased to know that many influential men in our mission are in favor of the Church of Jesus Christ, and in sympathy with the Elders. Many have invited the Elders to their homes, and have volunteered their friendship to us, telling us that anything they could do we were perfectly welcome to. We have not made many converts, so far as baptisms are concerned, but I believe that there is a feeling of inquiry spreading throughout the mission which will ultimately result in good. We had one of our "reverend" brethren come up there (I was wondering if he came from Brother Rich's mission) and he unintentionally did some missionary work for us. In a newspaper interview he told some awful tales all about what the Mormons are doing in Denver, and with tears in his eyes related many pathetic stories regarding the work. The result was that for six weeks after his interview our little hall was crowded with people, and we were accosted on the streets, and by street car and  conductors, asking us about this "reverend" gentleman, and what effect he had had upon us. My answer always was that he had done us no harm, but I did not know how much harm he had done himself. When I see the gentleman I am going to thank him for assisting the Elders to preach the Gospel of Christ. 

We have a body of good Elders in the mission at the present time. They are studying and working hard to preach the Gospel unto the people. We have also three lady missionaries, who are doing a valuable work among the people, getting into homes where the Elders could not obtain access. Girls who have left their homes in our midst and have married men not members of the church, have been visited by these sisters, who have had the privilege of teaching them the Gospel of Jesus Christ and instructing their children how to pray, when the fathers have absolutely refused to have the Elders in their homes. Our sisters have gone into these homes, and in Denver they have not done any tracting for several months because their time has been completely occupied in visiting the homes of friends, and they are two or three weeks behind now in going where they have been invited, notwithstanding they are going out day and night. 

Brethren and sisters, I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that it is the power of God unto salvation. I know by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet, seer and revelator, and the man who has been chosen of God to lead this people. I know that his counselors are men of God. I know that the Twelve Apostles have been chosen by divine authority and have been sent out to preach the Gospel. I am always willing, and I hope I always shall be, to listen to the counsel they give unto me. I hope I shall always be able to put myself in subjection to the Spirit of the Lord, that those who preside in this great work will have access to my heart and be able to counsel and direct me for good. May the Lord bless us and help us to this end, is my prayer. Amen. ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. (President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I do not feel as much at home in preaching to you, Latter-day Saints, as I would if this congregation were non-members of the Church. I believe I could attend this conference from beginning to end, and unless there was a feeling in my heart to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel and to the power of God, I would not desire to speak; but I cannot remember a time for the last eight or nine years whenever I came before a body of people who did not know the Gospel was true, but what I had a desire to bear my testimony to them. I have not such a desire to bear my testimony before you; but I feel to report unto you the labors of my mission, having been called upon by him who holds the right to dictate in these things. 

With reference to the Northern States mission, I am proud to say that every Elder in the mission is doing his utmost; for the record of the past year is one that is going to require great labor to equal in the future. I have visited almost every Elder in the last two months, and they all desire to at least equal the record of the past year. In many parts of the mission we have wonderful openings. We have communications from people stating that the ministers have forsaken them because they are too poor to remunerate a good minister, and the poorer ones do not desire to visit them, so thev have asked for our Elders to come and preach to them the Gospel. You remember that, at the last Conference. President Asahel H. Woodruff reported to you about the work in the little city of Robinson, Indiana, where they had baptized fifteen or sixteen individuals. We have added to that number, and since that time we have built a small church that will hold about 150 persons, and it will be ready for dedication in a few weeks. Many of the people rejoice, and are glad that they have united in the faith of the Latter-day Saints. We have in the  two months received letters from the northern part of Wisconsin, desiring our Elders to go through that part of the country and hold meetings in their schoolhouses; for, they say, they cannot afford to pay preachers that are only half as good as the Elders who come to them for nothing. Three weeks ago we sent two Elders into far-off Ashland, in the northern part of Wisconsin; and, in that city, those two Elders arose and bore their testimony, and thanked the Lord that they were sent to a place where our Elders had not been, so far as they knew; and they said that if there was another such point farther away they would thank the Lord if they could be sent there. A letter reached me yesterday in which I was told that those two Elders had a hard time for a few days to find an opening, but, through the mercy of the Lord, friends were raised up unto them, and in one week they held fifteen cottage meetings and sold several copies of the Book of Mormon. Three weeks ago we held a conference, in Monmouth, Illinois, of twenty-two Elders and four lady missionaries, and, like Brother Pratt, I do not remember a time when the Spirit of the Lord rested upon the missionaries more powerfully than it did in that historic town. Hundreds of people came to hear the testimony of the Elders representing a people that were once driven from that state, and they were glad to receive them. Many said they would to God that our people had never been driven from that state, and they are looking with anxious eyes to the return of the Latter-day Saints to western Illinois. Editors of papers follow us up and ask questions concerning the probable coming back of the Latter-day Saints to that part of the country. The people in Nauvoo would gladly welcome the Saints there, to rebuild that city. Several months ago two Elders were sent to Carthage, and they were received very kindly. Sometimes I wonder that they were so tolerant, for those two Elders, humble and young, stood upon the streets of Carthage and, in the fervor of their souls, declared  the blood of the prophets slain in that city was crying from the ground to their heavenly Father. The people did not seem to be aroused with regard to their testimony until, on Christmas day, two ladies were baptized in the Mississippi river, and, when it 'was noised about, the ministers of the city and county united in the desire to drive the Elders out; but the officials told them it would not do. For two months past they have hardly had access to the homes of the people, because of this prejudice; but it is breaking down and they are visiting some of the honest in hjeart in that city, and children of Saints who remained behind there. One thing that causes me to rejoice that I am a Latter-day Saint, and that my parents and grandparents came to Utah with the body of the Saints, is the growth of faith in the young men and the young women in Zion. It is a sad sight to see the old people who did not have faith to gather with the Latterday Saints, but remained in Illinois or in Iowa. They have not the spirit of the Gospel; they have only about half the spirit of Americans. They live in obscurity and are practically unknown; whereas if they had gathered to Zion, and possessed the faith of the pioneers, they might have been brilliant men and women, known for good among their fellows. But through criticising the leaders of the Church in that day, and through their lack of faith, they have been lost to the Church. It is my firm belief that the people of today who are fighting our leaders will in a very few years be practically unknown. I often recall testimonies that were borne fo me by apostates in California. I remember one man coming to me and, with tears in his eyes, requested me not to sing the songs of Zion in his house, because he could not stand it. When I asked him why he did not repent, he said that the spirit of repentance had never come to him in thirty years. I believe that men and women in the Church today who are fighting Zion will lose the testimony, and it may never come back to them possibly in this life. 

The Latter-day Saints in Chicago are thankful to the Lord for the goodly  they now possess in which to worship, and I bear witness that the means spent in Chicago for the obtaining of a beautiful house to worship in was weil spent. There are a number of members of the Church who are students in Chicago, and they are proud to belong to that branch. They assist us in our work, and we feel thankful for the labors they have performed and for the support they have given us. I believe that they ought to be encouraged; for they have gone out to battle with the world. One young man came to mo three months ago. He had not been attending our services, and he felt, possibly, that he was not of much consequence. He roomed with a strong minded student, and thought he had so much work to do that he could not come anil worship. After four months of isolation from the Church, by reading the many things that are written against us, he began to wonder if Zion was not astray. Today, however, he feels better, having come under the influence of faithful students and Elders there. 

In southern Illinois we have purchased another small church in which to worship; and the honest in heart, also the firm minded among them, are pleased to think that they are going to have an energetic, enterprising people live with them. 

My Brethren and sisters, I am glad to have the privilege of representing such a noble band of young men ancl young women as are the missionaries in the Northern States mission. I belive that their souls are filled with a desire to keep the commandments 01 the Lord and to spread a knowledge ot those commandments among their fetlowmen. I have often thought, if tTnj mothers could see their sons out there, perhaps knowing scarcely a passage of Scripture from, memory, and, reading the Bible, find that it sustains the teachings of their mothers, their hearts would rejoice to note how their minds broaden, and how their souls are filled with joy, when they see that the Bible backs up the teachings they have received at their mother's knee, and in their Sunday schools and other good places. Many of our young men are not as well acquainted with the Bible as they are with the fact that their mother has taught them to believe in GO'd,to repent and be baptized, and then to have hands laid upon them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. When they read about these principles they understand them, and instead of coming back weak in the faith, they return with their faith strengthened, and with the teachings of their parents confirmed by the doctrines of the Holy Scriptures. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that God will bless the Elders in our mission. We wish we had more to search out the honest in heart who desire to know concerning the great and glorious Gospel that has been restored in our days. I have a testimony that our Father in heaven is with Zlon and hei> leaders. When but a small boy I had a testimony that our present leader was a man of God, and I have received additional testimony that God approves of his actions and is guiding him, together with those who have been called to direct the affairs of Zion. May God help us all to keep the testimony that we have, and to follow in the light that has come to Zion and her leaders, that we may not be lost sight of in the onward march of the work of God. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

"As this is the seventy-fifth anniversary of the day on which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, we will present the general authorities of the Church for your vote this afternoon, and I would like to say that it is expected that all the Latter-day Saints will exercise their right to vote for or against those whose names are submitted. We would like you to exercise perfect liberty and freedom in the expression of your own thought and faith and fidelity in the lifting of your hands." 

President Smith then presented the authorities of the Chruch. All the voting was unanimous with, two exceptions; and President Smith invited  who had so voted to state their grievances to the proper authorities, and they would be considered. The list of names as sustained is a follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith and Charles W. Penrose. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller, as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian, and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Orson F. Whitney, A. Milton Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, John 

Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, John R Winder and Charles W. Penrose. 

Arthur Winter, secretary and treasurer to the General Church board of education. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

Evan Stephens as director of the Tab choir; J. J. McClellan, organist; Tray Y. Cannon, assistant organist, and all the members of the Tabernacle choir. 

The choir sang the anthem, "From afar, gracious Lord, Thou hast gathered Thy flock." 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop Robert T. Burton. 