Afternoon
09 04 1905


ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

A. Great Over-ruling Providence Comes from God — Unimpeachable Evidence of its Existence. When I look at this large audience I am reminded of something I read in a paper sometime ago. A certain man was driving down a road in the state of Kansas, and he saw out in a field at some distance, a man working in masonry. It was not near a house, and he could not understand why the man was building a fence in that particular place. Finally, he went over to where the man was and asked him what he was building. The man said, "I am building a fence." ."Well," said ihe, "that is the most peculiar looking fence I ever saw; you are building it only three feet high, and you are making it five feet wide, and building it of stone. Now, can you tell .me why you are doing that?" The man replied, "I am doing it for a joke." He then asked what the joke was. "Well," he said, "I have built quite a number of fences in this country, and every time 1 get one built in good shape, one of these cyclones comes along and turns it over, and I am building this fence so that the next cyclone that comes along and turns it over will be mightily surprised to find' that it is higher than it was before." When I look into the eager faces of this large audience, I am reminded that the circumstances and  of the past few months have turned over the fence of ''Mormonism" in some quarters, and this audience, and the audience without, and the one in the adjacent building are evidence of the fact that it has been a "joke" thus far. In other words, the faith we have has not been weakened or lessened. 

I sometimes wonder if people realize the purpose of their existence, and the importance of the labor that men and women are expected to perform while on the earth. Some believe that when we pass from this sphere of existence, that is the end. It seems incredible to me, when we look into the works of nature, when we investigate the organism of man, the perfection of .his body, the pulsation of his heart, the building and strengthening from childhood to manhood, then the gradual decline until this life is ended— that it is possible any of our father's children can believe that human beings have been born into the world only to live to manhood and womanhood, pass to old age, and die, without some purpose in their having lived here. We should remember that while it is in the power of man to take human life, it is not in the province of any human being or any, human agency to give life. The spirit which inhabits the body is not the product of man, and when that spirit leaves the body we believe that it goes back to the source from whence it came. When we look around us and see the beautiful works of nature, we find the sun giving us light and heat from day to day ,the planets moving in their regular orbits; we see the trees as they grow up from the ground, and the same sap that makes the bark and the wood feeds the leaf "and the blossom; we plant in some spot of ground the seed of a variety of vegetables, and each comes forth- according to its kind, although the earth is apparently the same that has nourished each. We look throughout space, and all the conditions that exist give evidence to us that there is a power that is greater than that of man. I am grateful that I have been born among the Latter-day Saints, and that I have been taught to revere the power we call God. I am grateful that I know there is a great and overruling providence, and I have been taught to believe, and do believe, that it comes from God the Eternal Father. We can look back upon the pages of sacred history and find a reason for our belief, though our brethren and sisters who do not believe in God may feel they cannot accept our teachings. We find that Adam, our first parent in the world, was not only given a sphere of action in which to work, but was instructed by God the Father. He knew he was created in the image of the Father for he had seen Him face to face. Adam taught those with whom he was associated that there was a God in heaven, and admonished them to obey His laws. Down to the days of Noah the thought that there is a hereafter and a home beyond the grave was instilled into the hearts of men. But there is in the world two powers — one power for good, and the other for evil. At the time of Noah the power of evil had so taken possession of the hearts of the children of men that it grieved Noah that God had made man, and the Lord in His wisdom sent the floods from heaven and destroyed mankind from the face of the earth, with the exception of a few who listened to the voice of His servant Noah. Then the world began to be peopled again, and great races inhabited many portions of the earth. If we follow down through the line of prophets we And that many of them walked and talked with God. that many received revelations from heaven enabling them to convince the children of men that this was no theory, but that it was a reality, and that there was a purpose in human beings dwelling upon the earth, and that purpose was that they might gain an exaltation in the kingdom of heaven. We And even down to the time of our Savior men generally believed in God. but the power of evil had put into the hearts of the children of men to destroy many of the prophets of the Lord, in order that their voices might be stilled, that the influ of evil might gain greater sway among the children of men. Our Heavenly Father, in His mercy, sent His Only Begotten Son into the world, and He told the people as He labored with them that He was the Son of God. He ministered among them. He healed their sick, unstopped the ears of the deaf, restored the blind to sight, and raisfcd up the dead. He convinced those with whom He came in contact that there was a hereafter, and that the purpose of our living upon the earth is that we may prepare ourselves for that great future life. He eventually gave His life that this testimony might abide in the world. But there was another purpose. It required in the providence of our Father a pure and spotless person to find the way of the resurrection. Jesus Christ was a man without sin. By reason of His purity, His uprightness and His virtue, He was able to unlock the doors of the prison, to overcome -death and the grave, and pioneer the way for His fellow creatures unto that heaven where we expect to go. After He gave his mortal life He was permitted to come back an immortal being, and visit with men in the flesh, but when the time came for Him to go again, although He was surrounded by His apostles, He departed heavenward and was received therein. Two angels in white stood before them and promised that as they saw Him going to heaven so should He return again. Then we find that the Apostles who remained behind taught this same Gospel. The power of God descended upon them, even the Holy Ghost, which the Savior had promised should come, to bring things past to their remembrance and to teach them things to come. It came upon them in that upper room, in cloven tongues of fire, and they knew as they knew they lived that they had been endowed with power from on high, and they proclaimed it to all men with whom they came in contact. They did not fear death, but they feared to be recreant to the trust our Father had reposed in them. They feared to turn their backs upon the  they had received from heaven itself and from their association with the Son of God. When He said to them, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature; he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be condemned," it was the voice! of God unto the children of men. When He said to Nicodemus that unless he was born again he could not even see the kingdom of God, it was not the voice of man, it was the voice of God, and is a law binding upon all mankind. 

We have been placed here for a purpose. That purpose is that we may overcome the evil temptations that are placed in our way, that we may learn  to be charitable to one another, that we may overcome the passions with which we are beset, so that when the time comes for us to go to the other side we may be worthy, by reason of the effort we have put forth, to enjoy the blessings that our Father has in store for the faithful. The Latterday Saints are believers in the words contained in the holy Scriptures. We believe that God created the heavens and the earth; and the same God that created the heavens and the earth declared that He made man in His own image; male and female created He them. No matter if scientists and great men of the world shall proclaim that we have evolved from the lower order of animals, the witness of the Spirit to you, my brethren and sisters, is that you are the offspring of the Lord, that the spirits which inhabit your bodies are immortal, and that in due time, if you are faithful, you will go back to the presence of that God who gave you life. 

Not only do we have the testimony of men who lived upon the eastern hemisphere, but in the providence of the Almighty we have received the testimony of the people who lived upon this western hemisphere. When the Savior ministered in the flesh He told His disciples at Jerusalem that He had other sheep, which were not of  fold, and that He must visit them, that there might be one fold and one shepherd. The question has been raised in the old world that Jesus was not of divine origin, because He was born as a little child, cradled in a manger, His mother being Mary and his reputed father Joseph the carpenter. Many have admitted that He was a great and good man, but they have desired to rob Him of the divinity of His birth. Fortunately, however, for the Latter-day Saints, we have received a witness that these things are true; and in addition to that, we have received the testimony that He came to this western hemisphere, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, and ministered unto the Nephites upon this continent. He did not come this time as a little child, but He came in the clouds of heaven; and His coming was proclaimed by a voice that penetrated to the very center of every person that dwelt in the land. He came this time as a man from heaven, and they saw Him come. They knew that He was the Christ, for His coming had been predicted by their prophets. He gave to them the same organization that existed in the Church at Jerusalem. He taught them that they must be baptized, as He had been, by those having authority to officiate in that ordinance. This was not the word of an ordinary man; it was the word of the Son of God, who had ascended to His Father, and who had come back again, that the children of men might have another testimony added to the number that had already been given 1 to them. 

Then in the day and age in which we live there arose another individual. A boy fourteen years of age believed what was contained in the Scriptures. He read in James, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not: and it shall be given him." Believing those words, he went into the woods to pray, and his prayer was answered. His faith brought the blessing he so much desired. He received the record o£ the Book of Mormon. He not only had the witness of the Bible that Jesus was the Christ, but he saw God the Father standing in the clouds of heaven, clothed with glory, and Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, exalted at His right hand, and he heard the voice of the Lord, saying, "This is My Beloved Son, hear Him." He bore testimony of this glorious vision to those with whom he was associated. Others also received a -witness from on high. Their testimony in the divinity of the Savior's mission had been increased and strengthened, so that it was no longer a matter of ancient history that God lived and that Jesus was the Christ; they knew it personally, because they had received a testimony themselves. 

As I look into the faces of this audience I realize that this testimony has been handed down to you, not by mar;, but by the power of our heavenly Fattier, who has promised it to all of His children that will obey His commandments and keep His laws. You are not dependent alone upon history, nor upon the teachings of any man, to know that this is the work of the Lord, because you have had it burned into your souls by the gift of the Holy Ghost. There is no doubt in your mind as to your, origin, nor as to the place you will go to when this life is over, if you are faithful to the trust reposed in you. We are not here to while away the hours* of this life and then pass to a sphere of exaltation; but we are here to qualify ourselves day by day for the positions that our Father expects us to fill hereafter. We are here to learn to love one another. The great commandment that was given by the Savior to ths children of men in the day in which He lived is binding on us.  We are commanded to love the Lord our God with all our might, mind and strength, and to love our neighbor as ourselves. In the, language of the poet, "Life is real, Life is earnest," and "the grave is not its goal." The spirit that inhabits the tabernacle is immortal. It lives beyond the grave. The body decays and returns to earth but the spirit lives on. None of us brethren and sisters, can control the beating of the heart? None of us, if it should stop, could start it ? Science has not discovered the secret. Yet there is a power that can do this and continues to do it, and we who are members of the fold of Christ know whence that power comes. 

If we believe as we claim, that Jesus is the Christ, and that we are the children of our heavenly Father, then how careful we should be to conduct ourselves that we may be worthy of the temples we occupy, which were created in the image of God. How many of us realize that by taking into our systeMo things that our Father has forbidden, we defile the temple of the spirit? How many of us stop to consider that when we give way to weakness of the flesh, we deprive ourselves of opportunities that await us in the future, and cut ourselves off from the blessings that the Lord hath in store for the faithful. As^ members of the Church of Christ, we should keep His commandments ana love one another. Then our love shoulu pass beyond the border lines of the Church with which we are identified, and reach out after the children of men, that the belief which is growing in the world that God does not live and that the grave is our goal may be dissipated, and that in the place of that disbelief there may come a living faith, yea, a living knowledge, that Jesus is the Christ, and that we are the "hilrirpa of the Father. Those of you who have received this witness have assumed an obligation which you cannot turn your backs upon if you would. It must be declared by you to the children of men. The revelation that John received, that another angel should fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to men that dwell upon the earth, has been realized. Joseph Smith taught that he knew there was a hereafter, and that he knew that God lived, and that God knew that he knew that God lived. He was "willing to give his life in order that you, my brethren and sisters, might have your faith strengthened and that your confidence in him might not be shaken. He knew the purpose of this life. He knew that we were  to prepare for the future and a more glorious existence. And he was willing, if need be, to give his own life, not simply that he might lose it, for our benefit, but because he knew that the Father had said that he who would save his life should lose it, but he who would lose his life for His sake should find it, even life eternal. It was this knowledge that made it possible for the Prophet and Patriarch of the Church in early days to turn their backs upon loved ones, to be incarcerated in prison, and to give all that they had in this world, that men can give for their brethren — their mortal life. 

Brethren and sisters, this is a serious matter. We should think of it seriouply. We should look into our own lives and discover if we are prepared for that great future life, if we were called hence tomorrow whether we would be prepared to give an account for our earthly deeds; whether we can feel that we would receive from our Heavenly Father the welcome plaudit of "Well clone, good and faithful servant." To preach the Gospel is our mission. Your sons and daughters are proclaiming it in the world. Let it in. deed be true, as was suggested by a Mission President from this stand, that when our missionaries look homeward from the islands of the sea and from the nations of the earth they may see a home-guard, who are tried and true, who have been weighed in the balances and have not been found wanting, that their faith in us may not. waver, and that they may realize that we are willing and anxious to help the work of the Master in every possible way. 

That the Lord may continue His blessings upon this gathering; that the peace which has characterized it so far may remain with all of us; that we may take it to our homes and disseminate it among the people where we live; that we may love the Lord our God; and be willing to keep His commandments, and not only be willing to die for the work, but willing to live for it. Let  see to it that we speak evil of no one, not even of those who speak evil of us. Let us extend to all our Father's children the hand of welcome, and teach unto them that we know without doubt that Jesus was and is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, and that the men who represent the work today receive from our heavenly Father the inspiration and revelation of His mind and will when He desires to give it to them for the benefit of His Church. That we may be worthy of the honor God has given us that we may be worthy of the lineage whence we came that we may be faithful sons and daughters of God, worthy to bear His image in the earth, that we may not defile our tabernacles with anything that is impure or unholy, but that day by day we may let our light so shine that men, seeing our good works, will glorify our Father which is in heaven — that this may be our privilege, and that when our labors are finished and we are summoned back to our heavenly Father we may be welcome there because of our faith and faithfulness here below, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and soloists rendered the beautiful anthem, "God of Israel, Hear our Prayer." 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Keport of Visit to Southern pan of MexicoWise Rulers and Superior Rare of NativesThe Work of God will Triumph. 

My brothers and sisters, on the 21st of February I started upon a journey to the state of Tabasco, telling President Smith upon leaving that I would return to attend this conference. My purpose in going was the discharge of a sacred duty, and also in the hope of securing my complete return to health. I presumed that I had so arranged matters that I would be able to be in attendance at the first day of the conference. Two weeks ago yesterday I left the town of Cardenas, in an Indian canoe, to make my way with my companions to the capital of the state, San Juan Baptiste. We reached that place in the anticipation that, on the 28th of last month, from Fontara the steamer would bring us to Vera Cruz; but upon our arrival we learned that the steamer would not sail until the 30th, and so we remained in the capital of the state for a few days, mingling with the leading people, having interviews with the governor and .Tifipolitico, and finding to our surprise a wonderfully fine people. The city is said to contain about 20,000 inhabitants, and is located upon Gijalva river. The people are mostly of Spanish extraction, with an intermixture of the Indian races. We were treated with the utmost courtesy by the governor of the state and by the people with whom he mingled. We left there on the 29th, in the anticipation that upon the 30th we would be enabled to leave Fontara upon our way home. On arriving there, we learned that the sailing of our boat would not occur until the first of April, and on the evening of that day we left Fontara. We reached Vera Cruz, crossing the Gulf of Mexico, just after noon on Sunday last, and at once made our way to the railroad. Part of our company remained in Vera Cruz; Elder B. F. Grant and myself started immediately for home. We succeeded in making our connections along the railroads very nicely until we reached El Paso, Texas, where we found that a quarantine had been put into operation against what was said to be the fever districts of Old Mexico, and as we had come from Vera Cruz, which had been especially tabooed, we were restrained from continuing our journey for 24 hours, thus preventing me from reaching here yesterday as I had expected to do. 

I desire to say that my experience in southern Mexico has been one of the most pleasant; 10 days of my time on horseback, six in Indian canoes, and the balance of the time looking over the country, studying the conditions, making the acquaintance of the people and satisfying myself as to the characteristics of the land. My associates also have been well pleased with their experience. Some of them, I presume, are on the way to this city, and I arrived here at 1:30 today. 

I am pleased to be with you in con, to hear the voices of those who have sung their glorious songs for us, to listen to the remarks of the Elders, and to hear the words of prayer that have gone up to the Supreme Being in the interest of the people of God and of all the children of our Father. I rejoice in the glorious work the "Lord hath established, and have always held in remembrance the promise which has been made that no weapon that is formed against this work shall prosper, and they that rise Up in judgment against it shall find themselves utterly discomfited. I trust that, in fulfilment of the great mission God has assigned to this people, the spirit of liberty, of justice, of mercy, of determination, and a willingness to devote themselves to the betterment of the conditions of mankind, shall in no sense be checked, but that in the onward march and growth of this work its sons and daughters shall be found upon the side of every correct principle and in favor of the broadest liberty and the greatest good to our Father's children. When we remember that beneath the folds of this great work the whole human race, excepting those who have rejected God and consented to the death of the Redeemer of the world, shall find lodgment in the various kingdoms our Father has established, and obtain the reward that they justly earn as the fulfilment of their part in the world, it should be a joy- to every one of tis to krow that we have part and lot in its accomplishment, and our efforts for its fulfilment and upbuilding should be shown in every direction. Our Father has never abandoned this work from the moment that He and His Son spoke to the Prophet. It has been one continued onward march. Many things have arisen to interfere with its development and growth; many schemes and devices have been put upon foot by mankind looking to its overthrow; but the promise that nothing should prosper that was raised in opposition to it has been fulfilled to the letter, and in future time, as we move forward In the accomplishment of the destiny 

ELDER JESSE 

God has marked out for His work, the same will be true. 

I have nothing but good words for the people of Mexico; for President Diaz and his cabinet; for the cover nors of the states which it has been my privilege to visit, for the mayors of the towns, and for the people themselves. Those Indian races in Tabasco are among the finest and most industrious people I have met. They lack in some degree that trained mentality which is found among the larger portion of the Christian people of the world: but there are within them the elements of success, as has been shown in the lives of such heroic men as Porfirio Diaz and Benito Juarez. I trust that the heroic spirit shown by these men may continue through their generations, that liberty and truth, justice and mercy, may characterize that people, and that the visitation of the Savior of the world in past times, which made such an impress upon their souls and led them to anticipate His coming, causing them to surrender to the minions of Cortez because they were looking for the coming of the Redeemer, mav be realized more fully and more correctly in the future than it was realized in that experience of theirs. 

My brothers and my sisters, I feel it would be unwise upon my part to take more of your time. I stand with my associates in the declaration of that eternal truth that the Father has established. I stand with them as a witness for God and for the Redeemer of the world, as a witness for Josenh Smith and the men who stood with him, and who have made successful the work established through him on the earth. I trust that in future, at no time or place, shall my voice ever be raised in condemnation of His work or of its continuance among the children of men. While I thus speak of the work of the Lord itself, I speak also of my country and its glorious constitution. I pray for its continuance and for the principles enunciated by it. I trust that in the future, as in ihe past, we may be ready to maintain the liberties of all men to the utmost limit, and never beW. KNIGHT. 65 

tray a trust, nor turn back upon those principles, while God shall give us breath. May peace and love abound in your hearts and homes. May the songs of praise that come from the lips of the sons and daughters of God be heard in every land and clime, and may the choice spirit that He bestows in the Holy Ghost lighten your souls and lift you up to obey His will and keep His commandments during time and all eternity, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JESSE W. KNIGHT. 

(2nd Counselor in Presidency of Taylor Stake.) 

My dear brothers and sisters, this is the first time in my life I ever stood before an audience in this house to sneak, and I trust I may be able to make you hear. It gives me pleasure at this time to stand before you as a representative of Taylor Stake in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints, and to speak in behalf of the people of that stake of Zion. We have held ward conferences in the Stake, and they have been well attended. We have also unanimously sustained all the general authorities of the Church. I do not believe there ever was a time when I felt better than at the present in regard to the truthfulness and the onward progress of this work. I rejoice to know- that the authorities of this Church have all our interests at heart. They do not forget any of us, not even the people that are far off. The people in the north country last year suffered somewhat from drouth, and this season the Church has come to rescue by advancing means to help some of the people to get seed grain. I mention this to show the interest and the anxiety that the authorities of the Church have for the Latter-day Saints wherever they are, and that no matter how far we get away from headquarters, we are not forgotten. I wish to say, we appreciate these things, and I know that those who live near by do not feel that they are being robbed when we are helped in this way. This community has grown out of toil, labor, industry, and the mutual support of one another: and we feel that without the support we get from our fellow-men it would be hard to carry on this gi eat work. I rejoice to know that the La:ter-day Saints are writing their history upon the soil, by industrious toil, and by the building up of new settlements and towns, and in branching out into various parts of the world. I can see what this is cooing for the Latter-dav Saints. If we were left in crowded cities, we would soon have the;lums and the beggars; but as it is, throug'i the counsel and the wisdom of those who are nlaced at the head of the Church, when they have seen young men crowding the streets with nothing to do, they start some industry in some new country, and enable these young men to make homes for themselves. I rejoice to say that the Latter-dav Saints in Canada are building up many new homes and establishing themselves there: and many young people who, if they had remained in this country would possibly be working for small wages, or perhaps loafing their time away, have gone into a new country, taken advantage of the opportunities placed before them, and have become factors in building up a community. I do not think the people should feel to mourn when their sons and daughters desire to launch out for themselves, when they have not sufficient means and property to keep them at home. I think it is a good thing for them to go out into these new countries and establish homes for themselves. This is only one phase of the Church of God; but I think it spea*B well for the wisdom which has been manifest from the beginning of this Church when the leaders do these things. We rejoice to know that we have established in our country, through the advice of the President of the Church, an industry which is furnishing employment for the people, and which is building up that community. 

I feel to bear my testimony at th»s time. I do not think it would be wise for me to speak long, but I trust that the spirit which has been with us this  will continue. I know that this work is true, and that the Lord is blessing His people, especially those who are sustaining the authorities and helping to spread this nvork rather than to tear it down. I hope that the time will never come when I will feel that my voice is more potent than the voices of ten thousand people, and that I will never see the time when I will think I am so smart, and that the leaders of the Church have lost all their wisdom and are such terrible hypocrites and robbers, that my hand will be lifted against any of them. I say that we have the right to vote as we feel, but we should also exercise wisdom and judgment. I do not think that one man can have all the wisdom and brains for such a large community as the Latterday Saints. I pray God to bless us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. (President of St. Joseph Sjtake.) 

This suspense is painful, in waiting and facing this immense congregation. The worst experience of this kind I ever had was before I went on my mission. The mission was not half so bad as the suspense. Another time I suffered was before I went to Arizona. 

I come from the St. Joseph Stake of Zion, where we were cutting lucern hay when I left, and wheat was in head, roses in bloom, and the country covered with beautiful grass and flowers. The California poppy was to be seen;n acres on the hillside, and so beautiful that we could even out-do California in growing the flower emblem of their state. The Lord has been very kind to us in one way, and I presume has been very cautious in another way, not to give us too much. We suffered from drouth for severalyears, until many of our people became discouraged and went into the wet country of Oregon; but now the rains have come to Arizona, and the people are coming back again, inasmuch as they have had drouth in that usually rainy country. We have had a large amount of rain during the greater part of this year; but it has been disastrous  us m the great floods that followed. I presume we have lost over 3,000 acres ot choice farming land along the river banks. The heavier floods did not do sr> much harm as those that have continued in steady grinding agains't the bank 1 ?. The heavy floods in January covered many acres of ground that had been planted, and where the crops were up and doing well. After that had dried, the brethren planted again. Then in February the floods came again and covered that over. They planted the third time; and if it gets covered up any more they will plant corn, because we can plant something every month in the year. 

It won't do for me to undertake to tell any stories, because when I told about a 37 pound sweet potato they would not believe me; and when I tell about those melons that Brother Clawson, Brother MeMurrin and Sister Aggie Campbell helped to eat down there, weighing from 40 to 60 pounds, and that we raise from Ave to seven crops of alfalfa hay, and two crops of field products, people won't believe that. Now I will tell you a modest story about the l'avages of the terrible old Gila river. It was kind to some people and verysevere to others. There was a widowwoman, who paid her honest tithing, that had 50 acres of soil added to her farm; while on the other side of the river it took 65 acres away from another party. Then there was another widow lady that Imd her farm washed away, wire fences and all, and the next siorm that came along planted back on that foundation the same number of acres of soil, .but it did not give back the wire fences, and the land was not level, nor were there any weeds on it. Down on the Imperial — a new country that is being established at the mouth of the Colorado river—it is very low, and the water is apt to cover it up; so we sent some soil on down the Gila river to try and accommodate them, and make the land higher. We are not dwouraged, if we have lost 3,000 acres of land. We are going to where there are higher lands; and we can repair our . There have been 22 canals injured in these floods; the heads of the canals and sometimes miles of them have been torn away. Our people have to go to work and rebuild. The rains have continued, and we are going to raise our crops this year almost without irrigation, at least one crop of grain and two of alfalfa. As the flood waters soften the banks along the river, the soil being of a rich sandy loam, it crumbles and caves in, the water becomes so thick with sediment that it rolls and tumbles in its rush, and finally forms a levee or sand bar, this diverts the stream and causes it to leave its natural channel, if it ever had one, and as it shoots across to the opposite bank it cuts out farm land and carries the soil and deposits it again on another sand bar or cape below. This makes it reasonable to understand how farms can be shifted from one place to another. 

This is only the temporal side. The ptople of God in that section of the country are a good people. I think they are about the best in the world. I love them, and I believe they love me, because I champion their cause every opportunity I have. My counselors are good, stalwart men. We are united. We meet every Monday night in our council meetings. The first Saturday in every month we meet with the Saints in our Priesthood meetings. The Sunday school union assembles in the chapel of our Academy building at 10 a. m. The High Council meet the same hour in the new building that has been constructed by the Bishop of Thatcher ward. At 12:15 all the Priesthood come together, and after the opening exercises they disperse to the different rooms, the High Priests in one room, the Seventies in another, the Elders in another, and they enter upon a consideration of principles of the Gospel. We do not have sufficient material in any one ward to organize the Priests of the Lesser Priesthood, so we have made a stake organization of the Priests, and at 1 o'clock they meet in the academy. They are taking up the study of the principles of the Gospel, so that as they go from house to house, holding block meetings, they will be prepared to teach the people those principles, and be qualified to act as block teachers. The Deacons collect the fast offerings in the wards. 

During the last winter the presidency and High Council divided the stake into districts, and we have gone on missions from house to house, without purse or scrip. In this way we are warming the people up. Some of my brethren have stayed with luke-warm members for three months, more or less, and have never let up until they got them converted back unto the Gospel. I am indeed pleased with the labors of my brethren. It may not be considered any credit vo our stake that we are not troubled with High Council trials; we win the people unto the Gospel by loving kindness, rather than by coercion and unkind driving. Our High Council meet in the spirit of love, and kindness, and union, discuss the principles of the Gospel, and keep in touch with the authorities, and thus prepare themselves to do good work. I do not suppose that down in that far off land we are going to set any pattern, but it may be that, after six years of experience, we are able to offer some suggestions that will help new stake presidents. We invite the sisters into our Priesthood meeting; and at 2 o'clock promptly we commence. The sisters join in the opening exercises, singing, -etc., then we have the roll call, and each order of the Priesthood stands up to be counted, followed by the auxiliary organizations. The brethren and sisters are there also to receive the word of God as it comes from those who preside. After these instructions of a general character, the women withdraw and meet by themselves. The president of the stake is in touch with the Presidency of the Church and presiding Bishopric, and the presidency of the stake meet in council from week to week, and are prepared to counsel the people, so that when they come together they are fed, and when they go back home they say  their neighbors, "You ought to have been at the Priesthood meeting, for indeed it was a feast of fat things." Our Priesthood meetings seem better than conferences, they are so representative in character. The spirit is so good that pervades them and the work that is accomplished makes it appear like having a conference every 30 days. In those meetings we try to get expressions from the different sections, recognizing all. 

It is not my purpose to do much preaching there, but rather to be the general, if possible, directing the labors in the stake, and dividing the responsibilities among the people. Myself and counselors have apportioned between us the supervision of the auxiliary organizations. My younger counselor takes the Young Men's and Young Ladies' associations; President Johnson, the old pioneer, takes care of the Relief society and the Primary, and I look after the Sunday school, which I am very much interested in, and the Religion class. Then we are in competition to see which can make our organizations the best. Of course, I look after all of them in a general way. The senior members of the High Council gives special attention to the home missionaries. The third Sunday in the month we meet together and discuss current events and principles, so that when we go out among the people we are prepared to give them something to enlighten their minds, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. We are united, and the people's hearts are melted in kindness. The kindergarten department of our academy, desiring to make a little means, proffered to have a lunch at noon for our Priesthood meetings. It went on for a little while, and finally we established the Priests' meetings, and in order to help it out the presidency met with the boys. The meetings became so interesting that as soon as the High Priests and the Seventies and Elders got out of their meetings, instead of them going to get something to eat, they came in to get a little more spiritual food, and listen to the delineation of the princi of the Gospel. It was no par, ticuiar compliment to ourselves, but it was one of the greatest evidences of the devotion of the people in that stake of Zion, that they hungered after the Gospel and preferred it to something to eat. Ward conference is also "record day." When we go out to attend these gatherings we invite representatives of each of the auxiliary organizations, and the Priesthood, to accompany us. During the noon hour we examine the records and by this means we stir the ward organizations up, and there is an incentive for these organizations to take care of their records. 

I realize, my brethren and sisters, that there are those whom we all desire to hear. You have not come from a lcng distance to hear me; but it may be that in the exchange of ideas we can all be benefitted. I have often thought that if the presidents of stakes could get together in a convention for the purpose of exchanging ideas about how best to succeed, we might possibly elicit some ideas by which each could be benefited. Our Bishops also might get together and converse upon their duties, and get at the best ideas to accomplish the greatest amount of good to the greatest number of people. 

We are indeed greatly blessed, and I know - this is the work of God. We have heard much about revelation in the last few months. My counselors and myself sit in council for the welfare of our stake, and determine upon some policy. We start upon that policy for the good of the people, and oftentimes we no more than get started than we receive a letter from the Presi dency of the Church outlining the same policy, and we found we had been sitting in council on that question at the very same time as the Presidency in Sa'lt Lake. I will venture that if 1 were to ask my brethren away up in - Canada, and throughout Zion, and those on missions all over the world, I would no doubt find that these brethren are inspired at the same time and on the same subjects that are for the interests of the people of God. We do enjoy the spirit of revelation. We do  that inspiration which guides and directs us for the welfare of the people. Notwithstanding that we live away off, with only a visit now and then from the Apostles, and once in a great while representatives from the auxiliary organizations, we do not get off on some ism or schism and false doctrine, as is the case with the gentile world. We are on good terms with our brethren not of our faith. Just recently I have stood on the platform with a Methodist minister two different times and preached funeral sermons ever Gentile ladies. They keep sending for me. Over in Safford not long ago the people said, "What a pity Brother Kimball is a 'Mormon,' the doctrines he teaches are so comforting." 

Brethren and sisters, this is the work of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and was raised up in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, to establish this work. And these men who have been called to preside are indeed leaders of the Church, and God is leading and directing them and taking care of this work. God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Charles Kent sang effectively the hymn which begins with the line, "The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer." 

ELDER CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Confidence in the Presidency— Man is both Spiritual and Temporal— True Religion is for the Bodv and lire Spirit— God Deals with Tbiners Earthly— The Elements of Ma tter and Spirit are Eternal— Objects and Disbursements of Tithing— Redemption of the Earth. 

My brethren and sisters, I have greatly enjoyed every meeting we have held during this conference. I never enjoyed a conference better in my life, and I have attended a great many. I never saw more unanimity of feeling among the Latter-day Saints than I have witnessed during our gatherings in this anniversary of the organization of the Church. I have never seen more power and influence among the  Priesthood in their assemblies than I have witnessed during our gathering here. There has not been a jar; there has not been an ill feeling. All the brethren in the priesthood assembled have with one heart and mind endorsed and approved the course that has been pursued by the President of the Church and his counselors in all the affairs pertaining to the Church, both spiritually and temporally, as we divide them, although with the Lord they are all spiritual. There has been a wonderful expression of confidence and good will, love and affection towards the man who stands at the head of the Church today, and who is endowed with all the authority, keys, gifts and blessings to lead the Church that were conferred upon the martyred Seer, about whom we have just heard in the song. I bear my testimony, in association with my brethren, that I know that God is with His people; that the power of His Spirit, which is the spirit of revelation, rests down upon the President of the Church today, and is with his associates, and that all things in the Church are being conducted for the interest of the people, for the kingdom of God, and for the benefit of humanity. 

The religion you and I have embraced, my brethren and sisters, is not a mere psalm-singing, praying and preaching religion. It is a religion that comes to us as we are, as men and women, as beings living on the earth in the flesh, as persons who have to do with the things of time as well as the things of eternity. In the Doctrine and Covenants, on page 307, you will read these words: 

"The spirit and the body is the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." 

I call your attention to the fact that we are not only spiritual beings, who have received our origin as such from our Eternal Father, but we also have bodies, fashioned out of the elements that compose this earth, which God has made for that purpose. And the religion that God has sent down out of heaven in the last days is a religion for man as he is, for the souls of men. In the Book of Genesis, 1st chap., we read that God made man in his own image; that He made them male and , and gave him the great commandment, the first which was that he should "increase and multiply and inherit the earth and subdue it and have dominion over all things" upon the face of the earth and in the: firmament around. We are told in the second chapter of Genesis that He formed the body of man out of the dust. God did that. He made the body of man as well as his spirit, and He gave him commandments in relation to his body. He gave him commandments in regard to the fruits that grew upon the trees in the Eden that God had planted. He gave him laws in relation to the present as well as those that pertained to the future. 

"We should understand that God has something to do with earthly things as well as those things that we call heavenly. It was He that made this globe on which you and I live. God called the elements together — these elements that He says are eternal. You will read that in the Doctrine and Covenants, page 331. The Lord says that the elements— that is, the essence of things that we call material, and that scientists call matter — are eternal; and He called the elementary particles together that now compose this globe, which at first was covered with water. Water is composed of gases, as scientists tell us, and they are beginning to understand that the gases which in certain proportions appear in the form of water, are themselves composite; that these elements, as they were once called, are not elementary; but that you can go back of the water to the gases of which it is composed, and then you can dissolve these gases into still nearer primary elements. And you may go on until you come to the real essence or atoms of elementary existence. The Lord says they are eternal. They were not created, in the sense that some people use the term. Now, the Lord says that these elements are eternal, and that "spirit and element, inseparably connected, receiveth a fullness of joy, and when separated man cannot receive a fullness of joy." So we shall find that not only in time, but 

In eternity, when the soul is redeemed, when the spirit and the body, which are the soul of man, are joined together in the resurrection of the dead and are made eternal and immortal, the body as well as the spirit, that there Is something to do in regard to the material elements in the universe of God. God is a being that takes cognizance of us as We are, and the religion He has given us is not merely what is called a spiritual religion, but it is also a temporal religion, using the term as men use it. 

In the twenty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, God says that He made all things. He speaks there of the earth and the animals upon it, and the vegetation that grows out of the ground, and of the material things which men handle. The Lord says He created them all by the word of His power, "firstly spiritual, and secondly temporal;" and the last of His works will be "firstly temporal, and secondly spiritual." But He explains further, that to Him all these things are spiritual, because they are eternal. The elements are eternal, and therefore God calls them spiritual; for the things tlrSt are temporal are those that pass away, and the things that are spiritual are those that remain. So we will find by and by, when we understand things as God understands them, that they are all eternal in His sight; for His eyes penetrate to the essence of things, while we can only see things on the surface. The things that pass away from our gaze, caught up as it were fn the air and passing out of sight, like the vapors of the sea drawn up by the sun— the elements of these things remain and abide, and cannot be annihilated. Not one particle of matter can be annihilated; not one particle of spirit can be annihilated; for they are eternal. They always were, in their essential particles, in their primary elements, and they always will abide, though their forms may be changed by the power of the great Creator. The Lord tells us in His revelations, as you will find in the 131st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that we shall find some , when we can see things properly, that all are to that extent material that they exist and do not pass away; that spirit is matter of a refined and purified nature, different from that which we call matter. There are two primary divisions, we may say, in the universe —spirt and matter; or, as the Lord calls them, spirit and element. God has to do with both. He organized both, He rules over both, and gives laws in relation to both. And it is only by the eternal, inseparable union of the spirit' ual and the material, or elementary, that perfect happiness can come. So God our heavenly Father, who is the Father of our spirits with whom we dwelt, with Jesus Christ our Eldei Brother, before the foundations of this earth were laid is the Father of our spirits and the framer and former of our bodies. He prepared this earth for our abode. He brought together the chaotic particles, which now are a solid globe governed by His laws. He brought forth the earth at the right time and in the right place, that it might keep up the equilibrium necessary to be maintained in the worlds that He created before. He formed this earth for us, His children, that we might come here and obtain a portion of it, organized according to the laws of generation, which we will find also are eternal; that we might have a portion of the elements of this globe to fashion these bodies, in which our eternal, immortal spirits might enter, and that we might claim ttiem as ours, when the great change that w* call death that must pass upon all people shall come. It is necessary for our education, for our experience, that we might know what it is. When that change comes, and the spirit of man is separated from the body, that is not the end of the body, any more than it^s the end of the spirit; but at the wor3 of the Lord, whose word formed this organized globe out of chaos, our bodies shall be brought forth again, and Oi8 particles that belong to each other and which are essential to the organization of these bodies, will be brought from the dust, and the spirit and the body will be reunited. We will then stand in the presence of God, and all he relegated to our respective spheres— the places we have prepared ourselves fui by our earthly acts. 

New, I want to emphasize the point and make it clear to your minds, if 1 can, that these bodies that God has given iis, fashioned though they be out of dust, and to all appearances are merely temporal, are bodies which we shall have in the world to come. Our inheritance will be with them. Therefore, God gives us laws for their government now. He gives laws for the government of each individual as an entity. He gives laws for the government of His Church, as a collective body. He places at the head of it a man to receive His word, whenever He designs to give His word to the people; and we have a man now who is capable, ready and willing, and who has the authority, the keys and the power to receive the word of God, whether by His own voice, by the voice of angels, by the manifestation of visions, or by the power and gift of the Holy Ghost, by which holy men of old spoke and wrote. God will give us laws for our government, not only in relation to these things that people call spiritual, but also in relation to what we call temporalities; for He recognizes us as we are. We are His children, and we need to be guided and directed in all our works and ways. The silver and the gold, the metals of every kind, the wheat and the fine flour, the cattle on a thousand hills, and all things that the earth produces, the Lord says are His. And they are; for He made them, and He has care over them all. To think that God cares for nothing but singing and praying, and that some time we will sit on the corner of a cloud twanging a harp through all eternity, and that is to be our heaven, is an absurdity to my mind. We will be living beings, with a body as well as a spirit, in the image of our God. As the Apostle John said, "Beloved, now are we the sons of God; and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when  appears we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope, purifieth himself, even as he is pure." That is the lesson. God has given these bodies to us to be preserved in purity, according to the laws He has given us by revelation and in nature. We are to govern ourselves by the laws of God, revealed ficm on high, and by the laws of nature, and make ourselves just as happy and as comfortable as we can under the circumstances in which we are placed. Do right to one another. Let no man infringe upon the rights of his neighbor; regard every man's rights as sacred, understanding that we are all the children of our heavenly Father, all brethren and sisters, whether we are Latter-day Saints or latter-day sinners; but more especially should our love and affection and help be extended to the household of faith, to those who have been baptized into Christ, and have put on Christ, and have become part of Him. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has given us a law in regard to the management of the temporalities of the Church, which is the law of tithing. It is not a new law. It was not invented by Joseph F. Smith, nor by Joseph the Seer. It existed in the days of Christ. It existed in the days of Moses. It existed in the days of Abraham. Abraham paid tithes. To whom? To Melchisedek, the priest of the Most High God. And we have no account anywhere of Abraham demanding an account of how Melchisedek handled the tithes. In the days of Moses, you will. read in the 14th chapter of Numbers (I have not time to turn to these passages; you can read them when you go home) what the tithes were for. They were given to the sons of Levi. You can read about it also in the New Testament, in the Vth chapter of Hebrews. If you want to know the blessings that came when the people paid their tithes, read the 30th chapter of II Chronicles. These tithes were given to the men that God appointed, arid they handled them as sacred things, and they had the power and authority  administer them as the Lord decreed. In the last chapter of Malachi, as you are well aware, the Lord reproached the people in that day because they had neglected to pay their tithes. He said they had robbed Him. "Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and in offerings. Bring ye all the tithes into my storehouse, that there may be meat therein, and I will open the windows of heaven, and I will pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes; and it shall no longer destroy the fruits of your ground, and all nations shall call you a delightsome peope; for ye shall be a blessed people, saith the Lord of hosts." 

In the last days, the Lord in the beginning gave the law of consecration, and the people of Israel in the last days were slow to hearken to the commandments of God, as Israel was in the days of Moses; so the Lord introduced afterwards the law of tithing, which you will find in the 119th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. And the Lord tells us what it is for. For the laying of the foundations of Zion, and also to pay the debts of my Priesthood, the Presidency, saith the Lord. You read it now, and find out what the Lord says tithing is for. Read the 120th section, and you will see how the Lord said it should be disbursed at that time. That was in Zion, Jackson county, when they first went there. Of late years, the_ Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in conference assembled, has/ voted for the power to handle the funds of the Church and the properties of the Church by the Trustee-in-trust for the Church. You have done that during this conference. We did it years and years ago. We have done it every conference from the time we came into  these vales of the mountains. Now let me say that the authority is given of God to the man that stands at the head of this Church, to preside over the whole Church, and to be like unto Moses. He is a prophet, and a seer, and a revelator, and everything in the 

Church is under his direction. The Bishops receive the tithing. The Presiding bishopric handle and keep an account of it. But the Trustee-in-Trust is voted upon by the people to have the control and direction and to be responsible for all the funds and properties of the Church. We have endorsed that authority during this conference, as we always have done. It is no new thing. Now, I bear my testimony, from what I know, that the man who stands at the head of this Church is honest, honorable, upric;* careful, full of tenderness and kindness to the poor. Thousands and thousands of dollars out of the tithing are expended for the benefit of the poor; but you cannot find a command anywhere in the revelations of God to the Church that says the tunings are for that purpose. The Lord says that the rich are to be humbled for the benefit of the poor. He says also that the people are to fast and to bestow their offerings for the poor. You can read about that in the Book of Isaiah, 58th chap. But thousands of dollars from the tithing are expended for the sustenance of the poor, as well as the fast offerings and the Relief society gatherings. We want to understand these things and look into them, and not be led away by any will-o'-the-wisp or jack-o'-lantern that may come along. Get the true light. Let that day star arise in your hearts that the Apostle Peter spoke of. We have also a more sure word of prophecy, he says, "which is like unto a light shining in a dark place, whereunto ye would do well that ye take heed, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts; knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scrip ture is of private interpretation, an-' that holy men of old spoke as thev were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the power of God, the Spirit of the Lord, which declares His mind and His will, has been with us during this conference. Every man who holds the Priesthood has a right to its inspirations, if he will listen to them. Every man and woman in Israel, every soul baptized into the Church, has the right to the guidance of that Spirit. And I will say for this congregation, that during our conference that Holy Spirit has rested down upon our souls and borne witness to the truth of the things we have heard, and we feel in our hearts thankful to God that we have a man to stand at the head of the Church who is imbued with the spirit of his office and calling, who has power with God and power with man, and in whom we can repose the utmost confidence. There is no need for me to dwell further on that point. 

My soul is full of rejoicing; not ray spirit merely, but my whole soul is imbued with the spirit of this work. I love it with all my heart. I have done so from my boyhood. I desire to spend the rest of my days, as in the past, in the service of this Church. T know it is true. I know it has come from God. I know it will prevail, and the opposition that may come against it will only accelerate its progress. It will bind and knit the Saints of God together as one. The power and blessing of the Lord will be upon us, if we will pursue the right course. Let us remember that we are the children of God, in body as well as in spirit; that God expects usi to preserve ourselves in purity of life and holiness of character and conduct; that we will put away from us as fast as we can the weaknesses and frailties that we have inherited from our ancestors, and everything contrary to His mind and will; that we will dwell together in love, that we will serve Him with our might, mind and strength, and love our neighbora as ourselves, and pursue the course that He marks out, whether in temporal or in spiritual things; for they arel all spiritual with Him. As for me, I will endeavor with all my might to serve the Lord, and help others to do so, if I can. I feel full of love and confidence and kindness towards my brethren and sisters. I know these Latter-day Saints are a good people. I know they want to serve the Lord and abide in the covenant where God has made them free. And God will bless you, my brethren and sisters, in your basket and in your store, in your homes, in your fields and farms. Your flocks and herds will increase, your substance will increase, and God will bless you in the payment of your tithes and your offerings, which are voluntary and a free will offering, as your receipts show; and when they are made they are under the direction of the authorities of the Church, and the responsible person is the Trustee-in-Trust, whom God has appointed and whom you have sustained. 

Now, may the peace and blessing of God, which passeth all understanding, rest down upon you. May we be true and faithful in all things. May we serve the Lord with our bodies and our spirits, which are His. And may we endure and overcome and be prepared for the great day when the veil of the covering shall be taken away and we will see our Savior and our Father in heaven, and recognize them again, although we have for some time been from their presence. And the Lord will glorify the earth, and purify it. and purge out all that is evil by fire, and make a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. But the temporal and the spiritual will be joined together, and they will be so eternally. Then we will receive a fulness of joy, and be crowned at His right hand with all things that have been promised unto us, and many things that we have never heard of and that we cannot conceive of. God help us to be worthy of these blessings, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Smith, in announcing the closing hymn, said: 

"It is proposed that this is the end of one of the best conferences ever held in the Church, so far as we have any record, and that it now be adjourned for six months." He called for a vote, which was eagerly and enthusiastically given by the thousands composing the congregation. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Peace, be still." 

GENERAL CONFERENCE. 75 

Benediction was pronounced by John The stenographic work in taking- an Smith, presiding Patriarch of the account of the proceedings was done byChurch. Eider Arthur Winter. 

