17
Second Overflow
05 04 1908
Eldek Stephen L. Chipman. 

(President of Alpine Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I trust that the few moments I speak to you this afternoon that I will be assisted by the faith and sympathy of those who are assembled, that I may express my feelings, and report acceptably to my heavenly Father, satisfactorily unto myself and, I hope, profitably unto you. I realize the responsibility  rests upon me, and upon the other brethren who are called to speak. We have here a vast congregation, and I am not certain that you will all be able to hear, but I trust that I may have sufficient volume in my voice and be able to exert sufficient strength that all may hear. I know how eager the Saints are, as a rule, to listen to the testimony of the general authorities of the Church, when they come together on occasions of this kind. I always desire to sit where I may hear all that is said, because I realize that it is a good thing to listen to the living oracles of God. I take great pleasure in reading the holy scriptures, and I also have pleasure in listening to the men whom God has set in the Church to give unto us that spiritual food that is necessary for each and every Latter-day Saint. My experience has taught me it is necessary that we partake of spiritual nourishment in order that we may be strengthened in spirit, just as it is necessary to partake of food to keep our physical bodies in proper condition. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit of this conference, and in the testimonies that have been borne concerning the truthfulness of the Gospel, and the excellent condition that the Church is in today. I rejoice also in the fact that so many of our brethren and sisters, and friends, have availed themselves of the opportunity, and have gathered together at this time, because I realize that if we keep in close touch with that which is going on in the Church we feel better. The nearer we live to the Lord, and the more earnest we are in the performance of our duties, the more we will have of the Spirit of the Lord. and the more we will love the Lord and love the work He has established, and the greater love we will have for those who have been chosen and sustained to preside in the Church. When we meet them, and enter into the spirit of their labors, we learn to appreciate them more, we love to associate with them, and we have a greater desire to sustain them with our faith and good works. I love the men who are placed to preside over us in this Church, and I listen to the instructions given by them, because I wish to become informed upon the principles of truth that they desire the people should know, that I in turn may be able to do some good among those over whom I have been called to preside. 

We have in our stake of Zion many noble men and women, men and women of integrity, full of faith and good works. I meet quite frequently with them at their homes, and in meetings of the various organizations and I feel that the saints in the Alpine Stake of Zion are living more closely to the principles of the Gospel, are attending to their meetings better, are freer with their contributions for the erection of meeting houses, than ever before. I have discovered that the more the saints do in these lines the better they feel. The stake is now about seven years old," and during that period we have erected a number of meeting houses in various wards, ranging in cost from $3,000 to about $60,000. I have discovered, in looking over the records of our people, that during the construction of these meeting houses the saints have been more faithful, and have paid more tithing, than they had done in previous years when they were not erecting meeting houses. They have attended to  duties better, they have sustained those who have presided over them faithfully, and there has been good feeling in the hearts of the people, when they have something to do. I am satisfied that the more busily we are engaged, the more earnest we are in promulgating the principles of eternal life, and putting forth our efforts in this work, and the more firmly we stand in the Church. I have noticed many of our young men who have gone on missions, and have returned full of faith and the spirit of the Gospel, if they are kept busy, if they have something to do and they do it, they are strong pillars in the Church, able workers, and they accomplish much good among the people. I have also noticed other young men who have filled missions, and on their return apparently have had the spirit of the work, but through the force of circumstances, or some environments, they have not been used in the wards. They go away from home, out to the sheep herd, to the mining camp or upon the railroads, or other places where they are not surrounded witlh a proper influence, where they have not the opportuntiy of laboring in the Church affairs and in a comparatively short time they become cold in spirit, and some become reckless in their manner of living. Therefore, it is important that we all have something to do, that we keep busy, so that we have not time to do anything only that which will have a tendency to uplift us, and to build up the Church that the Lord has established in the earth never more to be thrown down or given to another people. _ I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in the sentiment that has been so freely expressed at this conference that our people, above all  the face of the earth, ought to be temperate in their habits. The Latter-day Saints have had good teachings, and have been trained to be temperate. They have been taught from childhood that it is not right to partake of strong drink, or use tobacco; and that tea and coffee, mentioned in the Word of Wisdom as hot drinks, ought not to be used in their homes. I sometimes wonder that we are so full of sympathy toward some of our brethren and sisters in advanced years, when I realize the fact that many of them have had these teachings and training from almost their infancy, through the Word of Wsidom. If there is a people on the face of the earth who should be prepared to carry out counsel with reference to these things, it should be the Latter-day Saints. I regret to say that some of our young men are ignoring the teachings of their fathers and the authorities of the Church. There are none of them who felt that they desired to become drunkards, but they first partook in a social way and, after they have been "treated" by their companions, they desire to return the compliment, and through these associations from time to time they have come to drink a little today, tomorrow, next week, next month, and soon they are in the condition that they indulge every day, and then many times during the day. But we are continuing the training, we are trying to live above these, habits, and to carry out the counsel of the authorities of the Church, as an example before the people and for our own individual blessing and benefit. In the Alpine stake of Zion, there are, I regret to say, a number of places where intoxicants can be purchased. In some small settlements there are as many as two or  of these places, and I fear they are not maintained wholly by those who are not of our faith, possibly some who> claim membership in the Church frequent these places, and purchase that which destroys the body, and oft times the soul. I hope that the spirit of temperance will spread throughout the land, and that we will have the strength of character, determination, and desire that will enable us to free ourselves from the saloon evil. I hope we will appreciate this sentiment that has come to us, that we will stand by each other, and that we will not sympathize with those who are opposing the work of God and that which is for our best good. I have heard some of our brethren say, I would believe in prohibition if we could prohibit. That argument is unreasonable. The law against murder does not prevent that crime, but that is no reason why there should be no such law. 

Let us, my brethren and sisters, get just as near to the mark as we possibly can. There is one thing certain, and I wish I could impress it upon every Latter-day Saint, and that is, we will never rise above our aim; if we set our aim high and work to it, we will assuredly come close to it. I hope that our aim will be high, and that we will use good judgment, and persistently labor along these lines, that good may be accomplished. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
