19
Second Overflow
05 04 1908
 Elder Moses W. Taylor. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I trust that you will give me an interest in your faith and prayers, as you evidently have done with the brethren who have preceded me. I appreciate the remarks that have been made, and I agree with them. I cannot help but think that we have leaders in the Church and Kingdom of God who are setting an example that is worthy of imitation. When President Joseph F. Smith was before the investigating committee in Washington, one of the members asked him this question : "Mr. Smith, how rriany children have you?" and his answer was, "I have 42," and he added, "I am proud of every one of them." Now why should he be proud? Let me tell you: — President Smith, as I know, has 42 children who keep the word of wisdom; all of them who are old enough say their prayers, night and morning, and they attend their meetings and do their duty as Latter-day Saints. Now then, that is a splendid example for the leader of our Church to give unto us. In the stake where I live we remember it, and we are trying to live up to that one of the most wonderful examples in all the world. 

In our Stake the presidency the high council, the bishops of wards, and the various other officers tell each other how they are living, how their families are living, and what they are doing. Let me report to you a little about these high councilmen. They say, "In our family we keep the Word of Wisdom. When we come to the breakfast table in the morning, we  family prayer, and we ask a blessing upon the food. My wife takes turn with me in prayer, and my children who are old enough take their turn. They have their secret prayers; and they belong to various organizations of the Church." Some of the members say, "I have in my family a member in the Religion Class, another in the Primary Association, another in the Young Men's Association, another in the Young Ladies' association, and another in the Relief Society; and we sustain the various organizations of the ward." Others say, "I have a son on a mission." They are proud to report when they have a son that is on a mission. I want to say to you that the children in the stake are sustaining their mothers and fathers in these things, and are helping forward the various organizations, assisting the Bishops and others who are called to work of responsibility for the good of the people and the building up of the kingdom of God. I do not know of a boy, or girl in the Church, in the Summit Stake of Zion, that breaks the Word of Wisdom. I know that their fathers and mothers do not. They are sustaining their fathers and mothers in this great work, and the Lord is blessing and prospering them, for keeping His commandments. One of our High Council men recently made to us this report in regard to prayer : 

"Sometimes I hire men at my place,andsom l e of triem ,are not members-of the Church. When those nonmembers were in the house I have felt as if it was casting pearls before swine if I had prayers before them. On one occasion I had a young man, a gentile, to take over into the reservation, and he came to my house. 

When he was there, I got up early and went out and prepared the horses to take the trip, and while I was out I made up my mind I would go in and get breakfast, and start off without family prayers. But, when I went in to breakfast, the children had come out, and table was set, and the chairs were placed, and some were already kneeling down, and I had to have prayers. After we got into the wagon and drove off , this man said to me. 'Is that the kind of thing the Latter-day Saints always do? Is that the way Latter-day Saints live?' I said yes, if a Latter-day Saint is living his religion, he has prayers in his family every morning, just" like that. 'Well,' he says, 'I want to investigate, I want to find out more about your people, and what your people are doing.' He has since bought some books, and I understand that he is going to join the Church." One of the authorities said to us today, what a magnificent thing it would be if the people who came out to this country could find that all the Latter-day Saints were living their religion, that they were consistent with it, and with the fact 'that they believe that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I heard some one say recently, a man was introduced to me as Brother so and so. "Why no," said the one introduced, "he is not a brother, he is not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints! he carries a sign that he! does not believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God." "What do you mean?" "Why, that cigar he has got in his mouth is a sure sign that he does not believe Joseph Smith is a Prophet." 

We believe in temperance. Some of the Saints in our stake will hard drink hot water, and some almost hesitate to use hot gravy (laughter). We have good water out there, the finest in the world; and we raise fine trout, and many of our friends come in the summer to eat the trout, drink the water and build themselves up. Now, in regard to the question of getting rid . of saloons. The saloons do not hurt President Smith, because all his family keep away from such places. It is not the faithful sons of the president of the Church, or of the apostles, or of the bishops and presidents of stakes who patronize, saloons. Let me tell you what one of the Bishops of one of our wards did, and the Relief Society helped him in it. There was a saloon started in the ward, and made us all kinds of trouble. Sometime passed, and the members of the Church bought a lot just opposite the saloon on which to build a meeting house. Then the Bishop came to the presidency of the stake and said, "What shall we do about that saloon?" The presidency of the stake said, you go on hauling and cutting rock every day, right along. So they did it, and in about three weeks, he telephoned the presidency of the stake, and said, This saloon man has got quite friendly, he comes out, and talks with me. The people don't patronize him very much, and he says he will sell his saloon for so much, what shall we do? I told him to offer $50 less, and I will give you the money. Then the Relief Society bought it; and the women went into the vacated saloon, and they got lime and made it into whitewash, and they whitewashed floors and everything else nearly; they wanted to wash the sin away, you know. And then they erected a long board table in it, and every day they got up a big dinner in that old saloon building. Now they have got as fine a meeting house right opposite that former saloon building as there is any where, and the people built it, and it didn't cost them very much money. Thus sometimes you see, a saloon building is a very nice thing to have, if it is used by the Relief Society (laughter). 

I pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with the Latter-day Saints always and that we will follow the magnificent example that is set by .the President of our Church. Amen.
