2
Morning
04 04 1908
President John R. Winder. 

President Smith's sentiments endorsed. — Greatly increased interest in Temple work. — Never has been a brighter day for the Saints. 

In consequence of a very sudden cold I have taken upon my lungs, I do not know that I can make this large congregation hear, but I desire to say to you that I endorse every word and sentiment that has been spoken in our hearing, this morning, by our President. I repeat that I am in strict harmony with him in every sentiment he has expressed. I am thankful for the opportunity of saying this much, and acknowledging mv gratitude to the Lord that He has been so good to me, and spared my life to see another conference, and to again meet with you, my brethren and sisters. 

Every day of my life I see new evidences of the truth of the everlasting Gospel, and of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. There was one thing the President referred to incidentally that I would like to mention, and that is in re to the salvation of the dead. You will all remember the great anxiety of the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to this subject. On more than one occasion he said that he was very much concerned about this matter, and desired to bring it before the people. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be enabled to say to you this morning that there has been a wonderful increase in the interest manifested in this work, especially during the past six months. The Temple, the House of the Lord, has been so crowded, on many occasions, that we have had to send people away, much to our regret, however. Every day shows an increase in this work. The Latter-day Saints come here from all parts of the country, from Old Mexico, New Mexico, Arizona, and all the settlements in the south, as well as from Canada, from Idaho, and all the settlements in the north. They flock here by the hundreds, and I may say by the thousands. This is one of the evidences, to me, my brethren and sisters, that the people are improving; and they are fulfilling the promises that have been made by the prophets of old, that the hearts of the fathers would turn to the children, and the hearts of the children would turn to the fathers. There is a greater interest in this direction, within the last six months, than I have ever seen before; and that is only one item that causes my heart to rejoice this morning. 

I never saw a brighter day than this, for the Latter-day Saints. Everything that I see around me and everything that I hear causes me to rejoice. We have heard this morning that there are eighteen hundred missionaries abroad in the world preaching the Gospel of life and sal, "Peace on earth, good will to men." That is the message they go abroad to deliver, and it is left optional with every person to accept or reject it. If they accept it, it is life and salvation; if they reject it, it may be their condemnation. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I did want to say just these few words to you, and to exoress my thanks and gratitude to God, my eternal Father, that He has preserved my life this long. I am' now in my eighty-seventh year, and I am thankful that I have all my faculties. 

I pray God, my eternal Father, that He will continue to bless and prosper His people; and He surely will, my brethren and sisters, if we fulfil and discharge our duties as we ought to do; and may the Lord help us, is my prayer. Amen.
