22
Second Overflow
05 04 1908
Elder Rtjdger Clawson. 

Absence of traitors an evidence of growth and stability of the Church. — Intense devotion now manifest. 

My brethren and sisters, the Church has been organized 78 years tomorrow. Have the Latter-day Saints made any progress in that period of time ? Mark this. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was surrounded in part by false brethren men who were ready and willing to betray him. Some of them he had taken to his heart. Some of them were associated with him in the presidency, and some of them were connected with the quorum of the Twelve Apostles; and there were many among the High Priests and the Seventies who were false to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Upon one occasion Wilford Woodruff, who was approached by some of  men, lifted up his voice in warning, and predicted that if they did not repent of their sins that they would be damned and go to hell, and this because of their opposition to the Prophet, because of their willingness to betray him to his enemies, for they said he was a fallen prophet. He was not a fallen prophet; they were fallen prophets. How is it today? Pause, my brethren and sisters, for a moment and reflect. There are 56 stakes of Zion,each presided over by a presidency. That means 56 presidents and 112 counselors. There are 652 wards, each presided over by a bishopric. That means 652 Bishops and 1304 counselors. There are 21 missions in the world, presided over by 21 mission presidents. That makes altogether 2,145 very prominent and influential officers in the Church and not one, so far as I know, is a traitor, not one. 

Here is evidence brethren and sisters, that the Church has grown, that it has progressed that it has shot ahead wonderfully. And it may also be said of High Counselors, Patriarchs, and High Priests, Seventies and Elders, and members of the Lesser Priesthood, and in fact of members of the Church, generally that very few, if any, are traitors among them. The Latterday Saints hate the spirit of apostasy, and they despise a traitor, and God despises a traitor, and there will be no place found in the kingdom of heaven for a traitor, for the man who would betray his God or his religion, or his country. Now, I rejoice in this tesimony, for it confirms to me the divinity of this work. The growth and progress of the Church clearly shows powerfully the spirit of God is operating upon His people and upon His  to make strong in the faith, to make them firm in their attitude to the world and to each other, in keeping the commandments of God. 

This is a glorious time which we now behold, a glorious conference. The Spirit of the Lord is upon His people, and we are made to rejoice. There is a multitude of people assembled in the great tabernacle, and this house is filled to overflowing with Latter-day Saints, and the temple grounds are covered, and there are hundreds of Saints who have deft the grounds, and there are other hundreds upon the streets, and thousands and tens of thousands in the various stakes. Assuredly Zion is growing, and Zion is becoming strong, both spiritually and temporally. Let me say to you that a people who are weak spiritually and strong temporally are a weak people, and a people who are strong spiritually and weak temporally are a weak people; but a people who are strong spiritually and strong temporally are a strong people. My testimony is that the Latter-day Saints are a power in the earth which will be felt in a time to come. May the Lord bless and prosper us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
