26
Outdoor
05 04 1908 
Elder Ben E. Rich. 

(President of Southern States Mission). 

When the prayer was offered opening this meeting, I was reminded of a little pamphlet that I had in my pocket, which bears a portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith, with some of his words uttered concerning his beloved brother, Hyrum Smith. And it also contains a picture of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, with his sons, Joseph F. and John, each side of him. I want to speak to you concerning the words of the Prophet Joseph in relation to his brother Hyrum, and also what the God of Israel said concerning that beloved brother of the Prophet. The words of the Prophet Joseph were as follows : "Brother Hyrum, what a faithful heart you have got! Oh, may the Eternal Jehovah crown eternal blessings upon your head, as a reward for the care you have had for my soul! Oh, how many are the sorrows we have shared together! and again We find ourselves shackled by the unrelenting hand of oppression. Hyrum, thy name shall be written in the book of the Law of the Lord, for those who come after to look upon that they may pattern after thy works." This was uttered August n, 1842, while he was in the hands of his enemies. 

I read from a revelation of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smithgiven Jan. 19, 1841, the following, concerning Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, "And from this time forth I appoint unto him that he may be a prophet, and a seer, and a revelator unto my Church, as well as my servant Joseph. . . .That my servant Hyrum may bear record of the things which I shall show unto him, that his name may be had in honorable remembrance from generation to generation, for ever and ever." 

I was reminded of this little pamphlet, containing these words, when a grandson of Hyrum Smith opened this meeting with prayer. I was impresed more when I remember that this grandson stands, with two others, at the head of the Aaronic Priesthood upon the earth, he being one of the members of the Presiding Bishopric of this Church. 

In the Tabernacle today you will find two of Hyrum Smiths sons: one the Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of the Church in all the world, and the other occupying the same position that Hyrum did when he was assassinated in Carthage jail, Patriarch of the whole Church. Thus the name of Hyrum Smith is remembered today, by these children, this grandchild, another grand child in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, another as Assistant Historian of the Church, and by others faithful, true, clean as any men or women in the Church. They have maintained, by their faithfulness, in honorable remembrance the name of Hyrum Smith down to this generation, and will continue to hold him in honorable remembrance throughout all generations. 

There has not been a day since the organization of the Church that his Satanic Majesty has not endeavored to get between the people of God and the man who stands at the head of the Church. It was true in the days of Joseph Smith; and true in the days of Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and Lorenzo Snow, and it is true today. If he can succeed in getting between these people and the one whom God has placed at the head of the Church, he" wins a victory over the hearts of the people, to a certain extent. The spirit of the Nauvoo Expositor was not more malignant in the days of Nauvoo than is manifest at the present time. All the fiery darts of the wicked are directed today, as they have been from the year 1830 to the present time, against the head of the Church. The devil has always inspired men to believe that, if they could destroy the man who stands at the head, they could  the Church. How foolish! If they should succeed, which I do not believe they will. — If they should succeed, what would happen? Just what has happened upon the death of every former President of the Church. The Twelve Apostles, with their chief, would stand up as leaders of Israel, and the work would go on; because it is not built upon man. The enemies of this Church do not care for man, they do not care any more for Joseph F. Smith than they care for any one of you. You exchange places with him, if it should be the will of God, and no more fiery darts of the wicked would be directed toward Joseph F. Smith; they would be pointed toward youand he would be forgotten. Thaf has always been the case. This work is built upon that rock mentioned by Jesus when He was talking to Peter, and asking him whom men said that He was. When He asked Peter who He was, and Peter answered that He was Christ, the Son of the Living God, Jesus said, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, flesh and blood has not revealed this unto you, but my Father, which is in heaven." He also said, upon that rock — the source of information that gave to Peter the knowledge that Jesus was the Christ — He would build His church, and the gates of hell should not prevail against it: and they did not. The wickedness placed by the devil in the hearts of mankind at that time caused them to believe if they could destroy the head of the Church they would destroy the work, and they took the Master, the head of the Church, and nailed Him upon a cross and crucified Him, and laid His body in the tomb. Then Christ, while His body lay  the tomb, was quickened by the Spirit, and He broke down the gates of hell, showing that they could not prevail against Him. He then went into hell and preached the Gospel to those who had been swept off the face of the earth in the days of Noah. 

We are engaged in preaching the Gospel of Christ. It has come to the earth, this time, with the promise that it will stay forever, never more to be thrown down,never stopped. It will continue to grow, and increase until it fills this whole earth with the righteousness of God, in fulfillment of prophecy. As the missionaries go throughout the world, it is their duty, their business, to search out the children of Joseph, the blood of Ephraim and Manasseh, and bring them to the land of Zion. In God's own due time, His spirit will move upon Judah, and they will go to the land of their fathers, and Ephraim and Joseph will conle unto the land given to them, and then Zion will become the great capital city of our God, and Judah will rebuild Jerusalem. Then as Brother Robinson quoted, "The law shall go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem;" and the time will come when the seed of Joseph will meet their brethren of Judah, and the peace of God will reign over the great capitals that He is going to found upon this earth; but in accomplishing this, there are many things to contend with. God gives an assurance that we will be successful if we will be patient. He has told us that it is our business to forgive all mankind. He has told us that He is the Judge, and we must remember that. 

I was reminded of a statement made the other evening by one of my brethren about Paul, when he was known as Saul. When he was a persecutor of the Saints, on the road to Damascus, having willingly held the clothes of those who stoned one of the martyrs to death, (I suppose he had a look of contempt upon his face when he heard that missionary, with his dying words bear testimony that he saw the heavens opened, that he saw God, and Jesus standing upon His right hand), he was filled with hatred, this man Saul, and determined to punish every man who would bear testimony that the Nazarine was in reality the Son of the living God. When he was on the road to Damascus, to execute his designs, to serve the papers he had in his possession, he saw a great light and was stricken blind. He heard a voice, and the voice said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Then the question, "Who art thou, Lord?" And the voice answered : "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." Then he realized what he had done. Although he was a persecutor of the Saints, he was a choice spirit, and the time came when his eyes were opened; when he was converted to the Gospel. He was led blind, until an humble missionary came to teach him the way of salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I tell you, my brethren and sisters, he is not the only Saul that has lived upon the earth. It has been my privilege to meet a man who was the leader of a mob, who attempted with hatred and violence in his heart, to get at our elders, and, by streaks of lightning from the heavens, three different times he and his companions were driven back, then the horses of the mob took the bits in their mouths,  riders lost control, and the animals fled with the mob away from the servants of God. It was my privilege, two years ago, to lay my hands upon the head of the man who was the leader of that mob, and bestow upon him the holy Melchisedek Priesthood, and send him out to preach the Gospel, as Saul of old was sent out. It teaches the lesson of patience to us. We can afford to leave all mankind in the hands of God. But we cannot afford, my brethren and sisters, not to keep the commandments of God, and not follow the revelations that God the Eternal Father has given us. 

I wish to call your attention to the work that a woman can do in this Church; I refer to Mary Fielding. In England, many years ago her father was a minister, an honorable man, who did not believe it was right to preach for hire and divine for money. He sent two of his children, Joseph and Mary to America. They landed in Canada. The Spirit of God led them into a little company of people, of whom John Taylor was a member, and they were praying for light, asking God for the truth. A Mormon missionary, Parley P. Pratt, also led by the Spirit of God, just as that Spirit took the missionary to Saul, taught tjiat company the Gpspel that had been restored to the earth, and brought many of them into the Church, among others John Taylor, Joseph and Mary Fielding. She afterwards became the wife of Hyrum Smith, the mother of Joseph F. Smith. Our President was born at a time when Hyrum Smith, his father, was dragged by his enemies away from the side of his wife, when she most needed his care and attention. Under those circumstances the present Presi of this Church was born in the world. After the death of Joseph and Hyrum, the martyrs, she maintained allegiance to the man who then stood at the head of the Church. She was found trailing across the deserts, her boy, nine years of age, driving an ox team; thus manifesting her abiding faith in the man who stood at the head of the Church. She also took the other children of her husband, by hte deceased wife, and nurtured faith in their hearts. She went through all the trials that the other pioneers went through, and was always faithful with her tithes and offerings. This woman planted the faith of the Gospel so deep in the hearts of her children that all hell has not been able to root it out of a single one of them. Through the faithfulness of that woman, her children and grandchildren stand where they do today. 

There is a lesson in this of the responsibility that rests upon mothers. Take it to yourselves; look after your children. 

Do not let the devil get between you and the man who stands at the head of the Church, no matter who that man is. God bless you. Amen.
