27
Outdoor
05 04 1908 
Sister Rachel H. Leatham. 

My brothers and sisters : Some of you, I know, will appreciate my feelings as I stand before you. I think that I am one of the happiest girls in all the world, and it is the Gospel that makes me feel this way, for I do know that the Gospel is true. I do know that God our Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, came  and brought the Gospel and established it, and spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is His Prophet. I feel that if I could live forever, I could never thank my heavenly Father enough for the blessings that have come into my life, for the privilege of going out into the world and bearing this testimony, telling them of the Gospel being restored, of the authority Christ has given to His servants, and of the blessings that are in store for those who listen to and obey the words of truth, life and salvation, as they fall from the lips of the servants of God who are sent out to preach the Gospel. 

I sometimes think that we young folks at home do not fully realize the responsibilities that rest upon us. We do not always remember that those who stand at our head are aged, and that when our fathers and mothers are gone it will devolve upon us to assume their work; that we are the future responsible people of Zion. Are we doing our part, and are we preparing ourselves so that we will be able to do the work that our fathers have done? Are we ordering our lives so that the Spirit of God will dwell with us as it has dwelt with our parents ? Do we realize the extent of the blessings that God has given us, and do we understand the words of life and salvation contained in the Scriptures and in the Doctrine and Covenants ? Are we able to tell what the promises are that God has made us, if we will keep His commandments? Are we familiar with the ancient record of the inhabitants of this continent, the Book of Mormon ? And are we familiar with the great truths that are taught therein, and with those books that teach us the beauties of the work in which we are engaged today ? I am afraid we are not sufficiently conversant with the principles of the Gospel, and that we are not as diligent as we should be. 

Where much is given, much is rerequired; and you know, every one of you, how much has been given to us, and how much will be required at our hands. Are we preparing ourselves so that we will not fall short? Let us live by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Let us live so that He will ever be willing to own us, and bless us, and love us. 

I do not desire to speak longer, but I want once more to bear my testimony. I want to say again that I know the Gospel is true. Not because my father knows it, not because my mother has always taught it to me, but I know that the Gospel is true because God has revealed it unto me. His Spirit has borne witness unto my spirit, and that testimony is God's most precious gift to me. 

May God bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.
