29
Outdoor
05 04 1908 
Eider James G Duffin. 

I feel grateful for the privilege, my brethren and sisters, of meeting with you in this great conference, and of partaking of the spiritual feast that has been spread befor us. I am reminded of a few , containing a prophecy, that were given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, on the 6th day of August, 1842, while standing with a number of his brethren in front of the Masonic Hall, in the town of Montrose, Iowa. 

"I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction, and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains, many would apostatize, others would be p it to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities, and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." 

A few thoughts concerning these words have passed through my mind while my brethren have been speaking. It is a fact that our people did suffer persecution after these words were uttered. It is a fact that they were driven from their homes in that land where they had established themselves. It is a fact that they went out upon the great plains. It is a truth also that many of them endured great privations, and many of them laid their weary and worn out bodies in the silent grave along the pathway of that great exodus from the Mississippi River to these mountain vales. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, particularly I would speak to those of our boys and girls who are here today, your fathers and your mothers blazed the way. They came to these mountain vales, and they established themselves here under the direction of men of God. They devoted their lives to fulfil the words of God the Eternal Father, as given through His servant, Joseph the Prophet, and it is as a result of their labors, of their , of their integrity to the truth, to the work that God had established upon this earth, that you and I are here today, and enjoying the blessings of these mountain vales. Now there are those who, when these words were spoken, looked upon this western country as "The Great American Desert." Statesmen made the assertion that it was absolutely worthless so far as commercial value was concerned. The great statesmen of the day — one of them in particular, when discussing the opening up of a great highway to the west — speaking of this great western country, of which there was little known at that time, said, "It is worthless. I would not give a $5 bill for the whole country.*' Notwithstanding this, the Prophet of God said that fhis people, God's people, should come to this western country to be established in these mountain vales. There they should build cities, towns, villages, and become a mlighty people. It is not land that makes a state, but it is men, men of integrity, men of honor, men of truth, men who love liberty, that make a state; but lands and country are adjuncts to a people, and in order that they might become a great and a mighty people, they must have lands and other properties as well. 

Now for a moment or two, I want to talk to you upon the temporal side of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. My brethren, my friends here, President Rich, President Robinson and others, their special work is to direct the energies of our boys who are out among the nations of the earth declaring the words of eternal life. I have had that great privilege also, but I have been released from that labor, and my mind and my energies are directed more particularly toward the temporal affairs of the kingdom of God at the present time. I see undesirable conditions in our midst concerning these wonderful lands that have been subdued by our fathers and our mothers: I see a condition arising in our midst that if we do not meet it, many people, thousands who now possess these productive lands, the possibilities of which are yet little understood even by us who have spent our lives here, are going to allow what they now hold to pass out of their hands. Now, I am not going to say a word against any man or set of men who come into our midst, who see the possibilities of this land that has been subdued by our fathers, and come to us and tempt us to part with our possessions for a handful of gold. They have been in other countries, and they understand the value of lands such as we are in possession of. They come here into our midst and see what we have. They come to us and say, "You have been holding your land at probably a hundred, or a hundred and fifty, or two hundred dollars an acre, some of your best lands, and I want to get hold of a piece that you are in possession of. I will give you three hundred dollars an acre, double what you have been valuing it at." And what do we do? We cannot resist the temptation to sell our possessions, and we part with them, and they go out of our hands. Some of our older brethren, notwithstanding the fact that their pood wives have almost worn their lives out in assisting them to make a home, sell that good comfortable home, and are going out again and attempting to subdue arid wastes. Now, I say I do not blame, neither have 

I a word to say against a person who, seeing these beautiful possessions of ours, has a desire in his heart to obtain them by honorable purchase, but the thought that is in my mind is thus: Is it justice, you husbands, to these dear wives of yours, to sell the homes that you have spent so many years in making, and taking that dear wife out again upon the arid waste, and wear her life out there, without her enjoying the comforts and blessings you had mutually labored so many years to collect around you? And is it justice to your posterity to set an example of that kind before them ? 

This was one thought that was in my mind.; Now another in connection with this prophecy. Joseph said that in the midst of these mountains, the Saints should become a mighty people. No people ever became mighty who would part with their possessions for a handful of gold. It is the people who get possession of the soil, and retain it who stay, and build from that foundation, who become mighty. I want to call your attention to a remark that was made by a son of Heber C. Kimball, some years ago, in speaking at a conference in this great Tabernacle, he said : "If you Latter-day Saints would but put yourselves in a position to fulfil prophecy, after it had been made by the servants of God, they- would not be so afraid toprophesy!" The Prophet of God, speaking by the light of heaven said that the Saints should become a mighty peoole in the midst of these Rocky Mountains. I hold it as a true principle that, when servants of God are moved by the spirit of our Father in heaven to prophesy, it is the duty of this people to do all that lies in their power  fulfil that prophecy. It is your duty, young men, you gray heads, mothers and daughters in Israel, and my duty, to do all that lies in our power to see that the word of the Prophet of God is made true, that we do not rest satisfied with the conditions we are under today, but that every movement of our lives shall be to glorify Zion, and build up the kingdom of God upon earth. 

There is another thought in my mind in connection with this subject. The enemies of eternal truth, as has been remarked here today by one of the speakers, always direct their darts against the man who stands at the head of the work of God. Why? Because, if they could destroy the confidence of the people in that man, they destroy the confidence of the people in the work of God; for he is the one who holds the keys of eternal Priesthood. I will read to you a portion of the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, while he was lying in Liberty Jail, Clay County, Missouri. "The ends of the earth shall enquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in dension, and hell shall rage against thee, whil<! the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand." Now there is a thought in- connection with this. Who are they my brethren and sisters, that you see raising their forces against the mian who holds the keys of the everlasting Priesthood? Did you ever hear a man who was clean, who was pure, who was seeking every day of his life to do what was for the good of humanity, for the establishment of truth and of righteousness upon this earth— did you ever hear of a  of this kind lifting his voice against that man who holds the keys of the Holy Priesthood ? Now, think for one moment, young men of Israel, if you have never heard a man of that character lift his voice against the head of the Church, who are the men who do that? Then consider, if you are ever tempted by a man, or by any set or combination of men, to raise your voice against God's servants, consider where they are likely to lead you if you accede to them. You had best beware how you listen to the tempter, because he will come to you. 

Fathers and mothers, young men and daughters of Israel, remember that when the Lord speaks He sees that it is fulfilled. He provided the way for the fulfillment of His words through the Prophet Joseph, when he spoke to that little company of his brethren in front of the Masonic Temple, in Montrose. His people came here. They have grown. They have continued to grow, and it is your duty and mine to see that those words receive a greater fulfillment, not only in a temporal way, but see to it that we are true and faithful unto the authority that God has placed here upon this earth. 

God bless you forever. Amen.
