35
Afternoon
06 04 1908
Elder Joseph W. M'Murrin. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel to thank the Lord, with all my soul, that my father and mother heard the glad sound of the everlasting Gospel, many years ago in a far off land, that their souls were pricked by the power of God, and that they were made to understand the truth of the message which was communicated to them by a humble missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I say, I thank God that they heard that message,that they yielded obedience to the truth, and that they gathered with the people of the Lord to these mountain valleys. I feel very grateful to them for my birth in the midst of the people of the Lord. I honor their memory this day for the example they set before me and for their 119  concerning my life, that I might have faith in the message that brought them from the land of their nativity. 

My soul has been filled with gratitude as I have listened to the testimonies of the servants of the Lord concerning this work — its greatness, its breadth, its strength and beauty, and the evidences that abound of the power of God that is in it. 

I have wondered, my brethren and sisters, if we appreciate the blessings that have come to each of us, as individuals, as a result of hearing the sound of this Gospel; and if we comprehend what "Mormonism" stands for. We ofttimes hear remarks made regarding what men and women have done for "Mormonism," and yet I suppose it is true that "Mormonism" has done more for every soul, who has been convinced of its truth, than it is possible for any man to do for it. As we have heard during the meetings of this Conference, "Mormonism" is the power of God unto salvation; it embraces the truths of the Gospel of the Redeemer of men, revealed anew. 

I have been impressed with the fact that men from various nations have occupied this pulpit, bearing testimony to the truth of this work, and I do not suppose that we have discovered one particle of difference in the spirit that has actuated those who have spoken. They may have seen the light of day, in mortality, in Scandinavia, or in England, or in these United States of America, but "Mormonism," by the wonderful power that is in it, has brought to each one the very same spirit, and they have testified of the truth of this work by the same power and under the same inspiration. As I  looked over the immense gatherings of this Conference, I have been reminded of the fact, as we ofttimes hear it expressed in one of the anthems, that God has gathered His flock from afar, from the nations of men throughout the earth. 

There has been ringing in my ears a passage of scripture, wherein we are told that our Father in Heaven has decreed that He would gather His servants and His handmaidens — one of a city, two of a family, and bring them to Zion. He declared that He would give them pastors after His own heart who should feed them with knowledge and with understanding; and I suppose the same feeling has been in your bosoms as in minej that God has accomplished and performed the thing which He promised by the mouths of His ancient prophets. We are not being fed with husks, but we are being fed with the kernel of the Gospel; and we have come to feel, in the testimonies of these men who stand as presiding authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, that they have in very deed the word of life to give to the people. Are we prepared to receive it? Are we acquainted with the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord ? Do we recognize the voice of the Good Shepherd? Do we know, by the Spirit that is in us, that we have been taught as the Lord would have us taught, and not according to the wisdom of men alone? I believe in the doctrine, taught of the Father in one of the revelations, where He directed His servants in the preaching of the Gospel, that they should speak as they were moved upon by the power of the Holy Spirit. He promised that whatsoever they spoke when they were moved by that Holy Spirit, should be the word GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Lord, the power of the Lord, and the very doctrines of the Gospel unto salvation. If we have recognized that Spirit in the words that have been spoken and in the testimonies that have been delivered, we will not go away from this conference questioning the counsels that have been given unto us; but we will go away impressed with the feeling that with the help of our Father in Heaven, we will endeavor to put into practice the counsels that have been imparted. We should feel that, so far as in us lies, we will give to this work and to our God the best that there is in us. God requires it of us. This great work, that has been spoken of so eloquently, demands of every man, who has put his hand to the plow, that he shall work with a will, that he shall stand solidly for this work, and that it shall be known of all men just where he stands and what can be expected of him. 

I believe in this work. I know it is the power of God. It has filled my soul with peace and joy and happiness. It has filled me with hope, as it has filled you with hope, and I testify with my brethren concerning its truth, concerning its power, concerning the salvation that is in it; and I ask men everywhere to give attention to these glorious truths, for they have been revealed by our Father for the blessing of the human race. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and God help us to be true to this work, true to the covenants we have made, true to our brethren, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
