36
Afternoon
06 04 1908
President Smith. 

We wish now to present before the Conference the report of the 

Auditing Committee, as we think this report will contain information that you will be pleased to receive. I will call upon Heber J. Grant to read it, as his voice is clear and can be heard in this building. (Report read.) 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the annual report of the Auditing Committee of the Church, as follows : 

"We, the undersigned, members of the Church auditing committee, beg leave to report as follows : 

"We have carefully audited the financial reports of the Trustee-inTrust, Presiding Bishop, the latter comprehending the Presiding Bishop's, Office, 56 stakes of Zion and 21 missions in the world; also the Deseret News and the L. D. S. hospital for the year 1907. The said reports we found to be very full and complete in every essential, showing care and accuracy in the work done, and we were highly gratified with the systematic, thorough and businesslike manner in which the accounts of the Church were kept. 

"In view of the financial stringency and depression of business interests last fall, almost resulting in a panic, we are happy to reoort that there is a substantial increase in the total amount of tithing paid for the year 1907 over and above that paid for 1906. The Latter-day Saints are to be commended for their faithfulness in the observance of the law of the Lord. 

"In our examination of the report we noted with pleasure the fact that generous aid was extended by the Trustee-in-Trust to the worthy poor, Church schools, stake and ward meetinghouses, mission maintenance, Latter-day Saints' hospital maintenance and improvements, and 121  fares of returning elders from the mission fields. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. Your brethren, 

RUDGER CLAWSON, 

W. W. Riter, A. W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, Committee. 

PRESIDENT RICHARD W. YOUNG. 

Apropos the reading of the report of the Auditing Committee of the Church, to which we have just listened, I desire to submit, for the consideration of the Conference, a couple of resolutions. It was stated at the General Priesthood Meeting that this report would be given here, and anticipating the reading of it I have prepared these resolutions which speak for themselves. They express my very earnest convictions, and I am satisfied will speak the sentiments of all the members of the Church. The resolutions are as follows : 

"Resolved, That the report of the Church Auditing Committee, to which we have just listened, be received and approved, and that a vote of thanks be and the same is hereby extended to Elders Rudger Clawson, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson and Henry H. Rolapp for the intelligent and thorough manner in which they have performed the gratuitous labor of their office; and be it further 

Resolved, That the Church in conference assembled expresses its full and unqualified confidence in the financial integrity, judgment and fidelity to trust of the Trusteein-Trust and presiding brethren, to whose discretion' under the constitution and order of the -Church, is  the control and distribution of its revenues and properties." 

Elder Young moved the adoption of these two resolutions; the motion was seconded by Elder Wm". H. Seegmiller, and was carried by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

ATJTHOKITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

Charles W. Nibley as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham' H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings. chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford, Willard Young. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR. 

Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Walter J. Poulton, Jr., Assistant Organists; Noel S. Pratt, Secretary; George C. Smith, Treasurer and Librarian; and all the members. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Sm'oot, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, and Henry H. Rolapp. 

Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference. 

John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, and Anthony W. Ivins, as additional members of the General Board of Religion Classes. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

(CLOSING REMARKS.) 

Invokes Heaven's blessings upon the members of the Church, and the people of the world. 

We have now approached the time for the closing of our SeventyEighth Annual Conference; and in conclusion, I desire to express my heartfelt gratitude to God for Hi's signal blessings, during) the sessions of our conference. The weather has been propitious, healthful, beautiful, and in every way suitable to our need. I presume there has been a larger attendance at each session than we have had at any former conference of the Church. I feel grateful to my brethren and sisters who have been in attendance, and I desire to express my heartfelt blessing upon every soul who has come to this conference with a desire to promote the well being and happiness of others, and who has desired to see righteousness and peace prevail. I thank you for your presence. 

I feel to bless my brethren who are acting in the important calling of presidents of the various stakes of Zion, on whom rest such great responsibilities, standing as they do at the head of these stake organizations of the Church as fathers and counselors to the people. May the Lord bless their coun123  and the members of the various High Councils of the Church who are present. I invoke the special blessings of God our Father upon you, my brethren, that you may be filled, one and all, with the spirit of your callings; that you may have the gifts of wisdom and perfect discernment, that you may be just judges in Israel, and righteous counselors among the people, that all may see that you are indeed the servants of God and true representatives of His work in the earth. 

I pray God to bless the Bishops and their counselors and all those who are acting in the Lesser Priesthood; may the spirit of their callings rest upon them. May our Bishops move forward in their great spiritual and temporal mission and in the future so far as possible, give employment to the youth of Zion. Find something for them to do that will give them an opportunity to gain knowledge and experience in good works that will be beneficial to the cause of Zion and to themselves. I trust they will not forget this. 

I invoke the blessing of the Lord upon the various quorums of the Priesthood, the Seventies, the High Priests, the Elders, and upon the Patriarchs in the midst of Zion, that the spirit of their callings may rest upon them henceforth and forever. May they all be true men, true to their covenants, true to their God, true to themselves, true to the state and nation of which we are a part. 

I desire to invoke the blessings of the Lord also upon all the auxiliary organizations of the Church, that the spirit of their missions may rest abundantly and fruitfully upon them, that they will accomplish the greatest possible good in the  in which they act in the Church. 

I pray God to bless all our friends throughout the land and in all the world. May He bless and have mercy upon our enemies. May He open their eyes and their understanding, that they may comprehend the nature of the course they are taking and what it will result in to themselves at last. May the Lord have pity upon and turn them from their folly and the error of their way, and lead them into paths of peace and righteousness. 

I want to express my appreciation of the labors of Brother Evan Stephens, Brother John J. McClellan and their assistants, also of the devotion of the members of the choir who have been able to attend during the conference, and others who have given us the benefit of their talent and skill. We thank them for their service. God bless our choir. May God bless Brother Evan Stephens, a man full of the love of truth, full of the spirit of song, devoted to the cause of Zion, a man who is wedded to his profession and his work, striving for the uplifting of the children of Zion. May the Lord bless him for it, and I hope by and by, when he gets old enough he will grow large enough to get wedded to a good wife as well as to music. 

I ask the Lord to bless all Zion — may He bless you as husbands and wives, as fathers and mothers, as parents and children. May the blessings of peace, life and health abound in all your abiding places. 

I ask these blessings, my brethren and sisters, upon you one and all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
