Afternoon
06 04 1908

ELDER RTJLON S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters, I do wish that I could occupy this responsible position without that feeling of fear and trembling which comes over me when I am called upon to address this vast congregation. I also hope that the Lord will be merciful and kind unto me. I trust that He will give me His favor, that I may enjoy the influence of His Holy Spirt, for without that aid, I would indeed feel my weakness. 

I wish to bear testimony to the truths of the Everlasting Gospel. I endorse the testimonies that have been borne by my brethren who have preceded me in the various meetings of this General Conference. I find myself strictly in accord with their testimonies. I can endorse that which they have spoken, for I feel that we have been fed the bread of life. The Gospel has been restored to the earth for the accomplishment of a wonderful work among the children of men. This great message which has been delivered through the Prophet Joseph Smith is for the salvation of all 113 . It is a matter which will come to all our Father's children, either in this life, or in the life which is to come. The forces, the influences, and the workings of this Gospel must be felt by all of our Father's children; it is an individual affair with each and every one of us. It therefore behooves the inhabitants of this earth to pay heed to the message, and there are none who will regret it, who do pay heed. Neither need they to feel that it is any condescension on their part, when they listen to the humble message of life and salvation. It is not anything that has been instituted by man for the purpose of self aggrandizement. This work is a labor of love, of sacrifice, and of good-will towards men. It is for this purpose that it was established, — the saving of every soul, and none can be justified who will reject it, after the opportunity has been presented to receive it, and to benefit by its workings upon them. 

There are two things that are required of all men who are formed and fashioned in the likeness of their great Creator; and these two things are these : one is to learn to know the will of God, and the other is to do it. Therefore, every human being should feel that it is his duty to make it the effort of his life to find out what is the will of God; and it cannot be found out unless people do put forth some effort. The great enemy of the Kingdom of God is indifference, and a lack of disposition to seek**and find, a lack of desire to know the truth, a lack of disposition to put forth the effort, to ask, that we might receive. Surely, any individual blessed with intelligence ought not to feel any hesitancy whatever in making an effort to find out God, and to learn  know His will. If people do put forth this effort, it will be because they are yielding obedience to a fundamental principle of the Gospel which we proclaim; namely, faith in God, which will move us to action, and get us to appreciate the importance of knowing. 

If we have no desire to know it is because we love darkness rather than light, because we are satisfied to remain in ignorance, which is darkness, even that gross darkness that covers the minds of the people. But if we want to know, if we have in our hearts a desire to know, let us manifest that desire by putting forth the effort, and asking Him alone who can give the answer; namely, God, our eternal Father. And even though it should call upon us to bend the knee, why should we hesitate ? Is it not required of all of us that we should, in the presence of the Almighty One, be willing to humble ourselves before Him? 

We cannot evade the responsibility of practicing these principles of life and salvation. We may exhort the inhabitants of the earth; we may, perchance, get many of them to start out upon this path of seeking to know the truth, but it should not end there. It behooves all those who have once planted their feet in the straight and narrow way, bv beginning to seek, that they might know the will of the Lord, to continue to walk therein, by the constant and continued exercise of this principle of faith. As we grow in knowledge, that desire to know will still continue to grow within us, and we go on progressing in the knowledge of the Lord. Therein lies salvation, that we may grow in the knowledge of the truth, and that we learn to do the will of the Father. 

While it may be the exercise of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  which leads us to the knowledge of the truth, it is the exercise of the principle of repentance which teaches us to do. These are saving principles that the Lord has revealed. They are explained in Holy Writ; they have been proclaimed by holy men, but if we never had received the revelations of the Lord, if they had not been handed down to us by the prophets who have lived in ages gone by, these truths would still stand and be the same. They appeal to the very nature of mankind; without them, it is impossible to progress, and we each and every one of us have constant use and need for applying these principles in our daily vocations, in our daily lives. 

The absence of light is darkness. By the continuation of growth in knowledge, which is the light of truth, the darkness will disappear, just as the darkness disappears from a building when we put into it the light. It should, therefore, be the ambition of Latter-day Saints to constantly struggle for the acquisition of light and knowledge, and truth. This can only be done in proportion to our faithfulness. 

These principles are called first principles, but to me, they are first principles and last principles. These fundamental principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are : faith in the Lord, Jesus Christ, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion, that principle by which we obtain a remission of sins; and the securing of the Holy Spirit, by the laying on of hands. You have heard nothing else during the meetings of this Conference than different phases of these cardinal and fundamental principles. If we have heard something regarding the law of temperance, the Word of Wisdom, what is  but one of, the practical applications of the great law, that fundamental principle of repentance from wrong doing? Is it not evil to do those things that are harmful to the body, those things that often destroy this temple, in which the Lord designs his Holy Spirit shall dwell ? What is the law of tithing? People are required to pay their tithes and their offerings. And who is benefited most? The people themselves, who observe to keep these laws and these commandments. They are most benefited for this reason : that it teaches them the exercise of faith in God and confidence in His work. Their hearts are in sympathy and in touch with the great work which our Father has inaugurated in these last days. 'They want to see Zion prosper; their hearts are in touch with that great work. They want to see the temples of God maintained; they want their children to be instructed in the ways of life and salvation; they want their sons to go out into the mission field and deliver this message unto the people; and all of these things require sacrifices, which they would not make if they did not have faith in God and in the triumph of His work. So we might apply it to every principle, to every requirement that is made of Latter-day Saints. It is founded on these fundamental principles. The first principles ? Yes, and the last principles, — always, eternal, and forever. We ought to appreciate them as the plan of life and salvation, whereby the children of God can be brought back into His presence. And without observing them, no one can be saved. 

I rejoice in the -testimony of this work, for I know that the Lord is with us. I know that Joseph Smith 115  a prophet of God. I cannot pick up the book of Doctrine and Covenants and read a single revelation from the Lord, without feeling thrilled, and being convinced that this is the truth. 

In the opening address of President Joseph F. Smith, he made a number of comments on different topics, and gave the keynote of this Conference, all of which was interesting to me, and met with my hearty aproval. When he finally came to bear his own testimony regarding the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, my whole being was filled with the spirit of testimony, and in my heart I said, "Amen." I know, too, and so should all Latter-day Saints know, when the spirit of inspiration is resting upon them, that this is the truth. The Spirit of the Lord will bear witness, that Joseph Smith is a prophet sent of the Lord. I admonish the people to carefully read the revelations as they are contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and ponder over them in your own hearts. No one can honestly read those revelations without being impressed that there is something in them, more than the power within men. This ability to know the truth, and this testimony which comes to us, is the result of the Spirit of God resting upon us; and if we will only put ourselves in such a condition, that we can receive the promptings of that Spirit, then we will grow in the knowledge of God day by day; and that we may do so is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

My life and labors are devoted to this work. While it is true that 

I have not been able to do my full and complete duty, because of my physical condition, yet I trust that my labors during the past fifteen or sixteen years have proven to this people, and to the brethren of the authorities, that I am loyal and patriotic to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have never been ashamed to testify to the divinity of this work, when I felt that I had the Spirit of God. I have held the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith as sacred. When I was in the mission field, I said to the Elders: whenever you are moved upon by the Spirit of God, and! the spirit of testimony, you are to testify that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and I promise you it will make you all the trouble you can bear. I have never been afraid of the world, nor the children of men, when I have enjoyed the Holy Spirit. 

I look over my past labors in the ministry, and I discover there were some things that I didn't know. I find at times that I have been over zealous; in fact, I believe that I have been almost fanatical, that I have said and done things that I now wish I hadn't. I have heard this, my brethren and sisters, and I am in no doubt about it: that I hold the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, the High Priesthood; I am a Seventy- Apostle. I don't think I lack any Priesthood. I don't think there is anything in this Church to be done that I can't do, if the proper authorities tell me to do it, but there are many things they don't tell me to do, so I let it alone. It has taken me a long time to learn to mind my own business, to look after my own department, and not try to interfere GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Bishops or with Presidents of Stakes in their labors. I wish they all would learn the same lesson. 

Now, I am an officer — a sort of a lieutenant — in the army of the Lord. We have a large body of Priesthood who have been given advantages and opportunities that Seventies never had in the early history of the Church. There is a possibility of doing a great and good work; and we have made a great effort, under the instructions of the Presidency and Twelve Apostles, to place these Seventies in a condition that they can represent the Church Of Jesus Christ as witnesses of the Lord. I realize, brethren, that the Bishops of the wards have to look after their wards; the Presidencies of the stakes have to look after their work; and the supply of capable men is depleted owing to their being absorbed in many organizations. Whenever they find efficient capable men they take them to build up their work; but I want to ask you, in the name of all consistency, please don't take all the able men, or the greater part of them, and leave us only raw recruits to send into the world to preach this Gospel. I want to say to you Latterday Saints, if you think your inexperienced boys can go out and disturb the wjorld, you are mistaken. When I was in the South, the people paid but little more attention to us than if we were fice dogs. If ever I locked horns with anybody it was with some poor clergyman in the woods. Elder John Morgan used to tell us — and I honor his memory; I love him as I love few men — he used to tell us : "Boys, don't go into the cities, if you do, it may cost you your ;" and we stayed out. But it is different now. 

I have been in California for a few weeks, and I tell you I am in sympathy with Elder Robinson, and my heart goes out to the Elders. If I had been called upon in Ocean Park to stand before the intelligent class of people there, I don't know what I would have said. We need intelligence, and pure knowledge, to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. 

I desire to read a little extract from "Impressions," by Charles Erskine Scott Wood: 

"Where any number of men are gathered together, there are sure to be some better than others; some more rational, and some less intelligent than others. There are good lawyers and bad lawyers, intellectual doctors and stupid doctors, [I have learned that in the last three years] wise clergymen and foolish clergymen. In short, as the mass of humanity in any one place and time will contain both extremes and all shades of humanity, so any considerable portion of the mass will contain various examples of the good, bad, and indifferent. Therefore, it is not proper to judge of any general class or organization of men by some few particular individuals, either good or bad. The question is : What is the average character, and what is its general influence, taken as a whole, and through the course of years. And though an institution on the hill may be a power for good, yet if it exhibits some special attraction for the narrow and intolerant, that is certainly a fault." 

I am trying to be wise, and I am trying to be prudent, and I confess to you I am having a terrible time. It is old men for counsel, young men for war. I believe I am a better warrior than I am a counselor. I have been away from home, and the first thing I picked up Was an anti-"Mormon" newspaper, and I am sorry I picked it up. What did I find in it? I found they were try117  to prove that President Brigham Young and my father were murderers, and that they taught that as a principle! Now, I say it is unjust. I say it is unkind. I say it is improper. But what are we going to do ? Why, we are not going to do anything; but I often feel it is wrong for us to be hushed into silence. 

This work is true. The character of this people is a marvel to me, and it has a pathetic side to it. I have traveled among this people from Mexico to Canada, and I know whereof I speak. I say to the young and rising generation: 1 am willing to take off my hat to these horny-handed, white-headed broken-down men who have made it possible for us to exist in this mountain country. I say God bless these aged men. If you want examples,any object lessons, go down to Saint George and see what it has cost to settle that country. It is a number of years since I was there, but I found ninety widows. Some of the best men in the whole earth have died to make that country habitable. Then I would like to take you on a trip down to Arizona, in the St. Johns country. I preached Faith there once, but I want to tell you I haven't got enough faith to stay in such an undesirable country. You talk about good people; you talk about righteous people; I tell you there are people in this city who are not worthy to unlatch their shoestrings. That hard country, and their obedience to the Priesthood of God, has made those men great characters. You can't discourage them. They will build a dam across the Colorado River every five years, if it washes out the next day; and live on dry bread and molasses Yet, that is their home; that is their; there they worship God. Then you go up in the Big Horn country, then up into Canada, and then think what it has cost to make this country what it is. But, every time some of us weak-kneed young fellows encounter a difficulty we break for the woods, and we give up our rights and sell them for a little pottage. I tell you that the Almighty is not pleased with some of the rising generation. They stick up their noses at these homely men. It is such .homely men and women of character who have made this country, and this Church, what it is today, and I say God bless them. 

Brethren, I want to call your attention to one thing; I am a sort of transgressor. My father died when I was fifteen years old. I have not committed any crimes, but there are some things in my history that I regret. Environment has a great deal to do with a man, and men who have colonized these outlying districts do not look upon some habits as seriously as men who have never indulged in them; if they did, it would be an injustice to themselves. You never saw a man in your life do a wrong thing, who was happy over it. You never saw men violate a commandment of God and feel jubilant over it, but if they have the Spirit of the Lord they feel miserable. I say to you Latter-day Saints, and I say it to myself : I have preached this Gospel for fifteen years, and I now understand the doctrine of repentance. A man can't repent simply because an Apostle tells him to repent; he can't do it until he gets the spirit of repentance, which is a gift from God; and some of us don't get it very quickly. Some of us don't get the spirit of repentance and see things GENERAL CONFERENCE.  until our hair is gray. Brethren, let us be tolerant; let us be kind and considerate. It is the proper thing to despise sin and wickedness; but I think it is wrong to despise the man that has a weakness, and make him feel that he is good for nothing, and that there is not much chance for him. I think I can safely say to you Latter-day Saints : You will all be saved, every one of you; the only difference will be this, some will be saved sooner than others. Every man that has transgressed and done wrong must pay the penalty of his transgression, for salvation costs something, and you have to pay the price or you don't get it. 

While I was in Venice, California, or Ocean Park, I saw three great battle-ships, the Wisconsin,the Tennessee and the California. I had the privilege of going on board the Tennessee. They left Venice on Friday morning at ten o'clock, and I saw those beautiful war vessels leave the harbor. I had not been on the pier long when I noticed a young man, called a jackie, one of the boys of the Tennessee. He was looking longingly over the ocean at those retreating ships. I asked him why he was not with the ships,' and he said : "I was fifteen minutes late." I asked him : "What will they do with you? What are you going to do ? Why don't you take the railroad and run up to a station where they will stop, and get on your war vessel?" He said: "O, it don't make any difference, I will go down to San Pedro and get on the Dakota, and they will place me in chains and feed me on bread and water; but" said he, "I had a mighty good time." He had had a good time at Los Angeles, but he was fifteen minutes late, and accord to his story he was to be disciplined, and he was to eat bread and water, and be placed in chains. I asked him what he did it for, and he said : "Well now, look here Mister, I did it and it is done, and I am trying to get a little sunshine out of this thing." That was a knockdown argument and I never said another word. If he could get any sunshine out of it I was willing for the poor fellow to have it. 

Now, brethren, let us be kind and considerate for each other. 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

Elders John W. Summerhays and Noel S. Pratt sang, as a duet, the hymn beginning: 

The morning breaks, the shadows flee; 

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day 

Majestic rises on the world. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRIN. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel to thank the Lord, with all my soul, that my father and mother heard the glad sound of the everlasting Gospel, many years ago in a far off land, that their souls were pricked by the power of God, and that they were made to understand the truth of the message which was communicated to them by a humble missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I say, I thank God that they heard that message,that they yielded obedience to the truth, and that they gathered with the people of the Lord to these mountain valleys. I feel very grateful to them for my birth in the midst of the people of the Lord. I honor their memory this day for the example they set before me and for their 119  concerning my life, that I might have faith in the message that brought them from the land of their nativity. 

My soul has been filled with gratitude as I have listened to the testimonies of the servants of the Lord concerning this work — its greatness, its breadth, its strength and beauty, and the evidences that abound of the power of God that is in it. 

I have wondered, my brethren and sisters, if we appreciate the blessings that have come to each of us, as individuals, as a result of hearing the sound of this Gospel; and if we comprehend what "Mormonism" stands for. We ofttimes hear remarks made regarding what men and women have done for "Mormonism," and yet I suppose it is true that "Mormonism" has done more for every soul, who has been convinced of its truth, than it is possible for any man to do for it. As we have heard during the meetings of this Conference, "Mormonism" is the power of God unto salvation; it embraces the truths of the Gospel of the Redeemer of men, revealed anew. 

I have been impressed with the fact that men from various nations have occupied this pulpit, bearing testimony to the truth of this work, and I do not suppose that we have discovered one particle of difference in the spirit that has actuated those who have spoken. They may have seen the light of day, in mortality, in Scandinavia, or in England, or in these United States of America, but "Mormonism," by the wonderful power that is in it, has brought to each one the very same spirit, and they have testified of the truth of this work by the same power and under the same inspiration. As I  looked over the immense gatherings of this Conference, I have been reminded of the fact, as we ofttimes hear it expressed in one of the anthems, that God has gathered His flock from afar, from the nations of men throughout the earth. 

There has been ringing in my ears a passage of scripture, wherein we are told that our Father in Heaven has decreed that He would gather His servants and His handmaidens — one of a city, two of a family, and bring them to Zion. He declared that He would give them pastors after His own heart who should feed them with knowledge and with understanding; and I suppose the same feeling has been in your bosoms as in minej that God has accomplished and performed the thing which He promised by the mouths of His ancient prophets. We are not being fed with husks, but we are being fed with the kernel of the Gospel; and we have come to feel, in the testimonies of these men who stand as presiding authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, that they have in very deed the word of life to give to the people. Are we prepared to receive it? Are we acquainted with the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord ? Do we recognize the voice of the Good Shepherd? Do we know, by the Spirit that is in us, that we have been taught as the Lord would have us taught, and not according to the wisdom of men alone? I believe in the doctrine, taught of the Father in one of the revelations, where He directed His servants in the preaching of the Gospel, that they should speak as they were moved upon by the power of the Holy Spirit. He promised that whatsoever they spoke when they were moved by that Holy Spirit, should be the word GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Lord, the power of the Lord, and the very doctrines of the Gospel unto salvation. If we have recognized that Spirit in the words that have been spoken and in the testimonies that have been delivered, we will not go away from this conference questioning the counsels that have been given unto us; but we will go away impressed with the feeling that with the help of our Father in Heaven, we will endeavor to put into practice the counsels that have been imparted. We should feel that, so far as in us lies, we will give to this work and to our God the best that there is in us. God requires it of us. This great work, that has been spoken of so eloquently, demands of every man, who has put his hand to the plow, that he shall work with a will, that he shall stand solidly for this work, and that it shall be known of all men just where he stands and what can be expected of him. 

I believe in this work. I know it is the power of God. It has filled my soul with peace and joy and happiness. It has filled me with hope, as it has filled you with hope, and I testify with my brethren concerning its truth, concerning its power, concerning the salvation that is in it; and I ask men everywhere to give attention to these glorious truths, for they have been revealed by our Father for the blessing of the human race. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and God help us to be true to this work, true to the covenants we have made, true to our brethren, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SMITH. 

We wish now to present before the Conference the report of the 

Auditing Committee, as we think this report will contain information that you will be pleased to receive. I will call upon Heber J. Grant to read it, as his voice is clear and can be heard in this building. (Report read.) 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the annual report of the Auditing Committee of the Church, as follows : 

"We, the undersigned, members of the Church auditing committee, beg leave to report as follows : 

"We have carefully audited the financial reports of the Trustee-inTrust, Presiding Bishop, the latter comprehending the Presiding Bishop's, Office, 56 stakes of Zion and 21 missions in the world; also the Deseret News and the L. D. S. hospital for the year 1907. The said reports we found to be very full and complete in every essential, showing care and accuracy in the work done, and we were highly gratified with the systematic, thorough and businesslike manner in which the accounts of the Church were kept. 

"In view of the financial stringency and depression of business interests last fall, almost resulting in a panic, we are happy to reoort that there is a substantial increase in the total amount of tithing paid for the year 1907 over and above that paid for 1906. The Latter-day Saints are to be commended for their faithfulness in the observance of the law of the Lord. 

"In our examination of the report we noted with pleasure the fact that generous aid was extended by the Trustee-in-Trust to the worthy poor, Church schools, stake and ward meetinghouses, mission maintenance, Latter-day Saints' hospital maintenance and improvements, and 121  fares of returning elders from the mission fields. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. Your brethren, 

RUDGER CLAWSON, 

W. W. Riter, A. W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, Committee. 

PRESIDENT RICHARD W. YOUNG. 

Apropos the reading of the report of the Auditing Committee of the Church, to which we have just listened, I desire to submit, for the consideration of the Conference, a couple of resolutions. It was stated at the General Priesthood Meeting that this report would be given here, and anticipating the reading of it I have prepared these resolutions which speak for themselves. They express my very earnest convictions, and I am satisfied will speak the sentiments of all the members of the Church. The resolutions are as follows : 

"Resolved, That the report of the Church Auditing Committee, to which we have just listened, be received and approved, and that a vote of thanks be and the same is hereby extended to Elders Rudger Clawson, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson and Henry H. Rolapp for the intelligent and thorough manner in which they have performed the gratuitous labor of their office; and be it further 

Resolved, That the Church in conference assembled expresses its full and unqualified confidence in the financial integrity, judgment and fidelity to trust of the Trusteein-Trust and presiding brethren, to whose discretion' under the constitution and order of the -Church, is  the control and distribution of its revenues and properties." 

Elder Young moved the adoption of these two resolutions; the motion was seconded by Elder Wm". H. Seegmiller, and was carried by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

ATJTHOKITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

Charles W. Nibley as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham' H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings. chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford, Willard Young. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR. 

Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Walter J. Poulton, Jr., Assistant Organists; Noel S. Pratt, Secretary; George C. Smith, Treasurer and Librarian; and all the members. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Sm'oot, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, and Henry H. Rolapp. 

Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference. 

John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, and Anthony W. Ivins, as additional members of the General Board of Religion Classes. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

(CLOSING REMARKS.) 

Invokes Heaven's blessings upon the members of the Church, and the people of the world. 

We have now approached the time for the closing of our SeventyEighth Annual Conference; and in conclusion, I desire to express my heartfelt gratitude to God for Hi's signal blessings, during) the sessions of our conference. The weather has been propitious, healthful, beautiful, and in every way suitable to our need. I presume there has been a larger attendance at each session than we have had at any former conference of the Church. I feel grateful to my brethren and sisters who have been in attendance, and I desire to express my heartfelt blessing upon every soul who has come to this conference with a desire to promote the well being and happiness of others, and who has desired to see righteousness and peace prevail. I thank you for your presence. 

I feel to bless my brethren who are acting in the important calling of presidents of the various stakes of Zion, on whom rest such great responsibilities, standing as they do at the head of these stake organizations of the Church as fathers and counselors to the people. May the Lord bless their coun123  and the members of the various High Councils of the Church who are present. I invoke the special blessings of God our Father upon you, my brethren, that you may be filled, one and all, with the spirit of your callings; that you may have the gifts of wisdom and perfect discernment, that you may be just judges in Israel, and righteous counselors among the people, that all may see that you are indeed the servants of God and true representatives of His work in the earth. 

I pray God to bless the Bishops and their counselors and all those who are acting in the Lesser Priesthood; may the spirit of their callings rest upon them. May our Bishops move forward in their great spiritual and temporal mission and in the future so far as possible, give employment to the youth of Zion. Find something for them to do that will give them an opportunity to gain knowledge and experience in good works that will be beneficial to the cause of Zion and to themselves. I trust they will not forget this. 

I invoke the blessing of the Lord upon the various quorums of the Priesthood, the Seventies, the High Priests, the Elders, and upon the Patriarchs in the midst of Zion, that the spirit of their callings may rest upon them henceforth and forever. May they all be true men, true to their covenants, true to their God, true to themselves, true to the state and nation of which we are a part. 

I desire to invoke the blessings of the Lord also upon all the auxiliary organizations of the Church, that the spirit of their missions may rest abundantly and fruitfully upon them, that they will accomplish the greatest possible good in the  in which they act in the Church. 

I pray God to bless all our friends throughout the land and in all the world. May He bless and have mercy upon our enemies. May He open their eyes and their understanding, that they may comprehend the nature of the course they are taking and what it will result in to themselves at last. May the Lord have pity upon and turn them from their folly and the error of their way, and lead them into paths of peace and righteousness. 

I want to express my appreciation of the labors of Brother Evan Stephens, Brother John J. McClellan and their assistants, also of the devotion of the members of the choir who have been able to attend during the conference, and others who have given us the benefit of their talent and skill. We thank them for their service. God bless our choir. May God bless Brother Evan Stephens, a man full of the love of truth, full of the spirit of song, devoted to the cause of Zion, a man who is wedded to his profession and his work, striving for the uplifting of the children of Zion. May the Lord bless him for it, and I hope by and by, when he gets old enough he will grow large enough to get wedded to a good wife as well as to music. 

I ask the Lord to bless all Zion — may He bless you as husbands and wives, as fathers and mothers, as parents and children. May the blessings of peace, life and health abound in all your abiding places. 

I ask these blessings, my brethren and sisters, upon you one and all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We, thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command. 
