11
Morning
06 04 1907
President Joseph F. Smith. 

Important interrogations. — Emphatic response. 

I want to give this congregation the opportunity of answering yes or no to the questions that have been read by Brother Heber J. Grant, namelv : 

"First, Yes or no, do you believe in God, the Father; God a person, God a definite and tangible intelligence — not a congeries of laws floating like a fog through the universe; but God a person in whose image you were made? Don't argue; don't explain; but is your mind in a condition where you can answer yes or no? 

"Second, Yes or no, do you believe that Christ was the son of the living God, sent by Him to save the world? I am not asking whether you believe that He was inspired in the sense that the great moral teachers are inspired — nobody has any difficulty about that. But do you believe that Christ was God's very Son, with a divinely appointed and definite mission, dying on the cross and raised from the dead — yes or no? 

"Third, Do you believe that when you die you will live again as a conscious intelligence, knowing who you are and who other people are?" 

Every man and woman in this congregation that can answer yes to these questions, say yes. (There was a universal response from all over the house.) And every one that bears the name of Latter-day Saint in this vast congregation that cannot say yes, let him say no. (Not a single response.) Brother Heber has told us the truth. There is no doubt in the minds of Latter-day Saints in relation to the existence and personage of the Lord God Almighty, who is the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. There is no doubt in the minds of Latter-day Saints that Jesus is the Son of God, being begotten of the 

Father in the flesh. And there is no Latter-day Saint in all the world but knows as truly and as fully as God can impart that knowledge to the soul of man, that he shall live again after death, and that men and women shall be associated together as God has ordained and they have been united by His power, to dwell together forever and forever; and they shall know as they are known, they shall see as they are seen, and they shall understand as God understands; for they are His children. I wanted to say this much in confirmation of the faith of the Latterday Saints with reference to the questions that have been asked here, and that cannot be answered by the sectarian world, because they have not the faith or the knowledge to answer them. Latter-day Saints can answer them, because God has revealed the knowledge to them in this day through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and by the testimony of the Spirit of God in the heart of every faithful Latter-day Saint. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God, our fathers' God; Thou hast made Thy children mighty, By the touch of the mountain sod. 

AUDITING. COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 

President Joseph F. Smith read the annual report of the Church auditing committee, as follows : 

Salt Lake City, March 20, 1907. 

President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors. Dear Brethren — We, the undersigned members of the general Church auditing committee, beg leave to report as follows : 

We have carefully examined the accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, Presiding Bishopric, the Deseret News, the Latter-day Saints' hospital and other business concerns in which the Church is interested, for the year 1906. We find that the accounting in the various departments is properlv done; every dollar received has been correctly entered, and the disbursements under your direction have been economically and wisely made for the exclusive benefit of the various interests of the Church. And we heartily endorse your judicious and conservative administration. 

The Church is to be congratulated upon the fact that the Church bonds have been redeemed, that the Church is entirely free from debt and has sufficient funds on hand to meet 'necessary requirements. 

Your brethren, (Signed.) Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, W. W. Riter, 

C. W. NlBLEY, 

A. W. Carlson, General Church Auditing Committee. 

President Anthon H. Lund moved that the report of the auditine committee be accepted and approved by the Conference. The motion was seconded, and carried unanimously. 

Benediction was pronounced byBishop Orrin P. Miller. 
Amen.
