13
Afternoon
06 04 1907
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 

The present conference has been to me full of the deepest interest. To my mind, this has been a memorable occasion, one that has made an impression upon the people, and which, I believe, will make an impression upon the world; for, in the declaration of principles that has been adopted and approved by the 

Latter-day Saints, in conference assembled, is a plea for fair play, for justice. It is a plea to the world not to believe the misrepresentations that have been sent out by the enemies of this people. It is the protest of a great people against being maligned by a world which has been misled by unscrupulous men and women. I echo the sentiment expressed, that it is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others. It appeals to me that that is the proper thing for us to do. I endorse with all my heart the principles set forth in that document. They are principles that have been taught to me from my infancy. They are not new to the Latter-day Saints. It is something that we do not need to deliberate upon. The moment we heard the declaration of these principles every soul was ready and prepared to vote upon the proposition. They are principles that are dear to our hearts. They have been revealed from heaven in the dispensation in which we live. I also endorse and believe that all the good that has been spoken of Zion and her people is true. There are no better people upon the face of the earth than the Latter-day Saints, and whatever superiority we have attained to is the direct result of obedience to these principles which our Father has revealed unto us. While I believe these things with all my heart, nevertheless there is danger that we might think we have already attained to so much excellence that we should stop. I wish to bear witness that there is ample room for improvement among the Latter-day Saints, as well as in the world at large. 

The Gospel we have received is the Gospel of repentance; and during this conference, it seems to me, a great deal of stress has been laid upon that principle. Sometimes we are prone to think that because we have yielded obedience to the principles of faith and repentance and have received baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, we have no further need of repentance. My brethren and sisters, we have -daily need of this saving principle of repentance. It should apply to our daily lives. The one great reason why the world does not accept the message which is borne by the missionaries of this Church is because they are not willing to practice the principle of repentance. There seems to be a deep-seated feeling among people — I mean the higher class of people — that they have no need of repentance. And sometimes many of the Latter-day Saints appear to think similarly. The truth is, we all need repentance, day by day, in the common, ordinary walks of life. Repentance is a saving principle, and we will be saved through yielding obedience to that law. We are inspired to it through the faith we have in God our Eternal Father. Without repentance we cannot grow spiritually, we cannot advance. It is because we have to some degree repented and turned, away from evil practices and bettered our lives, that we can today point with pride to the condition of the Latter-day Saints as compared with other people in the world. Repentance is not simply a grieving and mourning over sin. It is something to influence us in every business transaction, in every dealing that we have, in every labor we perform. When we arise in the morning it  be with a determination that through our faith in the Lord we are going to live in obedience to His laws and commandments, that we are going to apply the principle of repentance by turning away from every evil deed; and if I deal with my brother, that dealing will be honest, and if I speak I will speak the truth. 

Some people have an idea that if we become so religious that we must take the Lord into consideration in everything we do we will become so holy and so good that nobody can speak to us. People say, "Oh, he is altogether too good," and he is referred to as "goodygoody" — as if it were possible for men to be too good. I recollect talking with a gentleman a short time ago, and he referred to a certain individual as being altogether too good. I asked him the question, Is it possible for a man to be too good ? Oh, yes, he said; and then he went on to describe a certain individual whom he knew, saying that he was altogether too good. He described a man who was somewhat fanatical, a sort of a bigot, a sanctimonious hypocrite, and called him "too good!" Why, that is not goodness at all. A man cannot be too good. Can a man be too honest ? No. Can a woman be too virtuous? No. Neither can anyone be too good. The trouble is, none of us are good enough. So we need to improve by a practice of that saving principle of repentance, that will eventually make us like our Heavenly Father. If we find that we are dealing in a way that our Father will not approve of, repent, because we are doing wrong; and never stop repenting until we can harmonize our con with the will of our Father in heaven. Repentance is a saving law. We all have weaknesses, and we may confess them freely; it is good to do so. But we must not glory in our weaknesses. We must not think it possible for us to walk too closely to the line. We should be ambitious to become better every day, by a practice of this principle. Our prayers to the Father are a practice in the principle of repentance. If we go before Him in the spirit of prayer, with broken hearts and contrite spirits, the spirit of repentance is with us. By practicing this principle we learn to know ourselves; we behold our weaknesses because we are trying to overcome them, and as we become conscious of them, and have a desire to overcome them, we grow stronger day by day. 

The kingdom of God has been likened to a city set upon a hill, whose light cannot be hid. Such will be and is the position of the Latter-day Saints today. They are as a city set upon a hill whose light cannot be hid. Never mind the calumny that goes abroad in the land, never mind what people think of us. I am not half so much concerned in what they may think of us as in what we must think of ourselves, and what is the truth in regard to our own condition. If we are living up to the laws and commandments of God, if we are dealing righteously one with another, if we are practicing the principles that the Lord has revealed, our light will shine, and the whole world will behold it. May the Lord help us to be always on the alert, always willing to improve, always full of the spirit of repentance, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
