16
Afternoon
06 04 1907
Authorities Sustained. 

President Joseph F. Smith presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, a£ Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney and David O. McKay. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the first presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Toseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., assistant historians. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR. 

Evan Stephens, Conductor and Manager; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball  Walter J. Poulton, Jr., Assistant Organists; Noel S. Pratt, Secretary; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Treasurer and Librarian, and all the members. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, Charles W. Nibley, August W. Carlson. 

All were sustained by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

The choir and congregation sang : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation, 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, 

Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption will come. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Jenson, and Conference adjourned till Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. Sunday, April 7th, 10 a. m. 

Amen.
