18
Morning
07 04 1907
Famine In China. 

President John R. Winder moved the adoption of the following resolution : 

"Whereas, The president of the United States has called national attention to the existence of the sore distress in China on account of famine, and 

"Whereas, The Lord has greatly blessed the Saints and all the interests of the Church, and, 

"Whereas, our Relief Societies have stored up grain against a time of need; now therefore, I move that the Trustee-in-Trust be, and is hereby authorized to appropriate and donate toward the relief of the poor in famine stricken China 20 tons of flour." 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to second the resolution offered by President Winder to this conference; and in doing so I desire to call attention to the fact that we are connected with an institution founded of God for the benefit of the whole world, and that it is an institution of world-wide sympathies; that it is an institution whose doctrines recognize the great truth that the children of men are also the children of God, and that all men are brethren. No calamity can fall upon any of our Father's children but what our hearts go out in sympathy to them. I trust also that this movement, which I believe will  unanimously endorsed by this conference, may bear witness to the wisdom that exists in our methods of collecting means for charitable and religious purposes. Thank God, there is an institution in the earth whose charities are constantly accumulating, that in the very moment of need there is a means of ministering unto the children of men — a circumstance that speaks loudly for the divine wisdom that has made these provisions in the Church of Christ. With all my heart I second the resolution of President Winder. 

The resolution was adopted by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

Brother Elihu Call rendered a tenor solo, entitled, "Save Me, O God." 

ELDER SYLVESTER a. CANNON. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being present at this conference this morning; and I have rejoiced exceedingly in the meetings which have already been held. I trust that the few moments I stand before you, my remarks may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord. As has been said by President Smith, I have been called to labor in the Netherlands mission. While I feel that there is a great work to be done here at home, I am happy in the opportunity of going abroad to again preach the Gospel in the nations of Holland and Belgium, because I can assure you that the mission I have already performed in those countries was the most enjoyable time of my life. I believe that no greater joy can come to any one than the joy experienced in the saving of human souls. Our Father has said that human souls are precious in His sight, and He has given a commandment to His Church that the Gospel shall be preached in all nations, and that every man, woman and ch.ild that is able to understand, shall have the opportunity of hearing the Gospel and receiving its blessings, if they believe the same and obey it. I rejoice in this call that has been made, because, as has been said here — more particularly in our priesthood meeting, — the people of those countries, Holland and Belgium, are a sturdy class, and those who are accepting the Gospel are among the best in those nations. They accept the Gospel because they understand the Bible. They have studied the Scriptures, and they are prepared, in very many instances, to receive the truth when the missionaries bring it to them. They seek to live according to the Gospel; they seek to obey its precepts, to live up to its requirements. I feel that they are a good people. I believe that those who have accepted the Gospel will be true, generally speaking, to the end of their lives. The missionaries who have labored in that field have been diligent in their labors. I do not know the present situation with regard to the needs of the mission, respecting elders, but I do know that every man who is prepared to go forth and labor diligently, and in humility, for the progress of this work will be welcomed in the Netherlands mission. I believe there is no more fruitful field anywhere in the world today than that mission. I rejoice in the prospect of the publication of the Doctrine and Covenants in that language, because the people have been longing for that record of revelations. At various times certain sections have been published, but the book  a whole has not been in their hands; and I feel that it will prove a great blessing, and a great benefit to the saints who have accepted the Gospel there, to have the privilege of reading and studying this important Church work. 

I rejoice in the prospects that are before us, my brethren and sisters. I desire to endorse and to sustain every action that has been taken at this conference thus far. I desire to sustain the Presidency of the Church and the Quorum of the Apostles, and every one of the general authorities. I realize that they are men of God, that they are indeed inspired; and that they enjoy the spirit of their calling, which will enable them, and which does enable them, to guide and direct the affairs of 'this Church in accordance with the will of our Father in heaven. I pray that we as a people may sustain them, that we may be prepared to accept the instructions we receive and to carry them out. For myself, I desire with all my heart to remain true to this work to the' end of my life. I desire not only to be true to it, but I desire to be active in its behalf, for the furtherance of the work and the fulfilment of the responsibilities which the Lord has placed upon us. May the Lord bless us, and may we carry with us, wherever we go, the spirit of this conference; may we seek to fulfill and carry out the instructions which have been given, or which may be given to us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
