19
Morning
07 04 1907
Elder William H. Smart. 

(President of Uintah Stake.) 

In speaking briefly, my brethren and sisters, of matters pertaining to the Stake over which I have been  to preside, I sincerely hope that I may be actuated by the spirit of truth — the spirit of this conference. It was, as I remember, last June when I was called to preside over the Uintah Stake of Zion, and in the month of August, having then been released from my labors in the Wasatch Stake, with my family I went immediately to Vernal, the headquarters of the Uintah Stake. The territory within the confines of the Uintah Indian Reservation, which had recently been thrown open for settlement, was placed within the organized Uintah Stake. The Uintah Stake proper had been organized twenty years. Brother Samuel R. Bennion, of Salt Lake County, was called as the first President of that Stake. Prior to that it was presided over by Jeremiah Hatch, as a presiding Elder, acting under the President of the Wasatch Stake, Abram Hatch. The Uintah Stake as it is now comprised is bordered on the east by Colorado, and on the west by the Wasatch Stake of Zion. It is in a general direct line between Salt Lake City and Denver. It holds an intermediate position between the country traversed by the Union Pacific railway and the Rio Grande railway, and consequently it bids fair to be pierced by another continental railroad in the near future, which will facilitate the growth and interests of that country, which I verily believe has a great future. Speaking in a general way, the Uintah basin is about 125 miles by 90 miles. It is of an oval shape. It is one of the best watered sections of the State of Utah. The main streams that flow into it are the Strawberry, Duchesne, Lake Fork, Uintah, Ashley, Green river, and White river, with their numerous tributaries. ' The soil has a  aspect; and one who goes from a grassy country will look upon it as a rather forbidding land; but, like the soil of many parts of Southern Utah, and other places in the West where the land seems to be sterile, when it is blessed by irrigation, it is exceedingly fertile. There were some very glowing statements made with reference to this land prior to the opening of the Uintah Indian Reservation, and they were sometimes somewhat overdrawn. A great many people rushed there expecting to see an Eldorado, an oasis, — well cultivated farms and orchards, the products of the Indians' labor under the tutelage of the government, and when they found that the country had to be made, many of them were dissatisfied and went away, not to return. Some of these people have scattered broadcast unfavorable statements concerning the land, and the impression has got out that there is so much mineral matter in the soil that it will continue sterile and barren. But upon the Uintah Indian Reservation territory last year there was some as fine cereals raised, as well as watermelons, potatoes and other vegetables, as I have ever looked upon. This is perhaps a strong statement, but I was myself exceedingly surprised to see the fine results of husbandry in this virgin soil the first year. I firmly believe that the prediction made by President Lyman, at the re-organization conference last June, will be fulfilled, wherein he stated that the time would come when that district would be looked upon as one of the most important parts of the State of Utah. I want to say to you brethren and sisters who are not satisfied where you are, who have not sufficient land, and not sufficient means to increase your acreage, and are looking for homes elsewhere, I do not know of a better place than the Uintah basin. I speak of this in truth. I thank God I have got the spirit of love for that country, since I am called to preside over it, but I thank Him too that my heart is not closed against other parts of His footstool. I feel in this matter very largely as that character into whose mouth the immortal Shakespeare put these words : "Not that I love Caesar less, but that I love Rome more." So I feel with reference to the Uintah basin — not that I love other lands less, but that I love the Uintah basin more. 

As to the people in that land who have assisted in the reclamation of the old Uintah Stake of Zion, I feel to speak of them in the highest praise. Brother Samuel R. Bennion is a man of sturdy qualities, conservative, well-balanced, economical, active in his labors, and he has taught the people there how to wrest from mother earth the necessaries of life, and then to hold them as sacred trusts, as their stewardships, under the hands of God. Under his guardianship and guiding hand the people are becoming thrifty and progressive. His counselors have ably assisted him in the work. I find that many of the people there are descendants of fathers and mothers from Utah and Salt Lake counties, and they are a very fine class of people. The majority seem to be progressing, vet among them we find some who have been indifferent in the lands from which they have come, and they continued indifferent. Some have even forsaken the faith of their fathers, but, perhaps you remember that at various times the Apostles and other missionaries "have gone into the Stake and held , and I am thankful to say, they have reaped a rich harvest; yea, I am glad to report that some of the most active workers in the Church there today have been reclaimed by the administrations of these men of God. 

There are three general ways to approach that land. One by means of the Rio Grande railroad as far as Heber, and thence east into the Uintah basin. Another by way of the Rio Grande railroad to Price, and thence by wagonroad. Another leaving the Rio Grande railroad at Mack, just over the dividing line between Utah and Colorado, taking there the Uintah railroad, a small branch that passes over the Book Cliff mountains, and enters the Uintah basin, having its terminus at Dragon. From there you take team conveyance, and it is one day's drive to Vernal. There are many people settling on that land who are not of the Latter-day Saints' faith, and I am pleased to state that, as a rule, our people and our brothers and sisters of other faiths, or of no faith, are dwelling in peace together. They are uniting in the building up of that country, and there is very little of that spirit which, I am sorry to say, we breathe to some extent when we come into the atmosphere of this city, the principal place of Zion. There is great credit due to the Uintah Railroad Company in building that little railroad from Mack to Dragon; and, while it was done largely from a commercial standpoint, yet some of those connected with it have felt an interest in that country from almost its early settlement, and they have a sentimental pride in seeing its development, as well as satisfaction in receiving a reasonable amount for the expenditure of their means. This railroad  over the Book Cliff range; you who have traversed it will remember that the descent is very precipitous, and that the railroad takes a serpentine course. There are some portions where you can see the railroad track curves seven or eight times. It shows the wonderful ingenuity and determination of this company in building that road. 

The Presidency and High Council of the Uintah Stake are united. All the wards are presided over by men of God. There are six wards and four branches, and others in embryo. Much of the territory of the old Uintah Reservation is comprised in one ward — the Duchesne  — and there are several branches under its protectorate. As the country grows it naturally will be divided up into more wards. Last winter there was excellent missionary work done in that Stake. There was a missionary committee of the High Council appointed, and they acted in connection with the Bishoprics of the wards, and had as assistants all of the home missionaries, the Stake Presidency, the High Council, and all the teachers in the various wards. They divided the work of the Stake among them. They went into each teachers' district and visited the homes of every family. In those visits there was a representation of the Stake authorities, of the Bishopric, and of the teachers of that district. They visited every home, regardless of the faith of the residents. After the teachers' district was finished, then they held a general district meeting, calling all the families of the saints together within that district. After this was done in all the teachers' districts in the respective wards, then there was a general meeting held, calling to all the people of the various districts. The brethren testified that they had never witnessed a greater outpouring of the Spirit of God; and through their efficient labors quite a number have become investigators. 

May God bless us, brethren and sisters, that we may continue endeavoring to do His work, spread the truth, reclaim the soil, and redeem ourselves through the blessings of the Gospel. I ask it, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
