2
Morning
05 04 1907
Address To The World. 

The Address referred to by President Smith in his concluding remarks was then read to the congregation, in a clear and impressive manner, by Elder Orson F. Whitney. 

The document in full is inserted as an appendix to this official report of the Conference proceedings. 

After the reading of the Address by Elder Whitney, President Francis M. Lyman made the following statement and motion : 

President Joseph F. Smith and my Brethren and Sisters — The council of the Twelve Apostles most heartily approve and endorse the princiDles and views in the address that has just been read. The tone of this document is admirable. It breathes a spirit of truth and moderation that will commend it to the judgment and approval of all reasonable men. As stated in the document itself, we desire peace; and as the first requisite to this is a proper understanding of the position the Church proposes to take with reference to the questions that have arisen in the recent past, it is very proper that a straight forward statement of the principles and policy by which the Church will  governed should be made. The address just read covers that ground in a very comprehensive manner; and the times are propitious for issuing it to the world. The storms that have beat upon us for so long have subsided. They have passed over us, thank the Lord, without doing us any material harm. We are laboring under no stress of feeling, and hence we are in the right frame of mind to adopt the address. 

I therefore move that, representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in general conference assembled, we do now adopt this document presented by the First Presidency, and that we accept it as an expression of the principles and policy of the Church that we will advocate and sustain. 

Elder John Henry Smith, in seconding the motion for the adoption of the Address, said: "Believing that the best interests of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are in connection with this matter, and the well-beine of the American people and the world at large, I most heartily second this proposition." 

President Smith called upon all who favored the adoption of the Address to arise to their feet. In response nearly every person in the congregation arose, thus manifesting their approval of the document. Before calling for the negative vote. President Smith stated that the sub ject was for the consideration only of Church members, and if any such present were not in sympathy with the contents of the paper read in their hearing, they also should arise. No one responded, and the motion was declared to have been carried unanimously. The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Do what is right, the day-dawn is breaking, 

Hailing a future of freedom and light; Angels above us are silent notes taking Of every action; do what is right. 

Conference was adjourned till 2 p. m. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 
Amen.
