20
Morning
07 04 1907
Elder George Teasdale. 

The re-establishment of the Church of Christ. — Fulfilment of ancient prophecies. — Testimony concerning personality of the Father and the Son. — A knowledge of God necessary to obtain eternal lit'e. — Unrighteous dominion cannot be exercised by the Priesthood. 

I am deeply grateful to God, my Eternal Father that I have the privilege of attending this glorious conference to hear "the glad tidings of great joy," and the good things that have been said in defense of the work of the Lord. I am thankful for the privilege of being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that it has pleased the Father to give me a testimony ccncerning the divinity of this work. For a great many years, I have been advocating the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. It is wonderful to me, that at my advanced age, I enjoy the measure of life and health that I do, and that I have been enabled to attend the meetings of this conference and to rejoice in the spirit and influence thereof. 

I know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Church of the Lamb. I know that God hears- and answers prayers; and it seems to me perfectly consistent that we should trust in the Lord. Viewing this immense congregation, looking upon the glorious sight it presents, I am impressed with this wonderful gathering of precious souls, the redeemed of the Lord who have accepted the principles of the Everlasting Gospel, and who have a living testimony, so that they know His will. As I say, sometimes, "We know what we know." We are perfectly certain, but we cannot always explain it. I know that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. Howdo I know it ? He taught the same principles that were taught by the Messiah and His apostles on the eastern continent; the same principles that were taught on this western continent, when the Lord Jesus Christ visited the ancient Nephites, when He revealed Himself unto them, and instructed them in His doctrines. And in these last days the Lord inspired His servant Joseph, and revealed His mind and will unto him concerning the organization of the Church of Christ upon the earth, with the same principles as taught anciently, and with the signs following the believers. It seems to me a very natural thing that God the Eternal Father should manifest Himself unto His servant Joseph Smith, then a boy, whom He had ordained from before the foundation of the earth to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I believe that ''Known unto God are all things from the beginning," and I believe that He knew everything concerning the establishment of His Church upon the earth in these last days. This Church has been properly organized, for the Lord Jesus Christ Himself organized it. He organized it  "apostles and prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers," "for the work of the ministry and for the edifying of the body of Christ." "Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular." In consequence of this organization, the inhabitants of the earth have the opportunity, if they desire it, to become the disciples of Jesus Christ. Joseph Smith was a disciple of Jesus Christ. Hyrum Smith, his brother and fellow martyr, was also a disciple of Jesus Christ. They manifested by their integrity the truth of the principles they advocated. 

This wonderful oragnization has been brought about in fulfilment of prophecy, — the coming of John the Baptist to restore the Aaronic priesthood; the coming of the prophet Moroni, bringing forth the Book of Mormon, containing the fulness of the everlasting Gospel; the coming of Peter, James, and John, restoring the keys of the holy apostleship and the sealing power, so that there might be a representative upon the earth, with authority to seal upon the earth and it should be sealed in the heavens. Also, the coming of Elijah to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the fathers to the children; and the voice of one crying in the wilderness: "Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low : and the crooked shall be made ' straight, and the rough places, plain : And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the rpouth of the Lord hath spoken it." "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that  warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned : for she hath received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins." We are on the eve of the fulfilment of these precious promises. . 

It had to be that there should be a testator upon the earth who knew that God was a personal being. The Apostle Paul said: "God, who at sundry times, and in divers manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by His Son, whom He hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also He made the worlds, Who being the brightness of His glory, and the express image of His person, and upholding all things by the word of His power, when He had by Himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high." From this we know that the Lord Jesus Christ was the express image of His Father's person, but this knowledge of God had been lost, and consequent ly it had to be restored, and in that restoration we have obtained the testimony that we declare. 

The Lord said that whoso would "do the will of the Father should know of the doctrine." Is this vast congregation deceived, and under the dominion of priestcraft? Can it be asserted that this concourse of intelligent people did not know what they were saying when they declared this morning, with united voice, that they knew that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; and that Joseph Smith was a true prophet sent of God ? How do we know it? By our experience, the signs following the believer, the testimony coming through obedience. The Lord promised us this knowledge and He has fulfilled His promise. Paul said he was not  of the Gospel of Christ, for it was "the power of God unto salvation," and "therein was the righteousness of God revealed, — from faith to faith." The Lord said that to know God and Jesus Christ, whom He hath sent, is eternal life. If we could not obtain this knowledge we certainly would come short of eternal life. It is a kindly dispensation that the Almighty has given unto us in the restoration of this knowledge by the spirit of revelation — that Spirit which revealed unto Peter that Jesus was the Christ. The Lord told Peter how it was brought about : "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona." What for? Because he said he knew that Jesus was the Christ, the son of the living God. How did he obtain that knowledge? By the spirit of revelation, the same Spirit that we have in this day. "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for -flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but My Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The gates of hell cannot prevail against the spirit of revelation. 

This knowledge comes to the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, through obeying the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. No matter what our circumstances, we may, if we desire, obtain the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, and the Holy Ghost imparts light and truth, illuminating our minds and impressing us so that we are enabled to understand, by having "eyes to see and ears to hear," and the understanding heart. This the Latterday Saints claim to have; and I know they have it, for I have had years of experience, — longer than ever I anticipated, having passed my 75th year — having advocated these principles ever since 1852. I know they are true. But this knowledge does not inspire me with the spirit of contention. I do not contend with anybody to try to impress upon them what I believe or know. The Lord said to the Nephites that contention was not of Him. but was of the devil. I notice that the Latter-day Saints who love the principles of eternal life, are cheerful, happy, and satisfied; they have a living testimony. I notice, on the other hand, that people who do not have that testimony, who do not have the fellowship of the Spirit of Gpd, are dissatisfied and contentious. The Apostle Paul has given us a rule whereby we may judge these things. He said: "For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this : Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. This I say then. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh : and these are contrary the one to the other : so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these : Adultery, fornication, uncleanness. lasciviousness,. idolatry, withchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like : of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in the time past,  they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in. the Spirit." That is how I understand it. That is the difference manifest between the two spirits. There is the spirit of hatred, the spirit of contention, falsifying, lying, slandering, and all manner of unrighteousness. Do the leading men of the Church— the First Presidency and Apostles — manifest this disposition? No. They are men of God, men of longsuffering, who love the Lord Jesus Christ and would not do anything to grieve His Holy Spirit, if they knew it. We are united in preaching the Everlasting Gospel. We find no fault with anybody else; it takes us all our time to advocate the truth. 

I am thankful that I have the privilege of standing before you, my beloved fellow-laborers — you presidents of stakes, and counselors, and high-councilors, who aid us by your faith, prayers, and loyalty. It is impossible to express the affection we have for you. Having passed from death unto life, we know that we love the brethren, as the Apostle John expresses it. You know that we love you, and you know that we do not presume to exercise any unrighteous dominion, or anything of the kind, but that we are striving for the furtherance of the purposes of the Almighty in the establishment of His righteousness upon the earth. 

I thank you, as a member of the Council of the Apostles, for your  and prayers. You see me today in the enjoyment of health. About twelve months ago I was not in that condition. I passed through the narrows, but my life was preserved. I have needed your faith and prayers, and I am thankful unto you that I have had them, for the Lord has healed me, and He has prolonged my life upon the earth, in answer to your prayers. I am grateful that you have sustained me. I feel my Own unworthiness, and I would not dare to exercise any unrighteous dominion, or go to any foolish extreme to have my own ways or notions carried out. 

I know that the First Presidency, and the brethren of the Twelve, are men of God. I bear this testimony, that the Church of Christ is established upon the earth by the power of God; that we hold the Everlasting Priesthood; that we have authority to call the sinner to repent* ance, to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins, and through the laying on of hands that they may receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. We have the privilege of advocating the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ, and administering in His holy sacrament. I am thankful that I have the opportunity of declaring these precious truths at this wonderful conference. Seventy-seven years ago, the Church of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth. Think of it. Think of the inspiring meetings that have been held here. All glory to God the Eternal Father, who by His power and might has brought about this wonderful gathering, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
