22
Overflow
07 04 1907
Eldee William W. Riter. 

I was pleased to notice during our devotional exercises this morn ing that nearly every one present was singing, either audibly or else their lips were moving in harmony with the hymn. I know of no better standard by which to judge of the feelings of a congregation than  the method in which they sing the familiar hymns of the Church; from this I conclude that the congregation that is now before me is in spirit and sympathy with the great work of human salvation in which we are all interested. 

I have been very much interested in the remarks of the brethren in regard to the missions over which they have the pleasure and the honor to preside. I was somewhat interested in the remarks of Brother Pratt, for the reason that they tallied and fitted so exactly with some of my early experiences in the missionary field; but I was glad to know that the exceptions he noted were only exceptions, and that, as a rule, the elders of the Church lead very exemplary lives. As I have traveled out in the world, as I frequently do, on business and otherwise, wherever I have gone where there have been elders or members of the Church, I have usually met them; and my experience is, and to this I think I can truthfully testify, that there is a great improvement in their behavior and a great improvement and advancement in their intelligence. I can remember when I was first called on a foreign mission, that there were among us forty-eight young men, mostly boys you might call them, and there was not one in the forty-eight that could speak the English language correctly. This is all changed now, thanks to our magnificent school system, thanks to the schools that are fostered by the Church, and thanks to the great prosperity that the Lord has brought upon us. The change is so great in this direction, that I have found many of our elders the peers in the pulpit of any men that I ever heard. My experience has covered a considerable range, and these things are gratifying to me. Perhaps the best school that we could be educated in is the school of experience, and the best method of conveying information is by stating the opposite of a question. 

Now we all understand, when we stop to think of it, that the work of the Latter-day Saints, the mission of Joseph Smith, is to bring salvation to the world, not only to those who are living, and who can hear it in this life, but our mission is to bring salvation to the human race, whether dead or alive. This is a larger problem than a great many of us think it is. We are greatly engrossed by the affairs of life, and I think it is only now and then that we have time to turn our minds to, and con over the great mission whereunto we are called. As an item of importance in this connection, I call your attention to this fact, and I would premise, it by saying (excuse the apparent egotism) that I, perhaps as much as any one, have kept my eyes on the religious conditions of the world. I read the religious tracts of the day, showing: and exemplifying the religious condition of the people. Of course when I say people, I mean the Christian people of the earth; as yet we have had very little to do with those of heathen lands. I discover this, that as the years go by there is a lessening and a relaxation in the minds of the people at large in regard to their conceptions of religious matters. Especially is this true in regard to their thought regarding the existence of a Deity. The old time faith, such as was once had amongst the people — I mean the people at large — the old  and simple faith that once animated a great many good people, seems to be passing away; and the conception of God is becoming more hazy as the years roll by. Their ideas concerning Him are becoming more shadowy, until the condition is realized that in some of what we call Christian nations any distinct comprehension of a deity has well nigh vanished. There is one nation in Europe, one of the most learned nations, I presume, upon the face of the earth, where the idea of a God, that is, any active idea of Him in the minds of the masses of the people, has well nigh vanished. Of course you can readily guess to which nation I refer; and I will also mention its neighboring nation, that of Germany. I saw it stated here recently, in one of the papers, that only four per cent of the people in country sections were to be found in church on Sunday, and only two per cent were to be found in church in the cities. Now, ever since the days of the Prophet Joseph, the ideas of religion, and of man's connection and relationship to God, are becoming relaxed ,and I do not know how soon it will be before the time comes when the knowledge of God, or at least, faith in the great God that created the heavens and the earth, will become only a dark and shadowy memory. It was the great mission of the Israelites, the children of Abraham, throughout all their generations, though apostate as they sometimes were, and far removed from the true path sometimes, to preserve the knowledge of God uoon the earth. I know it has been frequently a matter of wonder "What good is the Jew?" Why, if the Jew did nothing else but preserve the knowl of God upon the earth, he performed a great mission, for throughout all those generations in which he lived, the knowledge of God would have completely perished from the earth except for them, and the world would have had in the place thereof only gods of "sticks and stones." 

Now, my brothers and sisters, if we as Latter-day Saints had no other mission in the world than to preserve a knowledge of God upon the earth, that of itself is a great mission. If we had no other calling than to preserve simple faith in the providences of God, that of itself is a great calling. But fortunately it extends much further than this. Our mission, as I have already referred to, covers the welfare of the whole human family, in all ages of the world; and I believe that if the Latter-day Saints could properly look at this subject, they would regard themselves with considerable pride as the upholders of the true faith and preservers of the knowledge of God on the earth. 

I have been greatly pleased with the spirit of this conference. I am convinced of this fact, which is, never since the church was organized was there as general good feeling amongst the Latter-day Saints, as general a feeling of unanimity, and as little fault-finding, and as little cause for fault-finding as at the present time. It may not be amiss for me to state a few reasons for these conclusions. During the existence of the old Salt Lake Stake, which is now divided into several stakes, it became one of my duties to be an auditor of the accounts of the different wards in the stake. In this labor I had occasion to go over the list of tithepayers, and those who made donations to  Relief Society and to other charities amongst the Latter-day Saints; and I have been surprised to see with what generality, and I might say, generosity, the people have paid their tithes and offerings. In looking over the names of people in some of the wards with which I was most familiar, I have frequently asked the Bishop, How can so-and-so pay any tithes and offerings, knowing their poverty? It is surprising that, sometimes, people in the most humble circumstances of life, whom I have known and knew that their earnings were but little, that the amount of their donations and charities were surprisingly large, and that this occurs generally. Then, since the division of the stake, it has fallen to my lot for two years past, to be one of the auditors of the accounts of the general organization of the Church; and I think I may perhaps, without violating any confidence whatever, say that the conditions in which we have found things are gratifying almost beyond measure. I believe that there is not a person present in this congregation, or any congregation of the Saints, to whom, if they could see the generosity with which the people respond to these calls, and then see the wisdom and the judgment with which their moneys and their donations, are disbursed, it would not be a source of gratification. The people, I believe, as never before, are paying their tithes and offerings and living up to the requirements of their faith. 

There is one thing that struck me with extreme gratification, and that is the generous help that the general authorities of the Church have extended to our educational institutions. We have amongst us a number of colleges and academies, and I think the day will soon pass away when men will have to speak, in any degree of complaint of the quality of the missionaries that are sent out into the field. The cause of education is close and dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, their children are becoming educated, and it is only a question of time when the old reproach that used to be thrown at us, that the Latterday Saints were ignorant, will pass away. Strange as it may appear, there was a statement in one of the New York papers some months ago complaining that the elders of the Latter-day Saints sent out into the world were educated men, and in consequence of that they were the more dangerous. It is only a question of time when that complaint will be general, and the missionaries that go out into the field will be men of culture and education, for the reason that there will be none at home, none from among whom they have come that are otherwise. We have great cause for congratulation, mjy brothers and sisters. Let us persevere, and let us have hope for the future. The future never looked as bright as it dees today for the great cause of human salvation. May God help us in this cause always, is my paryer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
