30
Second Overflow
07 04 1907
Elder Wm. T. Jack. 

Elder George Albert Smith introduced William T. Jack of the Cassia, Idaho, stake. Elder Jack was much pleased with the conference and the excellent spirit which prevailed. From the crowds of people thronging the space, unable to gain admittance to the meetings in the buildings, it is evident that Zion is growing. He rejoiced in the possession of a testimony of the truth of the Gospel which he had received through the Holy Spirit. This is the privilege of all who have embraced the Gospel, and carried out the teachings of the same. The speaker testified of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and said his work was the beginning of a marvelous work in the latter days. There is no fear regarding this work, nor for those who abide by the principles of the Gospel, for it will lead them to eternal life. 

ELDER F. S. BRAMWELL. 

President F. S. Bramwell of the Union, Oregon, stake, was the next speaker. "I am reminded very forcibly, on this occasion of the vision seen by the ancient prophets, when 105  said that in the last days the house of the Lord should be built in the tops of the mountains and that all nations should flow unto it." The fulfillment of that prophecy is here and now, for Israel has gathered here from all nations. Whenever the people of the world become converted to the Gospel the spirit of gathering: comes upon them at once, and in following; the promptings of this spirit they come to Zion. When we look to the Temple on our right, we behold one of the works of Mormonism; when we gather to praise the Lord we have the witness of the Spirit, and we sing and praise God with the knowledge in our souls that the Gospel is true and that God lives." 

ELDEE GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Elder G. F. Richards said he had cause to be exceeding joyful in the manifestations of the goodness of God to him, and for the testimony of the truth of the work which he possessed. "I rejoice in my testimony of the truth of the mission of Joseph Smith, and it is the privilege of every man to obtain the same testimony. The Lord approves those who acknowledge their testimony under any and all obstacles, and show by their lives that they acknowledge God, for we are in His image and have attributes that may assist us to attain perfection." 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

ELDER NEPHI U. S. C. JENSEN. 

Elder Jensen also expressed himself as much pleased with the soirit of the outdoor gathering, and with the practical workings of Mormon. There is nothing that attracts the people so much as the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every Latter-day Saint can give an answer to the question, "Do you know that Jesus Christ lives ?" They do not hesitate; they do not stop to explain; with all the fervor in them they answer, "Yes, I know that Christ lives, and that He is the Redeemer of the world." Let us be charitable and forgiving. The genius of the Gospel of Christ was expressed in Christ's words to the Magdalene, when her accusers had fled, "Go thy way and sin no more." It is not that you have sinned; but it is that you sin no more, that will save your soul. 

ELDER RTJLON S. WELLS. 

Elder Rulon S. Wells said in part : "To me there is ample evidence that this is the work of the Lord. The impress of divinity is upon it. Surely the Lord has wrought a marvelous work and a wonder since He revealed to the boy prophet the fulness of the everlasting Gospel. The angel seen by John on the Isle of Patmos has flown through the midst of heaven with the everlasting Gospel, and all who will may obey it and receive a salvation. The great obstacle in the way of the world is that they will not turn away from their evil ways. If they would do so and repent, they would become susceptible to the truth. The speaker bore a strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel. 

ELDER GEORGE S. YOUNG. 

Elder George S. Young, of the presidency of the Teton stake, made a brief address in which he expressed his pleasure in meeting with GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Saints here, and added his testimony regarding the truth of the Gospel. 

ELDER JAMES G. DTJFFIN. 

Elder James G. Duffin said that during the seven years of his incumbency of the presidency of the Central States mission, in receiving and releasing more than 600 missionaries, he had not had occasion to release a single elder for misconduct or sin. The manv attempts to defile Zion had proven fruitless, and the good old doctrines taught the young men and young women by their mothers at home had saved them in their hour of trial, and he thanked God for such young men and women, such mothers and such a Gospel. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

closed with a few appropriate remarks, commending the patience of the large crowd, and bearing testimony to the truth of what had been said. 

The congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," and benediction was offered by Elder Henry D. Wallace. 

Closing Session. 

Amen.
