5
Afternoon
05 04 1907
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 

General unanimity of the Priesthood and members of the Church. — Vain following of fashion censured. — The Saints "a menace" to crime. — Warning against the skating rink craze, and excess in amusements. 

My brothers and sisters, there is nothing gives me more happiness than the knowledge that the Latterday Saints are progressive and prosperous, both spiritually and temporally. I am exceedingly well pleased at the large attendance upon this conference, and with the addresses that have already been delivered. I rejoice in the opening statement of President Smith concerning the condition of the Church, because I myself know that statement to be the truth. My experience in traveling throughout the lands where the Saints are gathered confirms the truth of his remarks, and proves to me that they are conservative and just. I rejoice in the general faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints, in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The counsel and advice that was given to the Presidents of Stakes, the Bishops of Wards, the Presidents of Quorums and other leading brethren, that they be united and see eye to eye, is veritably complied with by those authorities, with few exceptions. Not only is this the case with the authorities of the Church throughout Zion, but it is the case with the Latter-day Saints universally; as to the Gospel of Jesus Christ they see eye to eye. The fundamental principles and  of the Church are understood alike by all its members. They all understand faith to be the first principle, and you will not hear any one declaring that some other principle i's first. They also see eye to eye in relation to repentance, the second principle in the Gospel. The same as to baptism, the manner and purpose of it, and the condition that the individual should be in at the time of baptism, are all understood perfectly, and there is no schism in the Church in relation to this ordinance. There is not more than one plan, there is only one way, and that is, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, being buried in water, and being brought forth out of the water into newness of life. As to the reception of the Holy Ghost, there is no difference of opinion among the Saints. That He can be received only by the laying on of hands of one having authority is a doctrine of truth revealed anew in this dispensation through Joseph Smith. It was a doctrine promulgated by Christ and practiced by Him and His Apostles in primitive times. And thus have we all received the testimony of the Spirit, and He has borne record unto us that these are the doctrines and principles of the Gospel of Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and which we all understand alike. Is it not an evidence, if we do comprehend them alike, that we possess the same Spirit, which has given us the same testimony and revealed to us the same truths? In relation to tithing, it has already been said that the Saints are faithful in observing this law, and there is no misundertanding in relation to it. 

As to the Word of Wisdonj, I believe many of the Latter-day Saints  in a measure to observe that law. I do not know that any of them fail to understand it. Those who do not keep the Word of Wisdom will admit that they do wrong. If those who neglect to observe that law could but develop within them the power which cometh of repentance and righteous desire, and resist the temptation, it would be better for them and their children, and for the Church at large. 

There are other follies that find place among us and that are indulged in to some extent despite the general faithfulness and integrity of the Saints. Brother McKay suegested to the sisters the hope that they would not become vain after the manner and fashion of the world. I endorse his remarks on this subject. I will go further than that and apply the same reflection to the men; for, so far as I have observed, the men are as liable to be vain as the women. As to their clothes, and other things, they are as punctilious and as anxious to observe the fashions as are the women. They want the latest cut of trousers, coats, and vests, tV>~ newest style of hats, the latest shoes and so on. So that we may as well apply the plaster to cover the whole wound, because men also are inclined in this direction. I believe in being moderate in these things, that it may not be said of us as it was said by a prophet in former times, that all is vanity under the sun. We find a little of it now and again, of course. Let us clothe ourselves becomingly and neatly, even richly if we can afford it, without catering to the fashions and ways of the world. 

Brethren and sisters, we who have supported this declaration of principles which has been read will, I hope, live according to its precepts; that our lives will conform to the truth; that we will desire to know the truth, and knowing it, seek power from the Lord to live according to it; that we will not yield to the temptations and evils that beset us, and that would lead us astray. Many of these evils and temptations are now in our midst. The Latter-day Saints are frequently called by our enemies a menace to good government, to good order, to law, etc., which we deny. If the Latter-day Saints are a menace at all, they are a menace to sin and vice of all kinds, to error, to falsehood, to outlawry, and anarchy, and all such. We are opposed to these things, nevertheless some of these unwelcome evils creep in stealthily among us. Saloons are a menace which, if we had our way, would be absolutely, abolished from among the people. They are the greatest destroyers of the home, American and others, and I am sorry that there are men of intelligence who do not so regard the saloons. The Sunday theaters and amusements are a menace to the morals and welfare of the people, both young and old. So far as I am concerned, I disapprove most emphatically of all such things on the Sabbath day, and I disapprove of some species of amusements on week days as well; I believe they are evil, and their influence is bad. Skating rinks are a menace, and at the present time the desire to frequent them is a craze. They are being introduced in certain Stakes of Zion, and the young people are going wild over this pastime, which they carrv to excess. As a result of enthusiasm in relation to this so-called pleasure we mark the downfall of far too many  men and young women. I disapprove of these and other places of amusement where young people are thrown promiscuously into the society of the wicked, who care neither for God nor man, for virture nor decency. To allow pure girls and virtuous boys to mingle in the society of men and women who are steeped in sin is little short of a crime on the part of parents and guardians of the young. To the extent that these things are carried to excess and are not governed properly I disapprove of them, both Sunday and week days. I warn the Latter-day Saints against them They ought to warn their children against them, and keep them away from Sunday theatres, from Sunday dance-halls, from skating rinks and other like resorts. If they attend such places on week days, thev should be accompanied by their parents, or by responsible people who can keep them from being led astray and from falling into sin. I look upon these resorts as dangerous. If we value the innocence, virtue, and purity of our youth, then we should see to it that their innocence, virtue and purity is guarded, that our children are kept away from contaminating influences, and that such influences are kept away from them, just as far as lies in our power. 

Wherever the Saints are assembled in the land we find a goodlv degree of faithfulness. They are observing the laws of the Gospel, they are prayerful, but it would be well if they were more so. Wherever there is room for improvement, I hope we will take advantage of the opportunities within our reach to make anv needed reformation. 

May* God bless vou, guard you  evil and give you the power to guard from evil those entrusted to your care. May He give to the Priesthood wisdom and foresight to warn the Saints of evil and sin, and to instruct them in the ways of righteousness; and may He put int j the hearts of the people the love of the Holy Priesthood, and willingness to listen to good counsel and follow it. In the history of the Church the Saints have never gone wrong, not in one instance, when they have followed the advice of the Holy Priesthood; neither will they ever go wrong in following that advice, because it cometh of God, through the proper channel, and must lead the people aright and eventually into the presence of the Father, being justified by a righteous life. The Lord bless vou. May He bless our brethren who shall speak, bless the interests of Zion and the honest in heart everywhere. May those upon whom responsibility is placed, feel their responsibility and acquit themselves as true servants of the Lord, to the uplifting of their fellow-men to a higher plane of righteousness, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
