7
Morning
06 04 1907
President John R. Winder. 

Endorsement of Address to the World, and President Smith's statements. — Fruits of "Mormonism." — Encouraging condition in the Church, at home and abroad. — Gratitude for many blessings. 

I feel very thankful, this morning, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has lengthened out my days and permitted me once more to meet with you in general conference. I wish to join with our President in extending heartfelt greetings to you, my brethren and sisters; and congratulate you on the blessings and privileges, and all good things we are enjoying at the present time. I feel very thankful that the Lord has been so merciful and kind to me personally, that he has lengthened out my days sixteen years beyond the limit that is  to man — three score and ten. You will agree with me when I say that I have much cause to be thankful to the Lord, for His mercies and blessings and preserving care. 

It is needless for me to say to you that I endorse the sentiments expressed in the document that was read to us yesterday morning. I wish to add that I also endorse all of the sentiments that were spoken by our President in his opening address to us. I am heartily in accord with everything he said in relation to the condition of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In this connection, I was reminded of an expression that was used by President Taylor, when he published a newspaper in New York, many years ago, that "It is better for us to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others." 

Those of you who were present at the concert in this Tabernacle last evening, I think will join with me when I say : What a beautiful exhibition we had here! Five or six hundred children on this stand singing the beautiful songs of Zion! I thought of the saying of the Savior : "Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?" Then, as I gazed uoon these children, I thought: These are fruits of "Mormonism." Did you ever see a finer lot of children grouped together than you saw here last evening on this stand? I never did. It was inspiring to listen to their trained and beautiful voices. Again, as I thought of the fruits of "Mormonism" which are presented here, gathered from the na of the earth; thousands of individuals who have obeyed the Gospel of Jesus Christ and have come to Zion. 

I congratulate my brethren and sisters on the success that is attending your efforts here at home, as well as the brethren of the- priesthood who are scattered abroad in the nations of the earth engaged in missionary labors. It is encouraging to hear and to know that progress is being made everywhere. Wherever our elders are laboring, much good is being done, and the work at home is also progressing and thriving. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be enabled to join with you in the events that are transpiring around us. I hope, if it be the Lord's will, that He will extend my days a little longer, that I may continue to rejoice with you in seeing the work of the Lord progress in the earth. 

God bless our President. I feel in my heart to sustain and stand by him; and I am thankful to him for the many blessings that he has extended towards me, and for the courtesies and kindnesses I have received and still receive from his hands; and I thank you all, my brethren and sisters. I often wonder why it is that I am receiving so many courtesies and kindnesses from my brethren of the Apostles, and from all the Latter-day Saints I may say. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may continue to be poured out upon us. Help me O Lord, I pray Thee, to be faithful and true the remainder of my days, that, when I have finished my work, I may receive salvation in Thy kingdom, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
