9
Morning
06 04 1907
Elder Rudger Clawson. 

Unusual musical talent among the Latter-day Saints. — Character of community indicated by their popular songs. — Sublime themes of hymns sung by Latter-day Saints. 

Brethren and sisters : The Latter-day Saints are not only studious, thoughtful, and reverent, but they are also a musical people. In evidence of this, like my brother who has just preceded me, I point to this great organ, which is an outward symbol that speaks in tones of eloquence of our love of music. I point to the congregational hymns of praise that ascend during these conference times from the Tabernacle of the Lord, the influence of which I am sure must penetrate into the heavens. I point to the Tabernacle Choir, which, under the capable leadershio of Brother Evan Stephens as conductor, and Brother John J. McClellan as organist, have accomplished great achievements within our knowledge. I point to the numerous choirs in the 700 wards of the Church, some of which have greatly distinguished themselves. The members of the Tabernacle Choir, especially, in concert and upon the Sabbath day. and also at the general Conference, have captivated and charmed the Latter-day Saints by their splendid work; and you will remember that the Tabernacle Choir appeared in competition with other choirs before the nations of the earth, at the World's Fair. While they did not receive the first prize, yet in the estimation of very many people, strangers as well as friends, they were entitled to it; but our Choir did win the second prize, and surely that was sufficient honor to satisfy the most ambitious of choirs or choir-leaders, and will give them influence and prestige that will attach to them to the latest generation. It seemed that the world could not concede the first prize to the "Mormon" singers, and consequently there was a great combination effected, consisting of the very best and choicest choral singers of Wales and the United States, to defeat this purpose, which was  very proper, I suppose, but we feel highly honored in the victory won by the Choir. 

I want to say to you that I believe we are most profoundly influenced by the songs which we sing. Some writer has said, in substance, that if you will show me the songs which a people or a community sing, then I will tell you the character of that community. There is much truth in this statement. I hold before you a book which is entitled : "Sacred Hymns and Spiritual Songs," for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints," and I declare that this is one of the most remarkable books in the literature of the Latter-day Saints. It comprises 460 hymns, about seventy of which treat upon five great and important themes, and they are as familiar to the Latter-day Saints as the A B Cs. The themes to which I allude are as follows : 

Jesus Christ, the Lord; Joseph Smith, His prophet; the Book of Mormon; the founding of Zion; and the Millennium. 

Jesus, the Christ. We believe that He was and is the Son of the living God — not in some mysterious, unaccountable way, but naturally. We believe that we are the children of God, and that Jesus is our elder brother; and we are confirmed in this belief, because the Father and the Son appeared to the youthful prophet, Joseph Smith, and the Father said : "This is my beloved Son; hear Him." Surely, we should sing of the Lord. You will find in the hymn book eleven great hymns treating upon His life and labors, His suffering, and death, and his resurrection. Let me call you attention to them only to remind you how familiar the Latterday Saints are with these beautiful  of praise. The first two lines of each are as follows : 

"Jesus, once of humble birth, Now in glory comes to earth." 

"Come, O Thou King of kings, We've waited long for Thee." 

"Redeemer of Israel, Our only delight." 

"A poor wayfaring man of grief, Hath often crossed me on the way." 

"Glory to God on high, Let heaven and earth reply." 

"Arise, my soul, arise, Shake off thy guilty fears." 

"He died! the Great Redeemer died, And Israel's daughters wept around." 

"I know that my Redeemer lives; What comfort this sweet sentence gives!" 

"Behold the great Redeemer comes To bring His ransomed people home." 

"Behold the great Redeemer die, A broken law to satisfy." 

"How great the wisdom and the love That filled the courts on high." 

The Lord never works in a direct way, by revelation, or word of mouth, among the people of the earth, except He has a prophet, a man who holds the keys of authority to officiate in the ordinances of the Gospel, who possesses the sealing power, to seal on earth and it shall be sealed in the heavens, to loose on earth and it shall be loosed in the heavens, to remit sin on earth and it is remitted in the heavens. Such a prophet was Joseph Smith, and he stands at the head of this great, last dispensation. Surely in our songs of praise and thanksgiving we shall soeak of the murdered prophet, the man who, with his brother, laid down his life for  testimony of Jesus, and for the founding and establishing of this great work. You will find in the hymn book six notable songs that refer to the Prophet and which are perfectly familiar to the Latter-day Saints, and are sung upon frequent occasions : 

"Our God, we raise to Thee, Thanks for Thy blessings free." 

"Come listen to a prophet's voice And hear the word of God." 

"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet To guide us in these latter days." 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah, 

Jesus anointed that 'Prophet and Seer.' " 

"The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer, I'll sing of the prophet ever dear." 

"O give me back my Prophet dear, And Patriarch, O give them back," 

I have sometimes thought that the fame of Isaiah, the prophet, rests largely upon his predictions concerning the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and those relating to Zion. In speaking of this remarkable book, the ancient prophet says that "It whispers from the dust," whispers of a people long extinct, and "The truth springs from the earth." Is it not so? This wonderful book embraces the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel. It harmonizes in principle and doctrine with the Holy Bible, and instead of weakening strengthens it, and certifies to the glorious truths set forth therein. Surely we will sing of the Book of Mormon. You will find in this hymn book five splendid songs respecting the Book of Mormon, the first lines of which are as follows : "What was witnessed in the heavens? Why, an angel, earthward bound." 

"Hark! ye mortals. Hist! be still. Voices from Cumorah's hill." 

"An angel from on high 

The long, long silence broke." 

"The happy day has rolled on, 

The truth restored is now made known." 

"Go, ye messengers of glory; Run, ye legates of the skies." 

Great and glorious were the predictions of Isaiah, concerning the founding of Zion. In one place he says : "And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say : Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." And in another place the prophet says: "Fear not, for I am with thee. I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather them from the West; and I will say to the North: Give up, and to the South : Keep not back; and I will bring your sons from afar, and your daughters from the ends of the earth, even all who bear the name of the Lord." O, what a glorious theme is this, Zion of the latter-days! Shall we not celebrate such a great subject -in praise, and in thanksgiving? It is done. You will find in the hymn book 26 inspired songs respecting Zion, too many to be read upon this occasion, but I will name a few that are most prominent among them. These are familiar to us all, and  immortalize the writers who penned them under the inspiration of the Almighty : 

"The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled." 

I hardly need to go further, this is a text in itself. 

"Glorious things of thee are spoken, Zion, city of our God." 

"On the mountain's top appearing, Lo, the sacred herald stands." 

"Zion stands with hills surrounded— Zion, kept by power divine." 

"Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor 

labor fear, But with joy wend your way." 

"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth." 

"O, ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky 

Arches over the vales of the free." 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us refer for a moment to the fifth great theme. We are passing through trying times which are testing the souls of men. There are thunderings and lightnings, and vapors of smoke, and earthquakes, and the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds. There is commotion in the midst of the nations, and men's hearts are failing them for fear. These things will all pass away. Latter-day Saints! Hold on to the faith; be firm; be patient; be steadfast; be true to the cause; be true to Zion. 

Surely we will sing of the great Millennium. You will find herein five songs which emphasize in a very striking manner the opening of a thousand years of peace and rest : 

"Softly beams the sacred dawning Of the great Millennial morn." 

"Come let us anew our journey pursue, Roll round with the year." 

"Let us pray, gladly pray, In the house of Jehovah." 

"Now let us rejoice in 'the day of salvation, 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam." 

"Sons of Michael, He approaches! Rise, the Eternal Father greet." 

And the glorious hymn that was sung this morning : 

"Though deep'ning trials throng your way, 

Press on, press on, ye Saints of God!" 

And there are some miscellaneous songs in the hymn book which are worthy of mention, and worthy of our profound consideration. They set forth some of the most glorious truths that have been given to the Latter-day Saints. Let me remind you of : 

"O my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place." 

"God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform." 

"Should you feel inclined to censure, Faults you may in others view." 

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Unuttered or expressed." 

"School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm impulsive soul." 

"Do what is right; let the consequence follow." 

"O say, what is Truth?" 

And last but not least : 

"My country, 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I sing." 

It seems to me — to use a strong expression — that the atmosphere of our mountain home is charged and surcharged with the spirit of melody. Is it any wonder that the great prophet of former times should proclaim: "For the Lord shall comfort Zion; He will comfort all her waste places; and He will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody." 

May the Lord bless us. May His peace be upon the congregations of Isarel. May His choicest blessings rest upon our President and his counselors. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
