Overflow
07 04 1907


ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

Brothers and sisters, I approach this duty with much misgiving, because I am not accustomed to preaching to large congregations. I hope that the same Spirit that has been in the former meetings of this conference may rest upon this congregation, and inspire those who shall address us this morning. Our brethren can speak impressively when the inspiration and power of God is upon them, and their words are then profitable to those who hear; therefore, I pray that you will bless the brethren by petitioning the Lord that their words may be inspired, and all of us be fed with the bread of life. The object of my particular thoughts and affection is the Northwestern States Mission, with its elders and scattered Saints, and a little more than two million inhabitants. I love Zion, with its temples, tabernacles, institutions of learning, and its people, of course, above all things in the earth; but my time is occupied in the missionary field, and a man speaks generally of that which he is accustomed to do, in which his heart is interested. 

We have about thirty-eight of the sons of this peonle. from Idaho and Utah, in my mission, and there has not been a man in it for five years, with perhaps two exceptions that come to my mind, but who has faithfully obeyed the Word of Wisdom. A few have come to me and expressed regret that they had not been oroperly taught to oray in the family circle; because their father had done most of the praying. Some of these young brethren really made their first effort to learn to pray when we called upon them to kneel with us at headquarters, when they joined the mission. As a rule, they become devout, and make splendid missionaries. We had one in our corps who was a remarkable example of what may be overcome by determination and the aid of the Spirit of the Lord. He said to me on one occasion : 'Brother Pratt, before I came on this mission I was addicted to the use of spirituous , and tobacco, and was a cigarette fiend. I was also inclined to profanity, and I have had a fight to wage with myself that few elders that come into the mission field have ever had. But I smoked my last cigarette after I accepted the call, and have never smoked since; I have never since taken a glass of liquor of any kind, and I have kept the Word of Wisdom strictly. I rejoice to say that this young man made a splendid missionary. He came home and doubtless will be a shining light. His father and mother were able to look into the eyes of a virtuous young man who had truly repented, and found the Lord. I have no doubt he will be a good son, a good husband, and a good father, if the Lord blesses him with children. This is what a mission is doing occasionally for wayward sons of this people. There are none among my elders that have defiled themselves with sin. 

My field is open to the sons of this people, because God appoints them. I want you to know that however your sons come to me, my heart is open to receive them, because the Spirit of the Lord makes me feel thus toward them. But O ye Saints, see to it that your sons are prepared to come virtuous, honorable and noble examples of righteous training. 

Now, brethren and sisters, one word about the schools in Zion. where the boys are receiving an education. I have seen the benefit to the elders who have studied in the Church schools on the line of missionary work. If your means are sufficient, and you can give your sons who are expected to take missions a training in the Church schools, you should do so, that they may come to the mission field somewhat , comprehending the first principles of the Gospel, and able to pray. Furthermore, let your boys and girls be trained to sing the hymns of Zion. If I could get some more good singers up in my country I would be much pleased. 

Brethren and sisters, I bless you, as one who loves God, and with a heart full of thanksgiving for this great conference, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it affords me much pleasure to have the privilege of attending conference, and being able to meet you here in Salt Lake City this spring. I have listened with much interest to the remarks of Brother Pratt, knowing that he has spoken from experience and that he is interested in the work of our Father in his mission. 

We have a large number of the sons and daughters of Zion in the Central States mission, about a hundred and forty-five of them. I wish we had a hundred more to assist in the great work that is being done in that mission. In the state of Missouri alone, where there are perhaps two million people, we have only about twenty-four elders, and some of the counties of that state have never been canvassed by a Mormon missionary. We are receiving inquiries and invitations for us to send the elders to visit them, that the people might become acquainted with the principles and doctrines of Christ as they are set forth and taught by the Latter-day Saints. I am glad also to say that  that state, where they were so unfriendly to us once, there is now a feeling of friendliness toward us. In the city of Independence, where we have recently located our headquarters, the people generally are quite friendly. They meet us on the street and shake hands with us, as though they had met us before. Apparently they feel like we have resided with them always, and there is not the spirit of antagonism that there was once. I am very thankful to the Lord that this is the case, that we are living in peace with our neighbors, although it is a stronghold of the reorganized church. A number of the lay-members of that organization are attending the services that we hold. The second or third Sunday we were there we had to rent a hall in Independence in order to accommodate the people — people who had belonged to the Whitmerites and to various other off-shoots from the Mormon Church. They are attending our classes in the Sabbath Schools. Two old gentlemen told me, a few days before I left, "We are interested in your work; we love the Book of Mormon that you use as a text book in your Sabbath School." One of them said, "It sounds good to me; it is the first time I have been interested in it since my youth." They belonged to the Whitmerite church, but, they said, "We are going: to investigate, we are going to stav with you and see what vou have to tearb us." 

The work of the Lord is growing in the Central States mission. Brother Duffin, who labored and presided there before I did, laid a good foundation, and we are getting along nicely, and enjoy our labors. The elders are honest and energetic; I don't think we have a drone in the hive; we distribute in the neighborhood of two thousand books each month. These elders are busy holding meetings, and find many inquirers, perhaps three to where we used to have one, and they are laboring zealously for the upbuilding of the Church and Kingdom of God. I want to tell you, brethren and sisters, that you should assist them here at home. Pray for the success of these elders, that they may not be led astray, but that they may remain faithful and patriotic in the great work that they have been sent forth to perform. And when you write to the missionaries, your sons and daughters, write letters that are encouraging, and don't write things that will make them homesick. That feeling does not come from our Father in heaven, and we should not be instruments in causing it to arise in the hearts of the elders. That has been one of the troubles we have had to contend with, people at home writing things that have a tendency to discourage the elders. The people at home should assist the elders in keeping the spirit of their mission and calling. 

I love the work of the Lord, the work in that mission, and every elder engaged in it; they are united and willing. Thev are men of God, working for the buildine up of His Church and Kingdom, and they are not idlers. I don't know of one instance of an elder that is not doing his duty at the present time, to the best of his ability. They are trying to keep the commandments of the Lord, and laboring zealouslv. Ninety per cent of the elders in that mission travel without purse or scrip; today you could find about a hundred and twenty of these younpmen trudging through that countrv,  north to south, without money, preaching the Gospel, delivering tracts, holding meetings and disposing of books. The Lord is blessing them, and they seldom have to sleep out of doors. We have recently held four conferences, and I think that not more than three of our elders reported that they have laid out during the past six months. I tell you, the Lord will bless any man who goes out to preach His Gospel according to the method that He has commanded, that is without purse or scrip, especially where you can. We have some places, however, where our elders are not permitted to travel without purse or scrip, but in those cases the responsibility is not upon our shoulders. If we are faithful in our labors no one can arise and accuse us of neglect. After this life, when these elders meet any of the men or women to whom they have borne a faithful testimony, and have said to them, "I want you to read these books of ours, and place yourselves in a position to see whether we are right or wrong; read the Book of Mormon and these pamphlets," if we do that, they can not rise up in the eternal world and accuse us of neglect of duty. Among the bright young men who have come out to help us in the last six months are some who have attended colleges, and had experience in various avocations in life, which makes them the more valuable. A man who has had a college education and a good practical experience in life, and in the Church of God at home, is invaluable. We have a few such, and it seems as if we cannot let them go. but soon, of course, we will have to. I trust we will get more, and that we will get enough elders to do the work we are trying to ac in that field. We have in our colony in the state of Texas about 500 people. There are bright, intelligent young persons among them, but we have not enough heln to teach them, or to labor in their Sunday Schools. We have one elder there that is teaching school, and teaching music. If we could get at least two sisters, faithful >nd solid in the faith, who could go down there and teach some of those young ladies how to teach these young people in the Sabbath school and in the associations, it would be a great blessing - . The elders who go to that mission who have been good men in the community here, and have attended to their meetings and duties at home, make the best missionaries. We have three elder? from Canada, who have come into the mission field from active positions in life. They had attended Mutual Improvement Associations, and each one of them could answer questions intelligently and perform any missionary work that was required of them. That indicates that the people in Canada are zealous in the work of the Lord. 

May the blessings of the Lord rest upon this people and their leaders, and upon this conference, and the elders of Israel and His Saints everywhere, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDEE WILLIAM W. RITER. 

I was pleased to notice during our devotional exercises this morn ing that nearly every one present was singing, either audibly or else their lips were moving in harmony with the hymn. I know of no better standard by which to judge of the feelings of a congregation than  the method in which they sing the familiar hymns of the Church; from this I conclude that the congregation that is now before me is in spirit and sympathy with the great work of human salvation in which we are all interested. 

I have been very much interested in the remarks of the brethren in regard to the missions over which they have the pleasure and the honor to preside. I was somewhat interested in the remarks of Brother Pratt, for the reason that they tallied and fitted so exactly with some of my early experiences in the missionary field; but I was glad to know that the exceptions he noted were only exceptions, and that, as a rule, the elders of the Church lead very exemplary lives. As I have traveled out in the world, as I frequently do, on business and otherwise, wherever I have gone where there have been elders or members of the Church, I have usually met them; and my experience is, and to this I think I can truthfully testify, that there is a great improvement in their behavior and a great improvement and advancement in their intelligence. I can remember when I was first called on a foreign mission, that there were among us forty-eight young men, mostly boys you might call them, and there was not one in the forty-eight that could speak the English language correctly. This is all changed now, thanks to our magnificent school system, thanks to the schools that are fostered by the Church, and thanks to the great prosperity that the Lord has brought upon us. The change is so great in this direction, that I have found many of our elders the peers in the pulpit of any men that I ever heard. My experience has covered a considerable range, and these things are gratifying to me. Perhaps the best school that we could be educated in is the school of experience, and the best method of conveying information is by stating the opposite of a question. 

Now we all understand, when we stop to think of it, that the work of the Latter-day Saints, the mission of Joseph Smith, is to bring salvation to the world, not only to those who are living, and who can hear it in this life, but our mission is to bring salvation to the human race, whether dead or alive. This is a larger problem than a great many of us think it is. We are greatly engrossed by the affairs of life, and I think it is only now and then that we have time to turn our minds to, and con over the great mission whereunto we are called. As an item of importance in this connection, I call your attention to this fact, and I would premise, it by saying (excuse the apparent egotism) that I, perhaps as much as any one, have kept my eyes on the religious conditions of the world. I read the religious tracts of the day, showing: and exemplifying the religious condition of the people. Of course when I say people, I mean the Christian people of the earth; as yet we have had very little to do with those of heathen lands. I discover this, that as the years go by there is a lessening and a relaxation in the minds of the people at large in regard to their conceptions of religious matters. Especially is this true in regard to their thought regarding the existence of a Deity. The old time faith, such as was once had amongst the people — I mean the people at large — the old  and simple faith that once animated a great many good people, seems to be passing away; and the conception of God is becoming more hazy as the years roll by. Their ideas concerning Him are becoming more shadowy, until the condition is realized that in some of what we call Christian nations any distinct comprehension of a deity has well nigh vanished. There is one nation in Europe, one of the most learned nations, I presume, upon the face of the earth, where the idea of a God, that is, any active idea of Him in the minds of the masses of the people, has well nigh vanished. Of course you can readily guess to which nation I refer; and I will also mention its neighboring nation, that of Germany. I saw it stated here recently, in one of the papers, that only four per cent of the people in country sections were to be found in church on Sunday, and only two per cent were to be found in church in the cities. Now, ever since the days of the Prophet Joseph, the ideas of religion, and of man's connection and relationship to God, are becoming relaxed ,and I do not know how soon it will be before the time comes when the knowledge of God, or at least, faith in the great God that created the heavens and the earth, will become only a dark and shadowy memory. It was the great mission of the Israelites, the children of Abraham, throughout all their generations, though apostate as they sometimes were, and far removed from the true path sometimes, to preserve the knowledge of God uoon the earth. I know it has been frequently a matter of wonder "What good is the Jew?" Why, if the Jew did nothing else but preserve the knowl of God upon the earth, he performed a great mission, for throughout all those generations in which he lived, the knowledge of God would have completely perished from the earth except for them, and the world would have had in the place thereof only gods of "sticks and stones." 

Now, my brothers and sisters, if we as Latter-day Saints had no other mission in the world than to preserve a knowledge of God upon the earth, that of itself is a great mission. If we had no other calling than to preserve simple faith in the providences of God, that of itself is a great calling. But fortunately it extends much further than this. Our mission, as I have already referred to, covers the welfare of the whole human family, in all ages of the world; and I believe that if the Latter-day Saints could properly look at this subject, they would regard themselves with considerable pride as the upholders of the true faith and preservers of the knowledge of God on the earth. 

I have been greatly pleased with the spirit of this conference. I am convinced of this fact, which is, never since the church was organized was there as general good feeling amongst the Latter-day Saints, as general a feeling of unanimity, and as little fault-finding, and as little cause for fault-finding as at the present time. It may not be amiss for me to state a few reasons for these conclusions. During the existence of the old Salt Lake Stake, which is now divided into several stakes, it became one of my duties to be an auditor of the accounts of the different wards in the stake. In this labor I had occasion to go over the list of tithepayers, and those who made donations to  Relief Society and to other charities amongst the Latter-day Saints; and I have been surprised to see with what generality, and I might say, generosity, the people have paid their tithes and offerings. In looking over the names of people in some of the wards with which I was most familiar, I have frequently asked the Bishop, How can so-and-so pay any tithes and offerings, knowing their poverty? It is surprising that, sometimes, people in the most humble circumstances of life, whom I have known and knew that their earnings were but little, that the amount of their donations and charities were surprisingly large, and that this occurs generally. Then, since the division of the stake, it has fallen to my lot for two years past, to be one of the auditors of the accounts of the general organization of the Church; and I think I may perhaps, without violating any confidence whatever, say that the conditions in which we have found things are gratifying almost beyond measure. I believe that there is not a person present in this congregation, or any congregation of the Saints, to whom, if they could see the generosity with which the people respond to these calls, and then see the wisdom and the judgment with which their moneys and their donations, are disbursed, it would not be a source of gratification. The people, I believe, as never before, are paying their tithes and offerings and living up to the requirements of their faith. 

There is one thing that struck me with extreme gratification, and that is the generous help that the general authorities of the Church have extended to our educational institutions. We have amongst us a number of colleges and academies, and I think the day will soon pass away when men will have to speak, in any degree of complaint of the quality of the missionaries that are sent out into the field. The cause of education is close and dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, their children are becoming educated, and it is only a question of time when the old reproach that used to be thrown at us, that the Latterday Saints were ignorant, will pass away. Strange as it may appear, there was a statement in one of the New York papers some months ago complaining that the elders of the Latter-day Saints sent out into the world were educated men, and in consequence of that they were the more dangerous. It is only a question of time when that complaint will be general, and the missionaries that go out into the field will be men of culture and education, for the reason that there will be none at home, none from among whom they have come that are otherwise. We have great cause for congratulation, mjy brothers and sisters. Let us persevere, and let us have hope for the future. The future never looked as bright as it dees today for the great cause of human salvation. May God help us in this cause always, is my paryer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

(President of Mexican Mission.) 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to express the gratitude I feel to our heavenly Father that I am permitted, in connection with you, to  here in this general conference of the Church, that we are permitted to meet and worship the Lord without molestation, for, strange as it may appear, this blessing, this privilege, has not always been accorded to the Saints of God. Why people should object to men and women meeting together and worshiping their Creator as their conscience may dictate to them, seems strange, but it is nevertheless a fact that in the history of the world religious worship has been interfered with and the right of conscience has been interrupted to a degree that no other privilege of the human race has been; and so I say, when we are permitted thus to meet to worship the Lord, to acknowledge His goodness and mercy to us, without molestation, I feel exceedingly grateful, as I believe that you all do, and want to make this acknowledgement to our heavenly Father 'this morning. 

I am grateful to have the opportunity of saying just a few words in behalf of your brethren and sisters who are in Mexico, people isolated from the body of the Church, surrounded by influences different to those that exist in any other organized stake of the church. In fact, there is no other Latin country in the world where there is a stake of Zion organized; and we should appreciate the conditions which exist where Latin races and Latin customs prevail; they are so different from the customs which exist in Anglo-Saxon communities that one must become acquainted with them to fully appreciate them. Mexico is a very peculiar country, comprising very distinct, peculiar and contradictory conditions. The country itself is one of extreme contrast. Vast , unproductive plains abound, which to look at one would think to be absolutely valueless, and yet when the country is traced and examined we find that it is interspersed and dotted with valleys as productive as any elsewhere in the world. Great treeless ranges of mountains, appearing to be without any valuable products, when more closely examined, are found to contain in their recesses mostbeautiful and productive forests; and some of the mountains are covered with perpetual snow, around the bases of which oranges, lemons, and bananas are cultivated. It is a country of extremely distressing drought, followed by prolific rains, and so the country from north to south is one of extreme and perplexing conditions. It is not very strange that a people who have lived in a country of this kind for hundreds of years should become somewhat like it; environment has had its effect and they have become as it is. I suppose there is no place in the world where greater extremes are found among the population, where a more heterogeneous people live than are to be found in Mexico. And yet, taken as a whole, it seems harmonious, and when considered together it appears reasonably homogeneous. 

Mexico has a great interest to the Latter-day Saints from the fact that it is the home of the Lamanite, the land of the Nephite. There are millions of those people,the dark descendants of father Lehi, there. The center of civilization upon the North American continent at the time of its discovery was in the Valley of Mexico; and there are to be found today, upon the paved streets of its principal city, surrounded with wealth equal to that perhaps of any  city of the same size in the world, Aztec women pattering along the pavements, dressed exactly as they were four hundred years ago when Cortez marched into the city at the head of his victorious army. And there, in sight of the towers of those temples and magnificent edifices which have been erected by the Catholic church, the humble hamlets of the Indians may be seen, scattered over the mountain sides; and they are living in the same simplicity, speaking the same language, wearing the same apparel, following the same avocations, that they did in the days of their fore-fathers. 

We are doing some missionary work among these people, and it is interesting to the Latter-day Saints at large to know that many of them are receiving the Gospel. They are a vigorous race, mentally and physically, thoroughly competent both physically and intellectually to comprehend the Gospel and fulfil their part in the upbuilding of the Church, in connection with converts that are made in other countries. If we read the words of the Lord as contained in the Book of Mormon — and Mexico is essentially a Book of Mormon country — we find that a time must come, before the consummation of the purposes of the Lord, before the redemption of the center stake of Zion, before completing the work we are so anxionsly looking forward to down there at Independence, Missouri, that the work of conversion must be commenced among the Lamanites. Jesus said to His disciples, when He ministered among them upon this continent, that He would give them a sign by which they might know when the things that He then predicted were about to be fulfilled, and He said : "When these words which I now speak unto you, and which you shall write, shall be brought forth in latter times, and when they shall be brought to a remnant of your seed which shall dwindle in unbelief, and your seed shall begin to come to a knowledge of these things, and know that their fathers came from Jerusalem, and that they are of the house of Israel, then may you know that the promises which I have made regarding the redemption of my people, O ye house of Israel, are about to be fulfilled." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we have a dozen elders laboring down there among that people, and they are making converts every day. So we see that the Gospel has be.en introduced among them, that they are coming to a knowledge of the truth, that they again know that their fathers came from Jerusalem, that they do begin to realize the day of their redemption draweth nigh, and thus we see in them the fulfillment of Scripture. As a people we are fulfillers of Scripture. If there is anything at all in the work of the Lord, it is here for the purpose of consummating His purposes, in fulfillment of the words of the prophets, preparing for the redemption of the covenant people of the Lord in this the dispensation of the fullness of times. Now if you will read the Doctrine and Covenants, you will find that also justifies what I have said. The Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph that this people to whom I refer should become a very active factor in the redemption of the center stake of Zion, and the construction of a great temple there in this dispensation, this generation. Taken altogether, we feel very much encouraged with the outlook, from a missionary standpoint, in Mexico. If it were not for that fact, were it not for the faith we have that the 

Lord wants us to be in Mexico for the accomplishment of His purposes, we would not be there, for there is nothing very desirable in that country nor in the people. The conditions there are so contrary to those conditions to which we have been accustomed that it would not be desirable to us. Were it not for the conviction we have that the Lord desires that the Gospel should be established and maintained among that people, we would not feel content to be there. There are about 4,000 Latter-day Saints there, without including the members of the Church who live in the neighborhood of the city of Mexico, and who number five or six hundred. Our people are doing the best they can to maintain themselves, to sustain their families and properly educate their children. We are getting no help at all from the government, not a single dollar has ever been expended for public purposes" in the part of Mexico where we live, since we have been there. We maintain our own schools, we construct our own roads, we build our own bridges, we pay our own civil officers; in fact, we bear all the burdens of government, and receive in exchange the protection of the law. Our relationship with the Mexican government is very friendly, indeed. We have no difficulty with them, we participate in no degree at all in their politics. We let politics entirely alone, attending to our own affairs; and I suppose we might live in peace in almost any country under similar circumstances. We pay our taxes, bear our own expenses, and are permitted to live in peace. That just about explains it all. It is not without an effort, either, that we do this, because we are the poorest people in the Church, taken as  whole, and yet these poor people support an excellent school in each ward in the stake; and we maintain a stake academy, which is perhaps equal to almost any other that exists in the Church, a splendid administration, a splendid school. In order to accomplish all this we are sometimes required to assess a voluntary income tax upon the people, as high as five or six per cent of their income. But it is willingly paid, and the schools are maintained. We appreciate the fact that, isolated as we are, if we expect to keen in touch with our brethren and sisters in more favored localities in the Church, we must educate our children, and we are trying our very best to do it. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, you who perhaps are better able to amply provide for education, among whom it is possible, do not allow your prejudices, do not allow the argument that education is being overdone, to persuade you to desist from persistent effort to properly educate the children of the Latter-day Saints. I tell you we never have been an overeducated people. The time will not come that we can properly fill the place the Lord designs we should occupy among the people of the earth until greater attention is paid to education. 

We have been pre-eminently an agricultural people. I do not want to depreciate agriculture. I do not want to deny the fact that, from an agricultural standpoint, our educational institutions may be very greatly improved, and we are trying all the time to improve them down in our country; but I do want to call your attention to the other fact that no pre-eminently agricultural people ever took first place among the nations of the . It is people who know howto do, who know how to manufacture, who know how to take the elements of the earth and make them into things useful for men and women,that have been the civilized nations of the earth. Egypt had the world's first civilization, and the people of Egypt were pre-eminently agricultural. But the manufacturing city of Tyre and the little city of Sidon, whose inhabitants pulled down the cedars of their mountains and made them into ships, who knew enough to take the ore of the earth and convert it into iron and bind ships together, who were able to manufacture it into things that people wanted, they were the people who forged to the front. There is no country in the world where agriculture is more appreciated than in England. There is no country in the world whose influence for good, towards the betterment and civilization of the inhabitants of the earth, has been felt as strongly as that of the English people; I say it without fear of successful contradiction. But it has never been her agriculture that made it possible for her civilizing influence to go to all the world. England is the greatest manufacturing country on the earth. It was because she had mines and knew how to work them, and had factories and knew how to conduct and operate them; I know this. I have felt impressed that the Latter-day Saints have neglected some of their opportunities, and the result is that the most remunerative employment goes to others. What do we know about engineering? What do we know about electricity ? What do we know about manufacturing? As a community we dovery little indeed in these lines, and the result is that the advantageshave largely been secured by others, and we are, in a measure, bearers of burdens that others ought to share with us. 

I believe these great forces have come into the world to stay. I do not believe that when the redemption of Zion comes, and when truth triumphs, that all the great discoveries which make for the betterment of mankind are going to be relegated to the back ground, not a bit of it. Electricity has come to stay, the power of steam has come to stay. The power to control these things must be acquired by the people who would be in the foreground. We must progress. Take Nelson or Paul Jones and put them in a modern man-of-war, and what would they do? They would be as helpless as babes, because conditions are changed, and conditions are continually changing, and we have got to take advantage of the conditions to make our way in the world. 

Let us see to it that our sons and daughters are educated men and women, and that they compare favorably with educated men and women that go out from other communities. And that need not detract from our faith. A man said to me the other day, "When you come to insist upon these material things, you destroy the faith of the Latter-day Saints." In other words the argument is made that you cannot educate the people and still have them retain their faith in the Gospel. That is nonsense. The Gospel of Jesus Christ comprehends every truth there is in the world, educationally, morally, physiologically, all that we can attain. The Prophet Joseph laid the maxim down to us, that everything that was good, everything that was excellent, everything that, made for  betterment of mankind, belonged to us, and it was our duty to acquire it. 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters, and keep us in the faith. I rejoice in the Gospel, and bear testimony to its truth. I wish you to sustain us, your brethren and sisters down in Mexico, with your faith and prayers, that we may all unite for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God and the consummation of His purposes. May the blessings of the Lord rest upon us all, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

During the time I. occupy this position, I desire to be safeguarded by the Holy Spirit of God. I have no desire whatever to say or do anything that can be construed to hurt the Church. I am perfectly willing to bear my individual responsibilities, but I believe a responsibility rests upon every man and woman in the Church of Christ to protect the Church, although I am confident that the Lord is amplyable to take care of the Church of Latter-day Saints, whether we succeed or fail: I have that faith. 

I am a strong advocate of individuality and agency. I value it above everything that I can conceive of, except salvation. I am very doubtful if a man can be saved in the kingdom of God who has no individuality, and does not assert his agency, because salvation is an individual work. This is the Church of Jesus Christ, and is no man's Church. It does not belong to President Joseph F. Smith, and he does not pretend to say that it does; nor to his counselors, nor to the, - Twelve Apostles; it is the 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and I am sure that the Lord will take care of it, no matter what we do, whether we do right or wrong. 

It is my desire to read to you an «xcerpt taken from a magazine; I do not wish you to get the idea that it is scripture. I presume some of our enemies would like to take issue with us on the ground that we have no right to go outside of the Bible, Doctrine and Covenants, Book of Mormon, and Pearl of Great Price for texts to be used in the pulpit. I read as follows : — 

"I believe that a question of super-eminent importance has been raised, the question whether the pulpit shall be free or whether the pulpit shall not be free. The whole question of the churches is involved in this question. 

"The chief office of a minister, I take it, is not to represent the views of the congregation, but to proclaim the truth as he sees it. How can he serve a congregation as a teacher save as he quickens the minds of the hearers by the vitality and independence of his utterances? But how can a man be vital and independent and helpful if he be tethered and muzzled? . . .. The minister is not to be the spokesman of the congregation, not the message bearer of the congregation, but the bearer of a message to the congregation. 

"We are all muzzled by civilization. It is unlawful to speak evil of our neighbor. To refer to his conduct or business injuriously is libelous. It is also dangerous socially. The newspapers are muzzled; they cannot print 'all the news,' or one per cent, of the news; the lawyers, doctors, politicians, merchants, housewives — all are muzzled. An effective cartoon  depict a muzzled clergyman preaching to a muzzled congregation. 

"The fact is that a civilization is a compromise. We waive certain natural rights for security in the possession of other rights. Among the waived rights is the right of free speech. You can say anything you like on a desert island; in town you cannot. And upon the whole most of us prefer to live in town, muzzles and all. 

"What shall we say then ? Shall we sacrifice truth to conventionality and prudence? As a matter of fact, we do continually. How far it is justifiable to suppress or color religious truth (if we divide truth into sections) in order to maintain the modus Vivendi rests ultimately on the individual conscience." 

It is not my intention to decide "that we are all muzzled by civilization," nor "the fact that civilization is a compromise," but my conviction is that this people have "waived certain natural rights," as well as religious rights "for security in the possession of other rights." 

The chief point I have in mind at this time is that when we became members of the Church of Latterday Saints we waived certain rights and privileges. At least that was my understanding when I became a member of the Church. Of course, my case is different from those of our people who were converted to the Gospel in the world, as I had no choice in the matter. I was born in Salt Lake City in 1853, and when eight years old was baptized and became a member of the Church. It was hardly a voluntary action on my part at that time, although I strongly believe, as Elder John Nicholson has said, "that Latter-day Saints are born and not made." I am hopeful that the Gospel has found its way into every fiber of my being, as I truly love the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and its organization, and am thoroughly converted that the Priesthood and authority of God has again been restored to the earth. I love the people, and hope the day will never come in my life and history that my integrity and devotion to the truth of the Gospel will ever be in question. 

Now, as I said, I waived certain rights when I became a member of this Church; I waived the right of sin. I had my agency and individuality; but as long as I am a member of this Church, I waive the right to sin, to transgress. When you joined the Church, became members of it, you also waived the right to do a great many things. You have no right to break the ten commandments, have you ? You have no right to be dishonest. You have no right to commit adultery, or to be immoral. You have waived all these rights. You have waived the right to break the Word of Wisdom. And in many other things we have waived our rights, and sometimes I feel muzzled when I wrestle with my nature and human weaknesses. You know there is no other man just like me in all Israel, and probably you are glad of it. I am having a pretty hard time wrestling with myself. I don't feel selfrighteous; I feel more like that poor fellow who stood on the street corner and bowed his head and said, "O God, forgive me, a poor sinner." I feel confident, when I think about the matter carefully, that some people become self-righteous in their own estimation, because they keep one or two or more commandments they then com to exercise "unrighteous dominion" when they find a transgressor in the Church. Now, Latter-day Saints, you have all "sinned and come short of the glory of God," and you stand condemned before the Lord unless there is such a thing as repentance and forgiveness of sins. It is a question, How long will it take for me to secure salvation? The Lord only knows; I don't: I am not competent to tell whether I will be saved or not. I am making an effort for salvation, and, as I said, I waived a great many rights in order to become a member of the Church. I have trampled ambition under my feet, for I have an ambition, and it takes me all the time to keep my feet on it. I am sometimes afraid of my friends, because if one don't qualify every statement he makes, he may be like one man said of me in the north country: "Well, he didn't say it but he intended to. and if he will say to me that he did not intend to say it, then I will take back everything I said against him." 

I wish to properly express my thoughts and feelings cm this occasion. I will read to you from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen, and why are they not chosen?" 

(I have been surprised that I was chosen, but there will come another time of choosing', and I don't know whether I will be among the number then or not. You don't know, either.) 

"There are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson : That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connect with the powers of heaven." Our hearts are set so much upon the things of this world and aspire to the honors of men;" that is our weakness, the weakness of the human family. If you ever change some men along that line you will have to grind them over, for they have got it burned into their souls, and they love the honors of men. As I stand before you today, I do not love the honors of men, but I honor God, and want to keep His commandments. 

"And they do not learn this one lesson" — and it is the hardest thing in the world to learn — "that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, amen to the Priesthood or the authority of that man." 

It matters not what position a man holds in the Church, if he uses any unrighteous dominion it is amen to the Priesthood that he holds, which is inseparably connected with heaven, and we should begin to learn it now. 

"Behold! ere he is aware, He is left unto himself to kick against the pricks; to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have learned, by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose,  will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called but few are chosen." 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by longsuffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile." 

I grant you that men holding authority have a right to reprove sharply, but they must be sure that they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost. 

"Reproving betimes .with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be an enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven." 

Experience teaches me that when I have been angry, I am quite sure I did not have the Holy Ghost, and I was not in any proper condition to administer reproof. It took me quite a long while to learn that. When I became excited, fanatical, and over-zealous, I mistakenly thought it was the Spirit of the Lord, but have learned better, as the Holy Ghost does not operate that way. My testimony is that the internal fruits of the Holy Ghost are joy, peace, patience, long suffering, and kindness. I hold the Melchisedek Priesthood; I have the information by which I can trace my authority back to Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Elder William Moore Allred ordained me a Seventy; Levi W. Hancock ordained Elder Allred to the priesthood, and Elder Hancock was ordained by Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Now, I am speaking of myself; I am not criticizing others; I am talking about principles. I stand before you a transgressor, but I am trying to be saved, and that is all God asks me to do. Any man who tries to do the right thing and continues to try, is not a failure in the sight of God. Dreyfus a Jew of the French Army, was falsely accused by his associates because of jealousy and hatred, and it resulted in his losing his appointment, being disgraced and banished. He was afterwards proven innocent and reinstated with honors. His experience and sorrow would not be as great or as serious as mine would be, if, for cause or otherwise, I was to lose my Priesthood and appointment. Such things have occurred through sin, or apostasy, and sometimes it may be because men holding the Priesthood have exercised unrighteous dominion, and have accepted statements made by tattlers, and thus become suspicious, prejudiced and unfriendly. 

My brethren and sisters, I want you to be good to me, and help save me. If I can be saved it is an encouragement to every man, woman and child in Israel to make the effort. If you have weaknesses, try and overcome them, and if you fail, try again, and if you then fail, keep trying, for God is merciful to His children. He is a good deal kinder to us than we are to ourselves, more kind to us, perhaps  some who hold the priesthood are to each other. I have learned the lesson that nothing on earth would be a greater failure to me than to fail to keep my family in the Church. They were God's children before they were mine, and I think the Lord will look after their interests and save them in His own due time. If Golden Kimball, can't be saved in the flesh, after all the struggles and efforts he has made — and I have made a few sacrifices — then I believe God will save him on the other side, and it may be that his earthly father will come to his rescue, and lift up his voice to God in behalf of his child and plead for his salvation. It may take a hundred years to save me, but if I get through in a thousand years it will be a most profitable investment. I have no fancied notions; I have gotten rid of tradition, and of a few false ideas that rested on me. I do not expect to become a god, right away. No, it will take a long time; I am too ignorant. When I stand before my Maker, in the other world, I will be like some of those poor Elders who have been laboring in missions, I will speak with a stammering tongue, and God will look upon me. no doubt, as a child, mediocre in intelligence compared with those who have preceded me. 

I conclude my remarks by briefly calling your attention to difficulties that the First Council are meeting in selecting the names of Seventies from the many quorums of Seventy for missions. Letters of inquiry are sent to them to ascertain as to their moral, spiritual, financial and physical condition, and as to their willingness to accept a call from the Presidency of the Church for a mission. A -very  effort is being made by the brethren to protect the interest of our people at home, as we are no longer in possession of all the business interests in the State of Utah, but are met with sharp competition^ and unless great care is taken to protect these interests, our people will be the "hewers of wood and drawers of water." Also we find many Seventies living in cities and other places as employees, and as soon as they are called on missions, their families are left without means of livelihood. The Lord has said "that men who will not provide for their own are worse than an infidel, and has already denied the faith," and as there is no plan established for a missionary fund, such men cannot very well be called on missions. Besides, the Stakes and Wards of Zion must be protected, as well as the home circle, as it sometimes happens that fathers go on missions and their children lose the faith. We, also excuse Seventies who'are aged, physically disqualified, financially disabled, and others who are in debt and their homes mortgaged, so that you can readily understand how difficult it is to secure missionaries who have had experience and are qualified to preach the Gospel, There are many pathetic stories that might be told as to the unfaltering, unwavering faith of many of our brethren of the Seventies, as well as their wives and children, who are willing to make any sacrifice in order to preach the Gospel to the children of men. They have not forgotten that the Gospel found them in foreign lands through the efforts of other Elders who have made greater sacrifices than Seventies are called upon to make at the present time. These Seventies are , from a human point of view, disqualified because they are not educated, but we feel confident that the Lord is well pleased with His Seventies when they manifest a willingness to leave everything that they hold dear to go forth among the children of men, and testify of this great work. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, 

Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, 

And shortly the hour of redemption will come. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder James W. Ure. 
