Morning
06 04 1907


PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Endorsement of Address to the World, and President Smith's statements. — Fruits of "Mormonism." — Encouraging condition in the Church, at home and abroad. — Gratitude for many blessings. 

I feel very thankful, this morning, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has lengthened out my days and permitted me once more to meet with you in general conference. I wish to join with our President in extending heartfelt greetings to you, my brethren and sisters; and congratulate you on the blessings and privileges, and all good things we are enjoying at the present time. I feel very thankful that the Lord has been so merciful and kind to me personally, that he has lengthened out my days sixteen years beyond the limit that is  to man — three score and ten. You will agree with me when I say that I have much cause to be thankful to the Lord, for His mercies and blessings and preserving care. 

It is needless for me to say to you that I endorse the sentiments expressed in the document that was read to us yesterday morning. I wish to add that I also endorse all of the sentiments that were spoken by our President in his opening address to us. I am heartily in accord with everything he said in relation to the condition of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In this connection, I was reminded of an expression that was used by President Taylor, when he published a newspaper in New York, many years ago, that "It is better for us to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others." 

Those of you who were present at the concert in this Tabernacle last evening, I think will join with me when I say : What a beautiful exhibition we had here! Five or six hundred children on this stand singing the beautiful songs of Zion! I thought of the saying of the Savior : "Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?" Then, as I gazed uoon these children, I thought: These are fruits of "Mormonism." Did you ever see a finer lot of children grouped together than you saw here last evening on this stand? I never did. It was inspiring to listen to their trained and beautiful voices. Again, as I thought of the fruits of "Mormonism" which are presented here, gathered from the na of the earth; thousands of individuals who have obeyed the Gospel of Jesus Christ and have come to Zion. 

I congratulate my brethren and sisters on the success that is attending your efforts here at home, as well as the brethren of the- priesthood who are scattered abroad in the nations of the earth engaged in missionary labors. It is encouraging to hear and to know that progress is being made everywhere. Wherever our elders are laboring, much good is being done, and the work at home is also progressing and thriving. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be enabled to join with you in the events that are transpiring around us. I hope, if it be the Lord's will, that He will extend my days a little longer, that I may continue to rejoice with you in seeing the work of the Lord progress in the earth. 

God bless our President. I feel in my heart to sustain and stand by him; and I am thankful to him for the many blessings that he has extended towards me, and for the courtesies and kindnesses I have received and still receive from his hands; and I thank you all, my brethren and sisters. I often wonder why it is that I am receiving so many courtesies and kindnesses from my brethren of the Apostles, and from all the Latter-day Saints I may say. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may continue to be poured out upon us. Help me O Lord, I pray Thee, to be faithful and true the remainder of my days, that, when I have finished my work, I may receive salvation in Thy kingdom, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Endorsement of the Address to the World. — Honesty and sincerity of the Saints. — Charles Dickens' tribute to "Mormon" emigrants. — Astounding ignorance among leading people concerning "Mormonism." — Anxious to have our doctrines and lives investigated. — Ours an everyday religion. — Maxims given by a good mother to her son. 

My dear Brethren and Sisters, I am exceedingly delighted to have the privilege of attending this general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have listened to all that has been said, and I am pleased to say that it finds an echo in my heart, and I can say "Amen" to all of the sentiments so far expressed by the brethren during this conference. 

In connection with President Winder, I testify to you that I am in full accord with the sentiments of the Address read yesterday, and approved by this conference. 

I hope that, for the few minutes I stand before you, I will be directed and guided in what I shall say by that same kind, charitable spirit manifest in the remarks of the previous speakers. 

There is no place on this earth so dear to me as our blessed State of Utah, and there are no people I love so well. I am proud of the fact that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am also proud that I was born of goodly parents, and I thank God every day of my life that I was born a member of His Church. I hope and trust that our aim and desires are to live as worthy and consistent members of the Church, and that we will be true and loyal to every principle revealed in this last clay and dispensation. 

I love honesty and sincerity, and I believe no other people on earth are as sincere in their belief and faith as are the Latter-day Saints. They are honest in their business and in their religion; they say what they mean, and mean what they say. When it is "Yes," it is "Yes;" when it is "No," it is "No." They are void of hypocrisy so common in the world. I thank God that this people, as a whole, are true and loyal to their faith and to God's will concerning them. 

In the Address delivered yesterday the sentiment was expressed that we are hoping for an enlightened investigation of what the world calls "Mormonism." My brethren and sisters, I hope to see the day — and God grant that it be an early one, too — when a just and unprejudiced investigation will be made of all the principles of the Gospel, and the lives of the Latterday Saints. Never has there been an investigation of any sort calling in question the principles of the Gospel or the lives of the Latter-day Saints that has not proved an advantage to us as a people, and we have been and will be the gainers thereby. I know in my heart that if the enlightened men of this world will take time to inquire into real "Mormonism," what the fruits of it are, half our great battle in this world will be won. 

Last night I picked up one of Dickens' works, and after reading the article written by him regarding his visit to an immigrant ship, I thought to myself how many men are laboring under the same misapprehension and predisposition respecting the "Mormon" people as was Charles Dickens, the great 

English novelist and writer, before he had made a personal investigation. He thought that "Mormonism" was taking from the shores of England only the scum of the land — the ignorant class. The article referred to tells the object of his visit and what he found, and how utterly astonished he was in finding just the opposite of what he expected. He visited the emigrant ship named "Amazon," — perhaps there are people in this congregation who crossed the ocean in that ship — and this is what he says : 

"My emigrant ship lies broadside on to the wharf. Two great gangways made of spars and planks connect her with the wharf; and up and down these gangways, perpetually crowding in and out, to and fro, like ants, are the emigrants who are going to sail in my emigrant ship I go out on the 

poop-deck for air, and surveying the emigrants on the deck below (indeed they are crowded all about me, up there too) find more pens and inkstands in action, and more papers, and interminable complication respecting accounts with individuals for tin cans and what not. But nobody is in an ill temper, nobody is the worse for drink, nobody swears an oath or uses a coarse word, nobody appears depressed, nobody is weeping; and down upon the deck, in every corner where it is possible to find a few square feet to kneel, crouch, or lie in, people in every unsuitable attitude for writing, are writing letters. 

"Now, I have seen emigrant ships before this day in June. And these people are so strikingly different from all other people in like circumstances whom I have ever seen, that I wonder aloud, 'What would a stranger suppose these emigrants to be! 

"The vigilant bright face of the weather-browned captain of the Amazon is at my shoulder, and he says : 'What, indeed! The most of these came aboard yesterday evening. They came from various parts of England in small parties that had never seen one another before. Yet they had not been a couple of hours on board when they established  own police, made their own regulations, and set their own watches at all the hatchways. Before nine o'clock the ship was as orderly and as quiet as a man-of-war!' 

"Later in the day, when this self-same boat was filled with a choir, who sang glees and catches for a long time, one of the singers, a girl, sang her part mechanically all the while, and wrote a letter in the bottom of the boat while doing so. 

" 'A stranger would be puzzled to guess the right name for these people, Mr. Uncommercial,' says the captain. 

" 'Indeed he would. 

" 'If you hadn't known, could you ever have supposed — ?' 

" 'How could I! I should have said they were, in their degree, the pick and flower of England.' 

" 'So should I,' says the captain. 

"'How many are they?' 

" 'Eight hundred, in round numbers,' — 

" 'Eight hundred what? Geese, villian?' Eight hundred Mormons. I, Uncommercial traveler for the firm of Human Interest Brothers, had come aboard this emigrant ship to see what eight hundred Latter-day Saints were like! And I found them (to the rout and overthrow of my expectations) like what I now describe with scrupulous exactness." 

In closing the article the great novelist says this : 

"What is in store for the poor people on the shores of the Great Salt Lake, what happy delusion they are laboring under now, on what miserable blindness their eyes may be opened then, I do not pretend to say. But I went on board their ship to testify against them if they deserved it, as I fully believed they would; to my great astonishment they did not deserve it; and my predispositions and tendencies must not affect me as an honest witness. I went over the Amazon's side feeling it impossible to deny that, so far, some remarkable influence had produced a remarkable result, which better known influences have often missed." 

My brethren and sisters, all I want in this world, as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ, is for  men to honestly investigate the lives, the character and the faith of the Latter-day Saints. Are we gaining ground? Certainly we are. There is hardly a stranger that comes into this building and hears the organ — the sweetest toned one in the world — who is not favorably impressed. There is no visitor that attends our services and listens to our choir who does not question the absurd stories told of us. I have met thousands of strangers who have expressed to me the pleasure they had in meeting members of the Church connected with the Bureau of Information, and said that their ideas of "Mormonism" had thereby been completely changed. I have been dumbfounded in meeting hundreds and thousands of leading men and women of this country to find that they knew absolutely nothing of our beliefs and aims, and were ignorant as to what we have accomplished in the past and what we were now doing as a people. Thank God, I have had the privilege of bearing testimony to hundreds concerning your honesty, your virtues, your hopes and aims in life. Many have said to me that they were delighted to learn the truth respecting the Latter-day Saints. I have met hundreds of leading women of the country, and after I had talked with them for ten or fifteen minutes, about the first thing they would say to me would be, "Why, Senator Smoot, I signed the petition asking your expulsion from the United States Senate, because I believed the stories published and told against you and the Mormon Church." But they have been honest enough to say that from that moment they would try to undo all that they had attemoted to accomplish against me, and in the future would guard against such unjust imposition. 

My brethren and sisters, I believe I can recognize the hand of God in directing the thought of the best people of this country favorably toward the beliefs and lives of the Mormon people. God grant that future investigations may be honest and enlightened. If they are we will come out of them far advanced, and be recognized as an industrious, honest, and God-fearing people. Instead of holding the theory that we want no one to know what our lives, our aims, our ambitions, and our doctrines are, we desire the very opposite, and want all people, from one end of the world to the other, to understand that we desire them to know us. 

I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, nor am I ashamed of the fruits of "Mormonism." Compared with other people, intellectually, the Mormon people stand almost at the top, according to statistics. Only three States in the Union have a higher percentage than Utah; and, mind you, their lareer percentage is so small that it is hardly noticeable. Talk about the Mormon people not believing in education! I say, without fear of successful contradiction, that we believe in it with all our souls. We are spending a great proportion of the tithes in educating our sons and daughters with a view to making them honorable men and women, worthy members of the Church, and stalwart citizens of this great country in which we live. 

Some of the thinking men of this country have come to the conclusion that there is something out of balance in modern Christianity. Just the other day I clipped from the "Saturday Evening Post" an arti which was headed "A Weekday Religion." It says : 

"There is a general feeling that the world needs a new wave of religious feeling that shall chasten the materialism of the rich and reconcile the poor to their lot. It is hard to tell whether the churches have lost their hold altogether upon the people today. The evidence is confusing and partial. But it is obviously true that the world never mere needed genuine religious conviction to restrain its passions and r«.'i5e its ideals. When the new religion comes, or the old faith is re-shaped to meet the modern needs, one thing is absolutely certain : it must be a religion that shall deal with men actively six days out of the seven, instead of attending to them only one day." 

I will not take time to read the balance of the article. I say to you that the world will have to learr. that a religion that is worth considering at all must be a religion that governs each individual seven days in every week, and not merely a part of one day weekly. We hold to that view as a Church, and, therefore, we are sometimes criticised. Some people complain that our religion interferes with the temporal affairs of life. I would not give a cent for a religion that was not a part of, and did not affect, the temporal life of every adherent. God so intended it. That is the kind of religion He has had in every dispensation from the beginning until the present — a religion that appeals to man every day in the week, and every hour in the dav. 

I notice, my brethren and sisters, time is rapidly passing. I had a number of things I wanted to say to the young people, but the time allotted to me has gone. However, there are a few things I want to now present to the Latter-dav Saints. I ask you to consider them as suggestions and each sueeestion  sermon. I hope you will remember them. 

While sitting at home last evening I was thinking of some of the things my mother used to impress upon me with the request that I make them a part of my life. I jotted some of them down, and I want to read them to you today. They are as follows : 

"Pray to your heavenly Father for His guidance and blessing, and with His love in your heart, rely upon your own strength of body and soul. 

"Take for your motto, Faith in God, self-reliance, honesty and industry. 

"Inscribe in the most conspicuous place in your home, 'Luck is a fool, pluck is a hero.' " 

Let me call your attention particularly to this last saying, because there is a fever of speculation raging among the people, especially in mining stocks, and they are relying upon luck rather than upon the strength of their own brawn and brain. 

"Be careful from what source you take your advice, and remember that the great art of commanding is to assume a large share of the work. 

"Rise above the envious and w;lful liars. 

"Place your ambitions, your aims in life away above the goal you intend to reach. 

"Remember that energy, indomitable determination, with a proper incentive, are the levers that move the world. 

"Don't drink intoxicating liquors. Don't chew. Don't smoke. Keep the Word of Wisdom. Don't swear. Don't read trashy books, and save your time and peace of mind by paying no attention to vicious and lying newspapers. 

"Be in earnest. Be generous. Be civil. Love your God and fellow-men. 

"Love truth and virtue. Love your country and pray for its success. 

"Be strong. We are not here to play, to dream, to drift; we have hard work to do, and loads to lift : shun not the struggle; face it; 'tis God's gift' 

" 'Be strong : say not "The days are evil; who's to blame?' and fold the hands and acquiesce. Oh, shame : stand up, speak out and bravely, in God's name!'" 

My brethren and sisters, I hope and pray that the spirit of God will be in your hearts. I want to leave my testimony with you this day that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. I also leave my testimony with you that God is at the helm of the ship Zion, and He will never allow it to run upon the rocks, but will protect and guide it. The mission that was placed upon the Prophet Joseph Smith, of establishing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in this last dispensation, never more to be thrown down or given to another people, will succeed. Let us all be humble, and live in such a manner that our conduct will be worthy of emulation. God give us strength to do this, that our influence may be felt from one end of the world to the other. May our young people be pure in heart and pure in their lives, live according to the laws of God and receive His blessings; which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Brother William D. Phillips rendered a tenor solo, entitled "The Perfect Life." 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Unusual musical talent among the Latter-day Saints. — Character of community indicated by their popular songs. — Sublime themes of hymns sung by Latter-day Saints. 

Brethren and sisters : The Latter-day Saints are not only studious, thoughtful, and reverent, but they are also a musical people. In evidence of this, like my brother who has just preceded me, I point to this great organ, which is an outward symbol that speaks in tones of eloquence of our love of music. I point to the congregational hymns of praise that ascend during these conference times from the Tabernacle of the Lord, the influence of which I am sure must penetrate into the heavens. I point to the Tabernacle Choir, which, under the capable leadershio of Brother Evan Stephens as conductor, and Brother John J. McClellan as organist, have accomplished great achievements within our knowledge. I point to the numerous choirs in the 700 wards of the Church, some of which have greatly distinguished themselves. The members of the Tabernacle Choir, especially, in concert and upon the Sabbath day. and also at the general Conference, have captivated and charmed the Latter-day Saints by their splendid work; and you will remember that the Tabernacle Choir appeared in competition with other choirs before the nations of the earth, at the World's Fair. While they did not receive the first prize, yet in the estimation of very many people, strangers as well as friends, they were entitled to it; but our Choir did win the second prize, and surely that was sufficient honor to satisfy the most ambitious of choirs or choir-leaders, and will give them influence and prestige that will attach to them to the latest generation. It seemed that the world could not concede the first prize to the "Mormon" singers, and consequently there was a great combination effected, consisting of the very best and choicest choral singers of Wales and the United States, to defeat this purpose, which was  very proper, I suppose, but we feel highly honored in the victory won by the Choir. 

I want to say to you that I believe we are most profoundly influenced by the songs which we sing. Some writer has said, in substance, that if you will show me the songs which a people or a community sing, then I will tell you the character of that community. There is much truth in this statement. I hold before you a book which is entitled : "Sacred Hymns and Spiritual Songs," for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints," and I declare that this is one of the most remarkable books in the literature of the Latter-day Saints. It comprises 460 hymns, about seventy of which treat upon five great and important themes, and they are as familiar to the Latter-day Saints as the A B Cs. The themes to which I allude are as follows : 

Jesus Christ, the Lord; Joseph Smith, His prophet; the Book of Mormon; the founding of Zion; and the Millennium. 

Jesus, the Christ. We believe that He was and is the Son of the living God — not in some mysterious, unaccountable way, but naturally. We believe that we are the children of God, and that Jesus is our elder brother; and we are confirmed in this belief, because the Father and the Son appeared to the youthful prophet, Joseph Smith, and the Father said : "This is my beloved Son; hear Him." Surely, we should sing of the Lord. You will find in the hymn book eleven great hymns treating upon His life and labors, His suffering, and death, and his resurrection. Let me call you attention to them only to remind you how familiar the Latterday Saints are with these beautiful  of praise. The first two lines of each are as follows : 

"Jesus, once of humble birth, Now in glory comes to earth." 

"Come, O Thou King of kings, We've waited long for Thee." 

"Redeemer of Israel, Our only delight." 

"A poor wayfaring man of grief, Hath often crossed me on the way." 

"Glory to God on high, Let heaven and earth reply." 

"Arise, my soul, arise, Shake off thy guilty fears." 

"He died! the Great Redeemer died, And Israel's daughters wept around." 

"I know that my Redeemer lives; What comfort this sweet sentence gives!" 

"Behold the great Redeemer comes To bring His ransomed people home." 

"Behold the great Redeemer die, A broken law to satisfy." 

"How great the wisdom and the love That filled the courts on high." 

The Lord never works in a direct way, by revelation, or word of mouth, among the people of the earth, except He has a prophet, a man who holds the keys of authority to officiate in the ordinances of the Gospel, who possesses the sealing power, to seal on earth and it shall be sealed in the heavens, to loose on earth and it shall be loosed in the heavens, to remit sin on earth and it is remitted in the heavens. Such a prophet was Joseph Smith, and he stands at the head of this great, last dispensation. Surely in our songs of praise and thanksgiving we shall soeak of the murdered prophet, the man who, with his brother, laid down his life for  testimony of Jesus, and for the founding and establishing of this great work. You will find in the hymn book six notable songs that refer to the Prophet and which are perfectly familiar to the Latter-day Saints, and are sung upon frequent occasions : 

"Our God, we raise to Thee, Thanks for Thy blessings free." 

"Come listen to a prophet's voice And hear the word of God." 

"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet To guide us in these latter days." 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah, 

Jesus anointed that 'Prophet and Seer.' " 

"The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer, I'll sing of the prophet ever dear." 

"O give me back my Prophet dear, And Patriarch, O give them back," 

I have sometimes thought that the fame of Isaiah, the prophet, rests largely upon his predictions concerning the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and those relating to Zion. In speaking of this remarkable book, the ancient prophet says that "It whispers from the dust," whispers of a people long extinct, and "The truth springs from the earth." Is it not so? This wonderful book embraces the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel. It harmonizes in principle and doctrine with the Holy Bible, and instead of weakening strengthens it, and certifies to the glorious truths set forth therein. Surely we will sing of the Book of Mormon. You will find in this hymn book five splendid songs respecting the Book of Mormon, the first lines of which are as follows : "What was witnessed in the heavens? Why, an angel, earthward bound." 

"Hark! ye mortals. Hist! be still. Voices from Cumorah's hill." 

"An angel from on high 

The long, long silence broke." 

"The happy day has rolled on, 

The truth restored is now made known." 

"Go, ye messengers of glory; Run, ye legates of the skies." 

Great and glorious were the predictions of Isaiah, concerning the founding of Zion. In one place he says : "And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say : Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." And in another place the prophet says: "Fear not, for I am with thee. I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather them from the West; and I will say to the North: Give up, and to the South : Keep not back; and I will bring your sons from afar, and your daughters from the ends of the earth, even all who bear the name of the Lord." O, what a glorious theme is this, Zion of the latter-days! Shall we not celebrate such a great subject -in praise, and in thanksgiving? It is done. You will find in the hymn book 26 inspired songs respecting Zion, too many to be read upon this occasion, but I will name a few that are most prominent among them. These are familiar to us all, and  immortalize the writers who penned them under the inspiration of the Almighty : 

"The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled." 

I hardly need to go further, this is a text in itself. 

"Glorious things of thee are spoken, Zion, city of our God." 

"On the mountain's top appearing, Lo, the sacred herald stands." 

"Zion stands with hills surrounded— Zion, kept by power divine." 

"Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor 

labor fear, But with joy wend your way." 

"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth." 

"O, ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky 

Arches over the vales of the free." 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us refer for a moment to the fifth great theme. We are passing through trying times which are testing the souls of men. There are thunderings and lightnings, and vapors of smoke, and earthquakes, and the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds. There is commotion in the midst of the nations, and men's hearts are failing them for fear. These things will all pass away. Latter-day Saints! Hold on to the faith; be firm; be patient; be steadfast; be true to the cause; be true to Zion. 

Surely we will sing of the great Millennium. You will find herein five songs which emphasize in a very striking manner the opening of a thousand years of peace and rest : 

"Softly beams the sacred dawning Of the great Millennial morn." 

"Come let us anew our journey pursue, Roll round with the year." 

"Let us pray, gladly pray, In the house of Jehovah." 

"Now let us rejoice in 'the day of salvation, 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam." 

"Sons of Michael, He approaches! Rise, the Eternal Father greet." 

And the glorious hymn that was sung this morning : 

"Though deep'ning trials throng your way, 

Press on, press on, ye Saints of God!" 

And there are some miscellaneous songs in the hymn book which are worthy of mention, and worthy of our profound consideration. They set forth some of the most glorious truths that have been given to the Latter-day Saints. Let me remind you of : 

"O my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place." 

"God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform." 

"Should you feel inclined to censure, Faults you may in others view." 

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Unuttered or expressed." 

"School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm impulsive soul." 

"Do what is right; let the consequence follow." 

"O say, what is Truth?" 

And last but not least : 

"My country, 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I sing." 

It seems to me — to use a strong expression — that the atmosphere of our mountain home is charged and surcharged with the spirit of melody. Is it any wonder that the great prophet of former times should proclaim: "For the Lord shall comfort Zion; He will comfort all her waste places; and He will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody." 

May the Lord bless us. May His peace be upon the congregations of Isarel. May His choicest blessings rest upon our President and his counselors. This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Commendation of labors of Elders Lyman and Penrose. — Endorsement of truths advocated by other speakers. — Three vitally important questions, and answers thereto. 

I would have been happier had it fallen to my lot to have more than eighteen minutes to talk to you; but as the people in this city are inclined to criticise anybody who talks in meeting beyond four o'clock, unless I forget myself, for the first time in this Tabernacle, I shall stop at four o'clock — I mean at twelve o'clock. I have forgotten myself already, you see. If I were in Arizona, or Mexico, or Canada, or some place other than Salt Lake, I would feel at perfect liberty to talk ten or fifteen minutes beyond the time, and not expect to be censured bv the Saints. We have so much good preaching and so much good singing here that we apparently get tired of it. I notice that some times when the Tabernacle choir gives a concert very few people attend; I sunoose they hear the choir so often for nothinf that they do not care to pay for the privilege. 

After an absence of three years and a half, I rejoice to return to my mountain home. I rejoice in the progress of the work of God at home or abroad. I wish to say to fathers and mothers who have sons in the Eurooean Mission that they are doing their duty, they are boys to be proud of. 

While in Japan, I prayed to the Lord with all my heart, in the woods of that countrv. that I might be permitted to succeed Brother Lyman as the President of the European Mission. And why? Because I knew from my experience in following him in the Tooele Stake of Zion that he would have all the holes filled up, the bridges made, and the roads in good condition. I knew that I would find the Mission well organized and everything in fine shape, with a good foundation upon which to build. I built upon that foundation, and the young missionaries seconded my efforts there. God blessed us in our labors, and there was an increase of our Church work in that land during my administration. I feel that there will be still greater increase under the administration of Brother Penrose, because of the foundation laid by Brother Lyman, seconded by my efforts. When people sav that the Latter-day Saints do not believe in education and investigation, they simply tell that which is not true. Last year, in the British Isles alone, over four million tracts were distributed by the elders, and those tracts were principally written by Elder Charles W. Penrose. 

In ability to expound the Scriptures, Brother Penrose has that qualification pre-eminently. I once heard a man talking with Rev. Dr. Iliff on the railway train. (They did not know I was in the seat behind.) This man said to Iliff that he had heard nearly every great preacher in the United States, but that when he was in Salt Lake City he had heard in the Mormon Tabernacle the best and most logical sermon he had ever listened to. He asked Dr. Iliff, "Who is your great Mormon preacher out there?" Iliff said he didn't know any great Mormon preacher. "Why," said the man, "you must know that man; there could not be another one like him." "Well," replied Iliff," I don't know who you mean." "Well, who edits the Mormon paper out there?" "Oh! that's Penrose," said Iliff. "That's the fellow," said the man; "he preached the best and most logical sermon I ever heard in my life." Thin as I am, that put fat on my ribs; but it seemed to kill off Iliff. It was like pouring a bucket of cold water on his head, and he moved away from the man; he didn't want any more of it. This man who preaches such a fine sermon is today President of the European Mission. I tell you that, with all the intelligence in the British Isles, there is no man there who, with the Bible as the standard, can confute Brother Penrose. We are not ashamed of our religion. We know the Gosoel of Jesus Christ is true. We have set our light so that it can be seen of all men. 

I call your attention to a little tract written by President Hugh J. Cannon, entitled, "Whv." It gives reasons why our voung men without college education, with little experience, and without polemic train , can meet the wisest and best informed and cause many of them to lay down their sectarian ministry and embrace the principles of truth and salvation, as taught by the Latter-day Saints. They are successful because we have the truth, and the divinity of the work in which we are engaged is beyond question. 

I endorse with all my heart every word that is in the declaration to the world that was read here yesterday. I endorse the remarks made by. our President and by all the other speakers. I want to endorse the Word of Wisdom. I have been in only two or three Stakes since I have been home, and the Presidents of those Stakes have told me that there is an increased sale of tea, coffee and tobacco among the Latter-day Saints. In our social gatherings, too many of the people, some holding official positions, drink tea or coffee. Therefore, I endorse all that I heard yesterday on the Word of Wisdom before I withdrew to attend a funeral. I understand there was more said afterward, and I endorse that, too. I heard of one of the brethren who was awakened from sleep at the close of a sermon, and he* got up and bore testimony to the truth of what had been said. He was asked how he could do it, and he replied : "Because I know the speaker would not say anything that was not true." So I bear testimony to all that was said here yesterday by the servants of the Lord on the Word of Wisdom, including that which was said after I left. It is a law of God; President Brigham Young declared it to be such, therefore, we are breaking one of the commandments of God if we fail to obey the Word of Wisdom. 

I want to endorse what Charles Dickens wrote, that was read here today by Brother Reed Smoot. Wherever the Latter-day Saints go proclaiming this Gosoel, it is the pick and the flower of the people that embrace it. It is honest men and women who embrace the truth; and when they hear the word of God they rejoice in their souls. They are full of integrity, and they show their integrity by sacrificing, if need be, for the advancement of this cause. 

I endorse all the good things said here by Brother Clawson regarding the songs of Zion. God Himself said, in a revelation to Emma Smith, who was given the mission to choose the hymns that would be acceptable to Him, that His soul delighted in the song of the heart; "yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered in blessing upon their heads." I hone that when the next psalmody is published they will be able to find room enough in it to put in the fourth verse of many of our best hymns. One of the finest hymns we have is one of those that Brother Clawson referred to, "Come, come, ye Saints!" It is mv favorite. When I think of the travels of our fathers and mothers; when I think of their singing that song, many of them laying down their lives in the spirit of the words, "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day, all is well!" — when I realize their integrity and devotion, I pray God to make us worthy of such fathers and mothers as those who sang this song from their hearts, for many of them did lay down their lives before their journey was through. I endorse all the good thiners that have been said during- this Conference. 

I want to read here something from a book written by ' one of America's foremost statesmen, which I had the pleasure of reading- in nearly all the conferences of England : 

"A few years ago a certain man, with good opportunities for the investigation and a probability of sincere answers, asked every young preacher whom he met during a summer vacation these questions : 

"First, Yes or no, do you believe in God, the Father; God a person, God a definite and tangible intelligence— not a congeries of laws floating like a fog through the universe; but God a person in whose image vou were made? Don't argue; don't explain; but is -"our mind in a condition where you can answer yes or no? 

"Not a man answered Yes. Each man wanted to explain that the Deity might be a definite intelligence or might not; that the 'latest thought' was much confused upon the matter, and so forth and so on. 

"Second, Yes or no, do you believe that Christ was the Son of the living God, sent by Him to save the world? I am not asking whether you believe that He was inspired in the sense that the great moral teachers are inspired — nobody has any difficulty about that. But do you believe that Christ was God'3 very Son, with a divinely appointed and definite mission, dying on the cross and raised from the dead — yes or no? 

"Again not a single answer with an unequivocal, earnest Yes. But again explanations were offered and in at least half the instances the sum of most of the answers was that Christ was the most perfect man that the world had seen and humanity's greatest moral teacher. 

"Third, Do you believe that when you die you will live again as a conscious, intelligence, knowing who you are and who other people are? 

"Again, not one answer was unconditionally affirmative. 'Of course they were not sure as a matter of knowledge.' 'Of course that could not be known positively.' 'On the whole, thev were inclined to think so, but there were very objections,' and so forth and so on. 

"The men to whom these questions were put were particularly high-grade ministers. One of them had already won a distinguished reputation in New York and the New England states for his eloquence and piety. Every one of them had had unusual successes with fashionable congregations. 

"But every one of them had noted an absence of real influence upon the hearts of their hearers and all thought that this same condition is spreading throughout the modern pulpit. 

"Yet not one of them suspected that the profound cause of what they- called 'the decay of faith' was, not in the world of men and women, but in themselves. How could such priests of ice warm the souls of men? How could such apostles of interrogation convert a world?" 

What are the answers of every Latter-day Saint who goes out to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to these questions? The answers are Yes! Yes! Yes! without a moment's hesitation. And the same answers will be given by each tenyear-old child in any of our Sabbath schools. We believe in God the Father. We believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, with a divinely-appointed mission, the Savior of the world. We believe that we shall exist eternally, and that we shall have a conscious knowledge of ourselves, and of others. We are married for time and for all eternity. We have God's truth to give to the world. We court the light of day; we court investigation. We say to all the world, God lives, and we are made in His image. We say to all the world, Jesus is the Christ, and we know it We say to all the world, Joseph Smith was God's prophet. I bear my testimony that I know that God lives, that I know that Jesus is the Christ, that I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. God bless you all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Important interrogations. — Emphatic response. 

I want to give this congregation the opportunity of answering yes or no to the questions that have been read by Brother Heber J. Grant, namelv : 

"First, Yes or no, do you believe in God, the Father; God a person, God a definite and tangible intelligence — not a congeries of laws floating like a fog through the universe; but God a person in whose image you were made? Don't argue; don't explain; but is your mind in a condition where you can answer yes or no? 

"Second, Yes or no, do you believe that Christ was the son of the living God, sent by Him to save the world? I am not asking whether you believe that He was inspired in the sense that the great moral teachers are inspired — nobody has any difficulty about that. But do you believe that Christ was God's very Son, with a divinely appointed and definite mission, dying on the cross and raised from the dead — yes or no? 

"Third, Do you believe that when you die you will live again as a conscious intelligence, knowing who you are and who other people are?" 

Every man and woman in this congregation that can answer yes to these questions, say yes. (There was a universal response from all over the house.) And every one that bears the name of Latter-day Saint in this vast congregation that cannot say yes, let him say no. (Not a single response.) Brother Heber has told us the truth. There is no doubt in the minds of Latter-day Saints in relation to the existence and personage of the Lord God Almighty, who is the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. There is no doubt in the minds of Latter-day Saints that Jesus is the Son of God, being begotten of the 

Father in the flesh. And there is no Latter-day Saint in all the world but knows as truly and as fully as God can impart that knowledge to the soul of man, that he shall live again after death, and that men and women shall be associated together as God has ordained and they have been united by His power, to dwell together forever and forever; and they shall know as they are known, they shall see as they are seen, and they shall understand as God understands; for they are His children. I wanted to say this much in confirmation of the faith of the Latterday Saints with reference to the questions that have been asked here, and that cannot be answered by the sectarian world, because they have not the faith or the knowledge to answer them. Latter-day Saints can answer them, because God has revealed the knowledge to them in this day through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and by the testimony of the Spirit of God in the heart of every faithful Latter-day Saint. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God, our fathers' God; Thou hast made Thy children mighty, By the touch of the mountain sod. 

AUDITING. COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 

President Joseph F. Smith read the annual report of the Church auditing committee, as follows : 

Salt Lake City, March 20, 1907. 

President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors. Dear Brethren — We, the undersigned members of the general Church auditing committee, beg leave to report as follows : 

We have carefully examined the accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, Presiding Bishopric, the Deseret News, the Latter-day Saints' hospital and other business concerns in which the Church is interested, for the year 1906. We find that the accounting in the various departments is properlv done; every dollar received has been correctly entered, and the disbursements under your direction have been economically and wisely made for the exclusive benefit of the various interests of the Church. And we heartily endorse your judicious and conservative administration. 

The Church is to be congratulated upon the fact that the Church bonds have been redeemed, that the Church is entirely free from debt and has sufficient funds on hand to meet 'necessary requirements. 

Your brethren, (Signed.) Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, W. W. Riter, 

C. W. NlBLEY, 

A. W. Carlson, General Church Auditing Committee. 

President Anthon H. Lund moved that the report of the auditine committee be accepted and approved by the Conference. The motion was seconded, and carried unanimously. 

Benediction was pronounced byBishop Orrin P. Miller. 
