Morning
07 04 1907


PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Gratifying condition of financial and other records of the Church. — One per cent death rate among members of the Church in Utah, in 1906.— Reasons for observing first day of week as Sabbath, and for believing in resurrection. 

Brethren and Sisters : I feel a certain timidity, when I see this large congregation, and have to occupy your attention for a time. I ask that the Spirit of the Lord may aid me in what I desire to say unto you. 

I have enjoyed the past sessions of the conference, and I believe all who have been present have been paid for coming, and have felt that  is the place for the Latter-day Saints. They have enjoyed the addresses made, and have taken part in the business of the conference with pleasure, and everything has been done unanimously. 

I was pleased yesterday to hear the auditor's report. I know that it is exactly according to truth. These men who have been appointed to act as auditors, devoted considerable time to go through all the accounts and books kept by the Church, and hence in giving their report they did so understandingly. They gave the true status of the financial affairs of the Church. I am pleased that our accounts are kept in such shape that everv cent is accounted for, so that it can be shown how the/ Church funds have been used. Much credit is due to the Presiding Bishopric and to Brother John Wells for the accurate manner in which the Church books are kept; and as they are kept in the general office, so they are now kept in all the stakes and wards of Zion. Less loss in handling produce has been reported this year than ever before. This shows how well the Bishops are taking care of the things pertaining to the Lord's storehouse. 

I am also able to say unto you that the historical and statistical records of the Church are getting into a similar condition of accuracy and completeness. As early as the 6th of April, 1830, the Lord, in a revelation, told the Prophet Joseph that there should be records kept in the Church; and later on John Whitmer was commanded to write a history of the Church. This is a very important matter. How glad we are that Matthew, Mark, Luke and John applied themselves to the work of writing a part of the history of our Redeemer! If they had not done so, how much we would have missed! We love to read the accounts given us in their gospels, of the beautiful life of our Savior while here upon the earth, and we are very thankful that these records were kept. Likewise we are thankful that we have the record called the Book of Mormon, which contains a history of the earliest settling of this continent. We rejoice that we have the writings of the Nephis, of Alma, and of all those recorders who gave us the history of the Lord's hand dealings with His people upon this land. When Lehi left Jerusalem he saw the necessity of having records with him, and sent his sons back to get the records kept by one of his kinsmen. He obtained the history of the people of the Lord until within six hundred years of Christ. The prophecies of several of the prophets, the accounts from the creation up to that time, were brought with them to this land, and this helped them to regulate their lives, to obey the laws of God, to remember what the Lord had done for their forefathers, and to keep their language purer than they otherwise could have done. As I said, when the Church was organized in our day the Lord commanded that records should be kept. I wish that commandment had been more strictly obeyed and more elaborate records had been kept from the beginning of the Church. What history we have is correct, but John Whitmer's  and the records of the earlv recorders of the Church are not very extensive, and if it were not for the history of the Prophet Joseph, and the journals kept by some of our leading men in those early days, our knowledge of the interesting events of that remarkable period of our history would be very meager. We are trying to obtain from journals, letters and correspondence additional historical matter to what we have in the history of the Prophet Joseph, and we gather many interesting facts from precious documents which have been kept in different families. We hope that the descendants of the early members of the Church who kept journals or records of any kind will be kind enough to bring them to the Historian's Office, and give us the opportunity either to keep them or to copy them, in order that the facts recorded may be remembered. 

In late years great importance has been attached to the keeping of the statistics of the Church. We have these reports bound, and they give us interesting data, and will be more and more valuable in time to come. In looking over the statistics of the Church for the last year, I find that there has been a substantial increase in the members added to the Church : 542 more births in 1906 than in 1905, and the death rate was considerably smaller — 332 less than in 1905. In fact, the death rate in all the stakes of Zion combined does not exceed one per cent. This is quite an item for the life insurance companies. If such a rate could be kept up, the prophecies would be fulfilled that people should live to be a hundred years old. I believe that the mode of living observed by the Latter Saints tends to longevity, and that if the Saints will follow the counsel that has been given in this conference on the subject of the Word of Wisdom, they will add years to their lives. Instead of indulging in appetites that are destructive to the system, they should live pla^n and simple lives, and they would thereby receive much greater happiness. If, however, they allow themselves to gratify their appetites for strong drink, tobacco or other stimulants, they create an almost uncontrollable longing for these things, and form a habit that is very hard to overcome, and which is ruinous to the functions of the vital organs. I do honor those who, though having strong desires for these things, still do not yield, but resist and overcome their inclinations. Let us try, brethren and sisters, to follow the counsel of the Lord who gave this advice to us, not to take from us the pleasures of life, but rather to increase them; for what is of greater benefit to the human body than health, and health cannot be enjoyed if we go contrary to the laws which the Lord has laid down. I believe that the keeping of the Word of Wisdom, to the extent that the Saints have kept it, is responsible for the low death rate. 

I notice also in the statistical report that more of our young people have entered the temples last year than the year before, and they have been sealed by the authority the Lord has given His servants. I would encourage our young people to marry, and to marry right. They should keep themselves pure and free from the sins of the world, that when they wish to marry, their Bishops can give them recommends to the temples, and at the altar of  Lord they can be sealed for time and for all eternity by that authority which binds on earth and 't shall be bound in heaven. We believe in the eternity of the marriage contract. We do believe in a future life. We gave evidence of this belief in answer to the question asked us yesterday. We believe that life is continuous. We believe in the resurrection, and that the spirit and body will again be united; we believe that we will know as we are known, and that the marriage relation will continue, that, husband and wife will dwell together through all eternity, that the: love which binds their hearts together upon the earth wil! not leave them at death, but that it will endure eternally, and hence we encourage our young people to commence their married life in the right way. 

There is a matter to which I would like to call the attention of our brethren and sisters, and that is our Sunday meetings. It is a pleasure to visit some of our wards and find every seat taken and our meeting houses full of worshipers, but there are too many wards whej-e the Saints are not so attentive to this duty. We go to the house of worship to receive spiritual food, to be instructed and advised by the servants of the Lord and to worship Him to whom we owe all. He has commanded that we should go to the house of worship on the day appointed, and let us not feel satisfied on that day to stay at home, or think that by reading some good book we can be instructed as well as by going to meeting. Remember that the meeting is the place where we renew our covenants; we partake of the Sacrament, and renew our vows to serve the Lord, and His Spirit is promised us when we do this in sincerity. It puts us in communion with Him who instituted the Sacrament. It is our duty to go to the table of the Lord and partake of the emblems of His body and blood, but this must be done in the right way. We must not go there with hard feelings towards our brethren and sisters. Those who take part in that sacred ordinance must be one, for if they are not, or are under transgression, or harbor feelings of hatred in their hearts towards any of their brethren, they eat and drink unworthily. The Apostle Paul says that anyone who does so "eateth and drinketh damnation to himself." Consequently we must watch ourselves that we do not so partake of it. Some may say : "If there is danger of eating and drinking unto condemnation, we had better not touch it," but the Lord has given a commandment that we are to partake of the Sacrament, and if we abstain from doing this, we are not fulfilling our duty. It is a great blessing to partake of the Sacrament. In doing it our thoughts go back to Him who gave His life for us, and we make the covenant that we will take upon us His name and keep His commandments, and always remember Him, and we are promised that we shall have His Spirit. In doing this we are blessed and strengthened for the coming week's work. 

In regard to the Sabbath dav I will say that there is no doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints in regard to the day of the week on which we are to worshin. In the beginning the Sabbath was commanded to be observed on the seventh day. The Lord rested on that day. Israel observed it very strict. There are instances where persons were put to death who violated this command of the Lord. There are instances in the Jewish history where the people out of reverence for the Sabbath would not engage in battle on that day. If their enemies, the Gentiles, attacked them on the Sabbath day, they would not defend themselves, hence leaving it very easy for their enemies to gain the victory, so strict were they in the observance of the day which the Lord had apoointed. But we observe the first day of the week. Is there any commandment in the Scriptures in regard to this ? Reading the New Testament through we cannot find any direct command to change the Sabbath to the first day, and some Christian sects hold that all the rest of the Christian world have gone astray because they keep the first day of the week holy instead of the seventh day. Some have attacked us on this point, and they have said : Your principles are strictly in accord with the teachings of the apostles formerly, but you do not keep the commandment of the Lord in regard to the Sabbath day. We are informed in the Scriptures that the Lord, our Savior, was resurrected upon a Sunday A week ago we celebrated the anniversary of His resurrection. We believe that He was resurrected bodily; that the man Jesus, the Son of God, did as He had told His disciples He would do : on the third day He took up His body. That same day He appeared to some of the disciples and to some of the women. On the Sunday following He appeared to His apostles, and showed them the marks on His body, convincing the "doubting Thomas" who would not believe unless he should see Him himself. He was gratified to see  Savior, but he got this gentle reproof : "Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed." Thomas doubted at first, but his doubts were dispelled. The admonition is to all of us that we must not reject that which is taught us, just because we have not seen it ourselves. By taking the testimony of others we increase our store of knowledge. By taking the testimony of the aoostles and five hundred who saw Jesus at one time, we increase our knowledge to this extent : that we know that one person conquered death. Then we read that other resurrected beings were seen in Jerusalem, having risen from their graves — showing that the resurrection was not confined to Jesus alone, and that it commenced not before, but after, Christ had conquered death. 

What an inspiring thought, that death is conquered, that Jesus won the victory over death! It was a great event, worthy of being celebrated and remembered. There is no doubt in my mind that the apostles taught the Saints to come together on the first day of the week — on the Sunday — to make that the day of worship. The Jews, you know, were very strict as to the Saturday, the seventh day, and they dared, perhaps, not neglect that day. Not only did they keep the Sabbath according- to the Mosaic law; but we find that they also came together for worshio on the Sunday, the Lord's day. They partook of the Sacrament on that day. Paul at one-time preached on the Sunday evening so late that one person, falling asleep, fell down from the third story, and was found to be dead, but Paul, by the power of God, raised him from the dead. If you will refer to the Corinthians  will see that Paul there alludes to the Saints coming together on the Sunday. Writers from the first century tell us that the Christians met on the Sunday and made that their holy day. I believe that this custom was inaugurated by the apostles. The day of the resurrection was of such importance that they made the first day, on which it took place, the Sabbath day, or the holy day of the week. You remember the commandment of the Lord, recorded in the book of Deuteronomy, in regard to the Sabbath day, as follows : "But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy man-servant, nor thy maidservant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates, that thy man-servant and thy maidservant may rest as well as thou; and remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand and by a stretched out arm; therefore the Lord God commanded thee to keep the Sabbath day." One reason is given here by the Lord why Israel should observe the Sabbath, namely, their wonderful deliverance from servitude through His power, and they were commanded to commemorate this event on the seventh day. Is it, then, so strange that the apostles formerly changed the day to remember the much greater event — the event of the resurrection, and that Sunday on which that great event occurred became the Sabbath day unto the Saints? 

It is impossible for all to keep the Sabbath day at the very same time all over the globe. If all the people lived on one longtitude or meridian they could keep it at the same time, but as they are now scattered around the globe, there is a great difference in time. For instance, children went to Sunday School in New Zealand yesterday at half past two o'clock. It was Saturday to us; it was ten o'clock Sunday morning to them. The children on the Hawaiian Islands will go to Sunday School about one o'clock today, and it will be ten o'clock then for them. Thus, at a given time it may be Sunday for one set of people and Saturday for people in another nlace. The teachers in the Hawaiian Sunday School might say today to the children, "Your brethren in New Zealand met yesterday, when it was twelve o'clock here, in their Sunday School," and the children would likely say, Why, they have Sunday School on a Saturday!" The line which divides the time, or which indicates where day begins, is an arbitra—  one made by men for the sake of convenience. It is located the very best place that it could be, because there are very few inhabitants that the line will strike. It passes over the Pacific Ocean, and in order that no island shall have Saturday on one side and Sunday on the other, they have turned the line around the groups in the Pacific Ocean, so that those oertaining to the same country, under the same government, mav have the same day; but this is all an arbitrary arrangement. If then the Lord acceoted the devotions of those who worshiped Him --°sterday, calling the day Sunday, and accepts the worship of those living a short distance eastward who call today Sunday, the important question seems to be, not so much the exact time as the fact that one day  every seven is set apart to be a day of rest. 

There are some who strongly argue in favor of the Saturday as the Sabbath instead of the Sunday, and they create in the minds of many a grave doubt as to which day is the correct day to be observed as Sabbath. Where such doubt exists it cannot be removed by any other means than revelation. When the Scriptures are silent on this point, and men do not feel to take tradition as a rule, then they are left without positive knowledge on the subject. The Latterday Saints are not so left. The Lord in a revelation given to the Saints says : 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; for verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from vour labors, and to pay thv devotions unto the Most High;" 

"Upon my holy day." Which is that day? This revelation was given August seventh, 1831, which was a Sunday. The following paragraph makes it plain that Sunday is the day set apart for worship : 

"But remember that on this the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." 

This takes away all doubt from the minds of the Saints, for here through the revelation of the Lord we are told that we are to hold the Sunday holy. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us go to our meetings; let us worship the Lord; let us not feel satisfied to stay at home; but always feel that it is a duty to go to the Lord's  and there with the Saints partake of the blessings which He has promised. May the Lord bless you all is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

FAMINE IN CHINA. 

President John R. Winder moved the adoption of the following resolution : 

"Whereas, The president of the United States has called national attention to the existence of the sore distress in China on account of famine, and 

"Whereas, The Lord has greatly blessed the Saints and all the interests of the Church, and, 

"Whereas, our Relief Societies have stored up grain against a time of need; now therefore, I move that the Trustee-in-Trust be, and is hereby authorized to appropriate and donate toward the relief of the poor in famine stricken China 20 tons of flour." 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to second the resolution offered by President Winder to this conference; and in doing so I desire to call attention to the fact that we are connected with an institution founded of God for the benefit of the whole world, and that it is an institution of world-wide sympathies; that it is an institution whose doctrines recognize the great truth that the children of men are also the children of God, and that all men are brethren. No calamity can fall upon any of our Father's children but what our hearts go out in sympathy to them. I trust also that this movement, which I believe will  unanimously endorsed by this conference, may bear witness to the wisdom that exists in our methods of collecting means for charitable and religious purposes. Thank God, there is an institution in the earth whose charities are constantly accumulating, that in the very moment of need there is a means of ministering unto the children of men — a circumstance that speaks loudly for the divine wisdom that has made these provisions in the Church of Christ. With all my heart I second the resolution of President Winder. 

The resolution was adopted by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

Brother Elihu Call rendered a tenor solo, entitled, "Save Me, O God." 

ELDER SYLVESTER a. CANNON. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being present at this conference this morning; and I have rejoiced exceedingly in the meetings which have already been held. I trust that the few moments I stand before you, my remarks may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord. As has been said by President Smith, I have been called to labor in the Netherlands mission. While I feel that there is a great work to be done here at home, I am happy in the opportunity of going abroad to again preach the Gospel in the nations of Holland and Belgium, because I can assure you that the mission I have already performed in those countries was the most enjoyable time of my life. I believe that no greater joy can come to any one than the joy experienced in the saving of human souls. Our Father has said that human souls are precious in His sight, and He has given a commandment to His Church that the Gospel shall be preached in all nations, and that every man, woman and ch.ild that is able to understand, shall have the opportunity of hearing the Gospel and receiving its blessings, if they believe the same and obey it. I rejoice in this call that has been made, because, as has been said here — more particularly in our priesthood meeting, — the people of those countries, Holland and Belgium, are a sturdy class, and those who are accepting the Gospel are among the best in those nations. They accept the Gospel because they understand the Bible. They have studied the Scriptures, and they are prepared, in very many instances, to receive the truth when the missionaries bring it to them. They seek to live according to the Gospel; they seek to obey its precepts, to live up to its requirements. I feel that they are a good people. I believe that those who have accepted the Gospel will be true, generally speaking, to the end of their lives. The missionaries who have labored in that field have been diligent in their labors. I do not know the present situation with regard to the needs of the mission, respecting elders, but I do know that every man who is prepared to go forth and labor diligently, and in humility, for the progress of this work will be welcomed in the Netherlands mission. I believe there is no more fruitful field anywhere in the world today than that mission. I rejoice in the prospect of the publication of the Doctrine and Covenants in that language, because the people have been longing for that record of revelations. At various times certain sections have been published, but the book  a whole has not been in their hands; and I feel that it will prove a great blessing, and a great benefit to the saints who have accepted the Gospel there, to have the privilege of reading and studying this important Church work. 

I rejoice in the prospects that are before us, my brethren and sisters. I desire to endorse and to sustain every action that has been taken at this conference thus far. I desire to sustain the Presidency of the Church and the Quorum of the Apostles, and every one of the general authorities. I realize that they are men of God, that they are indeed inspired; and that they enjoy the spirit of their calling, which will enable them, and which does enable them, to guide and direct the affairs of 'this Church in accordance with the will of our Father in heaven. I pray that we as a people may sustain them, that we may be prepared to accept the instructions we receive and to carry them out. For myself, I desire with all my heart to remain true to this work to the' end of my life. I desire not only to be true to it, but I desire to be active in its behalf, for the furtherance of the work and the fulfilment of the responsibilities which the Lord has placed upon us. May the Lord bless us, and may we carry with us, wherever we go, the spirit of this conference; may we seek to fulfill and carry out the instructions which have been given, or which may be given to us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. SMART. 

(President of Uintah Stake.) 

In speaking briefly, my brethren and sisters, of matters pertaining to the Stake over which I have been  to preside, I sincerely hope that I may be actuated by the spirit of truth — the spirit of this conference. It was, as I remember, last June when I was called to preside over the Uintah Stake of Zion, and in the month of August, having then been released from my labors in the Wasatch Stake, with my family I went immediately to Vernal, the headquarters of the Uintah Stake. The territory within the confines of the Uintah Indian Reservation, which had recently been thrown open for settlement, was placed within the organized Uintah Stake. The Uintah Stake proper had been organized twenty years. Brother Samuel R. Bennion, of Salt Lake County, was called as the first President of that Stake. Prior to that it was presided over by Jeremiah Hatch, as a presiding Elder, acting under the President of the Wasatch Stake, Abram Hatch. The Uintah Stake as it is now comprised is bordered on the east by Colorado, and on the west by the Wasatch Stake of Zion. It is in a general direct line between Salt Lake City and Denver. It holds an intermediate position between the country traversed by the Union Pacific railway and the Rio Grande railway, and consequently it bids fair to be pierced by another continental railroad in the near future, which will facilitate the growth and interests of that country, which I verily believe has a great future. Speaking in a general way, the Uintah basin is about 125 miles by 90 miles. It is of an oval shape. It is one of the best watered sections of the State of Utah. The main streams that flow into it are the Strawberry, Duchesne, Lake Fork, Uintah, Ashley, Green river, and White river, with their numerous tributaries. ' The soil has a  aspect; and one who goes from a grassy country will look upon it as a rather forbidding land; but, like the soil of many parts of Southern Utah, and other places in the West where the land seems to be sterile, when it is blessed by irrigation, it is exceedingly fertile. There were some very glowing statements made with reference to this land prior to the opening of the Uintah Indian Reservation, and they were sometimes somewhat overdrawn. A great many people rushed there expecting to see an Eldorado, an oasis, — well cultivated farms and orchards, the products of the Indians' labor under the tutelage of the government, and when they found that the country had to be made, many of them were dissatisfied and went away, not to return. Some of these people have scattered broadcast unfavorable statements concerning the land, and the impression has got out that there is so much mineral matter in the soil that it will continue sterile and barren. But upon the Uintah Indian Reservation territory last year there was some as fine cereals raised, as well as watermelons, potatoes and other vegetables, as I have ever looked upon. This is perhaps a strong statement, but I was myself exceedingly surprised to see the fine results of husbandry in this virgin soil the first year. I firmly believe that the prediction made by President Lyman, at the re-organization conference last June, will be fulfilled, wherein he stated that the time would come when that district would be looked upon as one of the most important parts of the State of Utah. I want to say to you brethren and sisters who are not satisfied where you are, who have not sufficient land, and not sufficient means to increase your acreage, and are looking for homes elsewhere, I do not know of a better place than the Uintah basin. I speak of this in truth. I thank God I have got the spirit of love for that country, since I am called to preside over it, but I thank Him too that my heart is not closed against other parts of His footstool. I feel in this matter very largely as that character into whose mouth the immortal Shakespeare put these words : "Not that I love Caesar less, but that I love Rome more." So I feel with reference to the Uintah basin — not that I love other lands less, but that I love the Uintah basin more. 

As to the people in that land who have assisted in the reclamation of the old Uintah Stake of Zion, I feel to speak of them in the highest praise. Brother Samuel R. Bennion is a man of sturdy qualities, conservative, well-balanced, economical, active in his labors, and he has taught the people there how to wrest from mother earth the necessaries of life, and then to hold them as sacred trusts, as their stewardships, under the hands of God. Under his guardianship and guiding hand the people are becoming thrifty and progressive. His counselors have ably assisted him in the work. I find that many of the people there are descendants of fathers and mothers from Utah and Salt Lake counties, and they are a very fine class of people. The majority seem to be progressing, vet among them we find some who have been indifferent in the lands from which they have come, and they continued indifferent. Some have even forsaken the faith of their fathers, but, perhaps you remember that at various times the Apostles and other missionaries "have gone into the Stake and held , and I am thankful to say, they have reaped a rich harvest; yea, I am glad to report that some of the most active workers in the Church there today have been reclaimed by the administrations of these men of God. 

There are three general ways to approach that land. One by means of the Rio Grande railroad as far as Heber, and thence east into the Uintah basin. Another by way of the Rio Grande railroad to Price, and thence by wagonroad. Another leaving the Rio Grande railroad at Mack, just over the dividing line between Utah and Colorado, taking there the Uintah railroad, a small branch that passes over the Book Cliff mountains, and enters the Uintah basin, having its terminus at Dragon. From there you take team conveyance, and it is one day's drive to Vernal. There are many people settling on that land who are not of the Latter-day Saints' faith, and I am pleased to state that, as a rule, our people and our brothers and sisters of other faiths, or of no faith, are dwelling in peace together. They are uniting in the building up of that country, and there is very little of that spirit which, I am sorry to say, we breathe to some extent when we come into the atmosphere of this city, the principal place of Zion. There is great credit due to the Uintah Railroad Company in building that little railroad from Mack to Dragon; and, while it was done largely from a commercial standpoint, yet some of those connected with it have felt an interest in that country from almost its early settlement, and they have a sentimental pride in seeing its development, as well as satisfaction in receiving a reasonable amount for the expenditure of their means. This railroad  over the Book Cliff range; you who have traversed it will remember that the descent is very precipitous, and that the railroad takes a serpentine course. There are some portions where you can see the railroad track curves seven or eight times. It shows the wonderful ingenuity and determination of this company in building that road. 

The Presidency and High Council of the Uintah Stake are united. All the wards are presided over by men of God. There are six wards and four branches, and others in embryo. Much of the territory of the old Uintah Reservation is comprised in one ward — the Duchesne  — and there are several branches under its protectorate. As the country grows it naturally will be divided up into more wards. Last winter there was excellent missionary work done in that Stake. There was a missionary committee of the High Council appointed, and they acted in connection with the Bishoprics of the wards, and had as assistants all of the home missionaries, the Stake Presidency, the High Council, and all the teachers in the various wards. They divided the work of the Stake among them. They went into each teachers' district and visited the homes of every family. In those visits there was a representation of the Stake authorities, of the Bishopric, and of the teachers of that district. They visited every home, regardless of the faith of the residents. After the teachers' district was finished, then they held a general district meeting, calling all the families of the saints together within that district. After this was done in all the teachers' districts in the respective wards, then there was a general meeting held, calling to all the people of the various districts. The brethren testified that they had never witnessed a greater outpouring of the Spirit of God; and through their efficient labors quite a number have become investigators. 

May God bless us, brethren and sisters, that we may continue endeavoring to do His work, spread the truth, reclaim the soil, and redeem ourselves through the blessings of the Gospel. I ask it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

The re-establishment of the Church of Christ. — Fulfilment of ancient prophecies. — Testimony concerning personality of the Father and the Son. — A knowledge of God necessary to obtain eternal lit'e. — Unrighteous dominion cannot be exercised by the Priesthood. 

I am deeply grateful to God, my Eternal Father that I have the privilege of attending this glorious conference to hear "the glad tidings of great joy," and the good things that have been said in defense of the work of the Lord. I am thankful for the privilege of being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that it has pleased the Father to give me a testimony ccncerning the divinity of this work. For a great many years, I have been advocating the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. It is wonderful to me, that at my advanced age, I enjoy the measure of life and health that I do, and that I have been enabled to attend the meetings of this conference and to rejoice in the spirit and influence thereof. 

I know that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Church of the Lamb. I know that God hears- and answers prayers; and it seems to me perfectly consistent that we should trust in the Lord. Viewing this immense congregation, looking upon the glorious sight it presents, I am impressed with this wonderful gathering of precious souls, the redeemed of the Lord who have accepted the principles of the Everlasting Gospel, and who have a living testimony, so that they know His will. As I say, sometimes, "We know what we know." We are perfectly certain, but we cannot always explain it. I know that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. Howdo I know it ? He taught the same principles that were taught by the Messiah and His apostles on the eastern continent; the same principles that were taught on this western continent, when the Lord Jesus Christ visited the ancient Nephites, when He revealed Himself unto them, and instructed them in His doctrines. And in these last days the Lord inspired His servant Joseph, and revealed His mind and will unto him concerning the organization of the Church of Christ upon the earth, with the same principles as taught anciently, and with the signs following the believers. It seems to me a very natural thing that God the Eternal Father should manifest Himself unto His servant Joseph Smith, then a boy, whom He had ordained from before the foundation of the earth to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I believe that ''Known unto God are all things from the beginning," and I believe that He knew everything concerning the establishment of His Church upon the earth in these last days. This Church has been properly organized, for the Lord Jesus Christ Himself organized it. He organized it  "apostles and prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers," "for the work of the ministry and for the edifying of the body of Christ." "Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular." In consequence of this organization, the inhabitants of the earth have the opportunity, if they desire it, to become the disciples of Jesus Christ. Joseph Smith was a disciple of Jesus Christ. Hyrum Smith, his brother and fellow martyr, was also a disciple of Jesus Christ. They manifested by their integrity the truth of the principles they advocated. 

This wonderful oragnization has been brought about in fulfilment of prophecy, — the coming of John the Baptist to restore the Aaronic priesthood; the coming of the prophet Moroni, bringing forth the Book of Mormon, containing the fulness of the everlasting Gospel; the coming of Peter, James, and John, restoring the keys of the holy apostleship and the sealing power, so that there might be a representative upon the earth, with authority to seal upon the earth and it should be sealed in the heavens. Also, the coming of Elijah to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the fathers to the children; and the voice of one crying in the wilderness: "Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low : and the crooked shall be made ' straight, and the rough places, plain : And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the rpouth of the Lord hath spoken it." "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that  warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned : for she hath received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins." We are on the eve of the fulfilment of these precious promises. . 

It had to be that there should be a testator upon the earth who knew that God was a personal being. The Apostle Paul said: "God, who at sundry times, and in divers manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by His Son, whom He hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also He made the worlds, Who being the brightness of His glory, and the express image of His person, and upholding all things by the word of His power, when He had by Himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high." From this we know that the Lord Jesus Christ was the express image of His Father's person, but this knowledge of God had been lost, and consequent ly it had to be restored, and in that restoration we have obtained the testimony that we declare. 

The Lord said that whoso would "do the will of the Father should know of the doctrine." Is this vast congregation deceived, and under the dominion of priestcraft? Can it be asserted that this concourse of intelligent people did not know what they were saying when they declared this morning, with united voice, that they knew that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; and that Joseph Smith was a true prophet sent of God ? How do we know it? By our experience, the signs following the believer, the testimony coming through obedience. The Lord promised us this knowledge and He has fulfilled His promise. Paul said he was not  of the Gospel of Christ, for it was "the power of God unto salvation," and "therein was the righteousness of God revealed, — from faith to faith." The Lord said that to know God and Jesus Christ, whom He hath sent, is eternal life. If we could not obtain this knowledge we certainly would come short of eternal life. It is a kindly dispensation that the Almighty has given unto us in the restoration of this knowledge by the spirit of revelation — that Spirit which revealed unto Peter that Jesus was the Christ. The Lord told Peter how it was brought about : "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona." What for? Because he said he knew that Jesus was the Christ, the son of the living God. How did he obtain that knowledge? By the spirit of revelation, the same Spirit that we have in this day. "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for -flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but My Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The gates of hell cannot prevail against the spirit of revelation. 

This knowledge comes to the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, through obeying the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. No matter what our circumstances, we may, if we desire, obtain the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, and the Holy Ghost imparts light and truth, illuminating our minds and impressing us so that we are enabled to understand, by having "eyes to see and ears to hear," and the understanding heart. This the Latterday Saints claim to have; and I know they have it, for I have had years of experience, — longer than ever I anticipated, having passed my 75th year — having advocated these principles ever since 1852. I know they are true. But this knowledge does not inspire me with the spirit of contention. I do not contend with anybody to try to impress upon them what I believe or know. The Lord said to the Nephites that contention was not of Him. but was of the devil. I notice that the Latter-day Saints who love the principles of eternal life, are cheerful, happy, and satisfied; they have a living testimony. I notice, on the other hand, that people who do not have that testimony, who do not have the fellowship of the Spirit of Gpd, are dissatisfied and contentious. The Apostle Paul has given us a rule whereby we may judge these things. He said: "For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this : Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. This I say then. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh : and these are contrary the one to the other : so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these : Adultery, fornication, uncleanness. lasciviousness,. idolatry, withchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like : of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in the time past,  they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in. the Spirit." That is how I understand it. That is the difference manifest between the two spirits. There is the spirit of hatred, the spirit of contention, falsifying, lying, slandering, and all manner of unrighteousness. Do the leading men of the Church— the First Presidency and Apostles — manifest this disposition? No. They are men of God, men of longsuffering, who love the Lord Jesus Christ and would not do anything to grieve His Holy Spirit, if they knew it. We are united in preaching the Everlasting Gospel. We find no fault with anybody else; it takes us all our time to advocate the truth. 

I am thankful that I have the privilege of standing before you, my beloved fellow-laborers — you presidents of stakes, and counselors, and high-councilors, who aid us by your faith, prayers, and loyalty. It is impossible to express the affection we have for you. Having passed from death unto life, we know that we love the brethren, as the Apostle John expresses it. You know that we love you, and you know that we do not presume to exercise any unrighteous dominion, or anything of the kind, but that we are striving for the furtherance of the purposes of the Almighty in the establishment of His righteousness upon the earth. 

I thank you, as a member of the Council of the Apostles, for your  and prayers. You see me today in the enjoyment of health. About twelve months ago I was not in that condition. I passed through the narrows, but my life was preserved. I have needed your faith and prayers, and I am thankful unto you that I have had them, for the Lord has healed me, and He has prolonged my life upon the earth, in answer to your prayers. I am grateful that you have sustained me. I feel my Own unworthiness, and I would not dare to exercise any unrighteous dominion, or go to any foolish extreme to have my own ways or notions carried out. 

I know that the First Presidency, and the brethren of the Twelve, are men of God. I bear this testimony, that the Church of Christ is established upon the earth by the power of God; that we hold the Everlasting Priesthood; that we have authority to call the sinner to repent* ance, to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins, and through the laying on of hands that they may receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. We have the privilege of advocating the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ, and administering in His holy sacrament. I am thankful that I have the opportunity of declaring these precious truths at this wonderful conference. Seventy-seven years ago, the Church of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth. Think of it. Think of the inspiring meetings that have been held here. All glory to God the Eternal Father, who by His power and might has brought about this wonderful gathering, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter-days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Henry F. McCune. 
