Morning
05 10 1928

MORNING MEETING 

The first session of the conference commenced at 10 o'clock Friday morning, October 5, 1928. 

The great tabernacle auditorium and galleries were well filled with people from all parts of the Church. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and announced the opening of the conference. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

Elder Willard Young offered the invocation. 

The congregation sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice in having the opportunity of again meeting with the Saints in general conference. I am delighted to see the splendid audience that is here this morning. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND .MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST CONFERENCE 

I am sure that it will be of some interest to those who are here assembled to learn regarding the changes that have been made since our last conference. 

New Stakes Organized : The Alpine stake has been divided into three stakes, to be known as the Alpine, Lehi and Timpanogos stakes. 

Stake Presidents Appointed : John E. Magleby has been released as president of the South Sevier stake, and James R. Ware has been appointed to succeed him. 

John M. Baxter has been released as president of the Woodruff stake, and William R. Smith appointed to succeed him. 

Stephen L. Chipman has been released as president of the Alpine stake, and Clifford E. Young appointed to succeed him. 

Anchor Carlos Schow has been appointed president of the new Lehi stake. 

Wilford W. Warnick has been appointed president of the new Timpanogos stake. 

Frank Y. Taylor has been released as President of Granite stake and Hugh B. Brown appointed to succeed him. 

John A. Beckstrand has been released as president of the Millard stake, and T. Clark Callister appointed to succeed him. 

Joseph B. White has been released as president of Hyrum stake and Danforth M. Bickmore appointed to succeed him. 

Mission Presidents Appointed : (J,. A. Cahoon has been released as president of the Tongan mission, and Newel J. Cutler appointed to succeed him. 

Charles H. Hyde has been released as president of the Australian mission, and Clarence H. Tingey appointed to succeed him. 

Ernest C. Rossiter has been released as president of the French mission, and Peter Rulon Christensen appointed to succeed him. 

New W ards Organised : Elberta ward, Tintic stake. Echo ward, Summit stake; Midvale ward, East Jordan stake, divided into two wards to be known as Midvale First and Second wards; Green River ward, Carbon stake; Compton ward, Los Angeles stake; Hurricane North ward, St. George stake. 

Bishop who has passed away during the past six months : William A. Stringer of Milburn ward, Lyman stake. 

Stake clerks who have filed : Nelson J. Hansen of Uinta stake; F. C. Mickelson of Shelley stake. 

All of the retiring stake presidents retire with the confidence, love, respect and good will of the General Authorities. They have done most excellent work, some of them serving over a quarter of a century. 

The Church today has 101 stakes of Zion; 940 wards; 72 independent branches. 

When we speak of an independent branch we mean a branch with a president and two counselors. There are many small branches of wards in addition. 

We have 1,012 organized wards and branches in the Church, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south. 

We have at the present time 27 missions in different parts of the world. 

EXPENDITURES FOR CHURCH EDIFICES 

The building program of the Church is progressing as rapidly this year as it did last year. There was expended last year for the erection of Church buildings and amusement halls throughout the Stakes of Zion over one million dollars of Church funds and a like amount by the people. 

There has been expended in the first nine months ending October first, this year, $868,892.54. During the same period last year there was expended for stake and ward edifices $742,282.40. So that over $125,000 more money has been appropriated by the Church for the nine months ending October 1st this year, for the erection of public buildings, than for the same period last year. And the Saints have contributed a like amount. Therefore, over $1,700,000 has been expended up to date from the tithes and by the people in the various stakes for these purposes. 

VISITS MISSIONS 

It has fallen to my lot during the past six months to visit the following branches in the missions: Chicago, 111., Washington, D. C, New York and Brooklyn, N. Y., Charleston and Huntington, West Virginia. I have had the pleasure of meeting the mission presidents and many of the elders and holding meetings in the places in the mission fields that I have mentioned. 

BUILDINGS DEDICATED 

In addition I have had the pleasure of holding meetings in many of the wards and in some of the stakes, and of dedicating meeting houses and amusement halls. I dedicated a chapel and amusement hall in Kirtland, New Mexico, in the Young stake of Zion. There has been erected there a very beautiful little ward meetinghouse, one of the finest in the Church. The people there are very much more prosperous than they were some years ago. 

I was reminded of the wonderful change that has taken place since I went over the mountains from Alamosa down to Durango and then by wagon to Kirtland, with the late Brigham Young, Jr., forty-five years ago. We covered the same ground on this recent trip in between three and four hours, that it took us four or five days to cover with a team on my first visit. 

I dedicated a splendid meetinghouse and amusement hall at Smithfield, in the Benson stake, a very fine building in the small town of Mapleton, in the Franklin stake, and a meetinghouse costing between sixty and seventy thousand dollars at Mar Vista, one of the wards of the Hollywood stake. The last named ward was organized only five months ago, its members having originally belonged to the Ocean Park ward. It is remarkable that in less than five months from the time the erection of the building was commenced, it was completed and paid for. Men, women and children worked on this building. The little children carried tiles for the roof; the good sisters nailed on laths; and some of our non-Mormon friends devoted time and attention to laboring there. The people did more than one-half of the total cost of erecting this building. I think it is the most remarkable accomplishment in that length of time of any building we have erected in the various wards. There were one thousand people in attendance at the dedicatory services, and by opening the doors between the amusment hall and the chapel, they were all comfortably seated. When the building was commenced the membership of the ward was less than four hundred people, and few of them have large means. 

The Los Angeles stake has built a large amusement hall which is utilized for conference purposes, adjoining the Huntington Park ward meetinghouse. The combination of the meetinghouse and stake hall gives them one of the finest plants in the entire Church. This building for stake purposes and recreation has cost about $110,000, a:: I remember it. 

BUILDINGS IN COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION 

The Hollywood stake, in connection with the Wilshire ward, in erecting a most magnificent chapel and ward building and recreation hall combined, which will cost, I would say, in the neighborhood of $120,000. 

We are now erecting in Portland, Oregon, a magnificent chapel that will cost us over $100,000. We own an entire block there. 

The work that is being accomplished in erecting meetinghouses with the funds that the people pay into the various missions as tithing is very remarkable. 

In the California and other missions many meetinghouses are being erected at the present time, and many have been erected. Several hundred thousand dollars have been expended in the last few years in the California mission alone. 

It fell to my lot recently to attend the conference of the San Francisco stake held at Oakland, and also to hold a meeting at San Francisco. That stake is growing very rapidly indeed. So also are both of the stakes in Los Angeles. 

I also had the privilege of attending a three days' hike or outing of the Mutuals of the San Francisco stake at Stinson Beach on the Pacific ocean, enjoying a very splendid time there. 

We have erected a fine seminary building at Moscow, Idaho, facing the university buildings there. It is a very creditable structure, and the president and other officers of the university are very much delighted with it, and speak in the highest terms of our having done something along religious and educational lines for the members of our Church who are attending the university. 

We are erecting a similar building near the Agricultural College in Logan. 

The building program of the Church during the past nine months I feel is all that we could have asked or expected. 

AN INTERESTING AND PROFITABLE TRIP 

It fell to jny lot with President Anthony W. Ivins, to be one of the guests of the Union Pacific Railroad and of the National Parks, in visiting the Grand Canyon of the Colorado and the scenic wonders of Southern Utah — Zion Canyon, Bryce Canyon, and Cedar Breaks — than which, to my mind, there is nothing finer in the world. There is a great tunnel and road being built, winding up over the mountains to come out of Zion Canyon, that is costing a vast sum of money, the government alone, as I remember it, having appropriated over a million dollars to build this tunnel. It will be the most remarkable and scenic route that any automobile has ever traveled over when it is completed. There will be an abundance of room for two automobiles to pass all through this great tunnel. It will save a vast amount of time which is now "spent in traveling over the bad roads and through a strip of Arizona to get to the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. Many miles will be saved, and as I say, it will be the greatest scenic road ever traveled over by automobiles, when it is completed. 

I need not enter into any details here regarding these four scenic wonders. They are marvelous. They cannot be duplicated in any part of the wide world. 

There were about two hundred guests, as I remember it, in the party — a special train from Los Angeles and a special train from Salt Lake City. I wish to express to President Carl R. Gray and to the chairman of the finance committee of the Union Pacific Railroad, Mr. Seger, and to Stephen T. Mather, the sincere gratitude of President Ivins and myself, Mayor John F. Bowman, Congressman Don B. Colton and many other people who were with us, citizens of Utah, for the most marvelous and wonderful trip that it has ever fallen to my lot to take. 

The splendid compliments paid to our people for their accomplishments in Southern Utah by President Gray, Chairman Seger, Mr. Mather and others who spoke, filled our hearts with gratitude and thanks to them. We rejoice that the Latter-day Saints are coming into their own. 

It fell to my lot after this dedication to travel to Los Angeles with over one hundred of the men who had the privilege of being on this excursion, and they were universally pleased with what they had seen. They spoke in the highest terms of the very splendid singing of our choir at Kanab, of the wonderful singing of our choir at Cedar City, and of the very fine singing of our Sunday School children at Kanab. They also spoke of the healthy, fine looking children and of the fine young men and the fine young ladies that they met on this trip, and I rejoiced in it. 

I forgot to say in speaking of dedicating meetinghouses that I had the pleasure of getting up at 6 o'clock in the morning at the Grand Canyon and driving to Kanab where I arranged for the Sunday School to stay in session so that the visitors might meet them and that the children might sing a song for them. I also remained there for the afternoon meeting and dedicated the Kanab meetinghouse. These gentlemen were favorably impressed indeed with such a splendid meetinghouse in such a small town as Kanab. Several of them announced to me in Los Angeles and also in San Francisco, (as I had to go up there for a couple of days on business) that one of the outstanding things with which they were more pleased than anything else in making this trip to Southern Utah, was to become better acquainted with the Mormon people, with their aims, their objects and their accomplishments. Several said to me : "Mr. Grant, we have never seen anything but unfavorable notices regarding your people in magazines and newspapers." More than one of them said: "I am convinced that you will now have a couple of hundred non-Mormon missionaries sounding the praises of the Latter-day Saints and of the fine class of children, young men and young women and citizens generally that you have ir your state." 

I am very grateful, indeed, for the wonderful expenditure of money by the government of the United States, and by the Union Pacific Railroad of over $700,000 in building a magnificent lodge on the rim of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. It is an architectural dream. 

THE LORD'S PROMISES TO BE FULFILLED 

There is nothing that I am about to say that I have not said many  to the Latter-day Saints. We find in the very first revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants these words : 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same." 

I wish that I possessed the power to impress upon the hearts and the minds of the Latter-day Saints the necessity of becoming familiar with the commandments contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, and not only becoming familiar with them, but that I might have the power to impress upon their hearts and souls a determination to keep those commandments, to live them in very deed and in their every-day lives. 

We find recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants that "there is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

BLESSINGS PREDICATED UPON OBSERVANCE OF WORD OF WISDOM 

Some very wonderful promises are made to us if we observe the Word of Wisdom. The blessings will come if we observe the Word of Wisdom, and they will not come unless we do observe it. I feel at the present time that it is very appropriate for all Latter-day Saints to have their attention called (although I have called their attention to it time and time again) to this marvelous and remarkable Word of Wisdom. I shall not take the time to read but very little of it: 

"To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days." 

Nearly 90 per cent of all the time of the saints is spent in laboring for their temporal advancement, and I have announced before and I announce again that if the Latter-day Saints had observed the Word of Wisdom as a people, every one of them, from the day that they came into these valleys, our temporal salvation would have been assured. The money expended for those things which the Lord says are not good for us, which we have been taught to leave alone — namely, tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor — if every dollar of that money had been kept in our country we would have had one of the wealthiest states in this Union, and more of the circulating medium, namely, the hard coin, so to speak, than most any state in this western part of America. 

It is estimated that every single dollar circulates around like the blood in the body of a man, being the vital circulating medium. Every dollar does one hundred dollars' worth of work in a year, and when you stop to think of the hundreds and thousands of dollars, running up I am sure at the present time perhaps to nearly a million dollars a year, that go out of this state by the breaking of the Word of Wisdom, certainly if we desire our temporal salvation and if we have faith in the words of God, every word of which he says shall be fulfilled, we should keep this law. The Lord has not made this an absolute commandment, but when our Heavenly Father, the one to whom we owe our lives and all that we possess and all our allegiance, desires us to do a thing, it seems to me that we as Latter-day Saints should do that thing more willingly even than though it come as an absolute command to us. 

To my mind the most remarkable promise that any man can have is contained in this revelation : 

"And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures." 

Health is one of the first great blessings of God to man, and second only to health is wisdom. These two great blessings are promised to every man, woman and child in the Church of Christ that obeys the Word of Wisdom. 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. "And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

And I honestly believe that but for obeying the Word of Wisdom, when I was operated upon and the doctors said that blood poisoning in the third and last stage had set in, that I had to die — if I had not been an observer of the Word of Wisdom, so that the blood in my veins was pure and could overcome the poison, I would not be standing here before you, but more than thirty years ago my time would have come to pass from this life. 

INFLUENCE OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

We hear a good deal of talk and complaint about the influence of the Priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the domination of the people by those who preside over them. I want to read, more particularly for the benefit of those not of our faith, a revelation of Almighty God to Joseph Smith, when he was in Liberty jail, (and at one time when he was in that jail he was in chains ,which shows that even the chains of the wicked could not restrain God from giving his word to the prophet whom he had raised up to establish the gospel of Jesus Christ in these last days). Speaking of the calling of the priesthood, he said : 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so [much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

"That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably .Connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven ca.nnot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they rnay be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake  cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

"Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. 

"We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

"Hence many are called, but few are chosen." 

This is the part I wish to emphasize : 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without ccffnpulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

Is it a terrible thing to exercise the priesthood of the living God in the way that the Lord prescribes : "By kindness and gentleness" ? That is the only way, and unless it is exercised in that way, Amen to the priesthood and authority of those who hold this priesthood in the Church of Christ. 

COUNSEL REGARDING VOTING 

It has been whispered around frequently, and I hear the murmur now, that the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ, standing at the head and holding the priesthood, desire this man or that man or the other man elected to office. The Presidency of the Church so far as they are concerned, allow every man, woman and child, that is old enough to vote, to vote according to his or her own conviction. But we do appeal to all men and women, realizing the responsibility resting upon them, to seek God our Heavenly Father to guide them politically as well as religiously, and to stand for right and for those things that are for the good of this nation. The Latter-day Saints believe absolutely that the Constitution of our country was written by inspired men. We believe in upholding the laws of our country. We believe in being obedient to the laws. One of the Articles of our Faith says that it is our duty to do so. BELIEF REGARDING GOVERNMENTS AND LAWS 

I am going to read a declaration of the belief of our Church regarding the governments and laws, issued by the Prophet Joseph Smith in August, 1835 : 

"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 

"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and .magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. 

"We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion : that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul. 

"We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. 

"We believe that every man should be honored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker. 

"We believe that rulers, states, and governments have a right, and are bound to enact laws for the protection of all citizens in the free exercise of their religious belief; but we do not believe that they have a right in justice to deprive citizens of this privilege, or proscribe them in their opinions, so long as a regard and reverence are shown to the laws and such religious opinions do not justify sedition nor conspiracy. 

"We believe that the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public peace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment." 

I would like to emphasize that: 

"All men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment." 

"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government." 

I wish to emphasize that: "We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government." 

—"whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied. 

"We believe fjhat all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society; has authority to try men on the right of property or life, or take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship." 

SENTIMENTS OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

In closing I wish to read a few words that I have read many times, (and I wish that we would get these words in our hearts and in our minds) from that great and wonderful man, Abraham Lincoln, who all Latter-day Saints believe firmly was raised up and inspired of God Almighty, and that he reached the presidency of the United States under the favor of our Heavenly Father, defeating Stephen A. Douglas, and fulfilling a prediction made by Joseph Smith to Stephen A. Douglas when he was an obscure country judge in Illinois. 

Lincoln said : 

"Let the people know the truth, and the country is safe." "Let none falter who thinks he is right, and we will succeed." "Let us dare to do our duty as we understand it." 

"Bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible; still while they continue in force for the sake of example, they should be religiously observed." 

Notice the language — "religiously observed." 

"Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate, in the least particular, the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of seventy-six did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and laws, let every American pledge his life, his property and his sacred honor. Let every mail remember that to violate the law is to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the law be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in schools, in seminaries and in colleges. Let it be written in primers, in spelling books and almanacs. Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls and enforced in courts of justice. In short let it become the political religion of the nation." 

Above all, let it become the religion of the Latter-day Saints. Why? Because it is in absolute and perfect harmony with the word of the living God to us in the revelations, every word of which, according to God, shall be fulfilled. 

May God bless each and every one of you. May every soul within the sound of my voice or who may be listening in over the radio, who has received a testimony of the work in which you and I are engaged, who is able to testify that he or she knows that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God — may we each and all who have this knowledge live the gospel and set an example before all men of integrity and devotion to God and the laws of our country, that will preach the truth, which is of far more value than all the words that we can utter, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus our Savior and Redeemer. Amen. 

Professor Charles Kent sang a sacred solo, "Consider the lilies." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, that another opportunity is afforded us to meet together in general conference, in peace and enjoying the degree of prosperity with which we are blessed, as set forth in the report which has been made by President Grant. As a preface to the brief remarks which I desire to make — and I pray that what I say may be directed through your faith by the Spirit of the Lord — I desire to read from the words of the Prophet Jeremiah : 

"Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old oaths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will inot walk therein. 

"Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken. 

"Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them. 

"Hear, O earth : behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but rejected it." 

According to our chronology, my brethren and sisters, more than two thousand years have passed since the Lord, through his servant Jeremiah, delivered this message to the House of Israel. Preceding the paragraphs which I have read, the Lord says : 

"To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear? behold, their ear is uncircumcised and they cannot hearken : behold, the word of the Lord is unto them a reproach; they have no delight in it. * * * 

"Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush." 

REFUSED TO LISTEN 

At the time to which this scripture refers, the Israelitish people, after their deliverance from the Egyptian captivity, after the Lord by the matchless power of his outstretched arm had given them full possession of the Promised Land, had become indifferent to the words of their prophets, had departed from the path which the Lord had marked out for them, and the prophet calls them back to the old paths which is the good way. The promise is that if they will walk therein they shall find peace to their souls; but they said: "We will not walk therein." When the watchmen whom the Lord had set over them sounded the trumpet of alarm, they refused to listen. This attitude resulted in the scattering of the House of Israel to the four winds of heaven, as his prophets had declared that they would be scattered. 

Thank the Lord that as the scattering of Israel had been declared so did the Lord definitely promise that they should be gathered again and restored to the promised land, and the fulfilment of that promise is near at hand. 

I have been asking myself the question recently : Aren't we at the present time in a condition somewhat similar to that of Ancient Israel at the time to which this scripture refers? From a small number of people at the time they left Palestine and went into Egypt they had become a great kingdom, the influence of which under the reign of King Solomon was felt throughout the then known world. The conditions with which they were surrounded during their early development had changed. They felt the strength of their own power, and depended less upon the arm of the Lord. The old paths had been replaced by modern roads, broader and more easy to follow. They had listened to the blast of the trumpet until the sound had become monotonous. They preferred the timbrel and the harp which brought pleasure without restraint. The word of the Lord to them had become obsolete, supplanted by more modern theories. Are we aware — and when I say "we" I am not applying my remarks to the members of my own Church alone, but to the splendid men and women who make up the citizenship of the United States — that we too live in a land of promise, that it is through the grace and mercy of God our Father that we have been brought here and made participants in its privileges and blessings? Do we people of America know that certain unchangeable decrees of God our Heavenly Father apply to this land as they apply to Palestine ? Let us examine and see. 

A CHOICE LAND 

According to the manner in which we count time, it was four thousand and forty-six years ago, about two hundred years after the deluge, that a small number of people under the leadership of inspired men, left the city of Babylon on the banks of the Euphrates river in the valleys of Mesopotamia and found their way to the American continent. As they started on their long pilgrimage, the word of the Lord came to them as follows : 

"And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people. 

"And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them. 

"And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. 

"For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done. 

"Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written." 

It would be interesting, my brethren and sisters, and instructive, to follow this colony of people in their migration from the Old World until their arrival in America, the land which the Lord had promised to them for an inheritance. 

The story of their development into a great nation is told, the building of many cities; how they departed from the way of the Lord to the worship of idols, the wars which ensued, because of conflict for the control of the government which was established,' and their final destruction as a nation; but time will not permit. 

More than one thousand five hundred years had elapsed since the people referred to had departed from the old world, when another colony, under the leadership of another prophet, left Jerusalem during the reign of Zedekiah, the last king of Judea, and after many wanderings and tribulations they crossed the great waters and came to America. As they landed upon this continent the Lord, through his prophet, delivered the following message to them. I read this because I desire that you shall hear it as it is and understand it. The prophet who had led them out, in referring to their journeys, said : 

BLESSED UNTO THE RIGHTEOUS 

"Notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land vi hich is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come unto this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the com'mandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever." 

As these latter people penetrated and explored the land to which they had come they report that they found a portion of the surface of it covered with the bones of men and animals, with the ruins of great cities and buildings, a land which they say had been populated by a people as numerous as the hosts of Israel. This was all that remained of the colony which had come from Babylon more than one thousand five hundred years before. 

PROPHECY FULFILLED 

The history of this latter people, who also became numerous and highly civilized, was not less tragic than that of . their predecessors. They too were highly favored of the Lord. In their weakness they served him and kept his commandments, but when through his protection and blessing they had become wealthy and powerful they turned from him to the worship of idols, and refused to walk in the old paths or listen to the trumpet which called them back to God. They fought over the control of government until they degenerated into the tribal conditions in which they were found when Columbus landed upon the shores of the new world. 

The time had arrived when the Lord would again bring people to this continent, when he was to again undertake the establishment of a righteous nation upon this promised land. 

More than two thousand years before Columbus landed at San Salvador, prophets had definitely declared his coming; more than two thousand years before the landing of the pilgrims at Plymouth the Lord had declared that they should come that they might be free from the bonds of religious intolerance and the shackles of kingcraft, that a nation of free men might be established here, a nation over which neither kingcraft nor priestcraft shall ever reign; a nation where the majesty and authority of the law, which God our Father would inspire the people themselves to enact and administer, is to reign supreme. 

OUR SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT 

Have you ever thought, my brethren and sisters, of the miracle of the establishment of this government, and the blessings which you enjoy under it as compared with other people? The Lord did not give the dominance of the United States to a certain race, that the traditions, language and prejudices of the old world might be established here as they were in all of the great country to the south of us. 

To the devoted faith of the Puritan separatists of New England was added the industry and patriotism of the Dutch reformers who had settled at New York, the gallantry and chivalry of the English cavaliers of Virginia, and the light-hearted energy and patriotism of the French at New Orleans. Protestants, Catholics and people without church affiliations united together, just the combination of elements to give us the Declaration of Independence which won our freedom, and the Constitution, which is the foundation upon which our system of government rests. 

These men, whom the old world referred to as a mob, declared that in this country all men should be equal before the law. They declared that men were born with certain rights which could noft in justice be taken from them, among which was the right to worship God according to the dictates of conscience, or not worship at all if they so desired; that all men were entitled to life, to liberty, the posGENERAL CONFERENCE  of property, freedom of speech and the press, and above all and most important, that they should enact and administer their own laws and that they should not be deprived of any of these privileges without due process of law. The most sacred privilege granted us was the right of franchise by which every citizen was entitled to cast his ballot for the men who were to represent him in enacting and administering the law. It is upon the proper use of this sacred heritage, bequeathed to us by our fathers, that the perpetuity of our government depends. It may declare war or maintain peace, it may bring peace and good order to society, or tribulation, confusion and final dissolution. It controls your property and mine. We come or go at its behest. Our very life depends upon the proper use of it. 

A PUBLISHED APPEAL 

In January of the present year the Presidency of the Church published an appeal to the members of the Church throughout the world, and to liberty-loving people everywhere, from which I desire briefly to read. It was headed: "Can This Be True?" 

"Can it be possible that reports which reach us concerning the lawlessness, immorality and graft which are said to exist in Salt Lake City and other localities in our state, are true? 

"Have we among our judges, attorneys and peace officers those who regard these iniquitous offenses against society with apathy and indifference? 

"Are we to believe that in this community of ours large sums of money are regularly collected which are disbursed by trusted agents among city, county, state or federal officers, who have been appointed or elected by the voice of the people to hunt down, prosecute and rid the community of lawless disturbers of the peace, violate the trust reposed in them, and for money seek means by which these criminals may be liberated, rather than convicted? 

"Do men with brazen effrontery perjure themselves while on the witness stand, in order that the law may be nullified and the guilty go free? Do any of our judges, knowing this, allow the perjurer to go without rebuke or punishment? 

"Are we losing our high ideals regarding the honor of men and the virtue of women? Do we ignore the existence of houses of prostitution and assignation into which virtuous women and innocent girls are being lured, or forcibly taken, to be ruined by wicked licentious libertines both white and black? 

"Laws which are enacted for the protection of society have no value except when they are administered in righteousness and justice, and they cannot be so administrated if dishonest men occupy administrative offices. 

"The Lord says : 'When the wicked rule, the people mourn.' Wise men, good men, patriotic men are to be found in all communities, in all political parties, among all creeds. None but such men should be chosen. * * * 

"Without beneficent laws, righteously administered, the foundations of civilization crumble, anarchy reigns, decay and dissolution follow. 

"We call upon all members of the Church of Jesus Christ .of Latter-day Saints throughout the world to honor the laws of God, and obey and uphold the law of the land; and we appeal to good men and women everywhere, regardless of creed, party affiliation, race or condition, to join with us in an effort to put into operation the words of Lincoln, the great emancipator, that our country may continue to be a light to the world, a loyal, law-abiding, God-fearing Nation. 

"Heber J. Grant, Anthony. W. Ivins, Charles W. Nibley, 

First Presidency," 

HAVE NOT CHANGED 

Since the publication of that which I have just read it would appear that conditions have not changed for the better. 

Another period has arrived when the people of the United States are td elect men who are to represent them in both legislative and administrative branches of the government, both state and national; a time when the citizenship of our country are to exercise this divine right of franchise. If reports which come to us are true, vast sums of money are being collected to be used for the purpose of influencing the voto of the people in favor of one or the other of the great parties that are striving for the control of government. We are told that the expenditures will be limited to eight millions of dollars. We are also informed that this limit may be greatly exceeded. Can it be possible that we have reached a point in our history when the ballot, this sacred heritage which has come to us from our fathers, has become a thing of barter and trade, that it can be purchased with money? Are the liberties of the American people on the auction block to be sold to the highest bidder ? Have we lifted up a golden calf (as ancient Israel did) to which the American people are commanded to bow down in worship ? God forbid. 

To my mind the man who would sell his vote for money should forfeit his franchise forever. Is the man who sells his vote less guilty than the man who tenders money for it? Is he who tenders money less guilty than the individual who, having knowledge of the crime, enters no word of protest? I cannot shift the responsibility from one to the other. All are equally guilty. 

Is it possible that during the last ten years lawlessness has increased in the United States until statistics show that we are the most lawless civilized nation in the world ? Only yesterday the public press, our own press, declared that a large number of policemen in the city of Philadelphia, "the City of Friends," a city established under the religious impulses of one of the most devout sects of the world, the city of my mother's birth, the city that provided the men Under whom my early life was tutored, that these policemen, chosen to protect the people from the acts of lawless men, are under arrest charged with levying tribute on gangsters of the underworld for protection guaranteed them by the police who were under oath to bring them to justice. From the halls of Congress to the town constable fraud in public life has found its way. 

CONDITION NOT HOPELESS 

Do not understand me to infer that the condition of our country is hopeless, or that money has not its place in human welfare. My remarks have no application to the high-minded, honest, capable men who are engaged in public life, and there are many of them in both national and state affairs. I believe in the soul of the American people and that they will rise in their majesty when the truth becomes known and drive dishonest men from the temples of justice, Lincoln said: "Let the people know the truth and the country is safe." The trouble is that it is almost impossible to get the truth before the people. 

In every state in the Union, in every county in these states, there are men who live above this criticism, patriotic, true Americans. 

Do not understand that I decry or under-estimate the vast good that comes to humankind from the use of money and the proper acquisition of it through industry and economy, but when it is used to corrupt the politics of our country, to purchase the honor of men, the virtue of women, or to interfere with and influence the public mind away from the paths of justice and righteousness it then becomes the "root of all evil." 

I would not for earthly gain alienate the friendship of the many friends which I have and through acquaintance with whom my life has been enriched. They are among Catholics, Protestants, Jews and people professing no affiliation with the church. They are in all political parties; men whom I love because of their manhood and Americanism. I am not talking politics. I have no candidate, no political interests at stake. I am speaking directly to the people of the Church of which I am a member. It is my duty, as a shepherd of the flock of Christ, to warn them of the danger which threatens; and if I fail in my duty and the danger comes upon them and they perish, the Lord has said that he will require their blood at my hands, and at the hands of every other shepherd of the flock, who, knowing his duty, fails to perform it. 

THE MORMON PIONEERS 

It was the impulse of religion that brought the iMormon pioneers to these valleys. Among them my early life was passed. It was their example and teaching which fixed in my mind the ideals that have governed my life, in both religious and civil affairs. They taught me that an office-seeker, whether for political or church advancement, was a dangerous man. They taught me that offices of trust should seek the man and not the man the office; that men of unquestioned integrity should be selected for public trust. 

Profoundly religious, they taught me to hold in reverential respect the religion of other people. They taught me that the institutions of my country were of greater value than human life, and should be upheld and defended against all enemies, be they foreign or domestic. They were not egotists, these men among whom my youth was spent, whose life was confined to their own restricted environment; they understood the past, they lived for the present and saw the future. They knew that other men found the Lord, if they sought him, just as they found him here in the solitudes of these everlasting hills. They were not Pharisees who magnified the faults of others while blind to, their own imperfections, but men who acknowledging their own weaknesses, spread the mantle of charity over those of their fellows. They were not men who sought the downfall of their neighbor that they might rise to greater heights, but just brave, God-fearing men who knew that  Lord was knocking at the doors of the hearts of all men, and that if they would only keep the latchstring on the outside, as it always hung on their cabin doors, the Lord would come in and bring peace to their souls. They were men who walked in the old paths, the paths which our Lord and Master had marked out for us, and which, if we follow them, will lead us back into his presence. 

TO THOSE OLD PATHS 

It is to these old paths, my brethren and sisters, that I call you back; not to endure the hardships which they endured; not to cut the grain which grows in your fields, with a sickle, and to thrash it with a flail, as I have done; not to cut the hay which grows in your meadows, with a scythe, not to study your lessons by a tallow dip or a pine knot, as I have done, because there was nothing better to be had; not to print your daily paper on a handpress, or travel to conference with an ox-team, as many of your fathers and grandfathers did. Progress and development which have come to the world during our life-time have made these things obsolete, and we do not desire to call them back. But the truth does not change with time. It is always the same. The same obligations of righteousness, justice, mercy and charity which have been in force from the beginning are still in force. There is no other path that will lead us back to Christ our Lord, for he is the light, the life and the way, and it is his word that I have quoted to you. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, you who familiarize yourselves with existing conditions know that I have not exaggerated or ever-estimated the danger which threatens us. The cure is so simple and so easy, it is strange that we do not readily find it — just to return to obedience to the word of the Lord, just to walk in those old paths of righteousness that never change. If we do so they will lead us back into the presence of God our Father, where we will be crowned with glory, immortality and eternal life. 

I pray for this, for you, for myself and for all good men and women, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

It is always a refreshing sight to witness the large congregation of Latter-day Saints who regularly attend these conferences — men and women who come filled with a determination to serve the Lord and to help build up his kingdom; who know in their souls that the Lord has spoken in these last days through his servants, that he has revealed his will through the ministration of holy angels, heavenly beings, and that he has established his priesthood in the Church with divine authority to give guidance to the people. 

I endorse most heartily the remarks of our President, Heber J. Grant and President Anthony W. Ivins. They are for our benefit and our blessing if we will follow them. I am always glad to report that the Church is growing, that it is increasing in numbers; and I believe that we as a people are increasing in faith. We have heard from the President as to the good work you are performing in the building of meetinghouses and the amount of tithing of the Church that has been contributed for that purpose. A people no more numerous, no more rich than we are, who will contribute more than two million dollars a year for the building of meetinghouses have a whole lot of good in them. The Latter-day Saints believe their religion after all. We do not practice it as we should. We are not perfect by any manner of means. But we and our fathers before us are of those who have listened to the voice of the Spirit and are really converted to the truth. 

A MORE LIBERAL FEELING 

During the last week or two I have been away in the Northwestern States mission, visiting with President Sloan, and I have noted with great pleasure the growth and development of the work in that section of the country. I have noted, too, the growth of a more liberal feeling among the people towards the Latter-day Saints. I might almost say -here is a spiritual awakening; for in Idaho the governor of the state and other officials in their remarks, made plainly manifest that they desire spiritual thought, spiritual teaching, in connection with their schools and colleges. They said that these things were lacking and they were glad to see that in that state our Church was fostering spiritual development, spiritual thought. Not only is it true in that section of our land, but I think it is true in all sections of it. People are beginning to learn after all that the material alone is not sufficient, and that they must turn unto God. 

As we have heard, the Lord has declared that the people, if they are to be maintained on this land, must be a people who will serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. And I believe that slowly and gradually there is a more liberal spirit growing among the people, with an inclination in their hearts towards the things of God. The Lord will bring testimonies which will foster this feeling. After the testimony of the servants of God comes the testimony of earthquakes, the testimony of the sea, heaving beyond its bounds, through perhaps the force of terrific winds; the testimony of destruction here and there. These I believe will be more manifest and will more and more bring the people to a realization that they of themselves are powerless, and that they must depend as a people and as a nation upon God. 

NOT SO FAVORABLE 

We are delighted to know that neighbors feel so well towards us. But I want to remark here, my brethren and sisters, that they have told us things not quite so favorable, even material things. They go around through our country (and there will be tens and hundreds of thousands of tourists in the next few years, traveling all over our country, north and south) and they see in some of our villages and towns the poorest kind of fences, the worst gardens, decaying orchards and an abundance of weeds, which they ought not to see at all. We should improve and beautify Zion, so that people can say that the Latter-day Saints are forward-looking, up-to-date people; and that they have their homes, their gardens, their fences, their orchards and all pertaining to them as spick and span as you could find anywhere in the country. That ought to be, but it is not so yet. Therefore, you sisters, get after your husbands to take up or to do away with the old pole fences and put something else there that looks a little more respectable and modern. 

THE CALL FOR MISSIONARIES 

The favorable sentiment prevailing throughout the country concerning the Latter-day Saints calls for more missionaries. Missionaries are wanted everywhere. You bishops of wards and presidents of stakes, do you hear me? All over the Church the call is to you for missionaries and still more missionaries. Write it down and do not forget it. 

DREAM MINES 

'We have letters coming to us in the President's office concerning mining and mines, and among others, "dream" mines. Too many of our people, after thirty or forty years experience, are still foolish enough to invest money in "dream" mines. If there is any man here or anywhere who will tell me that a "dream" mine has ever made money or is a success financially I would like to be informed of it. I have never heard of it. 

SPEND YOUR MONEY WISELY 

So our advice to our people now, as it always has been, is to spend your money wisely, not foolishly. Build up and beautify the country; beautify your homes. Spend your 'money where you know it is going to do some good. But mining, as President Young said in his time, is for those who understand it. Of course mining is good business. We need the metals, gold, silver, iron — they are all good. But if you have a farm, you tend to your farm. If you are in the dairy business attend to that. Build that up. Do not go speculating in something that you know nothing about; you are apt to lose your money every time. I speak from experience, for I have lost some myself, though not much; I was rather cautious, being born Scotch, and did not venture too much. But I lost what I did venture in mining. 

I remember talking to Philo Farnsworth at least forty years ago, he was a successful mining man at that time; and I said : 

"Philo, I am thinking of investing in a mine out at Baker City ^ where I was then living); what do you think about it?" I told him of the kind of mine it was represented to be. 

He said, "Well, if you want to gamble, it is all right. But if you really want to gamble find a faro game. There are only fifty-two cards in a deck, so that in a faro game you have one chance in fifty-two, because you might hit the right card and there are only fifty-two of them. But in the mining game you have one chance in a hundred." 

I took his advice and stayed out of mining. And so, I repeat, let mining or other business that we know nothing about alone, and especially "dream" mines. It is simply a wild dream, and you had better let it alone. 

PEACE IS COMING 

The winter is coming on, my brethren and sisters. Always we have men out of employment. Let me call the attention of the bishops of wards and presidents of stakes, the leading men of means in the communities, to the importance of trying to provide employment in all your settlements, towns and cities, to help those who are out of employment. Provide work for them if you can. If each one would try to help his neighbor a little, help his brother, we would be a better community and there would be more satisfaction and peace in it. That struggle for peace down through all the ages, which has been sung about, prayed about and prophesied about, is coming still. The world is getting nearer to the millennium. There may be terrible catastrophies, terrible judgments, wonderful things coming upon the earth after the testimony of the elders; but peace also is coming. Our nation is striving for it. Other nations of the earth are signing up contracts, which may not amount to so much now, but it is all in the direction of peace, and I believe that the time will actually come when men will beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruninghooks, and nation will not take up war against nation, neither will they learn war any more. That time is coming, that blessed time that Burns, the poet, 150 years ago sang of when he wrote: 

"Then let us pray that come it may 

As come it will for a' that — * * * * * 

That Man to Man, the world o'er, Shall brothers be for a' that!" 

Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "High On the Mountain Top.' The benediction was offered by Elder Joseph F. Merrill, Superintendent of Church Schools. 

The conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 



