Afternoon
06 10 1928 

The closing session of the conference was held in the tabernacle on Sunday afternoon, October 7, 1928, at 2 o'clock. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The choir and congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

The invocation was offered by Elder James W. Funk, President of the Benson stake. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Gloria." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for the privilege of attending this remarkable conference, for to me it has been a most remarkable one in so many ways. The instructions given, the testimonies borne, the interest shown by the thousands attending each session, and no doubt other thousands listening in by radio, must be most gratifying to all who are interested in the welfare and growth of God's Latter-day work. 

WORK NECESSARY FOR PROGRESS OF CHURCH 

I pray that what I may say at this time will be acceptable to our Heavenly Father and will inspire in the hearts of the saints a greater determination to serve God, keep his commandments, and work, work, work, to bring about God's great plan as revealed to his Prophet, Joseph, in this the last dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times. The .lazy, the indolent have little place in carrying forward God's plans. This is so in this age, and has been from the beginning, and will continue to be so until the end. The growth of the Church has not been accomplished by the idler, the fault-finder, the whiner, the 113  or physically unclean, but by the industrious, the faithful, the unselfish, the defenders of its principles, be they poor, well-to-do or wealthy. The gospel of Jesus Christ enters into the every-day life of every one of its adherents. 

I often read Solomon's exhortation to the study of wisdom against idleness and things hateful to God. I will read you one statement made by him touching the question of idleness, and it is as true today as when uttered by Solomon: 

"Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise : "Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, 

"Provideth her meat in the summer and gathereth her food in the harvest. "How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? 

"Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep; "So shall thy poverty come as one that traveleth, and thy want as an armed man." 

For years on the front cover of the "Juvenile Instructor" there appeared these words : "There is no excellence without labor." 

The necessity and advantages of work have been stressed in all ages of the world, and I call to mind a revelation given through Joseph Smith, the Prophet, on February 9, 1831, in the presence of twelve elders, and I find in that revelation, Section 42, Paragraph 42, the following: "Thou shalt not be idle, for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." 

life's master word 

In an address by Dr. William Osier, to a group of young physicians, he made this statement on "Life's Master Word" : 

"Though a little one, the master-word looms large in meaning. It is the opening to every portal, the great equalizer in the world, the true philosopher's stone which transmutes all base metal of humanity into gold. The stupid man among you it will make bright, the bright man brilliant, the brilliant student steady. With the magic word in your heart all things are possible, and without it all study is vanity and vexation. The miracles of life are with it; the blind see by touch, the deaf hear with eyes, the dumb speak with fingers. To the youth it brings hope, to the middle-aged confidence, to the aged repose. True balm of hurt, in its presence the heart of the sorrowful, is lightened and consoled. It is directly responsible for all advances in medicine during the past twenty-five centuries. With it Virchow smote the rock, and the waters of progress gushed out; while in the hands of Pasteur it proved a very talisman, to open to us a new heaven in medicine and a new earth in surgery. Not only has it been the touchstone of progress, but it is the measure of success in everyday life. Not a man before you but is beholden to it for his position here. And, the master-word is WORK, — a little one, as I have said, but fraught with momentous sequences if you can but write it on the tablets of your hearts and bind it upon your foreheads." , 

Dr. Osier's forceful statement is wonderfully exemplified in the labors and activities of all great pioneers in all ages of the world that we have record of. There are thousands of them, but none greater than those whose lives were dedicated to our Heavenly Father's work GENERAL CONFERENCE  steadfastly lived, labored, and, in many cases became martyrs in its defense. 

PAUL, THE WORKER 

Consider Paul, the worker. He, by his strenuous activity, his zeal, his industry, must have impressed the people of his age that work or labor was honorable, that it occupies the place it richly deserves. Paul did not consider work a means of making a living, but as an opportunity of making a life. Paul preferred a laborious life to one of ease and pleasure. As all super-men, he rendered a service to mankind. He learned in his later years that work was the real secret of accomplishment, and further, that accomplishment was the real secret of happiness. Having a knowledge of these facts, Paul was able to say: "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith; henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day." 

These were the words of Paul, the militant apostle, after suffering opposition, discouragement, imprisonment, threats of death — still he could tell the world in modesty, but convincingly, that he had met his task squarely and finished it thoroughly. 

HEZEKIAH A MAN OF ACTION 

I call to mind another remarkable character in the Bible, of whom it is said, "And in every work that he began, he did it with all his heart and prospered." His accomplishments were ordinary — simply one of that age performing his daily tasks unnoticed, but when a problem that he alone could solve came to him, he was aroused by divine enthusiasm. The real object of life was made manifest to him. It was a time for action, courage, determination. His decision would make or mar his career. "Forward" was the word, and Hezekiah obeyed. Life and all he possessed were at stake. He now realized that dreams meant nothing until they became realities. Hezekiah from that moment had no time for making excuses, no time to complain, no time to count the cost. His task was God's call, and it must and shall be accomplished. 

Notwithstanding that almost unsurmountable difficulties crossed his path, he never wavered in his determination to accomplish the work. No matter what happened, he had his work to do. Nothing could swerve him from it — he had learned the lesson that "There is no excellence without labor." He had not time to envy the success of others. He had a vocation to master. He had found his place. He believed implicitly in hard work. It is no wonder he never experienced drudgery, discontent, dissatisfaction. 

The characters of Paul and Hezekiah were just the opposite from that of the unfaithful servant who went away and hid his talent in the earth. In the latter case excuses were submitted for honest effort, no doubt whining because he was not forging ahead, always waiting for 115  to help him, ever watching the clock or listening for the whistle to blow, imagining that his pathway was strewn with difficulties and joining in the chorus of the army of failures and wails, "I've never had a chance; there's no use trying." 

Too many people are quitters. They are always looking for bargains, discounts, short-cuts to success, rather than facing life's problems squarely. Some are good starters, but poor finishers. Edgar A. Guest expresses the tragedy of many a life as follows: 

"How do you tackle your work each day? 

Are you scared of the job you find? Do you grapple the task that comes your way 

With a confident, easy mind ? Do you stand right up to the work ahead. 

Or fearfully pause to view it? Do you start to toil with a sense of dread, 

Or feel that you're going to do it?" 

THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF A PROPHET 

I now call to mind a more modern servant of God, one chosen by our Heavenly Father to open this gospel dispensation. See what he accomplished through direct instructions and assistance from our Heavenly Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, as well as other ordained personages, having the authority to confer upon him the necessary powers to organize again the Church of Jesus Christ with all of its powers, authority and blessings, enjoyed by the Church over which the Savior presided during his mortal life. I refer to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Let me recite to you some of the things the Prophet Joseph Smith accomplished before he was thirty-nine years of age. 

He had seen the Father and the Son, and had held eight conversations with the Prophet Moroni. He had received the Aaronic priesthood from John the Baptist and the Melchizedek priesthood from the apostles, Peter, James, and John. He had translated the Book of Mormon by the power of God, and had had it printed and in circulation among the people of the nation. Joseph Smith had organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by instruction from heaven, and had received a number of revelations from God. He had received the keys from (Elijah, turning the hearts of the children to the fathers, and from Moses he had received the keys of the gathering. He had communicated with Elias, who committed to him the dispensation of thes gospel of Abraham, and had planned two temples, one at Kirtland and one at Nauvoo. Before he was twenty-five years of age he had received nearly two hundred revelations from God and had translated the Book of Abraham from rolls of papyrus written by Abraham himself while he was in Egypt, which came from the catacombs of Egypt. He had received revelations and visions of the writings of Moses as contained in the Pearl of Great Price giving, among other things, a minute account of the rebellion in heaven and of the creation. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

THE NEED OF PERSEVERANCE 

What is needed by the saints today is more of that particular brand of perseverance which makes one unable to rest while important things are half accomplished, and urges him to keep up the pace until the course is run. We must be more than average workers. We must do something more than average work. "My son," said Bob -Burdette, "you have to work. Whether you handle pick or wheelbarrow or a set of books, digging ditches or editing a newspaper, ringing an auction bell or writing funny things, you must work. Don't be afraid of killing yourself by over-working on the sunny side of thirty. Men die sometimes, but it is because they quit at nine p. m. and don't go home until two a. m. It's the intervals that kill, my son. * * * Take off your coat and make dust in the world. The busier you are, the less harm you are apt to get into, the sweeter will be your sleep, the brighter your holidays, and the better satisfied the whole world will be with you." "Keep your boys busy," said Brigham Young, "even if you have to have them dig a hole and fill it up again." Remember, "an idle brain is the devil's workshop." 

When a boy, Kipling accompanied his father on a sea voyage. The father was lying on his bed when a frightened sailor rushed to his door crying, "Your son! Your son!" The frightened father sprang, to his feet exclaiming, "What is the matter?" "He has climbed out on the foreyard and if he lets go he will be drowned." "Oh, is that all ?" replied Kipling, Sr., as he lay down again. "He won't let go." 

I call to mind a statement of Alexander Hamilton, one of America's most brilliant statesmen, as follows: "People called me talented, but all the talent I have is the ability for hard work, and through that has* come all the success I have ever attained." 

Robert Louis Stevenson upon one occasion said, "I know what pleasure is, for I have done good work." 

We all remember the inspired words of M. D. Babcock, when she 

said: 

"We are not here to play, to dream, to drift; We have hard work to do, and loads to lift : Shun not the struggle; face it; 'tis God's gift." 

This gospel shall be preached to every kindred, tongue and people, and God is fast preparing the way for its accomplishment. We are living in the last dispensation — the beginning of the end. Give us wisdom and strength, O Father, that we may work for its advancement and not weary. 

I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and the Son of the living God; that Joseph Smith was called of God and under divine instruction organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This Church will never be destroyed nor given to another people. Father, we thank thee for this conference; sanctify all that has been said and done to the advancement of thy Church and its mission on earth, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Among the many outstanding features of this conference one has appealed to me with unusual force, namely the sustained note of jubilation — righteous jubilation and thanksgiving, I believe — over the progress of the Church, its growth, and, what is more, its development as shown in the facts set forth by statistics and other data, convincing us of the steady progress of this the Church of Jesus Christ. We have reason to be grateful; the results show it. But this joy and rejoicing has been wisely tempered by advice and counsel regarding our important duties. There has not been lacking the note of warning lest we fail in greater or lesser measure, lest we begin to retrograde rather than advance. 

"ZION PROSPERS" IS ALL WELL ? 

It is well to sing "Zion Prospers," pleasing to be able to chant "All is Well;" and when we so sing in the spirit of thanksgiving and appreciation the Lord accepts our songs as praise. But it is possible for us to sing in another tone and speak the same words, chant the same melody, and yet be unacceptable unto the Lord. Indeed as I mention this, one of our popular songs, I call to mind that the very title of it was used by an ancient prophet by way of warning unto the people. The Prophet Nephi warned the people against lethargy and neglect, and pointed out that many were thus comforting themselves with the thought that they needed to do little or nothing, for all was well in Zion. Speaking of the wiles of the evil one, the devil himself, Nephi said : 

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say : All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. * * * 

"Therefore, woe be unto him that is at ease in Zion! 

"Woe be unto him that crieth: All is well! 

"Yea, woe be unto him that heakeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost I" 

I would not place that pleasing song under ban, but when we sing it, let us sing it in the right spirit and not bring the woes upon ourselves for excusing our lethargy and our laziness by crooning, "Zion prospers, all is well." 

THE MOMENTUM OF THE CHURCH 

How much have I, how much have you contributed to Zion's prosperity, my brethren, my sisters ? Let each one take the question to himself. Many are being carried by the resistless momentum of this great Church, this wonderful work — swept along with it. And they are rather a drag than a means of power or a source of energy. True, the mathematical principle holds that the whole is the sum of all its parts, and consequently the state or the condition of a community must GENERAL CONFERENCE  the algebraic sum of the several conditions of its individual members. But we are not always able to judge of the members separately by the condition of the community. 

We are doing much now in seeking to improve the condition and the activities of our quorums, the quorums of the Holy Priesthood; and we have some quorums whose records are good as compared with others. With totals of activities high, it may appear that the members are energetic and that they never before have accomplished so much. But look a little deeper and you may find that of a quorum of ninety-six elders, sixteen perhaps have been doing the work and the" other eighty have been carried along without much effort on their part. 

COLLECTIVELY OR INDIVIDUALLY? 

The Lord has expressed himself forcefully with respect to such conditions, in these last days. In the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants — I pray you read for yourself— after reciting his purposes and plans and the partial realization of such in the bringing forth of this gospel in this age, he speaks of those who were charged with authority in that day to administer the affairs of the Church, those to whom these commandments were given, and explains that the commandments were given that his servants might have power to lay the foundation of this Church and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness. Please mark his words : "The only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth with which I the Lord am well pleased." But that is not the end of the sentence or paragraph : "with which I the Lord am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually." 

There lies a vital distinction. It is expressed but we often overlook it. It is a distinction that should be heeded in all our organizations within the Church, and without; the difference between the collective status or conditions or achievements and the work of the individual. A manufacturing plant may turn out a great total of product, it may have an immense output, and you may say that it is doing well; but examine the units, look into the machinery, not simply inspect it in a general way, but test, try every machine, every part; and you may find that not one mechanical unit there is doing more than fifty or sixty per cent of what it could do, and yet the output is big. 

A great acreage may result in a very large yield, but when you come to consider the yield per acre you may find that you are gathering only thirty or even twenty fold when you ought to have been reaping seventy and eighty and even an hundred fold. 

We as individuals are not doing all that could be done, all that should be done. I have no concern for the Church as a whole; its destiny is foretold, it is going on to glorious victory. But that does not say that each of us who are members of the Church will go on to glorious victory; we may be left behind entirely. What are we doing individually? I repeat. The tithing system of the Church has been 119  to in this conference. It is a marvel to the people of the world, but look into it and see our tithing record. 

THE TITHING SYSTEM 

The law of tithe as revealed of God is not being practiced by any other religious organization on the face of the earth, nor has it been since the restoration of the Gospel or during the time of the great apostasy. We say that the results in this Church are very impressive. They are, but are they what they should be? How much have you contributed to making the observance of the law of tithing acceptable to the Lord? I do not mean how much in dollars and cents, I do not believe that is the way in which tithing is recorded above. The recording angels may have a system of bookkeeping that is a little better than ours. How much have you contributed by way of paying the tithe, whether it be ten cents or a hundred dollars? For be it known that the one who pays with honest heart the ten cent tithe, if it be a true tithe, will rank higher on those books than the one who pays a thousand dollars when that is only a tenth of a tithe for him. What are we doing individually? I know what some are doing, for they have told me. Some are very busy trying to find excuses in the matter of tithing;as in other duties. Some come with strange questions : "Tell me please, ought I to subtract this or deduct that before I calculate the amount of my tithes?" Very seldom do I find it necessary to analyze the case and to give an answer direct. Sometimes I have smiled because I could see the perfidy of the questioner's coming to me for excuses, and I did not feel complimented. But I have given him a rule, and I venture to give it here. I have found it helpful myself, and I think that all may profit by it. 

A RULE FOR COMPUTING YOUR TITHES 

When you are in doubt as to just how you should calculate your tithes, reverse the terms as we sometimes do in solving complex mathematical problems, and suppose for the time being that the Lord had said this; let us postulate this as an assumed law given to the Church : "In order to show my love for my people, the faithful members of my Church, it is my will, saith the Lord, that each one shall receive from my storehouse, the storehouse of my church, at regular intervals during the year, an amount equal to one-tenth of his income." Now my dear brother, sit down and calculate how much the Lord owes you under that kind of law, and then go pay it to your bishop. 

CHURCHES AND jMEMBERS OF CHURCHES 

There is another phase of this distinction between individual and collective computation. The Lord was pleased with this Church in the day in which he spake as quoted and he is pleased with it today as a church; likewise he is pleased with a great many of its members; for there are many, many faithful members in this Church, men and GENERAL CONFERENCE  who are doing well nigh all they could do save for the imperfections of humanity. And the Lord is pleased with them; he is pleased with the Church, for it is progressing. There are churches with which he is not pleased. 

We are ofttimes charged with being very exclusive, and we admit the charge; we are exclusive, but in a rational sense. How can we solemnly testify that this is the Church of Jesus Christ and then ascribe that same high title to other organizations that have been formed, not under the direction of Jesus Christ, but according to man's thought and plans? Some people say that we are illiberal because we do not admit that all other churches are just what this church professes to be. We admit that other churches are what they profess to be, when their profession is based on facts. 

Now when we say that the Lord is not pleased with those churches, we do not mean that he is not pleased with the members thereof. We hold that God is no respecter of persons, but on the contrary that he will acknowledge good in any soul, no matter whether that person belongs to a church or not. But the Lord is not pleased with those churches that have been constructed by men and then labeled with his name. He is not pleased with those doctrines that are being taught as being his doctrines when they are only the effusion of men's brains, undirected by inspiration and utterly lacking in revelation. 

CHURCH OF CHRIST AND CHURCHES OF MEN 

He has expressed himself with regard to the churches that are built by man and has said they shall be overthrown. Indeed he has applied strong terms to some of those churches, or to church organizations in general, that have been brought into being by man. Read his words to John the Revelator. See what he means by the synagogue of Satan to which some of the people belonged. Read what he has said about the great and abominable church, the mother of abominationsThe church as such may be wholly corrupt because of the false claims that are being made for it, and yet within that church as members there may be people who are doing their best. They have been deceived. As to the degree of culpability that will be charged up to them for their having become subjects of deception, we may not be able to judge. 

But I do not understand that when the Lord states that those churches shall be overthrown — I mean the church of the devil, using his expression, and those that are making false claims, and shall be thrown into the fire, as he says — I do not understand that all members of those churches are to meet destruction, physically or otherwise. He is speaking there of the church collectively, and he is not pleased with it; but individually he may be well pleased with many of his sons and daughters who have been born under an environment that has led them into those churches which are not of God. 

I feel that we should give attention to the individual unit. Wholesale farming is all right but we do not always get the yield that we would get if we were to pay greater attention to each particular plant. 121 

And so with respect to members and membership in this Church. I trust that when the account shall be cast up, the Lord will be pleased with his Church, and I know he will be; but I hope that he will not be utterly displeased with me as a member; and I have the same wish with respect to every one of you, my brethren and sisters. But I pray you, be not content with the progress of the Church as an organization unless you are progressing with it, and not simply being carried along by it. 

In brief reference to the olden parable : There are some who have just enough oil in their tiny lamps to show that they claim to belong to the organization, but their light goes out when a little trouble comes^ a little persecution; and they walk in the light of the Church without individual light. I pray that the Lord shall be well pleased with his people individually, as I know he will continue to be pleased with his Church collectively, in his name, Amen. 

A solo, "O Divine Redeemer," was sung by Sister Emma Lucy Bowen. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President ef the Northwestern States Mission 

Behold a great and marvelous work has come among the children of men. The spirit of this conference has evidenced that to a very marked degree to the thousands of people that are in attendance at this conference. 

I am delighted to bring good news from the Northwestern States Mission. I am thrilled beyond my power to express at the reception which I have received during the past two days from fathers and mothers who have sons and daughters now laboring in the Northwestern States. I have never seen before such a manifestation of faith in God as has been shown by these good parents, not only one, but many. Even today people who have driven hundreds of miles to be present at this conference have said, "President Sloan, my son, my daughter, is at the service of God as long as he desires them to remain in the mission field." 

I have a young man laboring with me now who eighteen months ago received a call to the mission field. He is the son of a widowed mother who is working hard to sustain her little family, and he is a twin. When the call came, the mother looked at it with tears in her eyes. She called on the Bishop and said, "Bishop, I pray you, do not separate my twins. Let them both go on a mission." The elder and his sister are laboring in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Last February one of the brethren in Montana passed away, leaving a wife and a family of children in almost destitute circumstances. As the spring opened up the good saints and friends of that branch united together, and in one day they plowed, disced, harrowed and seeded this GENERAL CONFERENCE 's ninety acres of sod. The Relief Society sisters were there playing their part and provided meals for the brethren. A month ago when I was there the crops were almost ready for harvest, all standing in the field to bless and sustain this widow and her family of children. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." 

I stood a few weeks ago at the bedside of one of the good sisters in the hospital at Helena. I want to leave her testimony with you, brethren and sisters. Many of you have probably heard it before. She recounted to me early experiences in the little town of Clarkston, Utah. Her sister was the wife of Martin Harris, Jr. One morning as she was a guest at her sister's home, Martin Harris, Jr., went to the bedside of his father and found him failing very fast. Returning home he conveyed this message to his wife and her father, Brother Homer. They all immediately returned to the bedside of Martin Harris. Sister Costly took the hand of her father and walked across the street into the home of Martin Harris. Brother Homer walked to his bedside and said, "How are you, Brother Harris?" He answered, "I feel that I am not long for this world." Brother Homer spoke to him and he said concerning the Book of Mormon, "Brother Homer, the Book of Mormon is as true as the stars that shine in the heavens." Then turning to his son, Martin Harris, Jr., he said, "Martin, proclaim this truth to all the world. Tell them that the Book of Mormon is true." That was the testimony of a dying man to his son. Brethren and sisters, would he desire his son to go and tell a falsehood to the world ? 

The Mission in the Northwest is growing. We have recently opened up the district in Alaska. There are Indians there by the hundreds who are educated and are a fine type of manhood. They are seeking for the truth. Two of the elders laboring there have met with considerable success, not only among the white people, but also among the Indians. They seem to be anxious to know the contents of the Book of Mormon, and many copies have been distributed among them. They believe the teachings of that wonderful book. 

The work is growing. The missionaries are enjoying splendid health. They are enjoying the spirit of their calling. Do not worry about your sons and daughters. Please do not send them quite so much money, most of them. We prefer that they do not have so much and they will make better missionaries for the Church. 

The wonderful organization of this Church, its growth and development stand as a testimony to all the world, and yet there are those who cannot see its truth. Some day God will touch them and then the eyes of their understanding will be opened. They will know, I am sure, that in all the processes that God has instituted, this Church has been on the right side. 

One of our modern poets, Edgar A. Guest, has given us the following lines: 123 

"The non-believer is a man 

Who lets the morning sunshine in And thinks by chance this world began As men throw dice and lose or win; He sees the violets bloom and blow, But not the power which makes them grow. 

"Chance charted every planet's course! 

By chance the summer follows spring! Chance gave to man the faithful horse 

And made the swallow fleet of wing! How these things came he doesn't know. He thinks they merely happened so. 

"Oh, what a jumble there would be 

If chance were shaping beasts and men, 

Could blind chance once repeat a tree, Or bring the June rose back again ? 

The simplest truth we've learned to know. 

Tomorrow chance might overthrow. 

"Without confusion or mistake 

There is a power which rules us all, 

A higher law we cannot break, 

An eye that sees the sparrow's fall. 

In every twig and leaf and blade 

I see God's handiwork displayed. 

I pray the blessings of God to be with this people, on its leaders, and in all Israel, through Jesus Christ. Amen. The choir sang the first two verses of the hymn, "An angel from on high." 

ELDER HENRY H. ROLAPP 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethen and sisters, I deem it a great privilege to have the opportunity of making a report of the Eastern States Mission. I have probably seen seventy-five per cent of the parents or close relatives of the missionaries who are laboring in the Eastern States. I would like to see the remainder of them at the close of this meeting. 

In the Eastern States we have a wonderful showing. Everybody is well. We haven't a sick missionary in the entire district. We have been very fortunate in having some of the general authorities come to New York and preach to the saints. During the last month Elder Whitney went through the entire mission. He and I saw every missionary. We have had President Talmage preach to us in New York and Brooklyn; we had Brother Widtsoe talk to us; and we have had Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon, Bishop Wells and other elders visit us. President Grant visited with us in New York and West Virginia. In the latter place he had never been heard before, and the saints were out in very large numbers. During the past month while Brother Whitney was there we had exceptionally large meetings. In the Brooklyn GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Branch every seat was taken, both in the body of the hall and in the gallery, and chairs were placed in the aisles; yet there must have been fifty persons, I should say, who were unable to get a seat. On that Sunday he addressed perhaps eight hundred people, one quarter of whom were non-Mormons. 

In the Eastern States Mission we have started a new proceeding which I understand is being introduced very largely in other missions. We have something over six hundred children of non-members attending Primary Associations. I am a Sunday School man, and we started out to make it a Sunday School affair, but we found we could not. So we instituted the Primaries, and practically every day of the week some Primary is being entertained by the sisters. I think they are doing a marvelous work. In the morning our sisters go out tracting from house to house, and in the afternoon they pick up these children and bring them into their Primary organization and teach them the life of Christ and some other Christian stories. 

When I was called on this mission I was not strongly in favor of young ladies coming into the mission field. I have had to change my attitude in that respect. I am now praying for more girls to come into the mission field. They can do a great deal of good. I want to say to you that they are preaching the gospel and they are visiting the parents of these children. True, we have not received very many converts yet, but they are coming, and great good has been done. 

I want to testify to the responsibility that the brethren and the sisters feel who are laboring in the Eastern States Mission. They are living lives of Latter-day iSaints; they are preaching the gospel of Christ, and they are causing one to marvel at the miracle which God is performing. The young people as they come into the mission know comparatively little regarding the gospel. True, they have gone to Sunday School and to Mutual, and have been faithful and diligent in doing so; but when they have been in the mission a year or so they have a testimony which I promise them shall never leave them. The> may apostatize from the Church, but they will have the knowledge that they have testified to the truth. When those young people come back — I join in the statement made by President Allred — then is the time I would like to see you give them a party. They have then done something for the Church of Christ. That is the time when I would like to see everybody come out and congratulate them on what they have done. 

Practically every elder in the mission can come home and do more than fifty percent of your own ward people. They are trained in visiting the saints. Take hold of them, make them ward teachers when they come home, and appeal to them in the proper spirit. I want to tell you there are no stronger young people in the world than these young missionaries. I am thankful that I have been called on a mission. I am getting old, but I am thankful that even at my age I received the call to do missionary work. I testify to you that I know this is the gospel of Christ, and that testimony has been with me ever since 125 

I was upon a mission in England with President Nibley about fifty years ago. That testimony is still in my heart and has never been shaken, but this mission has made it conspicuous, so that I know not only what I can do, but I know what your children can do. Do not let them come home and become inactive. Some of us older ones should step aside and take hold of the younger ones. 

I testify to the truthfulness of the gospel. I pray God that he will bless us in the Eastern States Mission that we may grow, as we are growing, financially, spiritually, and in every other way. I ask it all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this conference and to have been able to listen to the sermons that have been delivered. 

While sitting upon my seat I have considered and remembered some of the things that President Grant said, one of which was that the Latter-day Saints should read the Doctrine and Covenants and the other standard Church works. In my years of experience in the mission field I have failed to find any one thing revealed by the Lord successfully assailed. In all the experiences I have had I know of nothing else that has stood the test that the principles of the gospel have stood I am sure that they will endure unto the end, and the measurement of men's success and the glory of God shall be brought about through the principles he Iras revealed unto the world in these the last days. The Lord says that if men will read these scriptures with real intent and with a desire to know the truth he will manifest the truth unto them by the power of the Holy Ghost; by the power of the Holy Ghost they may know all things. i 

The Lord requires of all men, regardless of who they are, that they must be sincere, that they must have a real intent in their hearts; and when they do, he will come unto them in the hours of the day and the night, and bring to them his blessings, and reveal unto them his truths as a father on the earth would reveal to his son, only in greater measure. Our Eternal Father loves his children and will reveal unto them his purposes and make known unto them why he sent them into the earth. The children of men are to be congratulated in this day and generation because of that which God our Eternal Father has delivered unto them. 

As I have sat today thinking of the thousands of people who are listening to these services; who are hearing the remarks that are being made in the sessions of this conference by the servants of God —  the President of the Church and others who have spoken or who will speak — I have recognized that the word of God has been revealed anew to us. The plan has been revealed to many undoubtedly who have GENERAL CONFERENCE  been able to listen before as they have at this time. Great are the purposes of God our Eternal Father. His power is everywhere, through all and in all. This is the work of God. He is with his children at home and abroad. His sons and daughters are doing much, and he is the one unto whom we should give glory and honor and praise forever and ever; for he is God, the King of all, the Father of heaven and earth; he has planned everything for the good of his sons and daughters here in mortality. May we rally to him and to those wno represent him in the earth, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

In every dispensation the Lord has chosen men to lead and preserve Israel who were statesmen as well as prophets. This is deeply significant. These statesmen-prophets have pointed to nations as well as to the people of their own faith the means of escape from impending evils and calamities. 

In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that great statesmanprophet, nearly one hundred years ago, the Lord said: 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon mv servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave h"> commandments." (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 1 :17.) 

That awful hurricane in Florida, four weeks ago today (Sunday, September 16th) evidences the truth of the revelation in which it is declared by the Lord that the testimony of the elders would be followed by the testimony of earthquakes, and other events. 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. 

"For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes. * * * 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the iwaves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:88-91.) { } _ 

Tennyson says that "things seen are mightier than things heard." I was a horrified eye witness of the ruin and desolation wrought by that fearful tempest. I beheld the hurrying floods going on to their work of destruction. The buildings, everywhere, in the storm-stricken district were in ruins. The Lord, ever mindful of the safety of his missionaries, caused them to come out of that part of Florida devastated by the storm several days before the hurricane came upon that region. I know it is said that such calamities have always been in the earth. That may or may not be true. But it is certainly true that the God of heaven, 127  through all the ages has thundered his warnings by the voice of judgment to unrepentant people, and by that means, when the voice of admonition and mercy has failed, has urged them to forsake the paths of wrong-doing and return unto him. 

There were good men and good women who lost their lives in that tempest, but I cannot believe that these unfortunate people died in vain. We have had martyrs to science, education and religion. The Holy Bible and the Book of Mormon cost some of the best blood of Adam's race to bring them forth for the purpose of blessing the people: for these sacred records testify to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Ij believe that the Christian men, women and children who died in the storm have gone to an eternal reward; and if the people of the world are impressed by that awful destruction from the Almighty, if they will profit from the lesson of that fearful calamity, these men and women shall not have died in vain. 

When we see the judgments of God coming upon the earth it is proof that the Savior, who said to the troubled sea and angry elements, "Peace, be still," will say to the troubled world, "Peace, be still." He will, at his second coming, inaugurate the Millennium, bring to pass the glorious resurrection, and all the things he has promised to those that obey him. 

Brethren and sisters, the scriptures ring with the call to the repentance that will move a man to "put on the new man," the repentance that will give the sinner another heart. Of such vital importance to a man's salvation is the cleansing of the soul, that the Lord has said: "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." And in another place he says: "Behold, the world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 18:6.) 

And this is the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. This is the glorious and sacred work your sons and daughters are doing in the mission fields; and God is with them. His promises are being fulfilled to the very letter. 

The Apostle Paul said : "See that ye refuse not him that speaketh." We appeal to all people to come unto repentance. Obey him whose voice not only shakes the earth, but also heaven. Come unto Jesus Christ and get that peace and rest for your souls that is beyond all price. 

God help us to serve the Lord acceptably, in reverence and in Godly fear, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, who were sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation as follows : 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards - Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 129 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Joseph F. Merrill Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Peter G. Johnston 

Orval W. Adams 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

David A. Smith, President ' George C. Smith, Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

REORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY 

Sister Clarissa S. Williams has been President of the Relief Society for a number of years. Her husband was sick for a year or two prior to his death, and her own health has not been first-class. It has, therefore, been decided by the Council of the First Presidency and Twelve, after consultation with Sister Williams and with her approval, to release her from this position with our thanks, love and blessings. 

This action also involves the release of her counselors, Sisters, Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, and as the new president wishes Sister Amy Brown Lyman to be her first counselor, it also involves her release as secretary and treasurer of the organization. 

These good sisters carry our love and blessings for the splendid labors that they have performed. 

(The congregation then indicated their approval of this action by unanimous vote.) GENERAL CONFERENCE 

President Grant then presented the General Auxiliary Officers of the Church, who were sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation, as follows: 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor Julia F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I can say that I have rejoiced beyond my power of expression in the very excellent attendance that we have had at this conference, in the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord upon those who have spoken and in the splendid attention that has been given by the audiences. I believe that we have had a larger number at this conference than at any previous one that I can recall during the time I have been President of the Church. In addition there have been hundreds and thousands who have been listening in over the radio. 

We rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ, those of us who have received it, and we are anxious that all the world should hear the message of life and salvation that has come to us through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

REJOICE BECAUSE OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

We had a very wonderful gathering here last night of the priesthood of the Church, almost completely filling the main floor of this great auditorium with men holding the priesthood of the living God, 131  authority to administer in the name of Jesus Christ, with power from God himself. 

We rejoice in the wonderful work that is being accomplished by the Relief Societies, by the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, by our Sunday Schools and by the Primary Associations. We rejoice exceedingly in the remarkable work that is being accomplished in the educational department of the Church and particularly by the Religion Class organization. Sixty-one thousand of our young people are receiving instruction in our Religion Classes. I rejoice in the work of the Lord and all that is being accomplished. 

GRATEFUL FOR BLESSINGS 

We are grateful for the beautiful singing by our choir. We are grateful to the soloists who have entertained us. We are thankful for the wonderful organ and for the faithful and efficient men who officiate! at the organ. 

My heart went out in gratitude as I listened to the prayer by Brother Stephen L. Chipman, thanking the Lord for this wonderful Temple block, for the flowers, and for all the buildings that are here. 

May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints. May we so order our lives that by our diligence, our faithfulness, our honesty, our integrity, our uprightness in all the walks of life, we can preach the gospel, is my most sincere and earnest prayer for every soul who has a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Even so, amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Worthy the Lamb." 

The benediction was pronounced by President Anthony W. Ivins* 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by B. Cecil Gates. Accompaniments and interludes were played on the* great organ by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Frank W. Asper, and Alexander Schreiner. 

Stenographic notes of the conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present i 

Authorities, Presentation of 128 

Allred, Elder John G 57 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 107 

Truth will prevail, 107 — A testing time, 108 — Our nation's security, 108— The attitude of the Church, 109=— A new test, 110— A glorious age, 111 — God's promises to be realized, 111. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O 125 

Callis, Elder Charles A 126 

Cannon, Elder Hugh J 22 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 47 

Temporal and spiritual affairs, 47 — Labor— a command of God, 48 — Benefits of physical labor, 49 — Specialization of labor, 49 — Opportunities for employment, 50— No clergy— no laity — all to labor, 50 — Mental and physical effort, 51 — Idlers have no place in Zion, 51 — Dedication of our labor and time to the Lord, '52. 

Clawson, President Rudger 44 

A perplexing question, 44 — The author of life, 44 — What is man? 45 — The purpose of life, 45 — Marriage for eternity, 46. 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 22 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 128 

General Officers of the Church 128 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 130 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Changes in stake and mission officers since last conference, 2 — Expenditures for church edifices, 3 — Visits missions, 3 — Buildings dedicated, 4 — Buildings in course of construction, 4 — An interesting and profitable trip, 5 — The Lord's promises to be fulfilled, 

6 — Blessings predicated upon observance of Word of Wisdom, 

7 — Influence of the priesthood, 8— Counsel regarding voting, 9— Belief regarding governments and laws, 10 — Sentiments of Abra Lincoln, 11. 

Grant, President Heber J 65 

General authorities and stake presidents excused, 65. Grant, President Heber J 127 134 Grant, President Heber J 129 

Reorganization of Relief Society, 129. 

Grant, President Heber J 130 

Rejoice because of accomplishments, 130 — Grateful for blessings, 130. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 40 

Ivins, President Anthony W 12 

Refused to listen, 12— A choice land, 13 — Blessed unto the righteous, 14 — Prophecy fulfilled, IS — Our system of government, 15 — A published appeal, 16— Have not changed, 17 — Condition not hopeless, 17 — The Mormon Pioneers, 18 — To those old paths, 19. 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 70 

Education, ancient and modern, 70 — Science applied to sanitation, 70 — The modern outlook of men, 71 — For preservation of public health, 71 — Magnitude of Chicago's works, 72 — Recent elevation of woman, 72 — A great Church school, 73 — This book of Pupin's, 

73 — How his mother guided him, 73 — Influence of mothers, 74 — A decisive stroke, 74 — A father's doubts, 75 — The youth's resolve, 

75 — Pupin's search for "Light," 76 — Can psychologists explain? 

76 — The revelation on light, 76 — Science corroborates revealed truth, 77— Read the book, 77. 

McKay, Elder David 35 

Keep the Faith, 36 — Wlhat it means to keep the faith, 36 — Man's relationship to the infinite, 37 — Safe anchorage, 37 — Ideals of our young people, 38 — Keep clean, 39 — True manhood and true womanhood, 39 — Observance of law required, 40. 

Nibley, President Charles W 19 

A more liberal feeling, 20 — Not so favorable, 20 — The call for missionaries, 21 — Dream mines, 21 — Spend your money wisely, 21 — Peace is coming, 22. 

Pond, Elder Noah S 52 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 29 

Richards, Elder George F 66 

The need of revelation, 66 — "A marvelous work and a wonder," 68 — Appreciative of light and knowledge, 68 — Chosen before birth for special mission, 69 — Serve the Lord, 69. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 95 

Reverence for God, 95 — Reverential respect for the body of man, 95 — The home a sacred institution, 96 — The sin of profanity, 97— Respect for law, 97— The Fatherhood of God, 98. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 83 

Rolapp, Elder Henry H 123 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 44 Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 66 

Sloan, Elder William R 121 

Smith, Elder David A 26 

Smith, Elder George Albert 90 

Divine ancestry, 90 — The purpose of our existence, 90 — A blessed age, 91 — The experience of former civilizations, 91 — A land of liberty, 92— The gospel— what it is, 93— The duty of parents, 93— The danger that confronts us, 94. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 81 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 99 

A world of change, 99 — The plan of eternal progress, 99 — Universal salvation, 100 — Divine guidance necessary, 100 — A fulness of truth, 101. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 112 

Work necessary for progress of Church, 112 — Life's Master work, 113 — Paul, the worker, 114 — Hezekiah a man of action, 114 — The accomplishments of a prophet, 115 — The need of perseverance, 116. 

Talmage, Elder James E 117 

"Zion prospers" — is all well? 117 — The momentum of the Church, 117 — Collectively or individually? 118 — The tithing system, 119 — A rule for computing your tithes, 119 — Churches and members of churches, 119 — Church of Christ and churches of men, 120. 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 90 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 112 

Wells, Elder John 32 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 78 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 59 

God's work and man's, 59 — The Church on earth and in heaven, 59 — Stakes and missions, 60 — Independent and dependent, 60 — The Eastern States Mission, 60 — Worldly and heavenly things, 

61 — God's greatest gift, 61 — What most impressed, 61 — The gospel of common sense, 61 — The true God, 62 — Man in the divine image, 

62 — Not created out of nothing, 62 — Life's purposes, 63 — Where we shall spend eternity, 63 — How shall we spend eternity? 63 — A Mormon reply, 64. 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 54 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 102 

Can you answer all of the questions that are put to you about the Church? 

THE OFFICIAL 

History of the Church 

Will answer many of these qestions for you. 

IN SIX LARGE VOLUMES 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church. Completing the First Period. 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth— Embossed, per vol $2.50 Postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol 3.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, per vol 6.00 

The above work is suggested as reference in connection with the study of Church History in all of the activities of the Church. 

For the reader who does not want this exhaustive history, we recommend the one volume book entitled 

Essentials in Church History 

BY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"As the title of the book implies, the vital and essential points of history and doctrine have been selected, and as far as possible arranged in chronological order." 

PRICE, CLOTH BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 WHENCE THIS GOSPEL WE TEACH? 

"Restoration of the Gospel" 

BY OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE 

"This book prepared by Elder Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, dealing with the important subject of the Restoration of the everlasting Gospel, should be read and its contents carefully considered by those who are seeking after truth." Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

PRICE $1.00 POSTPAID 

A Book You Have Been Waiting For An India Paper Edition of 

JESUS THE CHRIST 

THAT EXCELLENT TREATISE BY ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Just Fits The Pocket An Excellent Present For The Missionary Friend 

PRICE $5.00 POSTPAID 

ARTICLES OF FAITH 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

A consideration of the principal doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

This book will be helpful to all who desire a clear and concrete exposition of the beliefs and attitudes of the "Mormons." 

LIBRARY EDITION. BLUE CLOTH. $1.00 POSTPAID MISSIONARY EDITION. BROWN CLOTH. 50c POSTPAID 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 







