Afternoon
05 10 1928

ELDER HUGH J. CANNON 

Former President of the Swiss and German Mission 

It will not be possible, my brethren and sisters, to describe my feelings in being called thus suddenly to address this vast congregation. I sincerely pray that the Lord will illuminate my mind while I occupy this position. 

As President Grant stated, I have returned rather recently from presiding over the Swiss and German Mission. I can report conditions in that field as being very favorable. It is true the people are not flocking to the Church in such great numbers as came during the distressing years immediately succeeding the war, but still we are making very satisfactory headway there, and the members of the Church are faithful. I think it would not be possible to find anywhere a body of saints who are more exact in the payment of their tithes and offerings than are the Swiss and German people. It would not be easy nor perhaps possible to find a people who are more willing to contribute to the missionaries. Some of the things which we see there are extremely touching. My heart has been made to rejoice, and still it has caused a feeling of humility to come over me, when I have witnessed what our members and friends are willing to do for those who come into their midst to preach the gospel. It is not an uncommon thing for members of the Church to share their last crust of bread with the missionaries. I have known of cases where men and women have sat up all night in chairs so that the elders might have a comfortable bed in which to sleep. That spirit is broadcast among the German-speaking people, both in the Swiss-German and in the German-Austrian missions; and when we see their fidelity, their faith, their willingness to do for us, naturally it is a spur to our missionaries to do the very best they can. 

The elders laboring in those fields are sincerely anxious to spread the gospel truth. I have been impressed with the quality of our representatives who have come out into the world. Of course I am better acquainted with those who have come to the particular field where I presided. They proved to be a very faithful and devoted band of brethren, willing to give their all for the advancement of truth. In my opinion there is a noticeable improvement in the quality of missionaries now going into the field, and this thought has impressed me very deeply : the better educated the missionary is, speaking generally, the more faith he has. We have had quite a number of men in the field who were college graduates, men who have taken their degrees from the Universities of the State and of the Church, and those men, I can say, without an exception, were unusual missionaries. It was from their ranks very largely that district presidents were chosen. Naturally this was not always the case, because sometimes, while they had the education, they did not have the gift of handling men as did some others who had not made quite so much progress along scholastic lines. But those who had taken their college degrees were a very fine body of brethren. So I have come home prepared to recommend to all our young boys that so far as possible they should finish their university work, though not necessarily before they go on missions. Sometimes it fits into the scheme of things better if they go before they have finished, but I think our young men should have the ambition to graduate from our universities, or at least go as far in educational lines as it is possible for them to go. 

I am impressed, as has already been said, with the excellent quality of the men who go out, and impressed also with the sacrifice which their parents are willing to make in order to keep them in the field. I recall now a mother whose letter to her sons was shown me. It was my practice to write twice a year to the parents of the missionaries in the field. One couple had two sons there, one already a district president, the other subsequently to become one. I wrote complimenting them on the character of their sons and telling of the splendid work they were doing. I saw a letter from the mother written to her boys in which she said, "When Brother Cannon's letter came I was washing, I was tired, and felt as though I could not possibly face the duties that were upon me. But when that letter came I went into the other room and read it and re-read it and cried for pure joy." 

"That is a feeling which people in the world cannot understand, how a woman can cry with joy because she, in connection with her husband, has to send her sons about seventy dollars a month and be deprived of their association and the help which they could give on the farm. But she did cry and it was for pure joy. We who have had similar experiences can understand her feelings. All who are here know that her joy was genuine and real. Many cases of that kind might be related if time permitted. 

Our missionary boys are hedged about here at home, they are watched over with the utmost care as they grow to maturity. Then they go out into the world, many of them to countries where alcoholic beverages are almost as easy to obtain as water, and yet these boys do not drink. They are surrounded by men, and in this modern age, by women, very many of whom use tobacco, still these boys do not smoke. They come in contact with people whose moral ideals are not high, men and even women who do not look upon virtue and morality as we look upon it. They are shining marks for the dissolute, for the wicked, for those who would lead the servants of the Almighty astray; and still they remain pure and clean and come home with heads erect, able to look any man, any woman, any child in the face. That is the character of missionaries with whom it has been my privilege to labor. 

I should like to say a word or two about the missionary after his return. While he is in the field he is watched over by his mission president and by his district president. His parents, his bishop, perhaps the president of his stake, are writing letters to him, urging him to do right. They are praying for him. He is engaged in his Master's service. He realizes that he is no longer representing himself, but is  a great cause, and he feels ashamed to do things which are wrong. He is careful, is humble. His whole thought is concentrated cn righteousness and he learns to live it. Then at the end of his mission he is released to come home. You know what happens. The bishops, I am sure, do all they can to find a place for him. But it is often a fact that this boy who has been the biggest figure in the circle which he occupied, after his return, drops completely into the background, too frequently out of sight. I haven't any criticism to offer to the officers of the stakes and wards. I know from experience how difficult it is to find employment, either secular or in a Church capacity, for this army of men returning from the mission field. It is not always easy, sometimes not possible, to put them into positions of responsibility. But I do think they are deserving of all the thought and care and attention that we can possibly give them. There is a reaction, a relaxation, when they are released. Perhaps many of you know how it is to be engaged in active service and then all at once not have anything to do. You frequently have that experience right here at home. When you have had a difficult task to perform, a sermon to deliver perhaps, which weighed heavily upon your mind and frightened you, a spirit of relaxation came over you when that work was done. That is the situation with our missionaries. 

I had a young man in the field say to me once, "If I ever get into serious trouble it will be on Tuesday." I was a little surprised at the statement and asked, "Why?" He said, "Because I am keyed up the latter part of the week. Knowing I have to speak on Sunday, I am humble and prayerful; I plead with the Lord to help me with my work, that it may be done well, and then on Sunday night after that sermon is finished I am inclined to relax. Monday finds me completely relaxed, and after Monday night or Tuesday I am the weakest that I am during the entire week. After Tuesday I begin to worry about Sunday again." 

This, in my judgment, illustrates the general condition of our returned missionaries. They are relaxed. They often feel, and of course improperly, that they are no longer representing a people, but are merely human individuals, simply units in the Church, and what they do will not reflect serious discredit upon the Church. That splendid and sustaining thought which was with them during their missions, that they must be true because of the Church, leaves them when they return home. 

I would like to suggest to parents that when your 'boys come home you do not feel that their feet are safely anchored to the rock of truth, but feel that they need your prayers just as much at home and perhaps more than they did in the mission field; feel that you should watch over them, talk with them and plead with them just as much as before they went, or during the time they were absent. I may take an exaggerated view of this matter, but it seems to me that the returned missionary is one of the biggest problems the Church has before it, I would not infer that any large percentage of our misisonaries go astray. That is not the case, but if we take time to consider the matter, we will see that more of them become careless after they come home, a far greater number, than do wrong in the mission field. The percentage of those who fall into serious transgression in the mission field is very small, almost insignificant. Of course it is larger than it should be, for as long as one man goes astray the number is too large, but in this particular we have little cause for concern. At home, while the number of delinquents is not extremely large it far exceeds the delinquency abroad. And so I say in behalf of the returned missionary, to bishops and ward and stake officers, to those who preside in quorums, and particularly to parents, watch the returned missionary, try to make him feel that there is a place for him, perhaps not a place where he can, preside, but that there is a place in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ here just as much as there is abroad. He comes home full of faith, bearing testimony that he knows this message is true, and he does know it. I have heard boys say that they know just as well as the Prophet Joseph knew, that he saw the Father and the Son. They do not understand the gospel as he did; they do not comprehend its real significance as did the Prophet, but the knowledge of its divinity is theirs. So I pray for them and pray for us all, that we may understand the magnitude of this great work which is entrusted to our care, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I have been very much interested in the remarks of this conference thus far, especially those referring to the Word of Wisdom and the training of missionaries. Last week more than sixty young men and women left the Missionary Home for the mission field. During one examination period, the Word of Wisdom was discussed, and from the statements made it was apparent that such teachings have had a guiding influence in their lives. One young lady, a mere slip of a girl, made this statement : "The Lord cannot work with those who are unclean mentally or physically." Living according to the teachings of the Word of Wisdom gives us a fitting background to prepare us to receive his blessings. I am afraid there are a great many of us who have not learned this one lesson; it is not a new doctrine, but is embodied in the teachings of the Savior and the apostles of old. We read in I Cor. 111:16, 17, 18: 

"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 

"If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. 

"Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise." 

If we could be so impressed with these thoughts that they would always be manifest in our thoughts and actions, our faith would be increased and our labors extended to the benefit not only of ourselves  our associates and fellow Church workers. Has it occurred to us that perhaps many blessings needful for our welfare are withheld from us? The Lord has commanded that we support the laws of the land because the constitutional laws of the land make us free. In the days of Kirtland, the Lord said he was not well pleased with many who were in the Church. 

"Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. 

"But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, * * * and are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom." 

Are we as individuals seeking to be united as a Church ? Are we exemplary in our teachings by word of mouth and in our actions? We need only to look about us to see on every hand a tendency to break the Word of Wisdom. Perhaps as individuals we feel that because we are trying to live according to this law we are meeting the requirements of the law, but to those who have received the priesthood comes also a responsibility of not only complying with the law as individuals but of laboring unceasingly with those who are careless or indifferent, for Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom. Let us remember that we are "temples of the living God" and that God cannot work with us when we are unclean mentally or physically. 

The Word of Wisdom makes this clear to us and offers a most wonderful promise, "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints who are or can be called saints," and we are assured that through obedience we shall be made strong, mentally, spiritually and physically. Let us study it and so apply its principles in our daily lives that the influence thereof will be felt throughout the land. Sometimes we become impatient because the results we hoped for are not apparent immediately; sometimes in our zeal we make mistakes of judgment — it may be in business matters, our farming operations, or in the conduct of our community affairs — if we are living according to the laws of God we shall have the spirit of discernment and under the guiding influence of that spirit will find that such experiences are as bread cast upon the water, for after many days we shall find it to be a blessing, "for the Spirit of God knoweth the things of God and the spirit of man knoweth only the things of man." When we learn as a Church to apply these teachings, we will overcome such difficulties, and happiness will be our lot; for we shall do away with fault-finding, contention, and indifference, and in the spirit and power of the holy priesthood we shall lend a helping hand to those who find it difficult to meet the requirements of the laws of God, especially the young men and women who are now living in an age of freedom, more so than in any other period of the world's history. The Lord never intended that they should not have pleasure, for "man is that he might have joy"; that their enjoyment might be wholesome it is necessary that they be properly guarded, for "truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing jt is for the eyes to behold the sun." We sow the seed in the springtime but know not what the harvest will be in the fall; the result is generally measured by the faith, the diligence, and the labor we put forth. This has always been the law and will be until the purposes of the Lord are fulfilled. A writer of the Old Testament expresses tht thought beautifully as follows in the 11th chapter of Ecclesiastes : 

"Cast thy bread upon the waters : for thou shalt find it after many days. 

"In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand : for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. 

"Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun: 

"But if a man live many years, and rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity. 

"Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. 

"Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh : for childhood and youth arc vanity." 

That we may more nearly meet these conditions a re-adjustment has been made in our priesthood and recreational activities. The Sabbath morning — the beginning of the Sabbath Day — has been designated as the study and recitation period for religious exercises. During the Sabbath School period we should be free from cares, our labors should be put away and our hearts turned to the things of God. Provision is made that from the oldest to the youngest all may come under this influence; the whole family may go in a body and find spiritual activity suitable to their age and condition in life, with the influence of the priesthood of God the controlling power. 

Tuesday night has been set aside as a time for planning and reporting on priesthood, Church, and community activities. It is desirable, therefore, that each person holding the priesthood, whether a deacon or a high priest, have some specific work assigned to him each week, "Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence." 

I thank the Lord for a testimony of his Gospel, that I am permitted to labor in his great cause in authority of his holy priesthood which has been conferred upon me through his authorized servants. I rejoice in this work and in the opportunity I have of working with you in the furtherance of his Gospel. May we ever seek to keep his commandments and strive earnestly to do our part, that we may magnify our calling, is my prayer, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I sincerely trust, my brethren- and sisters, that I may be inspired by the Lord, and to that end I ask for an interest in your faith and prayers. 

In the missionary work in which I am engaged it is always refreshing and is a very great inspiration to us to come to conference and to get into contact with the body of the Church and its leaders. You realize, my brethren and sisters, that frequently for six months at a time we are on the firing line. We are away from the wards and the stakes with their activities, and out of contact, except of course by correspondence, with the auxiliary organizations of the Church and that which is going on at home. Therefore, I say again it is refreshing and inspirational, and I think is of great benefit to the work that we are endeavoring to carry forward, that we should assemble with you in conference. I thank the Lord for this privilege. 

I feel especially thankful to the Lord today for my membership in this Church. I feel especially thankful to him for the assurance that I have in my heart that the gospel is true. I thank the Lord that I am not in doubt, for I find a great many people in the world in doubt concerning the means and the way of salvation. I wish to bear you my testimony that I do know that the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, is restored to the earth in this day and age. I do know that the Lord spoke to Joseph Smith and that he raised him up and made of him a prophet through whom he effected this great restoration. 

I sense the responsibility of preaching the gospel of salvation unto the children of men, for as I peruse the scripture I find that it is the intention of the Lord that the gospel shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and he has decreed that it should be before he should come again to earth. That responsibility rests upon us as a Church. Those who hold the priesthood hold it for the purpose of administering in the things that pertain to the salvation of the children of men, as well as themselves. 

I rejoice in the faithful labors of the missionaries who are sent into the field. It is marvelous to me as I contemplate that year after year we keep up the great force that we have out there; that the brethren at home are able to find the young men to fill the vacancies caused by the release of those who are in the field. When I contemplate the conditions of the world today and the environments that encroach upon us as a Church, the evil if you please (not all that is in the world is good — and there are many temptations that our young folks are beset with in their working hours and in their school life and everywhere that they mingle), I marvel that out of this comparatively small body of people, when you come to compare it with the world at large, the Lord is able to select and send out that great number of young men and young women who are worthy to bear his name and to preach the principles of the everlasting gospel to the people of the world. They do not all come prepared, my brethren and sisters. They are not all versed in the scriptures. A great deal of the teaching they have received at home has been along lines that do not particularly qualify them for preaching the gospel. But they come with faith in their hearts, they come with a desire to serve, and the vast majority of them come with a strong testimony that the gospel is true; and they teach it from that standpoint. They teach it as though they know whereof they speak. They have faith that the principles of the gospel that they are sent to teach are indeed true and a means o»f salvation unto our Father's children. 

We have, my brethren and sisters, a message of repentance to declare to the world today. I rejoice in the teachings of this conference so far, and in the not uncertain terms in which we as a people have been made to know the dangers that beset our paths, and the certain call of repentance that has come to us. I feel that we should look things squarely in the face as they exist in the world today and not let ourselves sleep in the idea and the thought that because we are members of the Church we are safe, or that because we are prosperous all is well. 

I have rejoiced in the report of the President of the Church today regarding the great prosperity that is attending the Church, making possible the great building campaign that is being carried on. But there are other things in the Church, my brethren and sisters, that touch our lives and we should look to them as well, for the Savior said : 

"For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" 

And again when the disciples asked him which was the greatest in the kingdom of heaven, he placed a little child in their midst and said unto them : 

"Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." 

Become converted to what? Speaking in a large sense, converted to the fact that God is, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world; converted to that extent that we can exercise an implicit faith in God and in the saving principles of his gospel that he has restored to the earth for our benefit and for our good and for our salvation. Specifically it means, being converted to the gospel. Are we as a people converted to the necessity of living the Word of Wisdom? Except we become converted sincerely and in the same spirit that a little child is converted and is humble and receives without qualification the teachings of his father — unless we become so converted to the Word of Wisdom and the principles of honesty, of justice, of brotherly kindness, of love and of tolerance towards all men — I fear we are still barring ourselves from participation in an ultimate exaltation in the kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

I deplore the fact that there is evil existing, but I cannot ignore it.  brethren and sisters. This evil, thank the Lord, does not exist to the same extent among those who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ as, it exists in the world. We find unchastity, immorality, lack of temperance, lack of reverence for God, or for man, or for law. We find men imbued with the idea that all is right if they can get by with it. But it is not, my brethren and sisters. The Lord will not be mocked, and he has given us a plan which, he expects us to live up to. I pray to him that I may be sincere all the days of my life. The greatest anxiety is that I may not falter by the wayside, that my faith may remain firm and that my testimony may grow and be strong; and after that I pray for my loved ones. I have passed through peculiar experiences in my life and have met sorrow by reason of having 1 to lay away my loved ones. But as I contemplate those who have gone to the great beyond in their innocence I would ten thousand times rather that they should all go than that they should make shipwreck of their faith. What would it profit me if they were to gain all the wealth of the world or all the education in the world or all the honors of the world, and lose their salvation" in the kingdom of our Father in heaven ? It would bring to me only sorrow. 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have of the gospel and the opportunity that has come to me to labor in the ministry for those who are in darkness. My heart goes out to our Father's children who are in the world. I do not censure them because of the conditions which I have explained; I only feel sorry for them and have an overwhelming desire to carry to them the uplifting principles of this great gospel, and to carry them in such a way that my testimony might carry conviction to their hearts that they are true. That is the "greatest desire that I have in the world. 

In my ministry I have tried to imbue the young missionaries who are laboring with me and who have labored with me in the past, with this thought, that if they will take care of the work in the field and labor for the uplift of our Father's children they need not put in any time worrying about what kind of an impression they will make when they come home. Something has been said here today concerning the danger that besets the missionaries upon their return home, and the thought has been voiced that some provision should be made to give them something to do in the Church. I have tried to impress them with the idea that the Church is very well officered and very well manned, and perhaps there may be no available place for them even as officers in an auxiliary organization when they get home. I try to impress upon them the idea that the Church is very much in need of honest good members. No one can deprive them of being that no matter how little they might be called upon to do. They can labor zealously in keeping the commandments of the Lord. They can set examples worthy of imitation. They can bear their testimony to their fellow men. They can put themselves in a position to be useful. And even in the auxiliary organizations, as I have observed them in the little contact I have had with them, one of the crying needs is for good membership. We are pretty well officered, but we need one hundred per cent good membership in all of these auxiliary organizations of the Church, and each missionary who goes home is qualified, if he will but continue in the spirit with which he has labored out there, to be a splendid member in any organization in the Church or in any society that is uplifting in the world. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to understand our duties in the Church and help us to perform them faithfully, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric There comes to my mind a little couplet that I learned as a child : 

"Lord, how delightful 'tis to see, An whole assembly worship thee." 

We who are here this afternoon have come, I believe, with the desire and purpose to worship our Father in humility. No one could be in a meeting of this kind without being deeply impressed with the spirit and power that is here; without being impressed with the counsel, advice, and testimony that have been given regarding the progress of this great Church of ours. 

I want to add a little to what my brother has said concerning those missionaries who return home. I called attention to this matter at one time when I was attending conference in a little town in Southern Utah, because I knew bf two cases that had happened there, those of a young man and a girl who had returned home. They had been busy, active, laboring vigorously, doing their best work at the end of their missions, and then came home and almost dropped out of sight. A bishop came to me at the close of the meeting and said: "It has never happened in my ward. I have been a bishop for fifteen years. Yes, we have had missionaries out all the time, more than the average share, and we are proud of that too. No boy or girl has had to go out of this ward to find employment, even in spiritual duties." He further said: "When a young man comes home, if I have time, and I find it mostly, I meet him at the station with his parents and get acquainted with him, and I invite him to see me as soon as the greetings of his family are over. I talk to him about his spiritual viewpoint, and his testimony. I inquire of him what he would like to do in the ward. I try to see that he gets that which he likes to do. I do not give him the chance to take things easy or become lazy in the Church. After that if anything happens that he does not get employment, then we all interest ourselves in him, high councilors and bishopric. We never rest until that young man is employed, for his spiritual growth depends upon his temporal well-being." I was glad to hear this. 

Yes, we are here today to be taught, to be reminded, to be encouraged. I have a few thoughts concerning a somewhat old subject. 

I labor, as you know, in the office of the Presiding Bishop, and there constantly is the application of the law of tithing, that great revenue law. So much superior to that of the world that the world would like to copy it. They make efforts now and again to do so. In their efforts they fail after a while, I notice, because they have not found the people who could handle their tithes. They lack that glorious revelation and belief in it that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1838, telling the Latter-day Saints that they should pay one-tenth of their interest annually. 

I attended a stake conference a short time ago and listened to an interesting discourse on the application of the law of tithing. The speaker stated that a young couple had called upon a certain bishop and applied for temple recommends. The bishop, in a fatherly manner, asked them how long they had been employed at a salary. They replied from two to three years. Then the bishop reminded them that they had not paid any tithing on their earnings. This brought tears to the eyes of the young woman, but the young man said, somewhat defiantly, to his bishop : "I don't see what difference tithing makes anyhow." It set me thinking all the way home : does not tithing matter much anyhow ? The law of tithing was revealed in these latter days to the Prophet Joseph Smith, by which means are provided for the support of the Church. It is a voluntary offering. The obligation to pay tithing is a personal one and should be rigidly observed by every Latter-day Saint who is blessed with an income. 

I read some years ago in one of the early Journals of Discourses a sermon given by the late Elder Franklin D. Richards, at Logan, when, in urging a better observance of the law of tithing, he stated that every law of the gospel had its particular blessing, and that he had in his possession a receipt signed by the Prophet Joseph and the tithing clerk, which stated that "Franklin D. Richards, having paid his tithing in full to date, is entitled to the benefits of the baptismal font in the Nauvoo Temple." So it appears that in the early days of the Church it was necessary that those who were privileged to enter the house of the Lord should be full tithepayers. Without this law temples could not be built and maintained; colleges and seminaries would be closed; the large sum provided toward the erection of meeting-houses, and other buildings could not be paid; the liberal aid toward the support and maintenance of the stakes and wards could not be provided; the missionary work of the Church would be curtailed or abandoned; hospitals, where hundreds of the poor of the Latter-day Saints are treated annually at the expense of the Church, could not continue this service; the poor, the aged and feeble could not be provided for. So I think the payment of tithing matters a great deal. Without the tithes the Church would be like an automobile without gas, a street car without electricity, a railway engine without fuel. 

Some time ago a prominent man in the state of Texas, not a Latter-day Saint, who sincerely believed in the payment of tithes, wrote to the Presiding Bishopric, asking if there were on record information to show how many men over the age of sixty-five, who had been consistent tithepayers, had become dependent. This information was secured from several stakes. Of 332 over the age of sixty-five, 274 were and had been consistent tithepayers, and were self-supporting None was drawing assistance from the Church or from charity organizations. This indicates that when a person observes the law of the tithe he accumulates and provides a surplus for old age and does not become dependent. Tithe paying will never impoverish anyone. 

There are many other benefits that will come to those who will observe this law. It will train men and women to be generous; it will develop character; it will strengthen our faith, for faith comes only by works. It will teach obedience. It will add to our testimony; and after all isn't it worth something to have a testimony that the gospel has been restored; that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; that the priesthood has been given to men in these latter days, and that the Church of God has been established to bring about our Father's purposes ? 

Tithing is a debt, not a gift to the Lord. "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof." For the use of his property he requires from his people 10% of all their interest annually. That 10% is not ours to use . Let us pay our tithing not with the expectation of an increase in worldly goods, but as a privilege, to help the work of the Lord. Let us do it cheerfully, feeling that we have been blessed with the privilege of helping in his great latter-day work. 

It is characteristic of most men and women to harbor good intentions, and we should always encourage good intentions and good ideals and purposes, but it is better to put one of these into operation than accumulate ten of them. The tithing one intends to pay next year, or the resolve to pay tithing in the future, is not nearly as good for character building as a payment actually made. In order to avoid the temptation to use the Lord's money why not pay our tithing at regular intervals during the year, once a month or oftener if necessary. 

I appeal to my brethren and sisters to get into that habit and to teach our young people in our homes to observe that law in their childhood and youth, and get the habit of tithe-paying. Go home with a de J termination that at regular intervals, not at the end of the year alone, we will examine and find out what we owe the Lord, and pay it. I have always admired the statement of the late Bishop George Romney. I used to receipt him for the tithes he paid into the office of the Presiding Bishop. He came in regularly every month with a good-sized check. He was a large tithe-payer. He said to me one day, "I do not know whether I could gather up enough faith to be absolutely honest with the Lord if I left all my tithing until tithing settlement. I might get into the habit of seeing how little I owe the Lord and not how much. So I balance up with him every month, and that is the first check I pay out each month." 

Three months from now the bishopric throughout the Church will  the time and place for the annual tithing settlement. All Latter-day Saints who have some income are invited to meet in, privacy with the bishopric of the ward as common judges in Israel, sq that they may examine their tithing record and declare to the bishopric whether it is a full tithing or not. Thousands will accept this invitation and will go gladly because they have observed this law. Many others will go with excuses and regrets and promises to do better in the future. 

May we at this season of the year, as officers and members of the Church, observe the payment of our tithes and offerings, teach it in the quorums and classes of the priesthood, so that all the blessings which the Lord has promised his people through the observance of this law may be ours and this goodly land become sanctified and be in very deed a land of Zion to his people. 

I want to bear my testimony that Mormonism as it is known, is the work of God, that the Lord has given me a testimony that Joseph Smith is his prophet, that he came in the dispensation of the fulness of times, bringing the gospel with power and authority to establish it. Ministering angels and glorious beings came with authority and power. Oh, his was a wonderful life! As a lad of fourteen years of age he saw the Father and the Son; at seventeen years of age a holy messenger came and told him what was expected of him; and each year thereafter until he was twenty-two the same messenger saw him and admonished and encouraged him. Then he received the plates, and by the gift and power of God they were translated. When he was twenty-four years of age the Book of Mormon was ready for publication. The same year he received the visit of John the Baptist and of Peter, James, and John, and of others, who gave him power and authority to establish the work of God upon the earth. At twenty-four years of age, or a little more, he had by that same power and authority organized the Church of which we are members. At thirty years of age he dedicated the first temple in this last dispensation. At thirty-nine years of age he had paid the penalty that the world had been hungering for for years, paid, for his testimony with his blood. As President Brigham Young said at one time, "Forty-six times was he arrested, forty-six times was he acquitted. It cost his brethren thousands of dollars to keep him alive until his work was done." Yes, he died poor. Great leaders of religious movements usually become rich, but he died poor, too busy, as President Young said, in establishing the kingdom of God, to accumulate wealth. He is the man whom I testify was a servant of God, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

"But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. 

"For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." 

So wrote Paul the Apostle to Timothy, his "son in the faith." Timothy was then at Ephesus, presiding over that branch of the Church. Paul was a prisoner in (Rome, possibly facing the death to which he refers when he writes, "I am now ready to be offered." Paul seems to have cherished a warm affection for this young man whom he baptized early in his ministry, possibly at the same time as when he baptized Timothy's mother, Eunice, and his grandmother, Lois. 

KEEP THE FAITH 

The part that I wish to emphasize of this last message to this fellow servant whom he loved may be put in three words: "Keep the faith." 

Once before in a letter Paul had urged Timothy to do this very thing — to hold the faith : 

"Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the believers, in 

word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity." * * * 

"Continue in the doctrine : for in doing this thou shalt save thyself and them that hear thee." 

As I have listened to the inspirational addresses that have been delivered during the sessions of this conference I have wondered what message I might give to those who have assembled and to those unto whom you will carry the message. It is an important responsibility, this speaking to a conference of the Church. The time for each speaker is limited, but his responsibility to give an important message is not lessened thereby. Just what this message should be has given me prayerful concern. 

I am impressed to give this last message of Paul to Timothy : "Keep the faith." To some of you such an admonition might seem trite, as having very little weight, or as carrying with it but little importance, but as I stand before you today I can think of no better message to give to the people of the Latter-day Saints. "Hold the faith." Keep it. When I say this, I am thinking of young men and young women who are perplexed in their minds about the problems of the day, who are striving to harmonize the teachings of the Latterday Saint Church with some of the teachings which they are receiving) in schools and with some of the condemnatory remarks which are made by their associates. These young men and young women are sincere in their desire to do right and I believe they want the truth, but they are perplexed, they wonder sometimes with Pilate, "What is truth ?" 

In all these perplexities, in all these wonderings, I would have them anchor their souls with this thought: "I am going to keep the faith, I am going to be true to the faith of my fathers until I have proved beyond a doubt that that faith is not in harmony with truth." And I know the day will never come when a sincere soul can prove that this faith is not in harmony with truth. A sincere soul will find it in harmony with truth, for it is truth. 

WHAT IT MEANS TO KEEP THE FAITH 

What does it mean to keep the faith? It means first, that we  Jesus Christ, not merely as a great teacher, a powerful leader, but as the Savior, the Redeemer of the world. Now, there is much associated with that, for I know that many students are reading comments from reputably great educators who say that in order to be a christian it is not necessary to accept Christ as the literal Son of God, it is not necessary to believe in the immaculate conception, it is not necessary to believe in the literal resurrection from the grave. But he who keeps the faith will accept Jesus Christ as the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. I would have all men keep that faith. I think it is fundamental to man's happiness, fundamental to his peace of mind. I think it is the cardinal principle of the Church of Jesus Christ. A young man who keeps that faith may not in his heart know that all things which jjesus said are true, but if he holds to the truth of Christ's divinity he will keep in harmony with the Savior's teachings by the spirit of faith. And we walk by faith in this world. We are as the little boy who holds his father's hand in the midst of a great city: the little boy is confused by the din and bustle of the crowd, and realizes that if he breaks away he will be lost and may not be able to get back to his father. While he holds that father's hand, however, he is safe. He has an assurance that his father will lead him back to his home. So it is with the young man who keeps his faith in this latter-day work. There may be confusion around him, his thoughts may be distracted, but he has his hand in that of his Redeemer, and with faith in that spiritual inspiration he will be led into truth, his conscience will be awakened to that great spiritual reality which is around us. 

man's relationship to the infinite 

Man is a spiritual being, a soul, and at some period of his life everyone is possessed with an irresistible desire to know his relationship to the infinite. He realizes that he is not just a phyiscal object that is to be tossed for a short time from bank to bank, only to be submerged finally in the everflowing stream of life. There is something within him which urges him to rise above himself, to control his environment, to master the body and all things physical and live in a higher and more beautiful world. 

It was James Russell Lowell who wrote in his description of that beautiful day in June: 

"Every clod feels a stir of might, An instinct within it that reaches and towers, And, groping blindly above it for light, Climbs to a soul in grass and flowers." 

So there is in man a spiritual longing, a desire for spiritual communion which attends and which may at all times lift him from that which is physical and sensual to the realm of spirituality. 

SAFE ANCHORAGE 

I believe that in this day we are coming more to a realization of that great truth. President Nibley referred to it this morning. Young man, keep your faith. Know that the greatest of all teachers, the Perfection of Humanity, the Redeemer of the world, is the only safe guide to all hungering souls. That is what Mormonism teaches. It is not dogma, it is a reality. 

Millikan, the great scientist, so wrote when he penned these words : 

"The most important thing in all the world is a belief in the reality of moral and spiritual values." 

These thoughts I associate with that one safe anchor, keeping the faith; the knowledge that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world. Let neither sophistry nor golden-tongued oratory delivered by men who have lost their anchorage in Christ, lead you away from that truth. 

To keep the faith means also to accept the fact that the Savior, a resurrected personal being, has appeared in this dispensation and restored the authority to men to preach in his name, and to officiate in things pertaining to God. That too is a great anchor. Some of the young men say, "We do not know that"; but they believe it, and that belief, with confidence in their parents, with confidence in their own experience, their own feelings, should be sufficient to hold them in anchorage until the real knowledge takes possession of them, as it will. No sincere youth can hold to that truth and live in obedience to what it inspires without receiving an assurance from that spiritual reality that Jesus Christ has appeared in this dispensation. Oh, what that means to an unbelieving world! Who can grasp its full significance? What a revelation to man regarding the Godhead! What it means regarding life after death — the reality and personal relationships after death! What it means regarding God's fatherhood to man and the brotherhood of the human family! All these great questions are involved in that great declaration that Joseph Smith received a personal visitation from the Father and the Son. 

IDEALS OF OUR YOUNG PEOPLE 

Again, to keep the faith means that young men will strive to keep themselves as Paul asked Timothy to keep himself, "exemplary in action, exemplary in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity." Such, also, is Mormonism; and our young men believe in it. Just within the last month, I have read approximately one hundred papers written by as many young men and young women on the subject, "What it means to be a missionary." We asked them to write their own honest thoughts. Parents, I want to congratulate you on the part you have contributed toward the excellency of those papers which revealed a training on the part of these young people that is most commendable. The papers were neatly written. The percentage of misspelled words was small, there was not a page which was blotted, every one was a credit to the writer. But the best part of it all was their statements regarding the ideals of the Church, their desire to live in purity and to reflect credit upon the people whom they are . You cannot tell me that our boys and girls are not desirous of doing that which is right. Some of them gave expression to thoughts which perhaps are a little surprising, but they were honest expressions. The important thing is that these young people are going out into the world anchored, I believe, in the thought that they want to be true to the faith of their fathers, and if they do, they will keep themselves pure and unspotted from the world. Keeping the faith means just that. I know that I am speaking to fathers and mothers who would rather have their boys and girls do this than to have them accomplish anything else in all the world. 

KEEP CLEAN , 

In confirmation of this, I am reminded of a message that was sent by a mother to her son in Holland. It was written on a little package containing, I think, a present to her boy. The mother sent it over with one of the missionaries, and it was handed to me in Liverpool to be forwarded to the boy in Holland. On the outside of that package, written in the mother's hand, was this message: "Quinn, keep clean." 

In those three words was expressed a mother's most sincere hope and prayer for the boy she loved better than her own life. "Keep clean." To keep the faith of our fathers we must be clean from the sins of the world, young men as well as young women. Is there anything which will contribute more to the peace and happiness of mankind than chaste living? The perpetuity of our government depends upon the stability of our homes, and the stability of our homes depends upon the purity of the parentage in those homes, the fathers as well as the mothers. 

Youth of the land, when we say, keep the faith, we are but asking you to be patriots as well as to be true men, to be strong in your youth, that you may be worthy of fatherhood; young women, that you may possess the beauty of honorable and worthy motherhood. Thus you will contribute to the strength of your community, to the strength and perpetuity of the nation you love. 

TRUE MANHOOD AND TRUE WOMANHOOD 

Oh, I love the Church that stands for these high ideals, not in theory only but in practice; and I love the boys and girls who are inclined to protect themselves from the evils with which they are surrounded, who are anchored in the faith of their fathers. We are not outgrowing it, we cannot outgrow it. Our point of view may be somewhat different, and the application of the teaching may vary from the application made by our parents, as President Ivins pointed out this morning, but the faith is sound, it is eternal. Gospel principles are truly the "power of God unto salvation." 

This summer, ninety-six young men and young women went out for a party. They belonged to an organization in one of our Church schools. They were properly chaperoned and stayed over night. When they returned home next day one of the anxious fathers very wisely questioned his boy as to the actions of the crowd, and among' other things asked: "Son, how many boys were tipsy?" "Why, what do you mean, father?" "I mean how many of the boys drank whisky?" "Not one." "How many of them smoked?" The son hesitated a moment, then said: "I cannot recall one." Then, turning to his brother he asked, "Did you know of any boys or girls who used cigarettes?" "No," said his brother, "there was not one. If there had been he would be expelled from the society." 

I think those ninety-six boys and girls are cherishing the ideals of true manhood and true womanhood, and they are keeping the faith. God bless them in doing it. 

OBSERVANCE OF LAW REQUIRED 

Finally, to keep the faith means to keep the laws of our country. No man who keeps the faith will participate in the making or in the distributing of "bootleg" whisky. He who indulges in such illegality is disloyal to his country and to his Church. For nearly a hundred years the Church has preached and plead with men and women to keep themselves free from intoxicants and the excessive use of stimulants. Today we heard that plea repeated by President Grant when he urged all to keep the Word of Wisdom. 

To accept Jesus Christ as the Son of God, the Savior of the world; to believe in the resurrection and in the immortality of man; to be tolerant, charitable, benevolent, chaste; to defend the purity of the home; to be loyal to our country, and true to our God — these are some of the virtues connoted by Paul's admonition to keep the faith. 

God help us as young men and women, as members of the Church, to do this, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Canadian Mission 

I have been thrilled, my brethren and sisters, not only by the songs that have been sung in our hearing today, but by the testimonies of the brethren. I recognize the wise statesmanship involved in the speeches delivered by the First Presidency of the Church this morning. 

May I pharaphrase the declaration of Apostle Paul to the Romans, when he said: "For I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ," and say, "For I am not ashamed of the restored Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth." 

There was a time when the name "Mormon" was used as a term of derision. Indeed an early decision by one of the appellate courts of New York went so far as to decide that the Court would take "judicial notice" that it was libelous per se for one to falsely publish of another that he was a member of the Mormon Church. Of course that decision was erroneous. At most it would be a question of fact. It might in  quarters be injurious to an individual to falsely say of another that he was a Mormon. But fortunately the number of individuals who would feel themselves so aggrieved is becoming fewer every year. 

I am pleased to hear the report of President Nibley that there is a kindlier feeling existing towards the Latter-day Saints in the Northwest than heretofore. I can say the same thing with reference to the Northeast, in the region of country where I am doing missionary service, in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and in the states of Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. 

The term "Mormon" first applied as an epithet in derision, is now accepted by the Latter-day Saints as a compliment. Those who best know what this Church stands for are not ashamed of this honored nickname. Mormonism stands for a sane and rational interpretation of the Bible, declining to discard the so-called miraculous and refusing to spiritualize away the literal. At the same time it makes due allowance for the figurative and symbolic. In addition to the Hebrew scriptures, so believed and interpreted, we have a volume of ancient American scriptures and still another book of nineteenth century revelations. Since the coming forth of these two volumes of scripture, many erroneous doctrines and creedal statements have been, and are being, laid away in the cemetery of worn-out creeds, exploded dogma and false theology. For instance, the truth was revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith that little children are not capable of committing sin, that baptism is unto repentance for the remission of sin, and that sinless children have no need of repentance, either of baptism, but are alive in Christ, are without the law and have claim on the mercies of God. After these teachings go forth, the doctrine of infant damnation becomes less popular in the world, and there are fewer unbaptized infants refused burial in what is called holy ground. With the further understanding that "eternal punishment," "endless punishment," is God's punishment and that these terms are used because "more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men;" allow a reasonable time for the dissemination of these truths, and we cease to hear of unbaptized infants suffering the torture of an everlasting fire in a lake of brimstone. 

The very first revelation in this dispensation disclosed the fact that man is in the physical image of God. It was learned anew that in the beginning God had said : "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness;" that man is in the highest form of creation known to the universe; that in potentiality and possibility of development he is of the same lineage as his Heavenly Father. The leaven of this doctrine has not yet expelled the error still taught that God is a being without body parts or passions. Would it not have been un-Godlike to have created man, God's masterpiece, lower in potentiality than the highest form of being known to the universe? The power of endless progress is a sufficient reason for endless life. 

For centuries it was believed that the canon of scripture was full, that our Heavenly Father had no new word of counsel, encouragement or admonition for his struggling, misguided children; that one of the present century was to be less favored than one living in the first century. To believe there is no new revelation is to believe that God does not answer prayer, at least a prayer for information or instruction. Gradually the thought is gaining ground in the world that divine instruction adapted to a race in one stage of its growth may not be adequate for more mature development, and that an all-wise Father will not refuse or neglect to give progressive instruction suited to the progressive needs of his children; that the Eternal Father would be at least as considerate of his offspring in this respect as an earthly father: From the fact that it was necessary to have the revelations of the Old Testament supplemented by the revelations of the New Testament, there can be no objection apriori, to the revelations of the Old Testament and of the New Testament being supplemented by a still later revelation. 

Mormonism is pre-eminently an American religion, as was more fully presented by the First Presidency this morning. It stands for. America, North and South, and particularly for the government of the United States. It teaches that this western hemisphere is a land choice above all other lands — a land of liberty dedicated to freedom and righteousness. The Constitution of the United States is believed in with religious devotion, that its framers were heaven-inspired. And well may such a . belief be cherished. Gladstone, the great English premier, said of it: 

"As far as I can see the American Constitution is the greatest and most wonderful work ever struck off at one time by the brain and purpose of man." 

Our Constitution has rightly been called the "bond of our union, the shield of our defense, and the source of our prosperity." While the name of Deity is not mentioned in the Constitution, yet, in a sense, ours is a Christian government and country. Religious liberty is guaranteed in that Congress can make no law respecting the establishment of religion, nor prohibiting the free exercise thereof, and that no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution such a thing as a written constitution was scarcely known; certainly nothing of the nature of the one devised. England had a constitution but it was an unwritten one, embodied in the laws and practices of more than a dozen centuries of time. It was to be found in such documents as Magna Charta, The Petition of Rights, The Bill of Rights, the Habeas Corpus Act, Act of Settlement, and other great enactments. The idea of a written constitution was soon taken up by France, spreading to most of the European countries; also to other continents and to the islands of the sea. While this wonderful document can be read through in less than an hour, there are already many thousands of references to distinct points decided by the Supreme Court construing the Constitution. 

In view of all this, it is but natural that the leaders of our Church  various stages of its history have expressed themselves warmly in support of the Constitution of the United States and laws passed in conformity thereto. 

Our system of proselyting is unique. It is the re-establishment of the early missionary system so far as the same is applicable to present day conditions. Gratuitous service of months and years at a time is given by our men and women. There are now missionaries representing our Church to the number of about twenty-five hundred in the foreign missions. Where else can you find so many volunteers in foreign lands or States preaching without purse or pay? Their consolation is the thought embodied in' the lines of Longfellow in his poem entitled, "The Arrow and the Song": 

"I shot an arrow into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For, so swiftly it flew, the sight Could not follow it in its flight. 

"I breathed a song into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For who has sight so keen and strong, That it can follow the flight of song? 

"Long, long afterward, in an oak, I found the arrow, still unbroke; And the song, from beginning to end, I found again in the heart of a friend." 

Now we sometimes feel that it is a perplexing task to deal with the different problems that arise in perfecting new missionaries, yet there is always a joy attending our labors, and that joy brims over when we see souls come into the Church. Quite recently I have had instances of that sort. In one of our provinces four of our Elders baptized within the eight months of this year some twelve converts, among the number being two entire families. There is great joy in bringing a single soul into the Church and much greater when many are brought into the fold. 

May the Lord bless the missionary service, and all those who take part therein, that they may go forward in faith and power in proclaiming the truth to the children of our Father who are in darkness and who need the message which the Eiders have to bear to them, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 


