Morning
09 04 1933

Sunday morning, April 9. 

Every seat, every available space in the great auditorium and galleries of the Tabernacle was occupied before 9:30. Hundreds of people who could not find accommodations in the Tabernacle assembled in the large Assembly Hall on the Tabernacle grounds, where they .listened to the proceedings of this meeting as they were broadcast by radio. 

As a prelude to the regular Conference services an hour's program of choral and organ music was rendered by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, from 9:30 to 10:30, and broadcast by radio from the Tabernacle over the Columbia Broadcasting System. This program, which originated over Station KSL and was broadcast throughout the nation — and by short wave to Europe — was as follows : 

"Arise, O Glorious Zion" — Choir. 

"Largo" (Handel)— Organ. 

"The Palms" (Faure)— Choir. 

"Rienzi March" (Wagner) — Organ. 

"Come thou O Joy of Nations" (Gates) — Choir. 

"Andante Religioso" (Thome)— Organ. 

"The Morning Breaks" (Careless) — Choir. 

"Toccata from the Widor Symphony" — Organ. 

"Build thee more Stately Mansions" (Farwell) — Choir. 

"The Holy City" (Adams)— Organ. 

"Jesus Only" (Rotoli)— Choir. 

"Walter's Prize Song" (Wagner) — Organ. 

"Thanks be to God" (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

The Tabernacle Choir was conducted by Anthony C. Lund. Edward P. Kimball played the organ accompaniments, and Frank W. Asper played the organ solo presentations. 

At the close of the Choir and Organ broadcast President Heber J. Grant announced that the Choir and congregation would sing the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

After the singing of this hymn the opening prayer was offered by Elder Winslow Farr Smith, President of the Ensign Stake. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Seldom if ever have I enjoyed a conference more than I have this. The high standard set at the opening session has been maintained at each succeeding one. Not only that, but the meetings that have been held in addition to the regular sessions have been highly inspiring, beginning with the meeting of the Council of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy and the Mission Presidents last Tuesday, and continuing to the educational meeting held this morning at eight o'clock. That session last night in which were assembled over five thousand men holding the priesthood was most encouraging. Just to behold that army was an inspiration. I think this conference will take its place among the most impressive conferences ever held in the Church, in its timely teaching, in its spiritual uplift, in the awakening of a desire to live better, and in its confirmation of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I wish that this influence, particularly as it relates to the evils of tobacco and strong drink might be felt all over our nation and that the people would be guided thereby, as I sincerely trust that the members of the Church will be guided by it. 

FACING AN IMPORTANT QUESTION 

I should like to say a few words regarding a great question that is related to the general theme of this conference. Our nation is facing it. and we as part of that nation must express ourselves regarding it. I have in mind the question of the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. 

"Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide; In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side; Some great cause, God's new Messiah, offering each the bloom or blight, Parts the goats upon the left hand and the sheep upon the right, And the choice goes by forever 'twixt that darkness and that light." 

When James Russell Lowell wrote those lines he had in mind the great problem of slavery — "The earth born Cyclops, fellest of the giant brood." In that issue the people of the United States chose sides and the struggle though bitter and tragic ended in driving one form of slavery from our shores forever. 

Today the liquor question, another earth-born giant, stalks through the land and the question of how best to shackle him is now put squarely before the people. 

CHANGES IN PUBLIC SENTIMENT 

Fewer than fifteen years have passed since the Eighteenth Amendment was ratified by the largest number of states and by the largest percentage of states that ever ratified any amendment to the Constitution in the entire history of our country. 

That action was taken as the cumulative result of several hundred years' experience with the evils of the liquor traffic. Now after a little more than a decade of Prohibition, because of a few difficulties in enforcement, many people cry for a return to old conditions. It was just such sudden changes in the public opinion and acclaim that made James Fitz James cry out : 

"O thou many-headed thing Who would wish to be thy king?" 

This reversal of sentiment is due in general to one of two conditions — perhaps both. Either Prohibition has failed to achieve the results anticipated, or the people finding themselves in such desperate financial straits are being swept off their feet in their eagerness to grasp anything which offers relief. 

When the world war broke out many men cried, "Christianity has failed." Just as they now cry, "Prohibition has failed." Others answered then that Christianity had never been tried, that it was the violation of Christian principles that brought on the war. So we answer today : Prohibition has not failed, it has not been sufficiently tested. If public sentiment is against it, Prohibition cannot be enforced, .but if the majority of people favor it, it can be enforced. Now we are engaged in the struggle to test that sentiment. 

Three reasons why the Eighteenth Amendment should not be repealed : 

RESULTS OF HONEST INVESTIGATION 

Because Prohibition is the most effective means of dealing with the liquor evil. I believe that the results of honest investigation and unbiased observation prove the truth of this assertion. For example, arrests for drunkenness in fifty leading cities, statistics of which were collected by Judge Gemmill of the Municipal Court of Chicago, fell from 302,071 in 1917 to 110,149 in 1920— a decrease of 63%. 

Mr. Robert Carradini made a survey of 185 cities, the complete statistics of which show that the average annual number of arrests for intoxication per thousand of population in the four years preceding 1917 was 23,4% and that number in 1920 had fallen to 8.7%, a reduction of 62 % . 

Figures presented before the sub-committee of the Committee on Judiciary, United States Senate, April, 1926, showed data covering statistics in 626 cities from 1917 to 1920. The number of arrests for drunkenness in all these 626 cities was less than 36% as great in 1920 as in 1917. From the same authority we learn that prison commitments decreased 59% and there was a decrease of crime of over 40%. 

It is true that since that time anti-prohibitionists can cite statistics showing: (1) An increase of arrests for drunkenness since 1920. (2) An increase of deaths from alcoholism since 1920. (3) An increase in insanity since 1920. They can show further that yr 1924 the arrests for drunkenness were double what they were in 1920, but even then they were less than three-fourths of what they were before Prohibition. 

MORAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS 

Early in 1922 the Manufacturers' Record sent a questionnaire to hundreds of leading men of affairs including large manufacturers, employers of labor, bankers, and university professors asking their judgment about Prohibition. 98J/> % favored Prohibition in some 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

form. Some of the moral and economic benefits as they appeared to these men follow : 

Happier homes with more contentment. Cleaner and better social life. 

Increased purchasing power of homes, food and clothes for women and children. 

A change in the habits and expenditures of the workers. Men are buying their own homes, have savings accounts and own automobiles. 

A tendency toward thrift, contentment, comfort and happiness. Families better cared for, and increased savings deposits. 

More and cleaner recreation. Picture shows, parks, outdoor excursions. 

Less loss of time. Fewer accidents, less incompetence, less carelessness, less inefficiency, better work, better homes. Children and young people getting a better education. School attendance improved. Public and Sunday School. Improvement in community morale. 

An incalculable economic and moral blessing to millions of our people and to the nation as a whole. 

THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE IN INDIVIDUAL GOVERNMENT 

In my advocacy for Prohibition I keep ever in mind the importance of that great principle which Joseph Smith enunciated when he was asked how he governed his people so well. He answered : "I teach them correct principles and they govern themselves." That is the fundamental principle in the United States in individual government and when an individual becomes converted to a condition he can live up to it. When we get the majority of the people converted to a condition that will favor temperance the law will be enforced. 

But there is another condition also. We are living in a democracy. The majority of the people determine the kind of laws by which the people should be governed. That being true we are now facing a proposition to determine what the majority of the people desire. I believe that the American people desire temperance. I have given one reason why I think that the retention of the Eighteenth Amendment will foster and favor temperance. 

A STEP BACKWARD 

There is a second reason which I will just name and that is the proposed amendment offers no new remedy for existing evils. If the Twenty-first Amendment is ratified the question of Prohibition is thrown back upon the states and that is one step backward in the cause of temperance. The smaller the prohibitive area, the greater the difficulty of enforcement. The wider the area, the more effective the enforcement. 

You who were on the firing line in this Prohibition fight will  how we first began to make towns dry, then counties, then states, and finally the question was made nation-wide. Now to step back and go into the states as proposed by the Twenty-first Amendment is merely to take a step backward. 

IN NEED OF MOKE SPIRITUALITY 

A third reason for my opposing the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment is this : 

The world today perhaps as never before needs more spirituality. Booze and depravity mingle together harmoniously, but booze and spirituality, never. 

In an excellent editorial last Thursday morning one of our daily papers impressively said : "Excessive materialism stands indicted in the minds of men. There needs to be inaugurated a new era of mutual accord, a return to an appreciation of the finer things of life, to the basic principles of human existence." 

No one will contend that intoxicating liquors contribute spirituality either to the individual or to the nation. Nearly everyone concedes that intoxicants develop the baser, not the finer things of life. 

"they shall not pass" 

Sixteen years ago there was a terrific battle being waged at Verdun. On June 7, 1916, the French vacated the city Damloup under the hill on which Fort Vaux was situated. The defense of this Fort was one of outstanding heroism, and Major Raynal, the commander, was treated with every honor as a prisoner of the Germans. 

Fort Vaux had fallen and other outer lines were broken through, but there was an inner circle of defense that was invincible. The words of General Petain, "They shall not pass," thrilled the heart and nerved the arm of every French soldier. For more than two long months the Germans hammered and battered at that inner defense in the most terrific conflict in the annals of war. In the last desperate assault of the Crown Prince, 40,000 German soldiers were slaughtered in a hopeless effort to break through the French curtain of fire. The inner circle of defense was impregnable. The main line held. 

Today we witness the legalization of beer by the United States government. Qne of our outer defences has fallen and the enemy spurred on by victory will attack others. But the inner defence, the 18th. Amendment, must be defended at all costs. Let the words of General Petain, "They shall not pass," strengthen every heart and nerve every hand in defense of this part of the Constitution of the United States. 

god's word given authoritatively 

In addition to the fact that we believe that Prohibition is the best means of fighting the evil, that the proposal of the Twenty-first Amendment offers no other remedy which we do not have, and that the cause of spirituality demands that we retain it, I will add in conclusion this thought : 

Out of the high plane of spirituality comes the message from the President of the Church given to the world that intoxicating liquors, strong drink, and tobacco are not good for man. That is God's word given authoritatively and on that truth we stand. I know I need not urge this upon you people. I believe with President Ivins that Utah will stand firm in accordance with its vote years ago in ratifying the Eighteenth Aniendment. 

"For right is right since God is God, 

And right the day must win; To doubt would mean disloyalty, 

To falter would be sin." 

God help us to stand true to the principles of right as we know them in our souls and as God has revealed them to us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A vocal solo, "The. Blind Plowman," was sung by Melvin Watson. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I have been profoundly impressed, my brethren and sisters, with the proceedings of the Conference. From the beginning until the present one thought has been uppermost in my mind, a thought so fundamental in the Church that I have written some notes from which I wish to call your attention to it. At this time, when moments are so precious, I have endeavored to concentrate, and for that reason, as I say, I prepared these notes. 

JOSEPH smith's first vision 

It was in the early spring of 1820, one hundred and thirteen years ago, that Joseph Smith, who at that time was in his fifteenth year, received his first heavenly manifestation. In the vision he saw the Father and the Son, and as one of those glorious personages pronounced his name the boy heard that divine injunction, given nearly two thousand years before to the people of the American continent: "This is my 1 beloved Son. Hear him." 

He had gone to the Lord for a specific purpose. He was in doubt as to which of the conflicting creeds, each professing faith in Jesus Christ, was accepted by the Lord and which he should join. 

The answer to his question was definite. The personage addressed said to him that he was to join none of them; that they had all gone astray; that they worshiped him with their lips, but their hearts were removed far from him, and they taught for doctrine the commandments of men. 

A MESSENGER SENT FROM GOD 

Three years elapsed. The boy was approaching manhood. During the years which had passed, in the face of persecution and ridicule, he  maintained that he had seen a vision and had heard the voices of the Father and the Son. 

On the twenty-first da}- of September, after Joseph had retired for the night, he again engaged in prayer to his Father in heaven. In response to his petition he says : 

"While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose robe of exquisite whiteness. * * * His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so also were his feet naked, as were his legs a little above the ankles. * * * His whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning." 

He spoke to Joseph telling him that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God, and that his name was Moroni.; that the Lord had a work for him to do, and that his name should be had for good and evil among all nations. 

The messenger declared the existence of a book, written upon plates of metal which contained the history of the ancient inhabitants of the American continent — the Book of Mormon. 

QUOTES PROPHET JOEL 

Among other scripture quoted by the messenger was the following from the prophet Joel, which he said had not yet been fulfilled, but was soon to be : 

"I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions; 

"And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit. 

"And I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood and fire, and pillars of smoke. 

"The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible day of the Lord come. 

"And it shall come to pass, that whosoever, shall call on the name of the Lord shall be delivered; for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance, as the Lord hath said, and in the remnant whom the Lord shall call." 

RECEIVES PLATES 

Four years after the visitation of Moroni on September 22nd, 1827, the plates referred to were entrusted to Joseph Smith, and on April 7th, 104 years ago, he began the translation of the Book of Mormon, Oliver Cowdery acting as his scribe. 

AUTHORITY RESTORED 

As the translation proceeded it was discovered that the people to whom the record referred practiced the ordinance of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. Following his usual custom, Joseph Smith, with Oliver Cowdery, retired to the woods and they engaged in prayer. The answer came in a flood of light from heaven. John the Baptist stood bef ore them, and laying his hands upon them said : 

"Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." 

He told them that this Aaronic priesthood had not the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that this should be conferred later. 

With the restoration of the Aaronic priesthood and the greater Melchizedek priesthood, which was later conferred as promised, authority to speak and act for God was restored, with all of the keys which existed in the primitive church. 

THE CHURCH ORGANIZED 

On the 6th day of April, 1830, one hundred and three years ago, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was legally organized as the law required that it should be, and the proclamation of the restored Gospel was heralded to the people of the world. 

One of the chief criticisms which opponents of the Church have advanced in their opposition to it is that it claims authority which comes direct from God and that this authority was restored by men who had lived and passed from mortal existence long ago. 

BY DIVINE AUTHORITY 

Xo objection can be advanced by a person who is familiar with the life and ministry of Jesus Christ and the teachings of the Bible, to the doctrines taught by the Church. It is the declaration which the Church makes that it is by divine authority that it came into existence and continues to exist, authority which came direct from God our Father through Jesus Christ his Son, the agency employed in the restoration being messengers sent from the presence of our Father in heaven to Joseph Smith, the medium through whom it was carried to the people of the world. 

Why should the manner of the restoration appear a strange thing and be a stumbling block to people who profess acceptance of the Bible as the guide by which their faith and the conduct of their lives are to be governed? Has it not always been so? Is the manner of the restoration different from that which the Father has always adopted in communicating his will to his children here upon earth? Let us examine and see. 

HEAVENLY MESSENGERS SENT TO EARTH 

To refer to the number of times and the various purposes for which the Lord has spoken to the inhabitants of our earth, to the occasions when messengers, referred to as angels, have been sent to earth, would require much more time than is at my disposal. 

From Adam to Noah, from Noah to Abraham, and from Abraham to Christ, the Lord has at divers times and under different circumstances spoken to us, always calling us back to him, warning us to beware of the seducing influence of Lucifer, the son of Perdi, the Devil, who was cast down from the presence of God, who is the enemy of all that is good, and who is here upon earth, his sole ambition being to lead men and women away from Christ and reduce them to his own miserable condition of unhappiness. 

ACCOMPANIED BY LIGHT 

It will be observed that where the presence of the Lord is manifested it is accompanied by light; it is the brightness of the sun, the glory of, a perfect day. The presence or influence of the tempter brings with it darkness, clouds, depression and ultimate death, for he is the author of death. 

The angel of the Lord appeared to Moses in a bush which appeared to burn but was not consumed. It was a living light which radiated from the glory of the person, and not a consuming fire. 

The angel who appeared to Zacharias and announced the birth of John the Baptist, declared himself to be Gabriel who stood in the presence of God. The Bible tells us that this same messenger — Gabriel — was sent from God to the Virgin Mary to announce to her that she was to become the mother of the Redeemer of the world. 

On that eventful night, while the shepherds watched over their flocks upon the hills of Judea, light suddenly appeared in the heavens, the angel of the Lord appeared unto them and they were sore afraid. But the angel said unto them : 

"Fear not: for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. 

"For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord, * * * 

"And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 

"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. 

We are told in the Bible that "after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James and John, his brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart. 

"And was transfigured before them : and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. 

"And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him. 

"Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here : if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias." 

In passing let me remark that Moses lived more than 1500 years before the birth of Christ, and Elias nearly 1000 years. 

"While he yet spake, behold a bright cloud overshadowed them : and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." — That same eternal message. 

"And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid. 

"And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid." 

Paul's experience 

The Apostle Paul was an educated Jew. He tells us that he had taught and had lived the life of the s'trictest sect among the Jews, a Pharisee. He was a persecutor of the church, even consenting to the death of some of its members. He tells us that as he journeyed to Damascus, with authority and commission to proceed with his plan of persecution, he saw a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining about him and those who journeyed with him. And when they had all fallen to the earth he heard a voice from heaven saying in the Hebrew tongue: "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Paul answered, "Who art thou, Lord ?" and the answer came : "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." 

Again the light from heaven, again the prostration of those upon whom it fell, again the voice of Jehovah revealing the truth to an unbelieving world through one whom he had chosen, unconsciously to Paul, to be his special witness to the Gentiles. 

AN ANGEL APPEARS UNTO JOHN 

Among the more important revelations given by God to man is that known as the Apocalypse, or Revelation of St. John, the divine, the beloved disciple of our Lord. John was on the Island of Patmos, in the Aegean Sea, at the time, where he had been banished by decree of Rome and made to work in the mines or stone quarries. It was under these circumstances that this sublime revelation was given. It is : 

"The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by his angel to his servant John." 

Then follows this wonderful revelation, which makes known the past, deals with the present, and foretells the future as no other revelation in the Bible does. When the messenger had concluded his errand, John 

says: 

"And I John saw these things and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things. 

"Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy fellow servant, and, of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book : worship God." 

DIVINE COMMUNICATIONS FORETOLD 

My purpose in referring to the various scriptures from which I have quoted — and there are many more of them — is to call attention to the fact that communication between our Father in heaven and his children who are here upon earth, is not an unreasonable thing; in fact, in consideration of the words of the prophets and the Redeemer himself, it was to be expected. 

Jesus, when asked by his disciples, What shall be the sign of thy coming ?, declared that before his coming the gospel of the kingdom would be preached in all the world as a witness to all people. 

John, the beloved disciple, to whom reference has been made, definitely declares the manner in which the restoration is to be effected in the following words : 

"I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred and tongue, and people." 

IN A FLOOD OF LIGHT 

One of the peculiarities attendant upon the appearance of a messenger sent from the presence of God is that he comes in a flood of heavenly light. 

As Moses tended the flocks of his father-in-law, Jethro, on Mount Horeb, the Bible tells us, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of the bush, and the bush burned with fire and was not consumed. 

As Paul journeyed toward Damascus, a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, descended upon him and those who were with him, and they fell to the earth. From the midst of the light he heard the voice of the Lord. 

As the shepherds kept watch over their flocks by night on the hills of Judea, a light — the glory of the Lord — shone around them and they were sore afraid as the angel of the Lord announced to them the birth of a Savior, who was Christ the Lord. 

Let us return for a moment to Joseph Smith. As he offered his first prayer, when about to succumb to the powers of darkness which sought to overwhelm him, he says that a pillar of light, above the brightness of the sun, fell upon him, as he saw and heard the Father and the Son. When the vision terminated he says: "When I came to myself I found myself lying upon my back, looking up into heaven." 

Again with the appearance of the Angel Moroni the room in which Joseph slept became lighter than at noonday. With the departure of the messenger the room again became dark. 

John the Baptist, who restored the Aaronic priesthood, descended in a cloud of light. 

IN HARMONY WITH REASON AND TRUTH 

It was not because of his familiarity with the scriptures that Joseph Smith was capable of formulating a plan of restoration, organization and administration so completely in harmony with the revealed word of the Lord. The knowledge came to him little by little, line upon line, precept after precept, as the Lord revealed it to him. The story of the restoration has withstood the ridicule of the ignorant and the criticism of the learned for more than a century, without detection of an error in the plan. It is in harmony with the revealed will of God and the reason of man. In humility and with full consciousness of the responsibility involved we reaffirm that the manner of the restoration as referred to is true. 

TRUTH UNCHANGEABLE 

Truth remains the same throughout the ages. Our surroundings may change, as they have done during the past century — a century which has brought to us development in science, in invention and worldly knowledge greater than all the centuries that have preceded it, until we find ourselves living in a new world. But God's revealed truth is the same, and it will be unchanged through the eternities to come. He is the same good Heavenly Father who walked and talked with Adam, who preserved GENERAL CONFERENCE  human family through Noah, who called Abraham and entered into covenant with him. The same who sent his Only Begotten Son to earth, with power to break the band of death with which Lucifer held us bound, and redeemed us to everlasting life. 

It is through God our Father that the gospel of salvation has been restored, Christ our Lord, his Only Begotten Son, being the agent through whom he acts, and he in turn communicates the will of the Father to us by messengers sent from his presence. He is the author of this intricate and yet simple organization which we refer to as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is by authority from him that we exercise the gift of the holy priesthood. 

FOUNDER OF THE GOVERNMENT 

Just as our Father in heaven, through Christ his Son, is the founder of the Church, so is he the founder of the government by which we are — or should be if we are not — controlled in civil affairs. He it was who brought the Pilgrim fathers and those who followed after to the shores of New England. He has said that he established the Constitution of our country by the hands of wise men whom he raised up for that very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. 

Both the Church and the government have experienced periods oi deep affliction since their establishment. Both have been assailed by enemies from without and foes within which have threatened disruption. Each in time of trial has found strong hearts and arms to sustain it. 

CONFUSION REIGNS 

Never before has either the state or the Church been confronted with circumstances more pregnant of good and evil than at the present time, when more ominous clouds have hung over a troubled world. Confusion reigns among the nations, our own included. The very elements combine to add to the uncertainty and distress. 

To refer in detail even briefly to the present condition of the people of this troubled world of ours and the causes which have brought us to our present condition of tribulation, is not my intention. The great World War, the most wicked, unjustifiable, unnecessary war the world has ever known, laid the foundation for it. The monetary cost of the war left the world bankrupt. In our own country it was followed by an era of extravagance, selfishness and money madness, the like of which had never before been known. And the war still goes on. Not a war of swords and bayonets, but a war of the nations for possession of a small pile of gold, inadequate if we possessed it all, to pay the mortgages on the farms of our country and the debt of the men who owe them, and yet that pile of gold is the only money of ultimate redemption recognized by the civilized nations today. 

DELIVERANCE WILL COME 

You need not call our attention to our unfortunate condition, you are saying to yourselves, we are all too well aware of that. Tell us how to extricate ourselves from it. If I had the wisdom to do that I would be the happiest man in the world. That we will survive and emerge from it a wiser, happier and better people I am confident, whatever our suffering may be before we win the victory. It will not come through the Sovietism of Russia, the Socialism of France, the Fascists of Italy, nor the Nazis of Hitler. It will not come by the brewing and disposition of more beer or the manufacture and drinking of more wine. It will not come from the manufacture and distribution of more cigarets for our boys and girls to smoke. It will come to our country, if it is to come at all, through the united effort of the American people, whose soul I believe will turn to the Lord. 

Deliverance will not come by a miracle from heaven, but I believe the Lord will endow us with wisdom and with his help we will work out our deliverance. If the Lord for the sake of ten righteous men would spare Sodom and Gomorrah, will he not spare this government, which he declares he has established, for the sake of the many thousands of honest souls which make up its citizenship? 

CONCERNING THE CHURCH 

What of the Church? We call upon its members, as we have always done, to turn to the Lord for succor. Remember the words which I have quoted from the Prophet Joel, words which had not been fulfilled at the time, but were soon to be. He has promised that if we will do this he will return to us. 

In the words of the Prophet Joel which I have quoted : "In Mount Zion" — which is here in this land of Joseph — "and in Jerusalem deliverance will be found," and his word will not fail. 

My faith in the membership of the Church is unshaken. By faith, with works added, we will carry the Church through to glorious triumph, regardless of the sacrifices which may be required. We dug ourselves into our present condition and with the help of the Lord and the loyal support of the government, both Church and state will emerge stronger in faith, and more powerful in influence than we have ever before been. 

These are the, thoughts which have been running through my mind, my brethren and sisters, during these services. I bear witness to you that the story I have told is true. The restoration was by divine interposition of God our Father. It will persist, it will not be destroyed again as has been the case in ages which have passed. God grant that we may have faith to hold fast to the "rod of iron," give our loyal support to the government; and as I said last night at the priesthood meeting, the government needs us and we need the government. Both are everlasting truth. 

God bless you, I pray, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, may I have your faith and your prayers on this occasion? I believe I voice the feelings of all of you when I say, thank God for our choir, for its leader, and for the organists. May I say GENERAL CONFERENCE  the Lord also for the organ, built when we were in our infancy, unexcelled at the time and unrivalled still in the spirit and the hope of its message. We who have been in f oreign lands and have had its consoling tones in our midnight hours of anxiety, know something of its message of peace. We know something of the way in which the Lord's word and his music may be made to fill the earth. 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO SENATOR SMOOT 

I want to take this occasion to thank my Heavenly Father, as a member of this Church, for the return amongst us of one whom I regard as the greatest missionary of his own generation. I refer to the Honorable Reed Smoot. 

I went East to live at about the time he went into the Senate. I know something of the feeling that then existed toward us. I have seen the smile of disdain and the curl of the lip of scorn at the statement that one was a Mormon. During the thirty years of Senator Smoot's tenure of office, I have lived a great part of my time in the East in the same environment to which both of us went when he went into the Senate. I want now to say to you, brethren and sisters, that, judged at any rate by my human wisdom and understanding, no other contributing cause equals that of the service which he has furnished, to the change that has come among the people of the earth who now honor and respect where formerly they scorned and despised. Furthermore Senator Smoot has given to his country a devoted service rarely equalled and never excelled. 

FEELS RESPONSIBILITY 

I am keenly aware of and am deeply grateful for the great honor the people have bestowed upon me. I am also aware that a responsibility equally great comes with that honor. May I say that just now I am thinking more about the responsibility than about the honor. 

Should any of you have hopes about my work in this high office to which I am called, I trust I shall not too much disappoint you. If any of you have misgivings, I can only say that your misgivings can hardly be greater than my own. I am keenly conscious of my own deficiencies. I come late in life to a new work. 

But whatever shall be the outcome of my humble service, whatever shall overtake me, there shall be yet abiding with all of us eternal truth, which is light and life, even life everlasting. 

We shall still know that "The glory of God is intelligence" and that we, his children, are heirs to and subjects of that same law, for the glory of man is intelligence likewise. 

There will still be with us the knowledge that man was not made merely that he might suffer pain and want and sorrow, but that "Men are that they might have joy," — a joy that is not the passing pleasures of the flesh nor of worldly riches, but the joy of a clean body and a clean mind, the joy of right living, the joy of growth and progress, the joy of brotherly comradeship one with another, the joy of spiritual communion with the Infinite, the joy of the knowledge of everlasting life and eternal progression. NO SUBSTITUTE FOR WORK 

We shall have the joy of work too, for man also is that he might work, he went forth from the innocence of Eden to the God-like knowledge of good and evil, with the Divine blessing — not curse — as it seems to me: "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." And save in extremity, no man may rightfully violate that law by living by the sweat from the brow of his brother. It is the eternal, inescapable law that growth comes only from work and preparation, whether the growth be material, mental, or spiritual. Work has no substitute. Idleness brings neither profit, nor advantage, nor good — only a withering decay and death. The world is near to forgetting all this; I hope that we as a people shall keep it ever in remembrance, for in proportion as it is forgotten, evil will rule. 

THE WORLD'S PROBLEM 

The world is moaning in tribulation. I do not know the cure. The questions involved are so nearly infinite in their vastness, that I question whether any human mind can answer them. But it is my faith that if the people shall shun idleness; if they shall cast out from their hearts those twin usurpers, ambition and greed, and then shall re-enthrone brotherly love, and return to the old time virtues — industry, thrift, honesty, self-reliance, independence of spirit, self -discipline, and mutual helpfulness — we shall be far on our way to returned prosperity and worldly happiness. We must again yield fealty to the law that mouldering wealth, however great, is a mere shadow compared with the living, enduring riches of the mind and heart. We must remember the command given to Israel of old — "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy self," which, says James, is "The royal law according to the scriptures." The world problem is not primarily one of finance, but of unselfishness, industry, courage, confidence, character, heart, temperance, integrity, and righteousness. The world has been on a, wild debauch, materially and spiritually; it must recover in the same way the drunken reprobate recovers; by repentance and right living. 

GOD WILL SPEAK 

We here are strengthened, even in our want, by the knowledge that in this wilderness of modernism, with its mounting error and multiplying nostrums, with its new thought and strange action, man is not left to wander, unguided save by the truth given to him when he moved in a different world, with different standards, problems, and ideals. For we know that the Almighty, in pace with the progress of his children, will speak to them from time to time, giving them further light and wisdom, measurable to their new needs in their new life. We know that individually each of us may so live that he may ask for Divine help with the assurance that aid will come. 

STILL THE GOOD SHEPHERD 

And in this time of stress, it is our right also to know that our Father has not forgotten us though we well nigh forgot him; he has GENERAL CONFERENCE  shut the heavens from us; he has not cast us out from his care; he has not walled off his love against us. He is still the Good Shepherd, reaching after, watching over us,, with the tenderness of the Infinite. His love and his care are eternal. 

Standing before Capernaum Jesus said : "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." 

To the multitude on the Mount, he said : "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added." 

The Psalmist sang: "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." 

Thus is the law, the promise, and the blessing. 

The Master, speaking' with spiritual intent, said to Simon Peter : "Feed my sheep." This command of the Savior makes it greater and nobler by infinity, to feed the mind and spirit of man than to crush his body or to break his will. It is my duty, it will be my effort, to follow after the mandate of the Master. To this service I pledge the best I have of experience, of wisdom, of faith. 

Nineteen hundred years ago today, as the historians count, Christ came in through the gates of Jerusalem to the temple, the multitude going before, bearing palm branches and crying : "Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord." The multitude cried out thinking him an earthly king; we know him as the sovereign of our souls, as the Redeemer of the World, as him who died that man might live. Let us not forget him nor his truth, lest we "crucify to ourselves the Son of God afresh." 

GIVES LIGHT 

God lives. We are his children. He has given back to earth his priesthood. He has spoken and is speaking through his prophets. To each of us he gives spiritual light just in the measure we are ready and willing to take it, and his blessings are ours, not for sinning disobedience to the truth already given, but through the righteous keeping thereof. We may not rightfully expect that God will flash either to our minds or to our spirits new knowledge for which we are not ready and for which we have no need. We may rightfully expect only that God will give new lessons when we have learned the old ones and they no longer serve our wants. 

God grant us the supreme knowledge, proclaimed by the Master on his way to the spiritual agony and ecstacy of Gethsemane: "And this is life eternal that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." 

To his children on this hemisphere Jesus said : "I am the light and life of the world," and to Martha, she of the almost perfect faith: "I am the resurrection and the life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." 

God grant to us the gifts of his Holy Spirit and provide us with the needful things of life. May he bless me with the spirit of my calling. Will you make your prayers in my behalf that I may do his service righteously ? 105 

ELDER GEORGE S. ROMNEY 

President of the Northern States Mission It is written in the scriptures : 

"But without faith it is impossible to please him : for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." 

Sometimes people misunderstand this statement of faith and what it is. Some seem to believe that faith is merely a belief or an acceptance of the truth. The doctrine as taught by the Latter-day Saints clearly indicates that it is necessary not only to believe and to have knowledge but to put that knowledge into practice. More than that, faith is not only a belief with action, but also a confidence in God; a belief of such a nature that we can accept and do his will and he will keep his promises to us. 

A week ago today I was in attendance at a conference of the Northern States Mission. The night previous there had been a Mutual Improvement contest in which the contestants of the Columbus Branch of the Church traveled nearly three hundred miles to the city of Detroit; and singing, and speaking, and drama, and dancing were exhibited in that contest. At this conference and also at the evening entertainment were a very intelligent and splendid man and his wife. One of them was a direct descendant of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Also in attendance at that conference was a leading member of the faculty of the University of Ohio, who is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This gentleman and his wife invited this professor and myself to dinner, and I was somewhat startled at some of the questions that were asked by these good people, whom we love, though they are not members of the Church. 

The gentleman said that the particular reason for inviting us to dinner was that he wanted to ask Dr. Russell how it was that he, an educated man, a man who had attained prominence in the world in the educational field, still had faith in the story concerning Joseph Smith, the Prophet. He said that in his church, which is the Reorganized Church of the Latter-day Saints, whenever men became educated they no longer accepted that statement. And then he very frankly said : "We feel that there is something lacking in our church." 

Dr. Russell told him that he had a strong testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that his faith was just as sincere and just as earnest as that of any member of the congregation of that conference; and not only that but he told him that throughout the educational institutions in the United States there were many men of that character. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord is pleading with these people, that the testimony of the truth is in their hearts, and that what is needed is greater faith. The world is in turmoil, but I do not believe that more knowledge will cure it. The thing that is needed is for men and women to accept and obey that which they already know. There are not many people of intelligence, in my opinion, who believe that the use of strong drink is good for the youth of the nation or that GENERAL CONFERENCE  will help us. What is needed is faith in the hearts of the people sufficiently strong to get them to accept the knowledge which they have and practice it, and to have confidence in the Lord. 

My heart is touched at times when poor people — and in the Northern States there are many at the present time — send in one dollar, and 'I know that is a full tithing for the month, and express in their letters to us that they have confidence in the Lord, that if they will keep his commandments and do their part, they are sure the Lord will do his part. It is the universal testimony of those who pay their tithing that the Lord will take care of them and those who have sufficient faith to do that are better off than those who do not. 

Tomorrow the missionaries of the Northern States Mission will be walking the streets of the cities, and they will hear, as they meet the people, about this wonderful concert to which we have listened this morning. This testimony of song and music, and the testimony of the Elders of the Church, and the testimony of the example of this people shall go forth to the world, and after that will come the testimony of earthquakes and the testimony of the raging tempests, as the Lord has said. 

My faith is stronger than it ever has been and I want to say that I support and sustain the Authorities of the Church, and I want to leave my testimony with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A sacred selection, "Awake My Soul," was rendered by the Choir — duet by Cannon Lund and Bertha Sessions. 

Elder H. Melvin Rollins, President of the Lyman Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


