Morning
06 04 1933

The auditorium and galleries of the great Tabernacle were well filled at the opening session of the Conference, which was called to order promptly at 10 o'clock, Thursday morning, April 6, by President Heber J. Grant 

The congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

Elder Milton H. Welling offered the opening prayer. 

A sacred solo, "Come unto me," was sung by Elder John Wood. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, and by unanimous vote of the assembly they were sustained in their various offices and callings as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson James E. Talmage 

Reed Smoot Stephen L. Richards 

George Albert Smith Richard R. Lyman 

George F. Richards Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

Joseph Fielding Smith Joseph F. Merrill The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigbam H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Levi Edgar Young 

Rulon S. Wells Antoine R. Ivins 

Charles H. Hart Samuel O. Bennion 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester O. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Joseph F. Merrill Adam S. Bennion Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Orval W. Adams John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Frank W. Asper Alexander Schreiner 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson 

At the request of President Heber J. Grant, Elder David O. McKay read the financial report as follows : 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1932 : Stake and Ward Purposes : 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for the construction of ward and stake meeting houses : 

For ward maintenance expenses 

For stake maintenance expenses 

$ 240,511.15 658,103.05 226,179.58 Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school system. .$ 609,467.95 Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of temples. . 166,475.96 Charities : 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment 272,163.64 

M issionary Work : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings  has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society in the sum of $443,680.00, which amount, added to the $272,163.64 paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance rendered by the Church. .$ 715,843.64 

Expended for the Maintenance of Missionaries : 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church 

and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance 45,844.93 

Average cost per missionary in the missions during the year 1932, $31.80 per month, or a total of $381.60 per year per missionary. There was an average of 1,392 missionaries in the various missions during 1932, making a total average expense for the year 531,187.20 

Estimated average earnings per missionary $900.00 per year multiplied by 1,392, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have earned if at home of  1,252,800.00 871,908.21 $3,044,809.54 PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

, added to the amount collected in the various 

wards as before named 45,844.93  a total of $1,829,832.13 

the estimated contribution of missionaries and their f amilies to the Church for the preaching of the Gospel. 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR 

THE YEAR 1932 

There are at the present time : 104 Stakes of Zion; 936 Wards; 76 Independent Branches; 31 Dependent Branches, or a total of 1,043 wards and branches in the stakes of Zion. There are 30 missions (including the European Mission), 967 mission branches, and 216 districts. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the 

stakes and missions 19,722 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 15,283 

Converts baptized in the stakes and missions 7,825 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1932. 1,179 Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1932 . 1 1 Number of local missionaries 70 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 1,260 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 1,305 

Total Missionaries 2,565 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary 

Home 348 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 67,728 Birth rate, 28.3 per thousand. Marriage rate, 13 per thousand. Death rate, 7 per thousand. Families owning their own homes, 64.2 CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

Mission President Appointed: 

B. Piranian appointed President of the Armenian Mission. Mission President Released: 

President Newel J. Cutler released from the Tongan Mission. Elder Verl L. Stubbs appointed to take charge of the mission. 

Independent Branches Organized : Rolapp Branch, Carbon Stake. Stockton Branch, Tooele Stake. Lomita Branch, Eos Angeles Stake, General Authority who has Passed Away; 

Joseph W. McMurrin of the First Council of Seventy. 

Bishops who have Passed Away : 

Joseph H. Lake, of the Sixteenth Ward, Salt Lake Stake, and also City Commissioner. 

Frank Pingree of the University Ward, Ensign Stake, and Superintendent of the L. D. S. Hospital. 

Others who have Passed Away : 

George Careless, former leader of the Tabernacle Choir. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is a source of gratitude and thanksgiving to me that I am permitted to be with you today at this General Conference. I desire to extend to the Saints at home and abroad, and to many friends not of our faith, my sincere and heartfelt thanks for the many expressions of fellowship, good will and love that have been extended to me since my return home; for the many letters that were written to me by the people of the Church, and those not of the Church, and for the many calls from friends while I was in the hospital. 

GRATEFUL FOR EVIDENCES OF FRIENDSHIP AND GOOD WILL 

I am grateful beyond expression for all of these evidences of friendship and good will, and particularly am I grateful to the Saints for their prayers and supplications to our Heavenly Father in my behalf during my illness. It is a source of a great deal of satisfaction to me to have received so many evidences of good will from people during my sickness. 

I believe there is no time in one's life when one feels and appreciates more evidences of friendship than when one is seriously sick, and I am pleased to say that some of the letters I received were altogether unexpected, and many of the calls I had while in the hospital were also unexpected. At times my room in the hospital almost suggested a funeral, because of the great quantity of beautiful flowers there nearly all the time I was in the hospital. 

WOULD SOLVE THE WORLD'S PROBLEMS 

I have been thinking very seriously of the wonderful condition that the world is in today during the great depression all over the globe, and I am convinced in my own mind, without shadow of a doubt, that a revelation, covering only one page, given by the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, would solve the problems of the world if it were obeyed by the inhabitants of the earth, not only solve the problems in our own country but in every country. In thinking of what I should say here today in my opening remarks I decided that I would read this revelation. 

There are a great many men and women, in fact the great majority of all the people in the world believe that Joseph Smith was a false . When you contemplate the fact that this revelation was given a little over one hundred years ago and that it is recognized as scientifically true today, after investigations have been made by great scientific minds, it is remarkable that a young man should be able to give something so marvelous as this Word of Wisdom. So as a tribute to the prophet who gave it, who was and is and ever will be a prophet of the living God. I shall read it. All the disbelief of the world will never change that fact, because it is a fact. All the disbelief of the world cannot change the fact that this man was chosen of God and became the head of the Church of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. Disbelief does not change facts. The Lord's law of health: 

"A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the Church, and also the saints in Zion — " 

And I might add, and also for the people of all the world. 

"To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God — " 

THE WILL OF GOP 

Many Latter-day Saints remark, "Well, it was not given by command, therefore we do not need to obey it." No true Latter-day Saint is justified in saying that if the Lord reveals his will to man it is not his duty to obey it unless the Lord commands him to do so. The will of God, in what? 

" — in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days — " 

And let me add, for the temporal salvation of all people in all parts of the world in the last days. 

"evils and designs" 

"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you : In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days — " 

And these are the last days, please remember. 

" — I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation." 

"Evils and designs," When I see a sign upon which is pictured a man presenting a beautiful woman with an engagement ring on the top of a ring of cigaret smoke, I realize why the Lord saw fit to talk about the men who^ would have evil designs in these last days. I never see one of those signs but I think what an absolute crime it is that such a thingcan be permitted in a civilized country. 

"That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father — " 

The Lord says it is not good, and all the legislatures and all the congresses and all the senators and all the officers in the kingdoms of the world can say otherwise, but that will not change the word of the Creator of heaven and earth. 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

" — only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before 

him. 

"And, behold, this should be wine. yea. pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. 

"And again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies." 

I do not suppose that when we get whisk)-, wine, beer, etc., much of it will be used for the washing of people's bodies. 

"And, again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man — " 

Please keep in your minds that this is the Lord speaking. 

" — but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

"And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

FOR THE USE OF M A N 

"And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man--" 

"Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

"Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; 

"And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used, only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

"All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; 

"And, these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

"All grain is good for the food of man; as also the fruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground — 

"Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grains. 

A MARVELOUS PROMISE 

"And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures." 

What a. marvelous promise! Is there anything to compare with health? Those who have been near death's door many times and who have suffered year after year in not being able to accomplish anything in the battle of life, know what a valuable thing is good health. 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint." 

I commend to all Latter-day Saints that they read the marvelous testimony delivered from this stand by Brother Creed Haymond who won a championship in racing and was the only one on his team who made a record, while the others who had used wine failed. 

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

THE WORDS OF THE MARTYRED PATRIARCH 

It has been a great pleasure to me today to read the words of the Lord given to Joseph Smith. I am now going to read to you the words of the martyred Patriarch : 

"The Lord has told us that 'strong drinks are not for the belly.' Who is it that will say that they are, when the Lord says they are not ? That man who says, T can drink wine or strong drink, and it will not hurt me,' is not wise. Some will say, T know that it did me good, for I was fatigued and feeble on a certain occasion, and it revived me, and I was invigorated thereby;. and that is sufficient for me.' It may be for you, but it would not be for a wise man; for every spirit of this kind will only produce a greater languor when its effects cease to operate upon the human body. But you know that you are benefited? Yes, so does the man who has mortgaged his property know that he is relieved from his present embarrassments; but his temporary relfcf only binds the cords of bondage more severely around him. The Lord has not ordained strong drink for the belly, 'but for the washing of your bodies.' 

"And, again, 'tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and it is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill.' Tobacco is a nauseous, stinking, abominable thing, and 1 am surprised that any human being should think of using it — for an ejder especially to eat or smoke it, is a disgrace to him. He is not fit for the office; he ought first to learn to keep the Word of Wisdom, and then to teach others. God will not prosper the man who uses it. 

"And again, 'hot drinks are not for the body or belly.' There are many who wonder what that can mean, whether it refers to tea or coffee or not I say it does refer to tea and coffee. Why is it that we are frequently so dull au'd languid? It is because we break the Word of Wisdom. Disease preys upon our systems; * * * and we do not comprehend the things of God. The devil takes advantage of us, and we fall into temptation. 

"Let the Saints be wise; let us lay aside our folly and abide by the commandments of God. So shall we be blessed of the Great Jehovah in time and in eternity. We shall be healthy, strong and vigorous; we shall be enabled to resist disease." 

T1IK WORDS OF RRIGHAM YOUNG 

It is sometimes a good thing to turn back. We will turn back to the great pioneer, the man who with others erected this wonderful building. At the time of its erection it was the greatest building in all the United States, without any center support to the roof. He started to build a temple which cost millions of dollars when there were people here without means excepting their hands, their courage, their faith and their knowledge that God lived. 

President Brigham Young said : 

"So long as you are able to walk and attend to your business, it is folly to say that you need ardent spirits to keep you alive. The constitution that a person has should be nourished and cherished; and whenever we take anything into the system to force and stimulate it beyond its natural capacity, it shortens life. I am physician enough to know that. When you are tired and think you need a little spirituous liquor, take some bread and butter or bread and milk, and lie down and rest. Do not labor so hard as to deem it requisite to get half drunk in order to keep up your spirits. If you will follow this counsel, you will be full of life and health, and you will increase your intelligence, your joy and comfort. 

"It is a piece of good counsel which the Lord desires his people to observe, that they may live on the earth until the measure of their creation is full. This is the object the Lord had in view in giving that Word of Wisdom. To those who observe it he will give great wisdom and understanding, increasing their health, giving strength and endurance to the faculties of their bodies and minds until they shall be full of years upon the earth." 

BENEFITS PROVED 

Let me testify to the benefits of it. President Brigham Youngserved this people from the day that he was ordained an apostle for more than 42 years, until he passed away, with all the cares and hardships that rested upon him, and when he passed away he was as old as I am, 76. He was in vigorous health of body and mind, but I am sure that what they called inflammation of the bowels was appendicitis. Why? Because the pain disappeared and we were all rejoicing' that he was on the high road to recovery. But what really happened is that the appendix had broken and the pain had disappeared, but blood poisoning had set in. 

The successor to President Brigham Young served this people for 48 long years from the day he was ordained an apostle. The successor to John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, served this people 59 long years from the time that he was chosen an apostle. Lorenzo Snow, who succeeded Wilford Woodruff, served this people for nearly 53 years, and Joseph F. Smith served them for over 52 years. Fleber J. Grant has served this people for over 50 years. 

GIVES PERSONAL TESTIMONY 

I leave my testimony with you that I believe as firmly as I believe anything in this world that I would not be standing here today talking to you if I had not obeyed the Word of Wisdom. When my appendix was removed it had broken and blood poisoning, so they said, in the third and last stage, had set in. There were nine doctors present and eight said I had to die. The chief surgeon in the Catholic hospital turned to President Joseph F. Smith, and said : "Mr. Smith, you need not think of such a possibility or probability as that this man shall live. Why, if he should live it would be a miracle, and this is not the day of miracles." 

That was the message delivered to me by Joseph F. Smith himself during his last sickness, and he said : "Our doctor friend who said it would be a miracle has passed away. I never saw you looking healthier in my life than you do today, Irleber." 

I said to the nurse who told me regarding these nine doctors that 1 did not want to meet any of them, except the one who said and believed that I would pull through. She said: "Me is the house doctor; I will call him in." 

I asked him why he disagreed with the others, and he smiled, (he was a southerner) and he said: "Mistah Grant, ah just took a chance, suh. Ah have felt the pulse, suh, of thousands of patients, being a house doctor, in many many hospitals, but ah never felt a pulse just like yours, suh. Why, do you know, suh, in all of the tests that I made during an hour and three quarters that you were under the knife your heart nevah missed one single, solitary beat, and ah made up my mind that that heart would pull you through." 

NOT CONTAMINATED 

What kind of a heart did 1 have ? I had a heart that had pure blood in it, that was not contaminated by tea, coffee or liquor. That is why the poison in my system was overcome. The doctor who operated upon me had made an agreement with me that he was to tell me if I had to die — and he did — so that I could write a couple of letters. But I did not write them because in the kind providences of the Lord it had been revealed in a manifestation that I did not have to die. Men say we cannot receive communications from the other world, but my wife whose body lies in the grave visited my wife who is alive and told her that my mission was not yet ended; and I had received before that a blessing' by the gift of tongues from that identical wife whose body was in the grave. And what was in that blessing? That I should live to lift up my voice in many lands and in many climes proclaiming the restoration to the earth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

PROPHECY FULFILLED 

I had not lifted up my voice in many lands and many climes at the time I was in the hospital, but subsequently I have lifted up my voice in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Canada and Mexico; from Portland, Maine, to Portland, Oregon; from the Canadian border down to Florida; in the Hawaiian Islands and in far-off Japan, proclaiming the restoration to the. earth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation; bearing my witness that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of mankind, the Savior of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God. 

FURTHER ADVICE BY PRESIDENT YOUNG 

Continuing the remarks of lirigham Young: 

"Many of our sisters think they cannot live without tea. I will tell you what we can, do — I have frequently said it to my brethren and sisters — if they cannot live without tea, coffee, brandy, whisky, wine, beer, tobacco, etc., they can die without them. This is beyond controversy. If we had the determination that we should have, we would live without them or die without them. Let the mother impregnate her system with these narcotic influences when she is bringing forth a family on the earth, and what does she do? She lays the foundation of weakness, palpitation of the heart, nervous affections and many other ills and diseases in the system of her offspring that will afflict them from the cradle to the grave. Is this righteous or unrighteous, good or evil ? Let my sisters ask and answer the question for themselves, and the conclusion which each and every one of them may come to is this : 'If I do an injury to my child, I sin.' " 

DOCTORS GIVE EVIDENCE 

I have been trying to find what a brother wrote to me some days ago, and so has he, but we have failed — a statement that I wish I could read to you here, if it be true — and I have very little doubt but that it is true — to the effect that there are some first-class physicians who will not answer a call to a wife who is to become a mother if she is an inveterate cigaret smoker, announcing that the rate of mortality is altogether too great among such for them to risk their reputation. 

THE WORDS OF PRESIDENT TAYLOR 

President John Taylor : 

"For this purpose he (God) has gathered us here as we are here today — that while we are pursuing the natural avocations of life, we might at the same time be taught and instructed of God, that we might learn the laws of life — that we might be purified from the corruptions and infamies that exist in the world, and that our spirits might be purged from everything that tends to deteriorate, injure or destroy man; and that we might be enabled to comprehend those principles w hich are calculated to elevate, to exalt and ennoble mankind, and to prepare them for the enjoyment of a place among the Gods in the eternal worlds. 

"And in regard to drunkenness we will not be contaminated nor disgraced with infamy of such conduct — and as the honesty of a man can only be tested by his having temptation within his reach, so no man can be considered as acting properly who cannot let liquor alone, when that is within his reach. Virtue does not consist simply in being prevented from committing evils, but in having temptations presented before us and then governing our passions and appetites. Good and evil are placed before us, no matter by whom, it is for us to resist evil and cleave to the right. We are told that it is to him that overcometh that I will grant to sit down on my throne, as I have overcome and sat down on my Father's throne. Neither do we want any excuses for any of these things, for God will condemn us if we bear them, and his wrath will be enkindled against us, and we shall find it a hard matter to pack such infamies upon our shoulders. Now it is for us to choose what course we will pursue. 

"We want men who are Saints from principle, men who love God, who keep his commandments, men who are pure and virtuous, men who are seeking to glorify God through obedience to his laws, and men who do these things because they love to do them. 

"We have entered into covenants with God, and it is only on the condition of our keeping our covenants inviolate that we shall be entitled to the exceedingly great and precious promises which he has made to us. And he does expect us to be true to him." 

PRESIDENT WOODRUFF QUOTED 

President Wilford Woodruff : 

"We are sent into this world to accomplish a great purpose, and to fulfil the object of our creation we must observe the commandments of God, and obey the ordinances of his house, and walk in them while we live in the flesh, that when we have done with this body we can go back into the presence of our Father and our God and receive in fulness the blessings and promises made to his children. 

"Those persons who will not walk according to the light they have, must sooner or later inherit sore afflictions to themselves; they do not have joy, and happiness, and salvation like that person who obeys the commandments of God and constantly does that which is right. The wicked are always in fear. There is no inducement for a man or woman to commit sin — it is not a paying business. It is better for us to serve the Lord; for those who serve the Lord morning, noon and night are happy, whether they be rich or poor." 

RIDICULE RECALLED 

I call to mind that upon one occasion a man ridiculed the Latter-daySaints, saying, "You people are always happy. If a man hits a Mormon and knocks him down, the Mormon thanks the Lord because he needed a little chastisement; and if you hit at a Mormon and miss him, he thanks the Lord for not getting hit." 

"Let us try to live our religion, and try to be friends of God; and let us make war against the works of the devil. Let us seek to overcome ourselves, and all our evil impressions, and bring our bodies in subjection to the law of Christ, that we may walk in the light of the Lord, gain power with him, and assist in sanctifying the earth and in building up temples, and in attending to the ordinances of the house of God, that we may be saviors of men, both of the living and the dead. These are our privileges, and the blessings which the God of heaven has put into our hands. 

"Our President (Brigham Young) has frequently told us that we cannot separate the temporal from the spiritual, but they must go hand in hand together; and so it is, and so we must act in reference to building up the Church and Kingdom of God. We should foresee the evil, and then foreseeing it we should hide ourselves, and preserve ourselves in purity and holiness. 

"Our temporal and eternal salvation is all connected and linked together. * * * The Lord has raised up unto us fathers, leaders, and counselors after his own heart: they possess his will, and they are leading the people to exaltation and glory." 

FROM PRESIDENT SNOW 

President Lorenzo Snow : 

"The Gospel is proclaimed, a channel is opened through which individuals may receive a knowledge of things pertaining to life and salvation, of those things that are required at their hands, and of the course they should pursue as the servants and handmaidens of God. 

"This Gospel, which God has commanded us to offer to the world, is an order or system of things, simple, plain, and may easily be understood. In regard to its principles, the nature of its requirements, and the precise kind and character of its blessings and promises, no one, however ignorant or unlearned, needs to be left in the dark; but may discover its golden truths, and the emblazoned mark of divinity in its arrangements. 

"This system of religion, in its nature, in the character of its origin, the manner of operations, and in the purposes for which it was designed, coupled with the fact that people of honest hearts can and will appreciate divine truth, is such that it cannot be destroyed. A man who is honest, full of integrity and love for the interest and happiness of mankind, having explored this long untrodden path, and made this glorious discovery, will not and cannot keep silent, but despite of threats and opposition, however fierce and terrific, will boldly declare the glorious fact, spreading and multiplying this divine intelligence, and if so required, seal his testimony with his own life's blood. 

"Our mission is to the world and not simply to carry the Gospel to the people, but to establish plans and lay schemes for their temporal salvation. Our object is the temporal salvation of the people as much as their spiritual salvation. 

"A religious system is of but little account when it possesses no virtue nor power to better the condition of people, spiritually, intellectually, morally and physically." 

PRESIDENT SMITH QUOTED 

President Joseph F. Smith: 

"I do wish with all my heart — not because I say it, but because it is written in the word of the Lord — that you would give heed to the Word of Wisdom. It was given unto us 'not by commandment'; but by the word of President Brigham Young, it was made a commandment unto the Saints. It is written here for our guidance, for our happiness and advancement in every principle that pertains to the kingdom of God, in time and throughout eternity, and 1 pray you to observe it. It will do you good; it will ennoble your souls; it will free your thoughts and your hearts from the spirit of destruction; it will make you feel like God, who sustains even the sparrow, that it does not fall to the ground without his notice; it will bring you nearer to the similitude of the Son of God, the Savior of the world, who healed the sick, who made the lame to leap for joy, who restored hearing to the deaf and sight to the blind, who distributed peace, joy and comfort to all with whom he came in contact, and who cursed and destroyed nothing, save it was the barren fig tree, and that was to show forth his power more than anything else. 

" 'And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones. 

" 'And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

" 'And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; 

" 'And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them.' 

"Are these glorious promises not sufficient to induce us to observe this Word of Wisdom? Is there not something here that is worthy our attention? Are not 'great treasurers' of knowledge, even 'hidden treasures', something to be desired? But when I see men and women addicting themselves to the use of tea and coffee, or strong drinks, or tobacco in any form, I say to myself, here are men and women who do not appreciate the promises God has made unto them." 

POET QUOTED 

There are three lessons I would write, Three words as with a burning pen; In tracings of eternal light, Upon the hearts of men. 

Have faith, though clouds environ round. And gladness hides her face in scorn. Put off the darkness from thy brow; No night but hath its morn. 

Have hope, where'er thy bark is driven, The calm distorts the tempest's mirth, Know this, God rules the Hosts of Heaven, The inhabitants of earth. 

Have love, not love alone for one, But man as man thy brother call, And scatter as the circling sun Thy charities on all. 

— Goethe. 

A FAVORITE HYMN 

God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform; He plants his footsteps in the sea, 

And rides upon the storm. 

Deep in unfathomable mines, 

Of never failing skill, He treasures up His bright designs, 

And works His sovereign will. 

Ye fearful Saints, fresh courage take, 

The clouds ye so much dread Are big with mercy, and shall break, 

In blessings on your head. 

Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, 

But trust Him for his grace; Behind a frowning providence, 

He hides a smiling face. ..... 

His purposes will ripen fast, 

Unfolding every hour, The bud may have a bitter taste, 

But sweet will be the flower. 

Blind unbelief is sure to err, 

And scan his works in vain; God is his own interpreter, 

And He will make it plain. 

The hymn which I have just read was the favorite hymn of the late President Wilford Woodruff. We sang- it oftener in our council meeting's than any other when he was with us. If there ever was a man who acknowledged the hand of God in all things more perfectly than did Wilford Woodruff I never knew him. 

FROM THOMAS A. EDISON 

One of the greatest benefactors of mankind, in my judgment, by his discoveries in electricity was Thomas A. Edison. Way back in 1914 he wrote a letter to Henry Ford in which he said : 

"The injurious agent in cigarets comes principally from the burning paper wrapper. The substance thereby formed is called 'Acrolein.' It has a violent action on the nerve centers, producing degeneration of the cells of the brain which is quite rapid among the boys. Unlike most narcotics this degeneration is permanent and uncontrollable. I employ no person who smokes cigarets." 

This was written in 1914, as I have said. I know a great many people who formerly did not employ people who smoked cigarets, but cigaret smoking has increased so wonderfully, from a few hundred million up to hundreds of billions, that they have found it necessary to change that rule. 

ENORMOUS CONSUMPTION OF CIGARETS 

During the last four years internal revenue was paid upon a consumption of 459,419,564,744, or an average of 114,854,891,186 cigarets a year. 

What is a billion? During the World war when we were raising $6,000,000,000 through the sale of Liberty bonds, the great New York Life Insurance Co. sent out a circular announcing that a billion was the equivalent of one dollar for every minute from the birth of the Savior until now. So each year for four years — and this is not what somebody says, but it is from collections of internal revenue — 114,854,891,186 cigarets were consumed in the United States, which would be equivalent to 114 cigarets for every minute since the birth of the Savior. It seems incredible. "In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men." I have read that the tobacco interests hope during this year to add 30,000,000 women to their list of cigaret smokers. 

AN IMPRESSIVE LESSON 

1 read from the book, "Personal Efficiency," by James Samuel Knox, A. M. : 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"'You smoke thirty cigarets a day?' " 'Yes, on the average.' 

" 'You don't blame them for your run down condition ?' " 'Not in the least. I blame my hard work.' 

"The physician shook his head. He smiled in a vexed way. Then he took a leech out of a glass jar. 

" 'Let me show you something,' he said. 'Bare your arm.' 

"The cigaret smoker bared his pale arm, and the doctor laid the lean, black leech upon it. The leech fell to work busily. Its body began to swell. Then, all of a sudden, a shudder convulsed it, and it fell to the floor — dead. 

" 'That's what your blood did to that leech,' said the physician. He took up the little corpse between his finger and thumb. 'Look at it,' he said. 'Quite dead, you see. You poisoned it' 

" 'I guess it wasn't a healthy leech in the first place,' said the cigaret smoker sullenly. 

" 'Wasn't healthy, eh ? Well, we'll try again.' 

"And the physician clapped two leeches on the young man's thin arm. " 'If they both die, said the patient, I'll swear off — or, at least, I'll cut down my daily allowance from thirty to ten.' " 

What would ten do to him ? A boy who smokes ten cigarets a day has inhaled enough poison to kill twenty frogs. 

"Even as he spoke the smaller leech shivered and dropped on his knee dead, and a moment later the larger one fell beside it. 

'"This is ghastly,' said the young man; 'I am worse than the pestilence to these leeches.' 

" 'It is the empyreumatic oil in your blood,' said the medical man. 'All cigaret smokers have it.' 

" 'Doctor,' said the young man, regarding the three dead leeches thoughtfully, 'I half believe you're right.' " 

EFFECT UPON STUDENTS 

"It is said that within the past fifty years not a student at Harvard University who used tobacco has been graduated at the bead of his class, although on the average five out of six used tobacco." 

Just exactly five hundred per cent more tobacco smokers in the classes, and yet in fifty years not one of them was graduated at the head of his class. 

"An investigation of all the students who entered Yale University during nine years shows that the cigaret smokers were the inferiors both in weight and lung capacity of the non-smokers, although they averaged fifteen months older." 

I would like to read you this whole book but I shall not take the time. 

A VICTIM OF CIGARETS 

"A young man died in a Minnesota state institution not long ago, who five years before had been one of the most promising young physicians of the West. 'Still under thirty years at the time of his commitment to the institution,' says a newspaper account of the story. He had already made three discoveries in nervous diseases which had made him well known in his profession. But he smoked cigarets — smoked incessantly. For a long time the effects of the habit were not apparent, in fact, it was not until a patient died on the operating table under his hands, and the young doctor went to pieces, that it became known that lie was a victim of the paper pipes. But then he had gone too far. He was a wreck in mind as well as in body, and ended his days in a maniac's cell." 

JUDGE SPEAKS 

"Magistrate Crane of New York City, says : 'Ninety-nine out of a hundred boys between the ages of 10 and 17 years who come before me charged with crime have their fingers disfigured by yellow cigaret stains. I am not a crank on this subject, I do not care to pose as a reformer, but it is my opinion that cigarets will do more than liquor to ruin boys. * * * There is something in the poison of the cigaret that seems to get into the system of the boy which destroys all moral fiber.' 

"He gives the following probable course of a boy who begins to smoke cigarets : First, cigarets. Second, beer and liquors. Third, craps, petty gambling. Fourth, horse racing — gambling on a bigger scale. Fifth, larceny. Sixth, state prison.' " 

AN INTERESTING EXPERIMENT 

"Dr. J. H. Kellogg says : 'A few months ago I had all the nicotine removed from a cigaret, making a solution out of it. I injected half the quantity into a frog with the effect that the frog died almost instantly. The rest was administered to another frog with like effect. Both frogs were full grown and of average size. The conclusion is evident that a single cigaret contains poison enough to kill two frogs.' " Then he goes on to tell that twenty cigarets killed forty frogs. 

I have enough material to talk to you for an hour or two but I see I have been talking now for fifty-two minutes, and I think that that is probably long enough. I shall try to get through in the next seven minutes and make it an even hour. 

TESTIMONY OF AN INVENTOR 

"Hudson Maxim has won world renown as the inventor of high explosives for use in battle ship guns and torpedoes and for various other purposes. He comes out squarely against the cigaret in this fashion: 

" 'The wreath of cigaret smoke which curls about the head of the growing lad holds his brain in an iron grip which prevents it from growing and his mind from developing just as surely as the iron shoe does the foot of the Chinese girl. 

" 'In the terrible struggle for survival against the deadly cigaret smoke, development and growth are sacrificed by nature, which in the fight for very life itself must yield up every vital luxury such as healthy body growth and growth of brain and mind. 

" 'If all boys could be made to know that with every breath of cigaret smoke they inhale imbecility and exhale manhood, that they are tapping their arteries as surely and letting their life's blood out as truly as though their veins and arteries were severed, and that the cigaret is a maker of invalids, criminals and fools — not men — it ought to deter them some. The yellow finger stain is an emblem of deeper degradation and enslavement than the ball and chain'." 

BURRANK'S DECLARATION 

"Several of my young acquaintances are in their graves who gave promise of making happy and useful citizens,'' declares Luther Burbank, the wizard of the plant and vegetable kingdom, whose experiments have caused the civilized world to wonder" — and whose experiments have benefited the civilized world millions upon millions of dollars every year — '"and there is no question whatever that cigarets alone were the cause of their destruction. No boy living would commence the use of cigarets if he knew what a useless, soulless, worthless thing they would make of him." 

A NEW ARITHMETIC 

" 'I am not much of a mathematician,' said the cigaret, 'but I can add nervous troubles to a boy, I can subtract from his physical energy, I can multiply his aches and pains, 1 can divide his mental powers, I can take interest from his work and discount his chances for success'." 

As I was not here six months ago I thought I was entitled to occupy an hour, and that is why I have taken so much time. The Lord bless you, Amen. 

The congregation arose and sang the hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am thankful for the privilege of attending this General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ, and I know it will result in blessings to the people and be profitable to all those present and the thousands that are ma-king use of the radio to hear all that may be said during the three days of this Annual Conference. 

At this conference, like all that have been held in the past, words of counsel, instructions, and admonitions will be given, and never before in the history of the Church were they so sorely needed. The opening remarks of President Grant were timely and given under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father, and if followed will result in God's blessings to all. Let our constant prayer be for the glory and welfare of the Church and for the preservation of the United States. 

THE WORLD'S MOST URGENT NEED 

The distracted world of today needs above all things, true religion as taught by Jesus Christ- while in the flesh and restored in this the last dispensation through Joseph Smith, the prophet. Our Church has a regard for the welfare of God's children and the ultimate salvation of them all. Our religion does not make its adherents selfish, but on the contrary creates in their hearts a feeling of charity and desire to bless. We do not wish the downfall of a son or daughter of God, but rather we desire their happiness, comfort and joy. This was our Heavenly Father's desire and plan in the beginning. His plan of salvation which was prepared before the creation of the world was designed for the improvement, the benefit and the ultimate salvation of all his sons and daughters. Whenever we have a desire to assist our fellowman we take the position approved by our Heavenly Father, but when we feel otherwise, we are on slippery ground. The Master came into the world not to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. That was the purpose of the coming of our Savior, Jesus Christ, in the flesh, and of the atonement that he wrought out for mankind by his death on the cross. 

How often I have been asked, and in all sincerity I might add, if the Mormon Church believes in Jesus Christ ? My answer has always been, "Perhaps to a greater degree than any other Church organization in the world." We believe Jesus Christ to be the actual Son of God — the second in the Godhead, foreordained to his birth, his mission and cruci. The spirit of Christ is the spirit of salvation, of blessing to do good, to prepare us all for the presence of our eternal Father and to enjoy the glory of his kingdom. 

SALVATION FOR ALL 

I have been asked hundreds, if not thousands of times, what difference there is between the belief of the Latter-day Saints and that of most of the Christian denominations — as to the ultimate salvation of the peoples of this world. I have answered briefly that the Latter-day Saints teach that salvation is for all people — of all ages, of all races, of all colors, — who can be saved. The revelation to Joseph Smith is that salvation is to come to all, and that none will be lost who can possibly be redeemed — that the plan of salvation is as broad as the fall of man. 

Our first parents broke a divine law and through their disobedience death came into the world — while on the other hand, through the atonement and obedience of Christ, life and salvation will ultimately come to all the family of Adam. "As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive." 

A DIVINE MESSAGE 

We all testify that in the nineteenth century our Heavenly Father has been pleased to open the heavens once more and send his Son, Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, with a divine message, conforming in every respect to the teachings of this same Christ while in mortality. We know that angels have been sent from the Father declaring truths that would insure salvation for all who receive and obey them. I recognize that the ordinary person hesitates a long time before he considers it worth while to consider such a declaration, and he can never become convinced until through faith and prayer a testimony from an unerring source is received by him. We declare that angels have come down from heaven, bringing light and truth for the salvation of all the human family, and a message to be proclaimed to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. How well this obligation on our part has been carried forward God knows best. 

THE PERSONALITY OF GOD 

The greatest religious teacher among men was Jesus, the Nazarene. In his personality God was manifest in the flesh. He revealed Deity to humanity. He showed that God was in reality the Father of the spirits of men. He proclaimed that he was in the beginning with God — that he came forth from God, land would return to God and that all mankind were his brethren, made in the image of God, and part of his eternal family. This presents God as actually and literally "Our Father which art in heaven." It takes away the mystery with which false faiths have enveloped the Supreme Being — beclouding the minds of men and making God utterly incomprehensible. 

Jesus taught that his Father and our Father is a personal being — man being in his likeness - — Jesus being himself in his express image. He taught also that he was sent into the world to save mankind and bring them back to the Father's presence; that no man could come unto God but by him. The true Christian religion, therefore, combines faith in Jesus Christ, the Son, with faith in God the eternal Father. 

NOT ONE IN PERSON 

Christ further taught the existence of a divine Spirit proceeding from God, to enlighten the souls of men; that is, the Holy Ghost, by which the mind and will of God may be made known to man, and by which holy men chosen of God, have been inspired in different ages to declare his word. 

That the unity of the Godhead is not oneness in person is made very clear in the account of the baptism of Jesus Christ. The Son on that occasion, coming up out of the waters of Jordan, the Holy Spirit descending upon him in the form of a dove, and the voice of the Father from heaven proclaiming "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Jesus said, "I came forth from the Father, and am come unto the world : again, I leave the world, and go to the Father." He also prayed to the Father and in the prayer recorded by John, explained in unmistakable language what he meant when he declared, "I and my Father are one." 

Anything that God reveals must be true, because he is truth, and everything that comes by the way of Jesus Christ, his beloved Son, must be true, for he is the way, the truth and the life. No error will be introduced into the world under the direction of the Father, or the Son. 

DESTRUCTIVE AGENCIES 

We are living in trying times — international struggles are imminent  — -"Nation rising against Nation" for supremacy and existence. Civilized governments are threatened by internal and destructive agencies in the form of Communism. This secret organization assumes different names and forms. It is Communism in France, Socialism in Germany, Internationalism in Spain and Italy, Nihilism in Russia, and similar sentiments and principles are cloaked under a variety of titles in America and Great Britain. All these organizations are opposed in spirit to all the restraints of law and order. Now let me call your attention to the fact that in February, 1831, Joseph Smith received a revelation on this very subject, which no doubt many of you are familiar with. Reference is also made along the same lines in the Book of Mormon. Secularism and infidelity are sweeping over the world; millions are indulging in every kind of iniquity. Crime is increasing with such rapidity that the large cities of the world find it next to impossible to cope with it. 

I know that it is easier to point out evils than the particular way of destroying them. I know it will take the united effort of honest, patriotic, liberty loving citizens, to meet the situation. The churches must play an important part. 

The Church of Jesus Christ has never ceased its opposition to organizations such as I have mentioned and never will. 

I bear witness that our Heavenly Father has again established his Church on earth and revealed the everlasting Gospel for the salvation jpf all who believe and obey. 

My brethren and sisters, I am sure that during this conference the Spirit of the living God will be made manifest to those who speak unto us. 

NOT NECESSARY TO VIOLATE LAWS OF GOD 

I want particularly to call your attention to the wonderful remarks that have been made by President Grant this morning. Oh, if we only would put them into practice — I mean every member of the Church — what a wonderful influence we would have as a people in the different parts of this country and in the world! Our very lives and acts would testify of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and its results in the lives of its membership. I never lost anything in this world by obeying the laws of God. I never lost anything in my capacity as a Senator of the United States by not indulging in the habits that are prohibited by my Church. For years perhaps those among whom I associated thought it was strange. I have never taken z. drink of liquor in my life. I have never smoked in my life. I have never found it necessary that I should do so at any time in order to win respect and the favors of men who do us'e those things. On the contrary, my brethren and sisters, I want to testify to you that there has been nothing for which I have been honored and respected more than my devotion to the beliefs that I have. I may add, religious beliefs and moral beliefs, which latter are a very important part of our teachings as a Church. 

I do not think there is any honorable calling to which a man may be called, either privately or publicly, in which, in order to be successful, he must violate the laws of God. There is no necessity for it, and I want to say to you that whenever people who know that the laws of the Church prohibit certain actions, see a member of the Church violate those actions, instead of winning the respect of men by such violation he loses it. 

IN ACCORDANCE WITH ONE'S PROFESSED FAITH 

Oh, yes, we have lots of men and some women in the Church who smoke. I wish that every one of them could have heard the remarks of the President this morning. We as members of the Church can testify to the truth of his remarks. But the day is coming when the scientists, when the men standing at the head of great business concerns, will always ask, when a man is needed to fill an important position, how he lives, what are his daily habits, what does he believe in, and does he live in accordance with his professed faith. When that time comes, and it is beginning now, I will be glad if the greater percentage of the people of our Church live the commandments, if they are clean and virtuous in their lives. This is almost a thing of the past in some sections of the world. 

But as the last days approach, I say to you, my brethren and sisters, it is going to come, and God will magnify a people who not only profess these wonderful truths but live them. God grant that we may have power to do so, that the Church as a church will never be called upon to apologize for men or women known as the leaders and members of the Church. Peace be with us. May God's blessings attend us during the remainder of this conference, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The hymn, "Do what is right," was sung- by the congregation. Elder Mark Austin offered the closing prayer. The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


