10
Afternoon
05 10 1906
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 

The Ten Commandments applicable to the Latter-day Saints. 

I am under considerable anxiety this afternoon in regard to what I shall be led to say, as there appears to be, on the part of some, a fear that I might say something not entirely complimentary to the traducers of the brethren and of our people. But I desire to be conservative, if possible, and in order to be so I will read a little scripture, judging that by reading the scriptures no one will take offense; and I will endeavor to studiously avoid reading the 23rd chapter of Matthew. I was reading a little while ago a story which contained a certain sentence put, by the author, into the mouth of one of the characters of the story, by which it would seem he endeavored to justify himself in wrongdoing. The sentence was as follows : "Everybody knows the Ten Commandments, "but nobody keeps them." Now, that sentence impressed me with considerable force, and I could not instantly dismiss it. I thought over it considerably, and I wondered in my heart how true it was, or if it were true, at all or not. The more I thought of it the more I '.became convinced that, if it were  true, still it approached very nearly to being the truth; and I have in mind this afternoon to read the Ten Commandments, as delivered by the Lord to Moses, in the mountain, and which were written by the Lord upon the tablets of stone : 

"Thou shalt have no other gods before me." I reviewed that commandment and applied it to the Latter-day Saints. I felt in my heart that most of the Latter-day Saints kept that commandment; that there were no other gods that the Latter-day Saints worshiped, but that they worshiped the true and the living God, the God of Abraham, of Isaac; and Jacob — the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. We, as Latterday Saints, worship God, and we have no other god ,; if we worship at all, it is our p£.;r.. " in Heaven whom we worship. 

"Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything that is in the heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth." That also, I am constrained to believe, is a commandment kept by the Latter-day Saints. They have not bowed down to other gods; they have not raised up to themselves gods of stone or of brass; they have not worshiped anything in the heavens or in the earth, or which is under the earth; but this same God, the Father of our spirits, do we worship, and none other. I believe we are not guilty of the charge of not keeping this comandment. "Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them; for I the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments." The Lord has manifested Himself very plainly to the Latter-day Saints, [n our day He has manifested Himself in person, in as great or greater plainness than He was manifest to Moses in the mountain, during the time that these commandments were given; and therefore we know Him. We have received His Spirit; we have become acquainted with some of His works and also with some of His purposes concerning us, and concerning all men who have inhabited this earth, as well as those who now inhabit it or shall do so in the future. Him do we worship, and we love Him; and here we might couple that other commandment, or that emphasis of this comandment, which was given by the Lord Jesus Christ, when He was asked which was the greatest commandment, and He replied that we should love the Lord with all our might, mind, and strength, for that was the greatest commandment. I believe as a general thing the Latter-day Saints observe this law, that they do love the Lord with all their might, mind, and strength; yet I know there are some who do not love Him as fully as they should. A man who spends nine-tenths of his working time, striving to accumulate wealth, to store up and hoard money, and spends but little of his time in worshiping the true and living God, does not give full evidence that he loves the Lord, first and foremost, but he does evidence that his love is devoted, to a greater extent, to the material wealth and accumulations he is striving to gain, which are perish things. Such individuals have learned to worship other gods, I fear — the god of gold, the god of money — at least they have grown to forget, in a great degree, the Father of all. In their craving after the things of this world, they overlook the things of eternal worth. Brethren and sisters, I hope very few of us belong to that class, hive minutes prayer a day, and all the rest of our thoughts centered on the things of the world is not what should characterize our lives. We should more fully observe the commandments of the Lord, wherein we are told to prayalways, without ceasing, for this is the law of God in Christ Jesus, concerning us. We should cry, in prayer, over all things pertaining to our welfare, and the welfare of our fellowmen, and the welfare of the Kingdom of God and the work of the Lord. When not engaged in crying aloud in prayer, we are taught to have in our hearts always a prayer of remembrance to our Father in heaven, petitioning Him for the continuation of His mercies and blessings, day after day. 

"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." When I read this commandment, I am instantly aware of the fact that there are some in our own midst, who know this commandment, yet who do not keep it; but it is not a frequent thing to hear from the mouths of men professing to be members of the Church and believers in God, the profanation of the Lord's name — blasphemy in the midst of Israel, taking lightly and in a profane way, the name of God the eternal Father. It ought not to be; and wherever it is, it should be corrected — corrected by the individuals themselves; and a strong effort should be made by all the leading brethren in the Church, and sisters, and presiding officers therein, to stamp out of the midst of Zion this terrible sin. It ought not to be among us; it is a polluting crime that befouls a man and shows the condition of his heart when such evil proceeds from it. We know it is wrong; we know this commandment; we know the Lord has said that He will not hold a man guiltless when, in his thoughtlessness or wilful disobedience, he breaks that commandment. We know this, yet some men and boys in the midst of Zion disregard this commandment — thoughtlessly per 1 haps, not realizing the extent of the punishment that shall be meted out to the guilty — nevertheless conscious of the fact that it is a sin and ought not to be done. 

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God : in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thv daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." I am fully aware that this glorious day, which the Lord had set apart and hallowed, was desecrated by many in Israel. There are those among us who do not heed it as a holy day, but instead the Sabbath is turned by them into an unholy day, a day of recreation, of sinful pleasure, a day of desecration, of following after their own wills, a day wherein they strive as far as' possible to forget God rather than to remem Him, a day in which they wend their way from the house of the Lord rather than towards it : seeking pleasure and forgetting God; and this ought not to be. Brethren and sisters, we ought to keep this law. While written by the finger of God many centuries ago, and p-iven to the people, it has never been repealed. It was given by the same God who in later times, on the mount, delivered to the people the glorious beatitudes, and has never been rescinded, but is of force today; and those who desecrate the Sabbath, and do not heed this commandment will not be held guiltless before the Father, any more than the breaking of the other law, in the profanation of the name of the Lord. It is said that our sacrament meetings and Sabbath meetings are not as well attended as they should be. We always have a fair congregation of faithful saints in atendance, but there are many who, seeminglv, have forgotten the Sabbath day, who know the commandment but do not keep it. We should correct this. Fathers and mothers are held responsible in this commandment. They are not only commanded to keep the Sabbath day holy themselves, and do no work therein, but to see to it that their sons and their daughters, the men servants and women servants, and even their cattle, shall not do any work on this holy day. If we have forgotten this, brethren and sisters, we should repent and turn unto the Loid. I find 't ^ very eas/ to fh 1 things to preach about which should be a benefit to the saints, which apply and have to 'In villi them more particularly; and now we ex ho "i yc.i to keep the Sabbath clay holy and cease to desecrate it. "Honor thy father and thy njothcr : that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." Another commandment with which we are familiar, and have heard frequently. How closely do we, sons and daughters of faithful fathers and mothers, observe this commandment; Do we return unto them the homage that is their due, the honor they are entitled to ? Do we heed their counsel, and take their advice ? When they tell us : "My son, honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy; go to the meeting house and worship God, and partake of the sacrament," do we honor that counsel, or do we treat it as something pertaining to fogyism — something for the aged, something good for the old but not  for the young? Do we dishonor our fathers and mothers by disobeying them in this case? If we do disobey them, do we realize that we are cutting ourselves off from the promise of long life in the land, this glorious land, of which so much has been spoken in this conference — the land which the Lord our God has given us ? How many of us speak lightly and disrespectfully of father and mother, or any aged man or woman ? There may be some amoncr us who do this, perhaps only thoughtlessly, but nevertheless it is a violation of one of the comandments of the Lord, for which, of course, all men must answer, if thev will not repent. On the other hand, fathers and mothers oueht to live such lives that they will be worthy of honor from sons and daughters. The man, the father, who breaks the commandments of God, the man who violates this and other commandments, is he worthy of honor? Can he reasonably expect that his children  honor him, if he himself is a lawbreaker, violating the commandments of God yet expecting his sons and daughters to honor him? Is there a dishonorable mother who can reasonably expect a daughter to honor her? Let fathers and mothers throughout Israel set an example before their families; let them keep the comandments of the Lord, observe the Word of Wisdom, remember their prayers, remember God and love Him with all their heart, might, mind and strength, so that the children, all the clays of their lives, shall look upon father and mother with love and respect, and say in their hearts : We have the noblest father and the grandest mother that ever lived in the world; they are honorable, truthful, faithful — fearing God and serving Him all their days, and how glad I am to honor such parents. Fathers and mothers, be worthy, so that your sons and daughters may devotedly keep this commandment. 

"Thou shalt not kill." There is a commandment we may say is universally observed by the saints. They not only do not kill, but they have no desire in their hearts to kill their fellowmen or shed blood; that is far from them; they know the sinfulness of it; they know, as has been said, that it is a crime for which there is no forgiveness, and the uttermost farthing must be naid. We keep that commandment as a people. 

"Thou shalt not commit adultery." Another soul destroying crime which is very rare among the Latter-day Saints. There is no other sin, save murder only, that will so soon destroy the spiritual and moral life of men — why, it is spiritual suicide to participate in any such deadly crime. We do 45 sustain it; we do not suffer it; we do not tolerate it; and we do not commit it, as a people. So far as I am concerned I will not support any man or any set of men who are seducers and who commit this deadly sin, be they whom they may, within or without the Church of God; neither will I sustain the men, or the publications, or the party that protect or sustain such corruption. 

"Thou shalt not steal." I hope none of us are given to this sin — the taking of that which does not belong to us, but which belongs to another. We should preserve every man in the possession of his own; we should not take that which belongs to him, neither appropriate to ourselves any of his goods or property. My brethren and sisters, it is writen by the poet : "He that steals my purse steals trash." This comandment may be carried further than the stealing of the material or temporal possessions of men. We can carry it, as did the poet, to the good name of one another. We must not filch from men their good names; we must not steal from them reputation, but in all things we should be honest, truthful, upright, never stealing or taking that which does not belong to us. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." Always speak the truth. We know that commandment, but there are some who apparently cannot keep it; who have grown accustomed to back-biting occasionally, speaking evil of one another, or accusing one another falsely. As Latter-day Saints, it seems to me that, of all persons in the world, we should be most free from that sin. By reason of what we have had to suffer because of the false witness that  been borne against us by our enemies, all the days of our lives — from the beginning until now have we suffered because our enemies have been guilty of the sin of bearing false witness against us — we should not indulge in the same crime, even towards our enemies, to say nothing of indulging in it, in relation to one another. 

"Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor . his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's." There isno need to covet, if we will get the spirit of charity, and of industry and labor. There is no need to covet if we are willing to work, for we can then surround ourselves with the blessings of life, as we were told by Brother Smoot this morning. All these things are within our reach; all we need to' do is to wisely proceed to surround ourselves with them, honestly. We do not need to covet that which is another's, for we may go forward and acquire these blessings for ourselves — honor, reputation,, character, wives, children, homes houses, lands, and all the blessings and gifts of the Holy Ghost; theglorious principles of the everlasting gospel, and in the end eternal life; all may be ours, and therefore we ought not to covet that which others possess. All things shall be given to the man and the woman who will faithfully keep thecommandments of God. 

May the Lord bless you, and may it not be said of us, that we know the Ten Commandments or any other commandments, given by God or His servants, in early or later times, but we do not keep them; but let it be said that the Latter-day Saints know God and know His commandments; that they know the truth, and they are keeping all these things sacredly. God sanctify this condition to His people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
