13
Morning
07 10 1906
Elder Charles W. Nibley. 

It is an inspiring sight, my brethren and sisters, to face a congregation such as this. I rejoice with you, this morning, in assembling for worship. I am thankful and I am sure you all are, for the excellent weather with which we are favored. I think that is one thing that all classes of people in Salt Lake can unite in praising. Surely we can all agree that we are having fine conference weather. 

I rejoice in being connected with this great work, the work of the Lord. I was born of parents who belonged to this Church; I may say I was born in the Church; I have grown, so far as I have , in it in every way. I am, I hooe, a part of it; it is to me the choicest thing in life. I know that the Lord established this work, that He raised up the prophet Joseph Smith to lay the foundations of this great cause, an institution which is destined to work a revolution in the world, a revolution in the interests of peace and blessings, good order, good government, good citizenship, and all that will tend to the uplifting of humanity. That is the mission of "Mormonism." I rejoice to be connected with such a Church. True, it is small now in comparison, but it will ptow and continue to extend until it becomes world-wide in its effects. The effects are to be seen on every hand where the believing soul accepts and devotes itself to the work and the will of the Lord. 

The Latter-day Saints are much misunderstood in the world, and even at home. Our mission is a mission of love. The work that the Lord has inaugurated is one that will tend to make poverty become extinct in the world. All that men struggle for in socialism — that is, all that is best in what they call socialism — is to be found here, a perfect equality, the same ordinances, blessings, and gifts of the Gospel for rich and poor alike. Men and women are equal in it. It has a tendency, therefore, to make us a brotherhood, acknowledging, at all times, our common Father. We are — as the children of the world are — children of God. They are our brothers and sisters;  there is that spirit In Mormon ism which teaches us to love and to help them. When the Savior was on the cross, in the midst of His agony, He said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Saint Paul's sentiment was : "Alexander, the coppersmith, did me much evil; I hope the Lord will reward him according to his deeds." I like the Savior's sentiment the better, to return good for evil, and exalt our souls in the spirit of forgiveness, love and mercy. I know that there is in this religion that which makes for salvation in every respect, temporal as well as spiritual. 

There is a feeling of safety, of peace, in this community that I find nowhere else in the world. Not only do we who are Latter-day Saints find it so, but others who are not of us appreciate to some extent this feeling of security and safety. There is a greater respec: for law and order in this community than, I believe, there is among the same number of people anywhere else in the world; and a respect for the rights of men, not only for those who are members of our Church, but for every man and woman. I believe firmly that men who have large interests here, men who own railroads, mines, smelters, and other property of extensive and valuable character, they feel, and know to a very considerable extent, that their interests are more secure, and better safeguarded in this community of Latter-day Saints than the same would be anywhere else in the world today. There is not the danger of disorder among this peonle that there is elsewhere; not the likelihood of mob-law, nor the evils arising from strikes. This Church takes the position that every man  free, in the proper sense of the word; he is free to labor, and he ought to labor, of course, for "the idler," the Lord says, "shall not eat the bread of the laborer." Every man and woman, every boy and girl ought to be proud to labor. This Church and people declares that every man is free; lie can work or quit work, or he can go on strike if he chooses; he can join one association or another, ana he has the right to persuade others to join with him, if he can persuade them peaceably; but, when he undertakes to kill the man who wants to work, then there is a sentiment in this community which stepj in and says — and "Mormonism" teaches it — "Thus far shalt thou go and no farther. You must not interfere with the man who wants to work, even though you may not want to work vourself." 

We had an experience here a year or two ago, and it is to our credit that I recall it. I refer to the strike which occurred in the coal regions of eastern Utah. Through the influence and efforts of strong, good, and righteous men in this community, and to a very great extent through their efforts alone — I do not think I need to mince words — largely, I will say, throueh the efforts of the presiding officers of this Church, peace was maintained here, and anarchy was averted, while across the line, in the neighboring state of Colorado, there was a labor war carried on for two years, that all but wrecked the business interests of the people of that state. I say again that men who have made large investments here, (some of them, I regret to say, are using their money today to assail the very people who constitute this safeguard to their interests), feel and know that they are safer right here among the Latter-day Saints, than their money would be invested anywhere else in the world. You know this; every thinking man knows it. Because of the teachings of "Mormonism," this feeling will grow and increase among men who are not of our faith, and your good works in this direction will be known and appreciated. 

I wish we could get from those capitalists a reciprocity of like spirit. In settling that coal strike, the then governor of the State, Heber M. Wells, and those who aided him, with the assistance of moral force, righteously exercised by the Presidency of the Church, order was restored and maintained. The only return, that I ever heard of, that was made for this good work done in that connection by the people, was that the price of coal was raised 25 cents a ton. I wish that those who are in control of these large interests would manifest that they appreciate, a little bit, that which is done in their behalf. Perhaps I ought not to complain, and I do not complain, but I call your attention to the facts. 

I rejoice in the prosperity of our country and our Church. This part of the country, it would seem, is almost too prosperous; it is difficult to hire men anywhere to labor; there seems to be four or five opportunities to work where there is one man for the job. 

This Church, my brethren and sisters, is growing, and becoming a little better understood. Every day when the sun goes down, this work called "Mormonism" is a little expanded, a little greater, a little stronger than it was when the sun rose in the morning. It is improving every day; it does not take a back seat; it is developing,  increasing. The Elders are abroad in the world doing a good work; they are faithful, devoted, self-sacrificing young men, as you heard from President Smith at the ooening of our conference; they are a credit to you. Everywhere I find there is a call for more laborers in the missionary field; they need more. As you know, I had the privilege — the great privilege, as I esteem it — of traveling withPresident Smith on his trip to Europe, and everywhere we went there was the same cry, "We could use more young men, more Elders." I returned from that trip with this conviction strongly impressed on my soul, that the noblest work, the greatest and best work to which I could devote myself and my means — and my sons, if thev would listen to me — would be the preaching of this Gospel, the scattering of this seed, furthering in that way the interests of the cause of God, for is it not written that "he that will turn many to righteousness shall shine as the stars forever and ever." This missionary work certainly is one of the most important that we can be engaged in. 

I have returned impressed with the feeling that the Lord, having determined to call the attention of the world to His work, He will not fail; and if the people will not give heed unto Him, as the prophets of old have declared, they will have to hearken to the voice of "clouds, and fire, and vapors of smoke." Said the old prophet, speaking for the Lord, "They that will not hearken unto me shall hearken unto the whirlwind, unto the earthquake, clouds, and fire, and vapors of smoke." I am not pessimistic; on the contrary, I am naturally sanguine and optimistic, but I as that, just as sure as we are here, the Lord will not be mocked. Evidences of His displeasure will come upon the people. Probably you have wished sometimes that there might come upon your own sons and daughters who were wayward, who though not entirely evil, would not listen to your counsel concerning what you know is best for them; something- that would turn them from their waywardness, that would incline their hearts to the Lord, even though it brought suffering and sorrow upon them, for the time being. So also the great Father, in His kindness and mercy to His earthly children, will bring to pass those providences, whether it be by fire and cloud, and vapor of smoke, or by earthquakes, or by the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, by tornados, or other calamities of various descriptions,  — or what are seeming calamities, but which in reality may turn to be blessings. He will call attention to His Gospel, and will turn the hearts of the people, more and more, to this great work. I believe it will increase more rapidly from this time forward, in fact, I feel sure of that. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the truth, and the knowledge that God lives. I know that Joseph Smith was raised up a Prophet of the Lord to lay the foundations of this work, and that it is being carried on by the power of God. Never in the history of this Church was there a more united feeling than there is today among the members, a feeling that they will sustain their leaders, the First Presidency, the Apostles, the Seventies, and all the presiding authorities. There is more stability today in the souls of  Latter-day Saints the world over, than has been the case before in the history of the Church. I believe, from all the information I can get, that the people are as well satisfied, if not better satisfied — many of them, I will say, are better satisfied — with the administration of the affairs of the Church today than ever before in our history. We know these men whom the Lord has called to preside over the Church; we know their devotion, their self-sacrifice, and that their only aim, object and interest is to further the work of God. I sustain them, I believe you sustain them; and I propose, my brethren and sisters, that we continue to stand by them. God bless you, one and all, through Jesus Christ, Amen.
