17
Second Overflow
07 10 1906
Elder Seymour B. Young. 

My dear friends and brethren : I have a very earnest desire that I wish to express, that is that I may have the aid of your faith and prayers, and your kindly attention, to assist me in what I shall say this afternoon. I deem it a high honor, and a great privilege, to stand before you and see the goodly company, the large numbers that have assembled at this meeting of the conference, to hear the word of the Lord, and I trust that the speakers this afternoon will not disappoint you. The beautiful sacred song to which we have just listened is very inspiring, and touches a tender chord in my heart. It is of a character that draws our thoughts and hearts to our Heavenly Father, and leads us to think of him and unite in His praise in song and prayer, and will probably influence the utterances of those who speak unto us. A song of that character is a very good beginning, it opens the mind to sacred thoughts. 

I will read a short revelation from the Doctrine and Covenants, found in section No. 4. This revelation was given in Susquehannah County, Pennsylvania, February, 1829, the year before the organization of the Church. The Lord said to the Prophet and Seer, Joseph Smith : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; therefore, O ve that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work , for behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualifv him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Amen.
