19
Second Overflow
07 10 1906
Bishop Orrin P. Miller. 

It is with peculiar feelings, my brethren and sisters, I arise to address you for a few minutes this afternoon. It is quite a surprise to me, because I am unaccustomed to addressing such large congregations as this. The labor in the Presiding Bishop's office is entirely of a temporal character, and my mind is so much engrossed in the temporal affairs of the kingdom that it is a hard matter for me to speak about spiritual matters. We receive considerable mail every day in the week, and in all this correspondence we very seldom get a letter that is of a spiritual character. Once in a while we receive through the mail something contributed in the way of charity, or a request for assistance in behalf of those who are afflicted, and of course this naturally touches our heart a little, and causes us to feel charitable, and our sympathies go out toward those who are in distress. If it were not for these letters coming occasionally, I am afraid we might have but very little of the spiritual nature in ns. 

I desire to report to you this afternoon that, from a financial point of view, I don't think the Church was ever in so prosperous a condition as it is today; and I don't believe there was ever a time in the history of the Church when the Latter-day Saints were more faithful in the observance of the principles of the Gospel, or when they had more faith than they are manifesting today. This is shown by their willing obedience to the law of tith, which provides the President of the Church with the revenue whereby he can meet the demands that are made upon him from time to time in establishing missions abroad in the earth, lengthening the cords of Zion, and strengthening her stakes. It gives me great pleasure and satisfaction, to know that the people have faith in the Lord, because He has made great promises unto us in regard to this one particular law. He says, "Prove me and see if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out upon you a blessing that you are unable to contain." And has not this been realized this season, my brethren and sisters ? The windows of heaven have been opened, and the beautiful rains have made the land teem with plenty, bountiful harvests are seen on every hand, in fact hundreds of bushels of fruit that the people have been unable to market have ripened and fallen off the trees. There has been an abundance of grain, and plenty of food in' the land for everybody. 

While listening to the remarks of our brethren during this conference, my mind has rested upon a revelation found in the Doctrine and Covenants, and I will read a portion of it : 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity toward all men and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy, thoughts unceasingly. Then shall thy confidence wax strong in the precious things of God and the doctrine of the priesthood" — that priesthood which has been portrayed to us bv Elder Jenson this afternoon — "The doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven." Now you all know how the dews from heaven come, they come gentGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the stillness of the night, they come when we least expect them sometimes when we are asleep and do not know it; so it is with "the doctrines of the priesthood." "The Holy Ghost, the Comforter, shall be thy constant companion, thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

Is not this a glorious promise made unto us in these latter days, and has not the doctrine of the priesthood, the spirit of it, been distilled on our brethren throughout all this conference? They have been filled with the Holy Ghost, and spoke as if they were filled with inspirational fire. 

It has been my privilege, my brethren and sisters to be born in these valleys, and I have attended the general conferences of the Church from my earliest childhood as far back as I can remember, but I cannot recall an instance when the Holv Ghost has been more manifest in the discourses of our brethren than during this conference. May we orofit by what we have heard, and be imbued with this Spirit; may it enter into our souls and become part of us, that when we go home we may be strengthened in our determination to do the will of the Father and keep His commandments, that we may be strong and mighty in the defense of Israel, is my orayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
