2
Morning
05 10 1906
President John R. Winder. 

Good results of President Smith's recent extensive journey. — Assurance of the triumph of the Lord's work. — Gratifying unity of the Church authorities and the Saints. 

My heart is filled with gratitude, praise and thanksgiving to my Heavenly Father that He has extended my days until the present time, and that I have one more opportunity of meeting with you, my brethren and sisters, in conference. I have been delighted in listening  the remarks that have been made by our beloved President. We rejoice to see him back again. We missed him while he was absent,, but we are glad to know that it has been beneficial to his health, and. pleased to hear of the good he has. accomplished while he has been visiting various missions of out Church in the nations of the earth.. 

I assure you, my brethren and. sisters, that his brethren are one with him in all matters that pertain to the best interests and building upof the kingdom of God upon the earth. We are united in every effort that is put forth for the welfare of the Church and people of the Lord, and I am grateful to be enabled to bear testimony to what he has said in relation to this matter. I realize also that if we live near to* the Lord, this testimony will continue to abide with us. This is the Lord's work that we are engaged in. The nearer- 1 live to the Lord the more strength He gives me, and my faith in His promises is increased. The work is growing and spreading. It is upward and onward, at home and abroad. 

We are glad to be able to bear this testimony. Rest assured, my brethren and sisters, there is no need to be alarmed. There is nothing that will transpire that can hinder the progress of the work of the Lord. We put our trust in Him. It is His work, and we are endeavoring to carfy it forward here upon the earth. Although we may be feeble in our efforts, yet we know that when we are sustained by Him the work will progress. 

I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, for the health and strength the Lord has blessed me with, and that He has extended my life until the present time. I am fifteen years past what is termed the allotted age 1 1  man — three score years and ten. Don't you think I ought to be thankful to the Lord for His goodness and mercies to me ? I think so, above all men upon the earth. 

I am gratified to have the opportunity of bearing testimony to the truth of the statements we have heard this morning related by our President. I desire to emphasize one remark of his, that he and his brethren are united, and repeat emphatically that his brethren are united with him, and they propose to stand by him till the end. 

May God help us all to be faithful and true to the covenants we have made, to stand by each other, to be faithful, true, and united in furthering the interests of the kingdom of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
