25
Afternoon
07 10 1906
Elder Rtjlon S. Wells. 

I have been deeply impressed, more than ever before, it seems to me, with the magnitude of this great work that we are engaged in as Latter-day Saints, and I am filled with wonder when I contemplate the great army of workers who areengaged in this wonderful work which our Father has set His hand to do among the children of men. When I view this great congregation of Latter-day- Saints, I am also filled with wonder and astonishment at the enthusiasm that seems to fill the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in that work every day of my life, and I rejoice in the companionship and fellowship of the Latter-day Saints; for I feel proud that I am numbered among them, as one of those who have yielded obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We read in the Holy Scriptures that, "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." In this connection I am led to review in my own mind the great sacrifices that have been offered by this people; how when the Gospel first came to them and they received the same, they were willing to accept the testimony of humble Elders of the Church, and in doing so they, in many instances, ostracized themselves from their companions, from their fathers and mothers, and others that were near and dear to them, and ofttimes made sacrifice of all their earthly possessions. It meant that they were broken up in their business affairs; it cost them their standing in society, and they lost the good will of their comoanions. And here at home we are sometimes called upon to make what might be termed sacGENERAL CONFERENCE. . We have a wonderful organization. Not only have we the various organizations of the Church as it has been divided into Statkes and Wards, but we have also many auxiliary organizations, all of which give plenty of occupation to the laborers in Zion. We are called upon to attend many meetings, and to engage in many labors that seem to be very irksome and tiring. Sometimes we hear complaints among the Latter-day Saints that we have too many organizations, too many meetings to attend, requiring. too much of our time. We have to do this and that, or neglect those things that have been assigned to us. Yet our brethren and sisters willingly perform these' services. There are some, however, who do not do their duty willingly. Frequently calls are made upon us to go out into the world. Our sons are called and sent out to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. This involves a great expenditure of means. It involves a sacrifice, if it is regarded from the worldly standpoint. Yet our young men go willingly, and their parents are proud to have sons in the mission field. They are proud to know that their sons are laboring for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. I ask the question, Where in all the world will vou find a people that are willing to make these sacrifices and render this service without pay, present it as an offering unto the Lord whom they adore ? I say they are not to be found in all the world, outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I wish to call attention to the fact that the laborer is worthy of his hire, and those that labor for Zion do not go without their reward. They are the best paid of all men  women upon t; .is earth, because they have enlisted in the service of the Most High, and He is the best paymaster of all. You nor I can do any service in the kingdom of God without being amply paid. What if we have forsaken father and mother? What if we have given of our substance ? It matters not. The Savior said that He that would not forsake father and mother, wives and children, houses and lands, for His name's sake, was not worthy of Him; but he that will forsake father and mother, houses and lands, for His sake, shall receive in this world an hundred fold, and in the world to come life everlasting. So that those who do labor for Zion should feel encouraged that in doing so they will receive an hundred fold. It matters not what you may be called to do, whether it be to preach this Gospel to the nations of the earth or to labor at home, God will reward you for your labor. If you are called upon to minister to the sick in the ward in which you live, God will reward you. If you are called upon to go from house to house and teach the Latter-day Saints, God will reward you an hundredfold. You cannot do anything for the kingdom of God without receiving a reward, because sacrifice brings blessings, and blessings are dependent upon that which we do in the service of our Master. 

I was asked a question a short time ago, I think it was in the Woodruff stake of Zion, by one of the brethren there. He had been reading the Scriptures, and he found the saying of James the Apostle where it reads, "If any among you are sick, let him call in the Elders, and they will anoint with oil, and the prayer of faith 121  heal the sick. And if any have sinned, their sins shall be forgiven them." He asked me the question, "Whose sins w; ll be forgiven?" I had never thought of that before. The ordinance for the. healing 1 of the sick has not been instituted in the Church for the remission of sins, but for the healing of the sick. The ordinance which has been instituted for the purpose of obtaining remission of sins is baptism, as we all understand. But here is a promise that if any have sinned, their sins shall be forgiven them. At first I did not know how to answer that question; but after a moment's reflection it came to r^ie that anyone who received the Spirit of God, their sins would be forgiven them. If we receive a remission of sins it will qualify us to have the Spirit of God with us, and the very fact that we do obtain it is evidence that our sins have been forgiven. It is for that reason that "baptism has been instituted in the Church, in order that we may. by the laying 'on of hands, obtain the Spirit of God, because that Spirit cannot dwell in an unclean tabernacle. The one that is administered to, if he has the Spirit of the Lord resting upon him so that he may be healed by that ordinance, his sins have been forgiven, and the presence of God's Holy Spirit bears witness of it. 

My brethren and sisters, let us labor for Zion; for you cannot do anything in the kingdom of God, magnifying your calling, enjoying the Spirit which issues forth from His divine presence, without haviur,' your sins remitted. And what a blessing that is! It is better than gold; it is better than the riches of this world. It is God's pay: it is the best pay that any man can get. 

God help us to be worthy of our hire, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
