26
Afternoon
07 10 1906
Elder Joseph W. M'Mtirrin. 

My brethren and sisters, I certainly feel that I am very highly honored to have the opportunity in this great gathering of the Latterday Saints to lift up my voice, in connection with my brethren, in testimony of the glorious Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I am impressed with a remark frequently made by the president of a mission under whom I at one time labored, wherein he declared that no one could do anything against the work of God, but for it. This declaration is in harmony with the statement made by President Smith at the opening of our conference, that our Father in heaven, in His loving kindness and mercy frequently overturned the plans and schemes of those who were opposed to His work, and their thwarted efforts result in the uplifting of the Church, and the advancement of His purposes among the children of men. It is very remarkable how futile have been the efforts of those who have been arrayed against the purposes of our Father in heaven. Despite their opposition, advancement has been made, growth day by day, extension in power and numbers, and, as we have heard already in this conference, we are greater now than ever before. One of the brethren made the declaration that the close of each day found the work of God stronger than it was at the opening of the day. This is true, and this will continue to be our history. 

A few years ago I was laboring GENERAL CONFERENCE.  a missionary in the City of Bristol, England, and at the invitation of a Mr. White, a freethinker, who had been very kind to the missionaries, I attended a lecture that was delivered by the great English freethinker, Mr. Charles Bradlaugh. The title of his lecture was, "Is Christianity a persecuting religion?" and he made a very dismal showing of what had been done in the name of Christian religion. I felt at the conclusion of his lecture that he had demonstrated beyond any question that dreadful persecutions had been carried _ on by sects professing to be Christian. He did not show from the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ that there was aught in the words which had fallen from His lips that taught any soul to persecute his fellows; but he gave the history of various denominations which, contrary to the teachings and example of the Redeemer, had engaged in persecution. An opportunity was given at the close of the lecture to ask questions, and a young man arose in the audience and presented a number of queries to this effect : "Were not the early Christians very few in number and of but slight influence and power in the world?" Mr. Bradlaugh answered, "Yes." "Was not the might, the power and the wisdom of the great government of Rome arrayed against that handful of Christians; and, in connection with the opposition of the government and its soldiery, were not the religious prejudices of the age arrayed in much bitterness and determination against those early Christians ?" Mr. Bradlaugh again answered, "Yes." "Then," asked the young man, "if you do not believe that Christianity is the religion of the Lord Jesus, and that it was  and sustained by the marvelous power of God, how do you account for the failure of the men who were arrayed in such overwhelming numbers against this little handful of Christians? How can you explain the continuation of Christianity and its spread among the children of men?" I was very much interested in that question, and wondered what manner of answer could be given by the great infidel; for I knew that the power of God had been manifested in the preservation of the early Christians. Mr. Bradlaugh made this answer: "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has had a more wonderful growth than the early Christians, and that in the face of the same manner of bitter hatred and opposition; do you believe that God Almighty is answerable for their preservation?" I did not feet that this was any answer to the question, but evidence that Mr. Bradlaugh was unable to answer. I felt that the young man might have asked, had he been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Why has not the Mormon Church been destroyed, inasmuch as a similar power and might has been arrayed against it, and the decree, made time and again, that its advancement should be stayed? What answer can be given ? 

You who may have doubt concerning the power of God in His protection of the Latter-day Saints and their wonderful preservation, or concerning His hand dealings with the early Christians, what answer can be given to the query, Why were not those early Christians destroyed? Why was not the Church planted by the Redeemer Himself uprooted in the days of its infancy? And the same question concerning the Latter-day Saints, why do we live? How is it that, long before this present day, "Mormonism" has not been destroyed from the earth root and branch? If we will study over the matter, the answer will be made clear to us, by the power and inspiration of the Holy Spirit, because God has organized this Church; because He is fulfilling the promises that have been made through the mouths of ancient Prophets, that a work should be established among men in the latter days that never would be overthrown, nor be given to another people. 

We need not marvel or wonder that we meet opposition, and misrepresentation, and that we are evilly-spoken of, if God has established us; for the Savior Himself taught the doctrine to His disciples, "Ye are not of the world; but I have chosen you out of the world; therefore the world hateth you." That is the only explanation that can be given in truth to the opposition, the evil speaking, and hatred that has followed this work. In the same chapter of John's Gospel, where the passage above is given, we read, "But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They , hated me without a cause." That has always been the condition when the truth of God has been assailed. When men have tried to destroy the work that He has planted it has been without a cause in justice or right. We ought to thank God every day that in our own hearts we know, if we are living in the light, that this hatred and evil speaking against us is without a just cause. Thank God, truth will always live  never can be destroyed. We ought to be grateful, my brethren and sisters, that this is the case, and that we have been drawn into this work, which is in very deed the Gospel of the Son of God, the power of salvation to every soul who> will receive it. 

This is my testimony, and I know that I speak the truth and lie not. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
