27
Afternoon
07 10 1906
Elder Charles H. Hart. 

My brethren and sisters, this is entirely a new experience for me to stand before so many people and try to feed them the bread of life. I have rejoiced with you in the spirit and instruction of this conference. I was particularly thrilled by the narrative of President Smith, in connection with his visit to Carthage jail. Did you, my brethren and sisters, ever visit for the first time, or after the lapse of many years, a spot where some dearly beloved relative of yours was buried? If you have, you can realize how sacred and hallowed those memories are which come to a person in standing, after a long absence, or for the first time, upon such ground. And so with President Smith in standing, after an interval of more than fifty years, upon the spot where his beloved uncle and father shed their blood as a testimony to the divinity of this work. 

It occurred to me, in connection with the account of the condition of some of our young people in the City of Berlin, that something of the same condition exists here at home. How many young profes4 . 

sional brethren are there who feel that their labors are such during the week that when the Sabbath day comes they want to rest ? They reason that, being engaged in intellectual pursuits during the week, they need rest on the Sabbath day. I labored myself under a similar delusion for several years; but I discovered afterwards that a person can truly rest upon the Sabbath day and still participate in religious work; that it is a change and actual rest to be engaged in the service of our Master upon the Sabbath day. 

We have had comprehensive discourses upon the principles of the Gospel during this conference. Brother Hyrum M. Smith referred to the great Decalogue, which has been called "The Autograph of the Eternal." Do we realize that the Ten Commandments stand at the very basis of the criminal code of all civilized nations? 

In connection with the remarks of Brother Nibley this morning, my mind recalled an article written in The North American Review, for August, by the Rev. Philip S. Moxom, his subject was "The Trial of Christianity." He lays down the proposition that the supreme test of any religion, or of any religious system, is its ability to produce good men and good women, and a wise and beneficent social order. Tersely expressed by our Savior, "By their fruits ye shall know them." This is the test by which we as Latterday Saints will be judged. This is the test by which we are willing to be judged. It is true that the Gospel is not doing as much for all of us as it could do, or as it is calculated to do if we would put ourselves in a position to receive its . That was the class referred to by Brother Richards this morning, who are neglectful of their duties, and who are not placing themselves in a position to receive blessings. 

I see growing up in these valleys of the mountains a superior class of young neople. Preston W. Search, an educator of some interstate reputation, in a work of his called "The Ideal School" goes out of his way to say this : "It sems to me I never saw a finer lot of school children, than in Salt Lake City." We have young men and young women growing up who are willing to go out into the sagebrush regions and redeem the country, and raise a family in pioneer life; and I have all respect and esteem for the integrity of ) r oung men and young women who are able to do that; they are altogether more worthy of praise than the young women who can preside with grace at a pink tea, or fondle a lap dog as she rides in an automobile. There is a worthy class of citizenship growing up in this mountain country. I am proud of the young people of Zion. 

I am proud to be associated with these my brethren. I know that they are true men, true citizens; and those who think to the contrary are not acquainted with their lives and motives. The time for dismissal is past, and I realize that I am trespassing now. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with us, that we may each be able to receive in our lives all the blessings that the Priesthood and the principles of the Gospel are designed to confer upon us. I ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
