28
Afternoon
07 10 1906
 President Joseph F. Smith. 

(closing remarks.) 

The time will not permit further delay; but I would like to say just a word. You have listened to the Presidency and to each member of the Council of the Apostles, and to nearly all of the Seven Presidents of Seventies; and we regret exceedingly that we do not have more time, that you might hear others. I need not ask you, after hearing those who have spoken during this conference, if you are satisfied that these men who have borne testimony and who have exhorted and admonished you, are in possession of the spirit of their calling. We leave this to your judgment and the inspiration you have received during the sessions of this seventyseventh semi-annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have been strongly impressed, in listening to all that my brethren have said, that the Lord, who chose them, made no mistake. They possess the spirit of their offices. The testimony of Jesus is in their hearts. They have borne record of that spirit to you, and they stand before you as approved ministers of the Gospel of the Son of God, and as true witnesses of Him to all the world. From the depths of my heart I bless these my brethren who bear this Priesthood, and who enjoy to this extent the power and spirit of their high and glorious callings. The Lord accepts them, and He will bless them; and the spirit and power of their calling will continue with them so long as they live and maintain the integrity that they exhibit before the people this moment. The people of Zion may rejoice in their  and ministrations among them; for they will minister in righteousness, and the Lord will accept their labors, and the people who will not — it will be the worse for them. 

The Lord bless Zion. May peace abide with you, my brethren and my sisters. God bless you in every capacity in which you are called to act in life, and be with you bv the presence and power of His Spirit, guide you into all truth, put into your hearts the spirit of prayer and true devotion, and that faith which cannot be moved. God lives, and Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world. Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God — living, not dead; for his name will never perish. The angel that visited him and declared God's message unto him, told him that his name should be held for good and for evil throughout the world. This prediction was made in the days of his youth, before the Church was organized, and before there was any prospect of that which has since been accomplished. The declaration was made, notwithstanding it then seemed an absolute impossibility; but from the day it was spoken until this moment, and from now on until the winding-up scene, the name of Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the nineteenth century, has been, is being and will be heralded abroad to the nations of the earth, and will be held in honor or contempt by the people of the world. But the honor in which it is now held by a few will by and by be so increased that his name shall be held in reverence and honor among the children of men as universally as the name of the Son of God is held today; for he did and is doing the work of the Master. He laid the foundaGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in this dispensation for the restoration of the principles that were taught by the Son of God, who for these principles lived, and taught, and died, and rose from the dead. Therefore I say, as the name of the Son of God shall be held in reverence and honor, and in the faith and love of men, so will the name of Joseph Smith eventually be held among the children of men, gaining prestige, increasing in honor, and commanding respect, and reverence until the world shall say that he was a servant and Prophet of God. The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth. Peace on earth, goodwill to man, is the proclamation that Joseph the Prophet made, and that is the same as his Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, made to the world. That is the mission we are trying to fulfill, and the proclamat'on we are seeking to make to the world today. It is the mission that these young men have been chosen to proclaim, and be witnesses of to the nations of the earth. It is their duty to see to it that this proclamation and this 

Gospel of peace and goodwill shall be sent to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people under the whole heavens. God bless Israel, is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
