3
Morning
05 10 1906
President Anthon H. Lund. 

Beneficial effects of the Church conference meetings. — Commendable diligence and self-denial of missionaries. — Mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. — Heroic sacrifice of Joseph and Hyrum. 

I also can say that I have been delighted this morning to hear our President give a report of his travels in our missions abroad. I know how the Saints would rejoice to listen to their beloved leader, and have the privilege in foreign lands to hear his voice. I am glad that he returns to us in improved health; for the work at home was hard on him and his health was not the best when he left us. I wish he had had a little more time when he was in Europe, so that he could have visited the Scandinavian missions as well. I know that there are thousands of Saints there who would have rejoiced to have had him with . Sometime, maybe, they will have this privilege. I believe the President's visit to different missions has been productive of much good. It has strengthened the faith of the Saints and encouraged them in the good work. I also bear testimony to the fact that we are united with him; that the Twelve and the brethren who labor in the ministry are united, and feel to do all in their power to build up_ God's cause upon the earth. 

These conferences are productive of much good. The Saints come together; they listen to the men whom they look up to as leaders in Zion, and they rejoice in hearing the instructions given, which they take with them to their homes. I believe those who come to the conferences really love the work and want to carry out the instructions given. Of course, the great majority of the Saints cannot attend these conferences; but they can attend their stake conferences, and these also are productive of great good. The Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventies, the Patriarch, and other leading men visit these conferences, mingle with the Saints, feel the influence of their spirit, and give them such encouragement and instructions as the spirit leads them to give and as the people are in need of. 

The work is progressing both at home and abroad. The reports from foreign missions, and from the missions in the United States, show that our Elders have never been more industrious and zealous in their labors than they are today. They try to perform their duty as messengers of salvation unto the people. They labor early and late, and though not rewarded with worldly honor, nor in many cases made very welcome, still they feel it their duty to let others know what they themselves have received, to let them understand if they will the beauty of the Gospel, and tbf great necessity of obeying the principles which have been laid down by Him who is the author of our salvation. 

This work is bound to triumph in the earth, because the Lord has established it, and He has promised that it shall not be given to another people. This dispensation is one in which the Lord will bring into one all things, and it will be connected with the dispensations that have passed. All will be brought under one head, and that head is Christ. We are laboring for this. We look upon the whole world as our brotherhood. We do not look down upon those who are not . of us; for the Lord has revealed unto us that we all belong to the same family. We are thankful to the Lord that He has made us to understand the Gospel. We understand the great importance of obeying its principles, and we feel the necessity of letting others know this. Upon us rests this great responsibility. 

I was pleased to hear our President bear such a good testimony of our young men — sons, brothers and husbands — who are out in the world preaching the Gospel. Think of these young men obeying the call to preach the Gospel! It shows the love there is in them, both for the Gospel and for their fellowmen. Unselfishly they go to the different nations of the earth and labor to spread the glad tidings restored unto the earth. The Lord is with them. He gives them a testimony that cannot be shaken, and they bear it unto men. In this they themselves are blessed. The experience of the missionaries is that the  spent in preaching the Gospel are the happiest years of their lives. It needs self-denial, sacrcifice, unselfishness, to perform this work, and in doing it joy comes to their souls. They leave worldly cares and thoughts of business at home, and put their whole heart into the work. They go from house to house spreading the word, delivering tracts, and trying to get into conversation with men; and though they are often rebuffed and have doors slammed in their faces, still thej' rejoice in their labors; and when at night they kneel before the Lord they feel to thank Him for the exoeriences of the day, and promise Him to continue in their labors, if He will give them strength. And how much joy comes to their hearts when they have been able to sow the Gospel seed in good soil and they see it springing forth, giving them hope that it will bear good fruit! 

My testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, is that this is the work of God, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, raised up to usher in this last dispensation. He was called to be an instrument in the hands of the Lord to lr' 'in unto man the 

Gospel which had been taken from the earth. He performed his mission well; he was faithful and true; and he was willing even to give his life for the truth. I was touched when the President said he saw the very place where the Prophet Joseph and his noble brother landed on their return to Nauvoo. Thev knew that bitter enemies were in their beloved city, seeking their lives; but undaunted they came back. Brother Joseph F. Smith was on the bank of the river and saw them land. W T hen he recently stood there and looked at the same spot, peculiar emotions must ha- ^ come to his heart in thinking of that incident. It was about the last time he saw his beloved father and his uncle alive. They went to Carthage. We know what took place. They suffered martyrdom for the cause which they knew was of God. Joseph Smith knew for himself that this was the work of God, and he often told others that they could know it also through the Spirit of God. He was willing to go, as he said himself, "like a lamb to the slaughter." He understood what was coming; but he submitted willingly. He did not shrink, he did not leave his people and try to save his own life, but he sealed his testimony with his blood. And so did his brother Hyrum, the Patriarch. Their integrity, love and devotion come to us as their testament. To us is also given the great boon of having an assurance of the truth, a knowledge for ourselves that this is the' work of God. 

Let us so live, brethren and sisters, that this testimony shall not leave us, that light may continue with us, that we may see the way in which we should walk, and, seeing it, walk in it, that the gates of hell shall not prevail against us. God bless you all. Amen.
