7
Morning
06 10 1906
Elder George Teasdale. 

"A marvelous work and a wonder." — Integrity and heroism of the 19th century martyrs. — Possibility of communion with Heaven. — Rewards for faithfulness. — "Who's on the Lord's side ?" 

In looking upon this vast congregation, my soul is filled with thanksgiving and praise to Almighty God that I have the privilege of being numbered among you, my beloved brethren and sisters, — members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which He, in His wonderful providence, has established upon the earth in these last days. 

I do not know that I can express the feelings of joy that are in my bosom occasioned by having this privilege of gazing upon the features of my beloved fellow laborers. I realize the truth of the saying- of the Apostle : "We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren." J have an inexpressible affection for you, my brethren and sisters, especially those who have been through the tribulations and difficulties that have been endured by so many of this people. After ovei fifty-three years experience in tins Church, J can solemnly bear my testimony that this work in which we are engaged is indeed the "marvelous  work and a wonder" that was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah in these words: "Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men; therefore, behold I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." I bear my testimony that we are engaged in that wonderful work, that marvelous work. It has come to us in our individual lives and history. Tt commenced with the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, the two first Apostles of this last dispensation. And now to see this vast congregation and to think of the numbers that are in the  who have been brought into covenant with God, through the waters of baptism, to serve Him and keep His commandments, we realize what a glorious blessing this everlasting Gospel is to us individually. The Lord has gathered us from the various nations where we were born; He sent the Gospel to us, and by His power we were converted. He brought us into His Church; He opened up the way for our gathering to Zion; and He has taught us the principles of everlasting life. He gave us a living testimony; and has sustained us by His matchless love. Individually we can say this, and praise the Lou! for His goodness unto the children of men. I thank God for the Prophet Joseph, and for the Patriarch Hyrum. When I think of their integrity, their nobility of character, how true and faithful they were to the principles of eternal life, and how true to each other, I say in my heart : thank God for such men. In my mind's eye I cai: see the glorious benefits that have been brought to pass through these servants of God. They were filica with integrity, and although they preached an unpopular doctrine, were persecuted on every hand, were found fault with, ridiculed and derided, and were looked upon as deceivers of the people, yet the truth really is that God raised them up to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. I think of the time when they were cruelly martyred because of their love for God and the principles of eternal life. I think of them as their spirits left their bodies, clasped in each other's arms in the holy and pure affection of everlasting brotherhood. They attained the highest honor which man can secure in this life, for they had been true and  to God, and finally laici down their lives for their testimony, and hence was insured to them eternal life and happiness, even the highest degree of glory possible for' man to attain. They stood by every principle that the Lord had revealed from the Heavens, and were true and faithful at all times. But their murderers, what of them ? While they had exalted the martyrs to an endless crown, they had consigned themselves to an everlasting hell, for they had shed the blood of innocence, for which there is no forgiveness. 

I am thankful that I have had the privilege of being acquainted with some of the prophets. I have enjoyed the acquaintance of Brigham Young. John Taylor, Wilfora Woodruff. Lorenzo Snow, and our present beloved President, Joseph F. Smith. 1 have had the privilege of being associated with these men, and I know most assuredly that they were and are men of God; that they were chosen by the Lord before the foundation of the earth for the fulfilment of His purposes; for known unto God arc all things from the beginning. He is doing His own work and accomplishing His own purposes in our redemption. He has given us the privilege of worshiping Him according tothe. dictates of our conscience. Under the government established through the most glorious constitution that was ever given to mortal man, we have the privilege and right to worship God according tothe dictates of our own conscience, allowing everyone else to do the same. 

I often think how highly I am favored as an individual in being a member of the Church of Christ : that I am called by His name, and" that I have taken up my cross toGENERAL CONFERENCE.  out my salvation, in connection with those who are gathered together at this conference and throughout the world. I wish I 'could express my feelings fully this morning, but it has not been given unto me to have power to express my gratitude to God for the schooling and experience He has giver me since I was born in the flesh. I am deeply grateful for that schooling and experience, for it has delivered me from the enemy, it has given me eyes to see and ears to hear, and an understanding heart. I do know most assuredly that the promise of the Son of God is true, wherein He says : "He who will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine." I know of the doctrine, for the Lord has revealed it unto me, and I also know that when he said: "Ask and you shall receive, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you" He declared true and correct principles. 

It is possible for us to commune with the Heavens. You who are faithful know that God lives, because you have cbmmuned with Him; you know that He hears your prayers and petitions; you know that He sustains you and that He overrules things for your benefit. I prize this testimony because it has delivered me from the darkness that covers the earth, and the gross darkless that characterizes the minds of the people generally. Mv eyes have been opened to see the glory of the principles of eternal life, and likewise to see the falsehood, the superstition and vain traditions of man-made systems. Why I should have been chosen out of my father's house, and been permitted to enjoy the experiences and "blessings that have come to me, I can hardly understand. I believe, , that I am one of the descendants of the patriarchs of the house of Israel, unto whom promises were made. A promise was given unto the ancient servants of God that the word of the Lord shall ever be given unto them and to their seed and their seed's seed. This promise is given unto all who are faithful in magnifying the Melchisedek and Aaronic Priesthoods. In the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood we have the opportunity of magnifying our callings as Deacons, Teachers, Priests, Bishops, or Bishops' Counselors. In the restoration of the higher Priesthood, we have the privilege of magnifying the Melchisedek Priesthood, as Elders. Seventies, High Priests, Patriarchs, or Apostles, as the case may be. This is what the Lord has done for us, and for all the world if they will accept of His doctrine as we have done. We have come out of the world, however, and accepted the doctrine of the Father, and the efficacy of the precious blood of Christ; we believe that the observance of these principles of the everlasting Gospel will sanetifv us and give us fellowship with God. 

I am thankful that I have the privilege of being a member of the church of Christ. I live in a certain ward and I am subject to my Bishop, like all other members of the ward; and I trust that I am in good standing, in full fellowship. I realize that if I am in good standing and full fellowship in the Church of Christ, T am entitled to certain privileges that those who are not in good standing do not have. If we are not,_then it is time that we repent and turn unto the Lord with full purpose of heart, and love Him, our Creator, with all our might, mind and strength. I 

^understand there are two vital principles in the everlasting Gospel, one is faith and the other is love. I believe that if we will live up to the principles of the Gospel : i will increase and develop our affection, and that we will grow in grace, in "faith, and in the knowledge of God, whom to know is eternal life. Now all may attain to this. As a member of the Church I have this privilege, and if I accept of His doctrine I belong to Him, and I will be one of the Lord's own because I have accepted His message. What is His message? His message to all the world is to worship the living and true God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent. We should repent and turn from the error of our ways, overcome our weaknesses, cease to do evil and learn to do well. Then we have the privilege of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, for the fulfilment of all righteousness, that we may "be born of the water; and having submitted to this principle we are sanctified through the precious "blood of Christ; and having become thus sanctified our bodies are temples for the Holy Ghost. It is a curious thing to me that the inhabitants of the world reject these principles. Is there anything better under the Heavens? These principles, however, should be manifest in our faithfulness in performing every duty devolving upon us. We should always attend our sacrament meetings, our quorum meetings, etc. We should strive to work out our own salvation and, make our calling and election sure. That is how I understand it, and it seems to me that it is very simple. It is a straight and narrow path that leads to eternal life, and it is made plain to the comprehension  every son and daughter of God who desires to walk therein. The question is : Do we want these principles? Do we want the establishment of righteousness on the earth? Do we want to be filled with the love of God ? Do we want to make a record that shall give us satisfaction when we have passed through this probationary stage? 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice in these principles because I know they are true; they are simple and easy to be understood. The Lord has given us understanding, and we hear from this pulpit the reason why we should love God and keep His commandments is that we may attain to a glorious resurrection and eternal life; that when the Lord Jesus Christ shall appear we shall be prepared to meet Him, and associate with Him. I would say to my beloved brethren and sisters, let us repent of all our evil doing, and fault finding; let us mind our own business; let us seek to work out our own salvation; let us be very careful of this precious soul that God is striving to redeem. He has given us our agency, and we can accept just what we please; if we choose to accept righteousness it is open for us; if we choose to accept unrighteousness, we can do so. Now, my brethren and sisters, whose side are we on? You know we sing sometimes : "Who's on the Lord's side?" As a member of this Church I hope I am, and I hope I have sense enough to perform my duty.  I hope to have the fellowship of the Spirit to instruct me, to show me what is necessary for me to do and accomplish in all the affairs of life, whether spiritual or temporal. 

There is to be a certain routine in which the Kingdom will be established. We are preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom, and preparing the people for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, our glorious King in Zion. I hope that, during the few remaining years I have to live to fill up the daws of my probation, that I may possess the same Spirit and blessings 1 have enjoyed ever since I embraced this Gospel. The Lord has blessed me, and filled my soul with unspeakable joy. He has blessed me in the opportunities that I have of being associated with the highest order of intelligences that dwell upon His footstool, men who are devoted to the establishment of His Kingdom on the earth. The Lord knows their hearts, and He will bless and protect them. He has set His hand to establish His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, and He is going to do it. His work is rolling on in its majesty, accomplishing the purposes for which it was instituted, and it will continue to do so until the wicked are overthrown, and the righteous shall dwell upon the earth in that glorious Millennium of a thousand years. Amen.
