9
Morning
06 10 1906
Elder Reed Smoot. 

Allegiance to God, to country, and to the state. — Importance of instruction and proper example at home. — Folly and sin of indulgence in smoking and drinking. — Prosperity and abundant employment. — Possess liomes and become landowners. — Dry farming advocated. — Practise econ in prosperous times. — Bad men greatest enemies of the Church. 

My dear brethren and sisters : The feeling that is in my heart at the present time I fear I cannot express to you just as I would like to do. I have partaken of the spirit of this conference; I have enjoyed every word that has been uttered; I endorse the testimonies of the faithful brothers who have spoken; and I hope and trust that the same spirit may guide my remarks that attended them. 

"I am not ashamed of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." I am not ashamed of my brethren and sisters, and I am proud of the achievements of this people in the past, in establishing themselves here and building up this commonwealth. I am not ashamed of my country, nor her institutions, and I love the Stars and Stripes. I am not ashamed of dear Utah, nor of Salt Lake City. I am not ashamed, of the principles that have been revealed by God to His people in this dispensation. I hope and trust that so long as I have breath I never shall do aught to bring reproach either upon the people of God or the state in which I was born. While I acknowledge that my first duty is to God, I also acknowledge that my allegiance and duty to my country and to my State is paramount over all earthly affairs. I wish to say that my duty to God, my love for Him, does not conflict with my love for and duty to my country. It does not conflict with the love I have for the brethren here; nor with the love that is in my heart for the people of God. It only gives me greater power, strength, and a desire to love all mankind. I have no desire in my heart other than to do the will of God, keep His commandments, uphold, and sustain my country and her institutions. 

My brethren and sisters, it seems to me that this is a time when we should place our homes in order. We cannot, by public speaking, always reach the boys and girls. Those who preach and teach in the Sunday School, in the wards and stakes, or even at the general conferences, reach but a limited number of them; and I plead with you, you fathers and mothers who are here, to watch closely the children God has given you. Commence at home and be yourselves their instructors. You have a power over your children for good, I hope. I assure you that if you do not teach your children properly yourselves, others will teach them, and more than likely it will be by an influence that will bring sorrow to them and disgrace to you. 

In the early history o"f the Church, when it had been organized scarcely two years, God gave a revelation to His prophet Joseph Smith, to which I desire to call special attention. It was given to the Latter-day Saints, and is commonly known as the Word of Wisdom. It has been referred to here by Brothers Lyman and Clawson, and I wish to add some comments on the same subject. It is a simple law, revealed for the temporal welfare of the people, given for the weakest as well as the strongest of God's children. I want to read it to the people here today, and then perhaps submit some remarks. It is found in Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"A Word of Wisdom for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and Church; and also the saints in Zion. To be sent greeting 

— not by commandment or constraintbut by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order ancE will of God in the temporal salvation; of all saints in the last days. 

"Given for a principle with promise,, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints. 

"Behold verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in thehearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this \vord of wisdom by revelation. 

"That inasmuch as any man drinketli wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before Him. 

"And behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of thevine, of your own make. 

"And again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

"And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

"And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

"And again, verily I say unto you, alt' wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. 

"Every herb in the season thereof , and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

"Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used' sparingly. 

"And it is pleasing unto me that thcy~ should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

"All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man, but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and for wild animals that run or creep on the earth. 

"And these hath God made for theuse of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

"All grain is good for the food of man, as also the fruit of the vine, that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground. 

"Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, .and rye for the fowls and for swine, .and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain. 

"And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow in their bones. 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; 

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall nass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.
