Second Overflow
07 10 1906



ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

My dear friends and brethren : I have a very earnest desire that I wish to express, that is that I may have the aid of your faith and prayers, and your kindly attention, to assist me in what I shall say this afternoon. I deem it a high honor, and a great privilege, to stand before you and see the goodly company, the large numbers that have assembled at this meeting of the conference, to hear the word of the Lord, and I trust that the speakers this afternoon will not disappoint you. The beautiful sacred song to which we have just listened is very inspiring, and touches a tender chord in my heart. It is of a character that draws our thoughts and hearts to our Heavenly Father, and leads us to think of him and unite in His praise in song and prayer, and will probably influence the utterances of those who speak unto us. A song of that character is a very good beginning, it opens the mind to sacred thoughts. 

I will read a short revelation from the Doctrine and Covenants, found in section No. 4. This revelation was given in Susquehannah County, Pennsylvania, February, 1829, the year before the organization of the Church. The Lord said to the Prophet and Seer, Joseph Smith : 

"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; therefore, O ve that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; therefore, if ye have desires to serve God, ye are called to the work , for behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualifv him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Amen." 

Such was the revelation given to the Prophet in the early history of  Church. Before its organization the Lord proclaimed unto him that He was about to do a marvelous work and a wonder, and that revelation has been emphasized and we are seeing the fulfillment thereof in our day, although the fulfillment began and our fathers saw it in the early days of the Church. The marvel among observing men and women at that time was that a poor farmer's boy, unlettered, unsophisticated, unlearned, could produce any wonderful impression upon the people among whom he dwelt, and upon others farther from his home. Such was the spirit of his message that it drew around him men like Brigham Young, the great Prophet-pioneer of this mountain region, whose inspiration and energy made it possible for the Saints to make homes here where they have been prospered and blessed. Such men also us the brothers of Brigham Young, together with Heber C. Kimball, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, and others of the Twelve who constituted the first organization of that quorum. Those stalwart men who remained true to the Prophet, to the Church, and to their convictions. Those leaders, and the hundreds and thousands of others that have followed in the same belief, under the same inspiration, have testified that the Lord has set His hand to bring to pass a marvelous work and a wonder. When we consider that, notwithstanding the opposition that was arrayed against this little handful of people, the Lord fulfilled this promise through them. In that day, a few years after the organization of the Church, in the early history of Kirtland, where the Church was organized, there was a very small gathering of Latter-day Saints. They were in poverty and in want, compelled constantly to stand in defense of their rights, not only of their rights, but also their lives,to maintain the possibility of living and testifying to the truth. Despite all the adverse circumstances that our pioneer fathers had to meet, the work that the Lord decreed should come to pass, that should be a marvel and a wonder to the world, has indeed been a success; it has been established by the power of the Lord, through His faithful messengers and servants. When the Latter-day Saints, in their poverty and limited numbers, assumed to build a temple in the town of Kirtland, and dedicated that house to the Lord, and when it was declared by revelation that the Temple was accepted by Him, then there was more astonishment among those who were opposed to this work. The bitterness of their hatred increased as the work grew, and as it was demonstrated that the power of the Lord was with His Prophet and with those who stood shoulder to shoulder with him. But the "marvelous work and a wonder" could not be confined to the little town of Kirtland; it must have greater breadth and greater opportunities for its development, so the immigration or the movement into the State of Missouri was begun. The Lord designated a portion of that land to be the great central stake of Zion, where a Temple should be erected, which will have the glory of His presence resting upon it as a cloud by day, and a pillar of fire by night. But the time was not yet for the fulfillment of this grand purpose and promise, greater scope was still needed for the development of this marvelous  and wonder that the Lord was going to establish, so the Saints began to gather in the State of Illinois. After a while, the prejudices of the people of Illinois became too great. The surroundings there were not propitious for the spread of truth and the gathering of Israel. After the martyrdom of the Prophets Joseph and Hyrum, the Lord inspired Brigham Young, and those who stood faithful with him, to lead the people out from Nauvoo. This exodus was a fulfillment of a prediction made by the Prophet Joseph Smith about two years before his martyrdom, wherewherein he declared that the Saints would gather in the midst of the Rocky Mountains and become great and mighty there. So Brigham Young led the people into these valleys; and we have "grown some" since coming here. 

I appeal to you today to say if you have not witnessed a growth and development here that has fulfilled in a great degree the prediction and word of the Lord that was given to the Prophet in 1829. The wonderful part of it is, to those who do not see as we do, from a religious standpoint, that the work has prospered, that it has grown and strengthened notwithstanding the opposition that has always been brought to bear upon it, I will not say by our enemies, but by those who have misunderstood us, by those who have not comprehended the mission of the Church, and have not believed in the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith, or of those brethren who have stood at the head of the Church since his martyrdom. Those people who, in their ignorance, have lifted their arms and their voices against the Latter-day Saints have not understood our mission; nor the purposes of the Lord, for He declared that He would bring to pass this marvelous work and wonder. He also declared to the Prophet Joseph that this Church that He was about to establish should never again be taken from the earth, but that Apostles, Evangelists, and Teachers should continue their pleading with the people in the nations of the earth, asking them to forsake their sinful ways, arrive at a knowledge of 'the truth, and come to the gathering places of the Saints who were appointed to establish this marvelous work and wonder in the land of Zion. Today, my brothers and sisters, we see the grand results of the gathering, the building of homes and the organization of wards and stakes of Zion throughout this inter-mountain region, combining the wealth and spirit and power of a united people to bring .to pass the purposes of the Almighty in establishing His work in the latter days. 

I am reminded now of the wonderful prosperity that is attending this people, both financially and in other respects. Let me express my views as to their conditions, spiritually as well as temporally. I never have known the people to be so united, so strong, so firm in the faith as they are today. I never have known the membership of the Church numerically so high in unity, power and strength, and the hearts of the people so willing to receive the teachings of their leaders. I know there is a decided advancement over and above other years along the line of faith, diligence and good works. A few years ago, President Lorenzo Snow called a few of his brethren to go on a journey with  to St. George, and there the Lord showed to him, as he afterwards declared in our conferences, the reason for the journey. He said that the mission he was to perform among the people was to call them to repentance, and remind them of the duty that they owed to God in regard to tithes and offerings. These visits were continued throughout all the stakes of Zion, and the spirit of that mission and calling that rested upon the President of the Church was widespread; it had the effect to bring  the people to a remembrance of an almost forgotten duty. The promise was made to the Saints that if they would respond to the call, earnestly and sincerely, that the windows of heaven would be opened, as predicted by Malachi, and there would hardly be found room to contain the blessings that the Lord would shower upon His people through their obedience to this commandment. Now we see the effects of that preaching and the inspiration which President Snow had. It has continued from that time to the present, and the people are more faithful in the line of this and other sacred duties than I have ever known them before; the results are apparent everywhere. The windows of- heaven have indeed been opened. From one end of the land to the other the cry comes, We cannot find men to harvest our grain and cereals, to put into our granaries and places of storage the bounties of earth that the Lord has showered upon us; the blessings of heaven and of earth are indeed ours. I believe we are advancing on spiritual lines, and there is a disposition to serve the Lord more faithfully than ever before. This is gratifying to me. When I see these great gatherings I want to say to my brethren and sisters, let us rejoice in the blessings we have received, in the testimonies that we have in our hearts. Let us not exult; in the very humility of our souls let us rejoice that we have a testimony of the truth. 

I feel that we are dependent upon the mercies of our Father, and upon the blessings that the Lord will bestow upon us only through our faithfulness and humility, and our trust in Him. 

In the 107th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, I will read a few words that may impress upon you exactly what I mean : 

"Verily I say unto you, concerning your brethren who have been afflicted and persecuted and cast out from the land of their inheritance, I, the Lord, have suffered the affliction to come upon them, wherewith they have been afflicted, in consequence of their transgression." 

Now the Lord further declared, in section 119, in regard to the law of tithing, and in regard to other laws, that "If my people will keep my law and keep my commandments, this shall be a land of Zion unto them always; but if they keep not my law, and disobey my commands," then the other conditions would follow, and it will not be a land of Zion unto His people. Now, let us rejoice in the truth which has made us free, that we have had all doubts dispelled in regard to the truth of the Gospel, and in regard to the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of those who preside over us today. Let us realize that through the blessings and mercy of our Father, we are permitted to have a testimony that this is indeed the work of the Lord, and that we are engaged in buildin<y up and establishing His Church. 

In the year 1887 a great Jubilee was held in old England, the British kingdom, on the 50th anniversary of the crowning of Queen Victoria. In that wonderful gathering history says that the chiefs of all the colonies, and the dukes, and lords, and nobles from every part of the British empire were present, and kings and rulers from other countries were also present, and great was the display of joy, rejoicing, and exultation by the people. The prosperity of that nation, I believe, is in part due to the fact of the British people being, largely descendants of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; they are of Israel. Heber C. Kimball, in 1840, lifted up his hands on the streets of Manchester, when Queen Victoria was passing, and asked the blessings of heaven upon her, and upon her people. I am satisfied that from that time the spirit of faith in the Gospel began to increase in that nation. We have gathered strong representatives of Israel from Great Britain, equally as strong, and in greater numbers, than from any other nation. They are of Ephraim, and have accepted the Gospel and have been highly favored of the Lord. And so in the Scandinavian nations and missions abroad, where the Elders have gained a foothold, this Gospel is being preached and the leaven of it is being felt among scattered Israel everywhere. Israel is thus being gathered by the efforts of our humble Elders, who go abroad to the nations, taking their lives in their hands, sacrificing their time and giving the ability of their young manhood to disseminate the principles of the Gospel. While this is going on, this, marvelous work and wonder is being established in the land. We humbly rejoice, and honor our Father and God, and the Priesthood, and love those who preside over us, unite in the faith, and assist to spread the Gospel in every way possible. We are indeed a prosperous people, and have become the wonder of the world, because we exist and increase in power and strength, notwithstanding the world is arrayed against us. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice today. I ask the blessing of the Lord to be upon you, that we may rely upon the promises of the Lord, in the future as in the past. When you go from this conference, may you - go in peace, rejoicing, and may no accident befall you on the way. May the choicest blessings of heaven always be with you, is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

My brethren and sisters, the subject that I shall touch upon will perhaps be unique in its nature, and may differ somewhat from the principles touched upon by the other speakers, and yet it will be a part of the great whole, and I think you will be pleased to be reminded of one of the many little duties that devolves upon every individual in the Church. 

We have been called to occupy different positions in the Church and appointed to labor in different callings; but if we only do that which the Lord wants us to do, and go to with all our heart, mind and strength, the Lord will be pleased with us and our efforts, and bless us accordingly. It is so with the Twelve Apostles, whose duty it is to preach the Gospel in all the ; it is so with the Seventies who are assistants to the Twelve. And the same can be said of the High Priests and other officers who preside at home, and those who are engaged in other labors. We all work for the upbuilding of Zion. 

Your humble servant has for many years been engaged in record-making — in culling from the old records and gathering from original sources the history of this people. I hold in my hand a copy of a little work, entitled the Pearl of Great Price,which among other things, contains the Book of Abraham. In that book I find it recorded that Abraham was in possession of certain records, and that by the perusal of these records he learned that he was entitled to the Holy Priesthood. With this understanding he sought diligently the God of his fathers, so that he might be ordained to that Priesthood. And he did not seek in vain, because Abraham was a righteous man, and the Lord was pleased to take him away from his father's country (where the people, including his own kindred, had sunk into idolatry) and make him a stranger in a land that afterwards became the inheritance of his descendants. This item of history is one of the first we have on record in regard to the Holy Priesthood. Abraham found from the record in his possession that he was entitled to that priesthood which had been given to the earth through Father Adam, and which had come down in a direct line from the father of all mankind to Abraham's own day, and Abraham was entitled to receive it, and he did receive it, as we find recorded. 

According to a revelation contained in the Book of Doctrine and 

Covenants, the Lord, in speaking of the Patriarchial Priesthood, says : 

"This order was instituted in the days of Adam and came down by lineage in the following manner : 

"From Adam to Seth, who was ordained by Adam at the age of 69 years, and was blessed by him three years previous to his (Adam's) death, and received the promise of God by his father, that his posterity should be the chosen of the Lord, and that they should be preserved unto the end of the earth, 

"Because he (Seth )was a perfect man, and his likeness was the express likeness of his father's, insomuch that he seemed to be like unto his father in all things, and could be distinguished from him only by his age. 

"Enos was ordained at the age of 134 years and four months, by the hand of Adam. 

"God called upon Cainan in the wilderness, in the fortieth year of his age, and he met Adam in journeying to the place Shedolamak. He was 87 years old when he received his ordination. 

"Mahalaleel was 496 years and seven days old when he was ordained by the hand of Adam, who also blessed him. 

"Jared was 200 years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam, who also blessed him. 

"Enoch was 25 years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam, and he was 65 and Adam blessed him. 

"And he saw the Lord, and he walked with him, and was before his face continually; and he walked with God 365 years, making him 430 years old when he was translated. 

"Methuselah was 100 years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam. 

"Lamech was 32 years old when he was ordained under the hand of Seth. 

"Noah was 10 years old when he was ordained under the hand of Methuselah."— (Doc. & Cov., 106 : 41-52.) 

Shem, the son of Noah, was cotemporary with Abraham; hence, the ordination of Abraham to the Priesthood that his fathers held could easily take place, according to the order which had been ordained by God from the beginning. 

By way of further illustration I will refer you to another item of record. I find in the history of the Jews, as recorded in the Bible, a passage that I desire to read; for I would like to make a deep and lasting impression upon you in regard to the importance of keeping records. Here is a brief history of the return of the children of Israel from the Babylonian captivity. It describes how and when they returned, and how many there were in each tribe or family who came back to their homes from which they had been absent for seventy years. But there were some of them, who, on their return, found themselves in a peculiar dilemma, and if you will listen to this — the 2nd chapter of Ezra, the 61st and 62nd verses — you will understand what that dilemma was : 

"And of the children of the Priests; the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai (which took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai, and was called after their name) : These sought their register among those who were recorded by genealogy, but they were not found; therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood." 

You will find the same statement in the 7th chapter of Nehemiah, 63rd and 64th verses. 

I now refer you to the 128th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, paragraph 8. There you will find a rather extraordinary statement in a modern revelation, or rather in a communication that was sent to the Saints in Nauvoo, written by the Prophet Joseph Smith, who gives a new interpretation of the loosing and the binding power. After quoting the words, "Whatsoever you bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven," he says, "or in other words, taking a different view of the translation, whatsoever you record on earth, shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth, shall not be recorded in heaven." 

My brethren and sisters, I would like to impress your minds with this fact : Records have been kept by and histories have been written of the people of God in all the dispensations that have ever been opened on the earth, and we, like the saints of former dispensations, need to keep records, so that we, like them, may be able to prove the genealogy of our Priesthood, and that we are members of the Church of Christ. It is required of us as a duty that we do this. 

It is true what President Seymour B. Younp- said in reference to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the founder of the work of God in these last days that everything we possess today to rejoice in we have attained through Joseph Smith; the Gospel in its purity was restored to him, and the Priesthood which enables men to act in the name of Christ was given to him first; then others were called by the Lord through him, and in that manner, they obtained the Priesthood also. But it was all done through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. Many years have already passed away since that Priesthood was thus restored. It is true that we do not have to go back many generations, like the Roman Catholic church, which endeavors to prove its right to the Priesthood that Peter possesed, through the lineage of some 273 Bishops and Popes. For we know something about the great "falling away, "and we know, too, that the Priesthood was taken away  the earth and restored again in these last days, which restoration took place over seventy-seven years ago. But all the Latter-day Saints who hold that Priesthood today have received it, in consequence of the fact that it was restored by heavenly messengers to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1829. 

We have no power in and of ourselves to officiate in the ordinances of the House of God; we have no right to baptize; we have no right to lay on hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost; we can not make an officer in the Church of any description, be it Deacon or Teacher, Priest or Elder, Seventy or High Priest, or Apostle, except by virtue of that authority given to this Church through Joseph Smith. Therefore, I want to say this : We desire all men and all women who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints to place themselves in such a condition that they can prove by records that they are members of the Church; and those who hold the Holy Priesthood should be able to prove how and when that Priesthood was conferred upon them. This may to some seem a simple matter, but it is really of great importance. It has been agitated in your midst for the last sixteen years, at least, that documentary evidence is required of every man who claims to hold a portion of the Holy Priesthood, and of every member who claims to have been baptized by divine authority. They should -orove by records that they are properly and legally called and ordained. W e expect, therefore, that every family in the Church will keep a record, in which such entries will be made, that every male member, who is ordained, can  his Priesthood the same as Abraham of old did, and that every one who has been blessed as a child, or who has been baptized and confirmed, can prove that fact by documentary evidence. 

In order to guide you in this matter, I will give you an example of how the Priesthood we hold should be traced to its source. Here is Seymour B. Young, who has just addressed this meeting; he ranks now as the first Seventy in the Church, he being the senior President of all the Seventies. He is universally known by the Saints throughout the Stakes of Zion, but we have a right to know how Brother Young became possessed of the Priesthood, which makes him what he is today. I could as well illustrate my point with some other man, but I happen to know the facts in this particular case, and I will quote from Church Chronology, a work that was compiled some years ago by your humble servant. We want to prove that Seymour B. Young is a Seventy, and that he has a right to administer in the calling pertaining to that particular office in the Priesthood; and if we can prove that he has a legitimate right to his present position, we can, on the same principle, prove that every other Elder in the Church is a legitimate officer, provided the necessary records are at hand. I find it recorded here that Brother Seymour B. Young was ordained a Seventy Feb. 18, 1857, by Edmund Ellsworth, who was ordained a Seventy Mar. 8, 1843, by Joseph Young, who was ordained a Seventy Feb. 28. 1835, bv Joseph Smith the Prophet, who was ordained an Apostle in June, 1829, by Peter, James and John, who were ordained by the Savior Himself. 

Whenever we perform an official act in this Church, we do it in the name of Jesus Christ, and by virtue of the Holy Priesthood. When we baptize anybody, we use these words : "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost;" and in laying on hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, we also refer to the Priesthood we hold, and perform the ordinance in the name of Jesus Christ. We do not refer to our own power, because we have no power as human beings to confer heavenly gifts or blessings of any kind upon anybody, but in the name of Jesus Christ and by virtue of the Holy Priesthood that has been conferred upon us we go out into all the world to preach the Gospel to every creature, like the servants of God did in ancient days. We can baptize people for the remission of their sins, if we possess the priesthood, which is the power or authority of God. The Lord recognizes the act, because He recognizes His own authority, and thus sins are forgiven by baptism. By placing hands upon the heads of those who have been baptized, we can confer upon them the Holy Ghost, because we do it in the name of Jesus Christ, and because we have the Priesthood. In this manner the Holy Ghost has been conferred in thousands and tens of thousands of instances by the Elders of this Church. In fact, every man and woman who has been baptized into this Church has had hands laid upon him or her for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and that is how they became members of the Church. It must be plain then to all Saints, that these ordinances are of the greatest importance to every individual member of the Church, and I. trust that hereafter a record will be kept in every family in which these ordinances will be properly recorded. Do not rely upon the public records alone, for they are sometimes destroyed or lost, but keep your own records. 

To the heads of families who have children that are being blessed, baptized, confirmed and ordained to the different grades and offices of the Priesthood, let me say: As long as your sons and daughters are members of your households, keep their records, for as a rule they do not, young and inexperienced as they are, understand the importance of keeping their own records. Enter upon your family records when and by whom blessings and ordinations are conferred upon any and all members of your households, so that when your boys and girls leave the parental roof, to establish families of their own, you can give them this important data. Then they will be able to prove, wherever they go, how and when they became members of the Church of Christ, or were blessed with a portion of the Holy Priesthood. 

My time is nearlv spent, and I do not want to exceed it, as there are still other speakers to be heard from in this meeting. I had in my mind, when I arose to address you, that I wanted to impress upon you the necessity of record-keeping and this I have now endeavored to do. I have traveled in all the Stakes of Zion. I have visited nearly all the settlements of the saints twice, and some of them many times, to obtain historical data, f have also visited the different missionary fields throughout the world, some of them several times, in the inter of Church Records, and I am pleased to say here that we are getting the public records in a pretty good shape. The records of the Church are being kept better now than they ever were before in the history of this people; and yet these public records are not sufficient for the individual member. We want to make you all historians. We desire that everyone who has a family — every head of a family — should see to it that some record is being kept in the family, independent and aside from the public records. 

Had I time to give you more reasons for my earnest injunctions, I could give you a great many such. There are indeed numerous reasons why you should keep these records, but I do not think it is necessary for me to reiterate them here, for I feel impressed that you do not doubt the correctness of my counsel. In conclusion, let me once more remind you of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith : "Whatsoever you record on earth, shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven." If you will keep records according to my counsel, brethren and sisters, you will at some future day be well pleased with your actions. You will then always be able to establish your fenealogy, and when you move from one place to another and become members of some other Ward or branch of the Church, you can always present a truthful and acceptable record, and no question can then arise about the validity of your priesthood or the validity of your membership in the Church, because you carry your own records or documentary evidence with you. Amen. <J9 

The Temple choir sang: "There is sunshine in my soul today." 

BISHOP ORRIN P. MILLER. 

It is with peculiar feelings, my brethren and sisters, I arise to address you for a few minutes this afternoon. It is quite a surprise to me, because I am unaccustomed to addressing such large congregations as this. The labor in the Presiding Bishop's office is entirely of a temporal character, and my mind is so much engrossed in the temporal affairs of the kingdom that it is a hard matter for me to speak about spiritual matters. We receive considerable mail every day in the week, and in all this correspondence we very seldom get a letter that is of a spiritual character. Once in a while we receive through the mail something contributed in the way of charity, or a request for assistance in behalf of those who are afflicted, and of course this naturally touches our heart a little, and causes us to feel charitable, and our sympathies go out toward those who are in distress. If it were not for these letters coming occasionally, I am afraid we might have but very little of the spiritual nature in ns. 

I desire to report to you this afternoon that, from a financial point of view, I don't think the Church was ever in so prosperous a condition as it is today; and I don't believe there was ever a time in the history of the Church when the Latter-day Saints were more faithful in the observance of the principles of the Gospel, or when they had more faith than they are manifesting today. This is shown by their willing obedience to the law of tith, which provides the President of the Church with the revenue whereby he can meet the demands that are made upon him from time to time in establishing missions abroad in the earth, lengthening the cords of Zion, and strengthening her stakes. It gives me great pleasure and satisfaction, to know that the people have faith in the Lord, because He has made great promises unto us in regard to this one particular law. He says, "Prove me and see if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out upon you a blessing that you are unable to contain." And has not this been realized this season, my brethren and sisters ? The windows of heaven have been opened, and the beautiful rains have made the land teem with plenty, bountiful harvests are seen on every hand, in fact hundreds of bushels of fruit that the people have been unable to market have ripened and fallen off the trees. There has been an abundance of grain, and plenty of food in' the land for everybody. 

While listening to the remarks of our brethren during this conference, my mind has rested upon a revelation found in the Doctrine and Covenants, and I will read a portion of it : 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity toward all men and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy, thoughts unceasingly. Then shall thy confidence wax strong in the precious things of God and the doctrine of the priesthood" — that priesthood which has been portrayed to us bv Elder Jenson this afternoon — "The doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven." Now you all know how the dews from heaven come, they come gentGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the stillness of the night, they come when we least expect them sometimes when we are asleep and do not know it; so it is with "the doctrines of the priesthood." "The Holy Ghost, the Comforter, shall be thy constant companion, thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." 

Is not this a glorious promise made unto us in these latter days, and has not the doctrine of the priesthood, the spirit of it, been distilled on our brethren throughout all this conference? They have been filled with the Holy Ghost, and spoke as if they were filled with inspirational fire. 

It has been my privilege, my brethren and sisters to be born in these valleys, and I have attended the general conferences of the Church from my earliest childhood as far back as I can remember, but I cannot recall an instance when the Holv Ghost has been more manifest in the discourses of our brethren than during this conference. May we orofit by what we have heard, and be imbued with this Spirit; may it enter into our souls and become part of us, that when we go home we may be strengthened in our determination to do the will of the Father and keep His commandments, that we may be strong and mighty in the defense of Israel, is my orayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD W. YOUNG. 

(President of Ensign Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, I sincerely pray that the spirit that has  far characterized this meeting, as well as the other meetings of this glorious conference, may attend me during the few minutes that I shall address you. 

There has been considerable said during the sessions of this conference pertaining to the belief of the Latter-day Saints in what has been called the "oerfect law of liberty." Several of the Apostles have referred to our belief in this principle. Those of us who had the privilege of hearing Apostle Whitney this morning listened to a discourse replete with instances and quotations from the Scriptures, the ancient Scriptures and those which originated in this day, showing that the Latter-day Saints, while claiming the right to worship God as they may choose, concede to all other men the same privilege, and equal right. We have also heard that charity and long-suffering are characteristics of the Gospel. 

With reference to the law of liberty, Apostle Whitney pointed out that in the very beginning, that is in the Councils of Heaven, which considered the formation of this world and the plan of salvation which has been established here, two propositions were made, one advocated the compelling of people to be saved, the taking away from them of their free agency — which plan was rejected. The second, or alternative plan proposed, and which prevailed, as we learn from the revelations God has given in this day, involved the absolute free agency of every son and daughter of God that should be born upon the earth. That belief, I venture to say, is the very cornerstone of the Gospel we have received. We know, also, it has been taught in this day that when Christ comes, and the 101  shall be established, all men shall even then have the right to worship as they see fit. 

Christ taught that we should be charitable and not be influenced by a spirit of persecution. We are reminded that our Savior, in the throes of expiration, prayed God that His enemies might be forgiven, upon the plea that they did not know what they were doing. Now these, in very brief outline, are some doctrines of the Church pertaining to very important subjects. 

We believe in extending to all people the rights of conscience to the fullest extent. We believe that the Declaration of Independence was inspired of God, in declaring that all men have the right to establish their own governments along such lines as they may see fit. These are likewise doctrines of the Church. It is interesting to turn for a moment to consider what has heen the practice and history of the Church, with reference to these vital prooositions. 

We have been sufferers, it is true, all the days of our lives from slander and persecution. I need not point out to this congregation, for you are familiar with the fact, that in the very inception of the work, the Prophet Joseph Smith was discouraged, slandered, and waylaid; and that, soon after the Church was organized, mobs endeavored to prevent the people from being baptized. I need not remind you that soon after the Church was established in Kirtland, Ohio, some of our Elders were tarred and feathered, and that public sentiment was strong against the people. You are also familiar with the fact that, when our people went to Jackson County, Missouri, under charges that were baseless, they were driv out, and made to sacrifice their property, both real and personal. I may say here, that perhaps the chief charge made against our people at that time was that they were abolitionists, that they did not believe in the enforced slavery of the negro race; and it was largely upon that ground our people were compelled to suffer. When they moved into Clay, Daviess, Caldwell and some other counties in Missouri, there was a land agitation. Their new neighbors, taking courage from the example of their brethren over in Jackson county, combined in their selfishness and demanded that our people should leave, and sacrifice again their real property and personal belongings. And you will remember that the same charges as before were made against them. You will recall that a governor, of infamous memory, made an order which is recorded in the archives of the history of that state, that the "Mormons" should at once leave the State or be exterminated, and this without any offense on their part against God or man. When our people went over into the State of Illinois, they were at first received with open arms, but, owing to the fact that they were united — I make this assertion on the authority of a statement of Governor Ford, in his history of the State of Illinois, ascribing the difficulties of the Mormon Church in that state, as well as in other states, to their unity. Owing to the fact that, contrary to the custom of the various churches of the day, our people were united in various other respects, in which they had a perfect right to unite, they were again driven from their homes and compelled to sacrifice their property. Charges were made against our people that they were thieves, that they were counterfeiters, together with other charges of a similar false character. 

It was my pleasure a few months since to have a conversation with Mr. Cooper of Dubuque, Iowa, one of the manufacturers of the famous Cooper wagons, in which he stated that, on the very day the Prophets Joseph and Hyrum were martyred, he, being then a deck hand on a Mississippi steamer, on arriving at the wharf at Nauvoo with his companions, were afraid of their lives, by reason of what had happened and the rumors afloat. We spoke of those Nauvoo days, and I found he was very conversant with conditions on the Mississippi River at that time, as he has been since, and his testimony to me was that those charges against the morality and uprightness of the Mormon people were totally false, that, in fact, the people were driven out of that State by reason of religious intolerance. In like fashion, after coming here, untruthful charges were made, resulting in repressive laws being formulated against us. At one time, we were practically deprived of the right of trial by jury. Congress, led by aspersions falsely made against our characters, spurred by malicious statements that came from here, enacted a law that the district clerk and the probate judge should have the selection of all jurors, in violation of the right of jury trial, as it is known among the Anglo-Saxon race, under conditions as they existed here. There came an army against us, sent out as a result of lying statements made by a mail contractor, who had an axe to grind; absolutely without any justification for such action by the gov. And so, throughout the whole breadth and length of our history, we have been the objects of bitter slander, misrepresentation, vile abuse, and persecution to a large extent. 

And have we returned this character of treatment? I would ask anyone to point to any law passed in the legislative history of this people and this state wherein we have returned injustice for injustice, or persecution for persecution. Away back in the early days of the history of this Territory when our people were in the majority, when there were very few non-"Mormons," in fact, when we made all the laws, and the whole public sentiment was our way, there was not passed, and there is not to be found in the statutes of the Territory of Utah, one law that in any way discriminated against those who were not of our faith and in favor of our co-religionists. There has never been any intolerance toward such as were not of our faith or belief. So far as religion is concerned, they have even been encouraged; they have at least been treated with perfect toleration; and their schools have not been molested. It is possible that occasionally windows of their churches have been broken, by mischievous urchins, but I doubt if this has happened more frequently than with the meetinghouses of our own people. Outside of such trivialities as this, non"Mormons" have been treated with a true spirit of charity. So far as political rights are concerned, consider those who in olden days made fierce attacks against us, with vituperation and determination, some of them unscrupulously — since the division upon party lines was made, what has been the treatment of 103  men? They have been given many of the chief political positions within the gift of the "Mormon" people. Thus have we returned good for evil; and I desire to say that, in the whole line of our ministrations, politically, morally, and every other way, we have accorded those not of our faith fair, just and square treatment. We do believe, then, my brothers and sisters, in the perfect law of liberty, and our lives prove it. 

We demand for ourselves the right to worship God as we see fit, as guaranteed by the Constitution. This sentiment is a fundamental characteristic of Mormonism; and it is to our credit and honor that we have always been willing to extend this privilege to others, and defend their right thereto, though very often we have been made the objects of intolerance and vituperation. 

God grant that we may continue true to the truth, true to the glorious principles we have espoused. We do not contemplate yielding or relinquishing our religious belief, for, thank God, there is room under the broad aegis of the American Flag to worship as we see fit, and we ought to be and are inspired with a disposition to concede to all others, the God-given privilege of worshiping as they see fit. God bless us. Amen. 

Sister Edith Grant and the choir sang, "Sometime we'll understand." 

ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) Brethren and sisters, the joy that I have felt in the teaching of my brethren in this conference is be my ability to express. I came down from the Northwestern States mission on purpose to be fed with the bread of life, to have my faith encouraged, built up and strengthened, and to hear the Prophet of the Lord and his counselors, and the Apostles that the Lord has chosen, that I may feel the influence of the spirit that is upon them. How thankful I am that I am accounted worthy to be numbered among this people. Could there be any grief so great as that which would come to us if we knew that we should be cast away from the associations of this people, either in time or eternity? I feel like the disciples of the Lord did when He said unto them, "Will ye leave me also," and they replied, "Lord, if we leave Thee, where shall we go?" I believe that God has blessed us in this day, in mellowing our hearts and preparing our souls for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, more than He has blessed any other people that ever lived upon the face of the earth. He has poured down knowledge upon us, such as the world has never seen, except the very few Prophets He raised up throughout the ages. Let us, then, my brethren and sisters, hold fast to that which God has entrusted to us. How shall we answer to the Lord if we are unfaithful to the doctrines, principles and covenants that we have made and have learned from God? 

Repentance of sins, and forsaking weaknesses, has been a theme of the servants of God at this conference. It has rested upon me of late that I need to repent of the weaknesses and follies of which I am guilty, that I need to command my family after me, and to plead with them, that when I set them a GENERAL CONFERENCE.  example they should follow in my footsteps, and cease to fritter away the great opportunities of salvation that God has given them in this day. 

I believe in the doctrine that has been proclaimed from this stand this afternoon, that man has the greatest gift and blessing in having the right to be an agent unto himself; that he must stand upon . the merits and worthiness of his own character, and not lean upon anybody else. We believe that free agency was given to man in the beginning, and that .all the spirits that God created had their agency to do as they would in the spiritual world and in this world, wherever they are placed. We believe that there were righteous people, spirits, sons and daughters of God, that lived in accordance with the words of the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, in the world of spirits. We believe also that there were rebels among the children of the Lord in the world of spirits, and that because of their agency they made trouble in the eternal world, until the wickedness of Lucifer, the son of the morning, rendered it necessary that the heavens should be rid of him, and he was then cast out and hurled to the earth. The disciples in speaking to the Lord concerning the man who had been born blind, said : "Who did sin, this man or his parents, that he should be born blind?" If there had not been such a principle as free agency in the spirit world, it would have been a very foolish question on the part of the disciples of the Lord to ask, "did this man sin before he was born?" There could have been no sin if there was no agency. It is my belief that our Father's children, having been nurtured and taught  Him (through how many ages no one knows), the diligent and faithful, those who loved to hear His voice, and that took upon themselves to be subject and accept the teachings of their divine Father and of His beloved Son, were blessed of the Lord in being permitted to come to the earth. God made no mistake when He chose Abraham to be the great ancestor of Israel. He lived with the Lord, and the Lord beheld that he was one of the noblest and most splendid characters, and He chose him to be the father of Israel, to the increase of whose kingdom there should be no end; and in blessing He blessed him, and in multiplying He multiplied him. The blessing of Abraham has rested upon this people. They are His children, and have heard the voice of the Good Shepherd. They were born in different parts of the earth, and came through the loins of righteous men and women who had lived up to the best knowledge and wisdom they had. The Latter-day Saints are descendants of those great men. We believe that when their forefathers were taken by the Lord through the countries of Europe, Ephraim was stubborn and refused to proceed. By hundreds and thousands the tribe of Ephraim stayed, and through the providence of God were preserved, so that the blood of Ephraim is found among the countries of Europe, and on the islands of the sea, greatly predominating in England and the Scandinavian countries. When these children of Abraham, through Jacob's son Joseph, and Joseph's son Ephraim, heard the Gospel, it entered into their hearts; they loved it and they have embraced it, many of them. The Lord has favored us, and JU5  redemed us as far as we are pure in His sight, and lived the law of the Gospel. I know, my brethren and sisters that these things are true, and I know that the blessings of God rest upon His people; that the Gospel is here now for the last time, and the Prophets and Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ are here, and they shall stand. The machinations of the wicked shall fail, the hand of God shall be against them. In His own time we will triumph in the world by righteousness, and mercy, and the love of God that we have, and the love of His children that we exhibit. The names of our oppressors, and those who seek to bring destruction upon God's people, shall be remembered only for the infamies they have committed. "Mormonism" will be here a thousand years from now, when righteousness shall reign, but the wicked shall sleep in the dust until the time when the Lord will bring salvation to them. 

May the Lord bless us and strengthen us, that we may endure to the end, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. (President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I suppose we have all been taught to say, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven." For eighteen hundred years this prayer has been offered by those who have known something of the Gospel, by those who have read the teachings of our Master. If you comprehend the responsibility connected with receiving the Gospel, you realize that before  truth is established in the world, whether it be a religious, political or scientific truth, it is sure to run counter to some creed, custom or condition. It requires effort, study and sacrifice upon the part of those who are entrusted to make known any Godgiven truths to the world. The Jews sought after light. All Israel has been looking forward for ages, you may say, to the time when the Messiah would come, when the millenium would be ushered in, when the. kingdom of God would be established upon the earth, yet, when the Master came, and the attempt was made to introduce those principles which will tend to perfect the individual, and institute a social system to unite them as one, that would establish the perfect law of liberty, how few there were willing to enlist with Him and assist in the promulgation of those great truths, and how many were filled with envy and jealousy, determined to resist the Gospel, because they felt or, thought it run counter to those things already accepted, and to which they clung. How many schemes were resorted to in order to entrap the Son of God, get Him to commit Himself, or betray Himself in some way. How hard they sought to find occasion against Him. After the Pharisees had tried many times, they selected a party of Herodians. This was a party who clustered around Herod, and the center of their political faith was that no tribute should be paid other than to Israel, because in paying tribute to heathen nations it was, in a way.acknowledging the heathen gods and decreasing reverence for the God of Abraham, Isaac and GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Jacob. Hence they selected some of those Herodians to go to the Savior, because they thought He would imagine it was the most natural thing in the world for them to come to him and ask if they should pay tribute to Caesar, and they used nattering words, saying, We know that thou art true and carest for no man, tell us whether we should pay tribute unto Caesar or not. Thus they used smooth simulation to accomplish their purpose. But the Savior could see through their cunning intent, and He said: Give me a coin. And when He had looked at it He asked, Whose image and superscription is thereon? They said to Him, Caesar's." Then He said, Render to Caesar that which is Caesar's and unto God that which is God's. Some of them thought that this saying was a kind of subterfuge, used to put them off. But I do not believe that Jesus ever used subterfuge. I believe that in this is stated a great principle, that it is our duty to render to Caesar that which is Caesar's, and even more our duty to render to God that which is God's. I believe it is possible to be loyal to the governments that are established among men, and also be loyal to the Kingdom of Heaven. , 

There are two systems of government, or two powers by which men can be governed in the world; one is the power of force, the other is the power of love. One operates from without, the other governs from within. The one is seen operating through the civil power of the world, and the other should be manifest through the Church' and Kingdom of God. These two powers can be exer in the world without conflicting with each other. Whenever men are controlled from above, whenever their hearts beat loyally to Jesus Christ, and they feel to obey the commandments of God,whenever they give ear to His Holy Spirit, that Spirit changes their carnal nature into its divine character, and they exhibit kindness meekness, gentleness, longsuffering. charity and toleration that have been spoken of. They are lifted above mundane law. When all men are converted to the truth, and come in possession of the Holy Spirit,, and are actuated by it, and their souls are filled with that divine love which is an attribute of Deity, then force will be removed from the world, and bv the nower of love, and by it alone, can the kingdoms of the world be brokento pieces. 

The world has suffered much from priestcraft uniting with kingcraft, and people have become fearful of the combination. I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and all history will bear me out in the assertion that while men have suffered from priestcraft the world has never suffered from Priesthood. The world has received all its blessings, and its idea of liberty through the Holy Priesthood — the idea that all are born free and equal. You will remember that it was under the leadership of a Prophet of God under and bv virtue of the authority of the Holv Priesthood, that the first grand movement for liberty was instituted, that it was through Him it was conducted, and under His teachings that the first representative government in history was established. The 107  established by Moses are the greatest in the world today. The laws which we have received through him are the, foundation of the moral and the civil laws of today. I will call your attention to some of the economics of Moses. He gave instructions that when the children of Israel went and inhabited the land of Canaan that the land should be divided, not according to the serivces that any man had rendered in the army, not because of any position that he occupied, but that it should be divided according to the number in each tribe or family. Probably that is the only case in history of that kind. Even in" England, the land was divided to the warriors according to their service in the army, and according to their power and influence over the people, and for the very purpose of controlling those civil governments. So too in ancient Greece, the land was divided according to their services and their strength. But not so in Israel, for among them the land was divided according to the number in the respective families, and the laws were such that those lands would remain in the possession of each family, and could not be taken from them by chicanery or fraud. There was no such thing as the eternity clause in any deed that was written in Israel, which had to do with the lands of the people. And so too I could call your attention to the administration of just judgment by the Priesthood in this day and age of the world. Who has suffered from Priesthood? Those who have trusted the leaders in this Church, the men whom God has honored with authority from on hisrh,know that  the settlement of any lands that the Saints have occupied, in Missouri, Illinois, and in the settlement of these beautiful valleys, every effort was put forth, so far as the influence of President Young and those associated with him was concerned, that the land should be divided into small portions, that every man should receive according to the size of his family, according to his needs, and that no man should hold large tracts of land to keep others from  it. 

My brethren and sisters, and friends, I want to say, in conclusion, that I feel we ought to have confidence in the Holy Priesthood, and that we should abide by their counsels, and continue to trust them. I bear my testimony to you that I know the Gospel is true, that has been restored in this day and age. If we will be faithful to it we will secure hardiness in this world and eternal life in the world to come. I ask God's blessings to rest upon each and every one of us in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

I wish, in behalf of my brethren of the Apostles, and of President Smith and his counselors, to thank you for attendance at this session of the conference. We greatly appreciate the same, and say unto you, May God bless you in your labors. May He inspire all the people with the desire to keep His commandments. Mav He lead you by the inspiration of His Holy Spirit to understand the call of the True Shepherd, that you may not in any way, shape, or form be deceived or drawn away from the path of truth and righteousness by the sophistry of wicked men. We love all men, and our mission is to save souls, every one of the souls of the sons and daughters of our heavenly Father. It is also our mission to protect the Church and her interests in all the world. My prayer and hope, and desire is that God will give us the strength and determination to serve Him and walk in His ways. I pray you, my brethren and sisters, to not be discouraged. I testify to you, in the name of Jesus Christ, that God, the Father, is at the head of this work, and all will be well in Zion if we are true and loyal unto Him. 

Peace be in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, peace in your hearts, my brethren and sisters; and God grant that His blessings, the choicest blessings of heaven, and eternal life, which is the greatest gift of God, may come to you. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "God is My Song." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Horace H. Cummings. 


