Morning
07 10 1906




ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

It is an inspiring sight, my brethren and sisters, to face a congregation such as this. I rejoice with you, this morning, in assembling for worship. I am thankful and I am sure you all are, for the excellent weather with which we are favored. I think that is one thing that all classes of people in Salt Lake can unite in praising. Surely we can all agree that we are having fine conference weather. 

I rejoice in being connected with this great work, the work of the Lord. I was born of parents who belonged to this Church; I may say I was born in the Church; I have grown, so far as I have , in it in every way. I am, I hooe, a part of it; it is to me the choicest thing in life. I know that the Lord established this work, that He raised up the prophet Joseph Smith to lay the foundations of this great cause, an institution which is destined to work a revolution in the world, a revolution in the interests of peace and blessings, good order, good government, good citizenship, and all that will tend to the uplifting of humanity. That is the mission of "Mormonism." I rejoice to be connected with such a Church. True, it is small now in comparison, but it will ptow and continue to extend until it becomes world-wide in its effects. The effects are to be seen on every hand where the believing soul accepts and devotes itself to the work and the will of the Lord. 

The Latter-day Saints are much misunderstood in the world, and even at home. Our mission is a mission of love. The work that the Lord has inaugurated is one that will tend to make poverty become extinct in the world. All that men struggle for in socialism — that is, all that is best in what they call socialism — is to be found here, a perfect equality, the same ordinances, blessings, and gifts of the Gospel for rich and poor alike. Men and women are equal in it. It has a tendency, therefore, to make us a brotherhood, acknowledging, at all times, our common Father. We are — as the children of the world are — children of God. They are our brothers and sisters;  there is that spirit In Mormon ism which teaches us to love and to help them. When the Savior was on the cross, in the midst of His agony, He said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Saint Paul's sentiment was : "Alexander, the coppersmith, did me much evil; I hope the Lord will reward him according to his deeds." I like the Savior's sentiment the better, to return good for evil, and exalt our souls in the spirit of forgiveness, love and mercy. I know that there is in this religion that which makes for salvation in every respect, temporal as well as spiritual. 

There is a feeling of safety, of peace, in this community that I find nowhere else in the world. Not only do we who are Latter-day Saints find it so, but others who are not of us appreciate to some extent this feeling of security and safety. There is a greater respec: for law and order in this community than, I believe, there is among the same number of people anywhere else in the world; and a respect for the rights of men, not only for those who are members of our Church, but for every man and woman. I believe firmly that men who have large interests here, men who own railroads, mines, smelters, and other property of extensive and valuable character, they feel, and know to a very considerable extent, that their interests are more secure, and better safeguarded in this community of Latter-day Saints than the same would be anywhere else in the world today. There is not the danger of disorder among this peonle that there is elsewhere; not the likelihood of mob-law, nor the evils arising from strikes. This Church takes the position that every man  free, in the proper sense of the word; he is free to labor, and he ought to labor, of course, for "the idler," the Lord says, "shall not eat the bread of the laborer." Every man and woman, every boy and girl ought to be proud to labor. This Church and people declares that every man is free; lie can work or quit work, or he can go on strike if he chooses; he can join one association or another, ana he has the right to persuade others to join with him, if he can persuade them peaceably; but, when he undertakes to kill the man who wants to work, then there is a sentiment in this community which stepj in and says — and "Mormonism" teaches it — "Thus far shalt thou go and no farther. You must not interfere with the man who wants to work, even though you may not want to work vourself." 

We had an experience here a year or two ago, and it is to our credit that I recall it. I refer to the strike which occurred in the coal regions of eastern Utah. Through the influence and efforts of strong, good, and righteous men in this community, and to a very great extent through their efforts alone — I do not think I need to mince words — largely, I will say, throueh the efforts of the presiding officers of this Church, peace was maintained here, and anarchy was averted, while across the line, in the neighboring state of Colorado, there was a labor war carried on for two years, that all but wrecked the business interests of the people of that state. I say again that men who have made large investments here, (some of them, I regret to say, are using their money today to assail the very people who constitute this safeguard to their interests), feel and know that they are safer right here among the Latter-day Saints, than their money would be invested anywhere else in the world. You know this; every thinking man knows it. Because of the teachings of "Mormonism," this feeling will grow and increase among men who are not of our faith, and your good works in this direction will be known and appreciated. 

I wish we could get from those capitalists a reciprocity of like spirit. In settling that coal strike, the then governor of the State, Heber M. Wells, and those who aided him, with the assistance of moral force, righteously exercised by the Presidency of the Church, order was restored and maintained. The only return, that I ever heard of, that was made for this good work done in that connection by the people, was that the price of coal was raised 25 cents a ton. I wish that those who are in control of these large interests would manifest that they appreciate, a little bit, that which is done in their behalf. Perhaps I ought not to complain, and I do not complain, but I call your attention to the facts. 

I rejoice in the prosperity of our country and our Church. This part of the country, it would seem, is almost too prosperous; it is difficult to hire men anywhere to labor; there seems to be four or five opportunities to work where there is one man for the job. 

This Church, my brethren and sisters, is growing, and becoming a little better understood. Every day when the sun goes down, this work called "Mormonism" is a little expanded, a little greater, a little stronger than it was when the sun rose in the morning. It is improving every day; it does not take a back seat; it is developing,  increasing. The Elders are abroad in the world doing a good work; they are faithful, devoted, self-sacrificing young men, as you heard from President Smith at the ooening of our conference; they are a credit to you. Everywhere I find there is a call for more laborers in the missionary field; they need more. As you know, I had the privilege — the great privilege, as I esteem it — of traveling withPresident Smith on his trip to Europe, and everywhere we went there was the same cry, "We could use more young men, more Elders." I returned from that trip with this conviction strongly impressed on my soul, that the noblest work, the greatest and best work to which I could devote myself and my means — and my sons, if thev would listen to me — would be the preaching of this Gospel, the scattering of this seed, furthering in that way the interests of the cause of God, for is it not written that "he that will turn many to righteousness shall shine as the stars forever and ever." This missionary work certainly is one of the most important that we can be engaged in. 

I have returned impressed with the feeling that the Lord, having determined to call the attention of the world to His work, He will not fail; and if the people will not give heed unto Him, as the prophets of old have declared, they will have to hearken to the voice of "clouds, and fire, and vapors of smoke." Said the old prophet, speaking for the Lord, "They that will not hearken unto me shall hearken unto the whirlwind, unto the earthquake, clouds, and fire, and vapors of smoke." I am not pessimistic; on the contrary, I am naturally sanguine and optimistic, but I as that, just as sure as we are here, the Lord will not be mocked. Evidences of His displeasure will come upon the people. Probably you have wished sometimes that there might come upon your own sons and daughters who were wayward, who though not entirely evil, would not listen to your counsel concerning what you know is best for them; something- that would turn them from their waywardness, that would incline their hearts to the Lord, even though it brought suffering and sorrow upon them, for the time being. So also the great Father, in His kindness and mercy to His earthly children, will bring to pass those providences, whether it be by fire and cloud, and vapor of smoke, or by earthquakes, or by the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, by tornados, or other calamities of various descriptions,  — or what are seeming calamities, but which in reality may turn to be blessings. He will call attention to His Gospel, and will turn the hearts of the people, more and more, to this great work. I believe it will increase more rapidly from this time forward, in fact, I feel sure of that. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the truth, and the knowledge that God lives. I know that Joseph Smith was raised up a Prophet of the Lord to lay the foundations of this work, and that it is being carried on by the power of God. Never in the history of this Church was there a more united feeling than there is today among the members, a feeling that they will sustain their leaders, the First Presidency, the Apostles, the Seventies, and all the presiding authorities. There is more stability today in the souls of  Latter-day Saints the world over, than has been the case before in the history of the Church. I believe, from all the information I can get, that the people are as well satisfied, if not better satisfied — many of them, I will say, are better satisfied — with the administration of the affairs of the Church today than ever before in our history. We know these men whom the Lord has called to preside over the Church; we know their devotion, their self-sacrifice, and that their only aim, object and interest is to further the work of God. I sustain them, I believe you sustain them; and I propose, my brethren and sisters, that we continue to stand by them. God bless you, one and all, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

The Gospel a perfect plan of salvation, when its precepts are obeyed. — A perfect condition made possible in this life by obedience to Gospel laws.— Evil-doing denounced. 

I rejoice with you, my beloved brethren and sisters, in the privileges and blessings of this conference. I rejoice in seeing the multitude of Latter-day Saints gathered together this beautiful Sabbath morning, in conference capacity, to worship the Lord. While it is somewhat embarrassing to stand here, the object of the gaze of ten or twelve thousand people, I am pleased to have this opportunity, as it affords a means of introduction to the Latter-day Saints. 

During the past six months I have had the privilege of visiting eighteen stakes of Zion, and attending their quarterly conferences; some of those stakes I have visited a second time. I have thus formed the acquaintance of many valiant Latter-day Saints, and have learned somewhat of their faithfulness. I love the people as I learn to know their true character. It is my desire and hope that I may, in the near future, have the privilege of visiting the other stakes of Zion. I want to increase my acquaintances among the faithful Latter-day Saints, for I love the men and the women who worship God, and love the religion we have mutually embraced. I desire to know the Latter-day Saints better and more extensively than hitherto, and I wish the Latter-day Saints to know me. I desire to have their confidence, their prayers, and their support, so that if, by the help of the Lord, I may be able to give them some good counsel occasionally they will not hesitate to accept it. 

The Lord has very generously blessed us during the meetings of this conference; His Spirit has been poured out upon us in great abundance, in great richness and power; and those who have spoken have been led by Its influence. We have been edified, comforted and encouraged by what we have heard, and the Spirit of the Lord has impressed upon our minds and hearts the truths which have been spoken. We have also been edified by the thoughts which have arisen in our minds, as a result of what we have heard from those who have spoken under the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord. I firmly believe that one of the most fruitful sources of spiritual education lies in the thoughts which arise in our own hearts, perhaps apart and inde of that which we are listening to. We are fed upon the bread of life by the Spirit of the Lord, and I feel that we have been so fed at this conference. 

The Gospel presents to us a most beautiful picture, and it seems to me that the picture was never quite so beautiful before, as it has presented itself to my mind during the meetings of this conference. The moral and religious code embraced in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, is of the highest character; it emanated from God Himself, from the heavens above, and Jesus Christ our Savior was the Great Exponent. The Gospel is without defect, it is a perfect plan; it is God's own guide to a perfect life; and there is infinite power within it, the power to save those who will yield obedience to its precepts, ordinances, laws and doctrines. It is the plan by which our Savior lived, by which He reached perfection, through which He ascended to the Father, and is now enjoying the glories of His kingdom. It is the plan that through obedience thereto, will bring us back into His presence, and crown us heirs to His glory. This is what it can do for everyone of our Heavenly Father's children. It is offered for our salvation, but it is left with us to accept or reject it. The law is given; the plan is offered, but it will profit us nothing unless we accept it. The great mission work of our Savior, His atonement, will not profit us anything if we do not live the law, except that we are brought forth from the grave, as are all our Father's children, for "as in Adam all die, so in Christ are all made alive." We cannot hope to be ben in any other way; neither can we hope to be benefited by what we hear from the servants of the Lord, if we do not practice the precepts in our lives, that is the only way we can be profited by what we hear. We are not now so much in need of being taught the Gospel, and our duties as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, as we are in need of being impressed with the necessity of living the law, according to the light and knowledge we have already received. Some of us may be disposed to be hearers of the word alone, and not doers of it; and in this we are deceiving ourselves. When the Savior preached that famous sermon upon the mount, the greatest ever preached upon the earth, He thought it necessary to warn the people, that those who hear those sayings and do them not, are like unto a foolish man who built his house upon the sand, and when the rains descended, and the winds blew, and the floods came, and beat upon the house, it fell because it was built upon sand; but all those who hear those sayings and do them, are like unto a wise man who built his house upon a rock, and when the storms came, and the winds blew, and the floods beat upon the house it fell not, for it was built upon a firm foundation. The Savior could see the weakness of the people, that thev were disposed xo imagine it proper for their neighbors to live according to the doctrine that was taught, but considered that it was not aoplicable to themselves. 

It is a fact today, that many are not living according to the light which God has imparted. If all were living up to the light which the Gospel gives there would be  great change; a great reformation would be wrought. Those who would do this would become stronger and more vigorous in body and mind; their intelligence would be quickened, their minds enlightened to comprehend the truth; and they would transmit to their children qualities and virtues that would tend to regenerate the race, restoring former conditions, when the life of a man was as the life of a tree. If all were living up to that standard today, there would be no grog-shops and saloons in our cities. They would be forced to close their doors for want of patronage. There would be no sale for tobacco, for tea, or coffee, and all the evil effects that result from using these obnoxious things would be eliminated. The summer resorts would have to close on the Sabbath day, for the people would be found in houses of worship, and the meeting houses would be too small to accommodate them. 

If all who profess to be Latterday Saints would live in conformity to the Gospel, in all respects, we would have to build larger stake tabernacles, to accommodate the people who would come to attend the stake conferences to hear the word of the "Lord, to worship Him in His appointed way, to partake of the sacrament, the emblems of the body and blood of Christ who died for us. The temples, also, would be too small to accommodate the people who would gather there to work vicariously for the redemption of their kindred dead. If all were living up to the high standard of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, we would have to build more temples; and our people would be going to the ends of the earth, spending their means liberally to gather the genealogies of their kindred. There would be less difficulty in getting Elders to go abroad and preach the gospel, under these conditions, for the love that men would have in their hearts for their fellow men would lead them, in greater numbers, to volunteer their services. We love the God we worship, and give evidence of that love by assembling in our meeting houses and worshiping Him with full purpose of heart. We evidence our love by keeping' His commandments, and by loving one another, indulging in no back-biting, nor evil speaking of each other, no bearing of false witness against our neighbors. 

If all of us were living up to the high standard of the Gospel, even our enemies — those who fight against us — would have our love and prayers, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us to love our enemies, to pray for those who hate us and who despitefully use us. Though they were to persecute, rob and plunder, mob and drive, bind us in chains and cast us into dungeons, we would not feel to curse them, but under the Gospel law, we would pity them, realizing that, when the judgment of God is poured out, they will indeed need our pity. Even if they should put us to death for the Gospel's sake, if we were living up to this high standard our last words would be, as with the Savior: "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do." 

God has been most gracious and generous to us; He has borne testimony to us, through His Spirit, that this Gospel is true. We have learned, and know for a surety, that the promises which the Lord has made us will never fail. If  were to call upon this congregation and ask those who have received this testimony to rise to their feet and say so, there would be a host who could rise and respond. There are some, however, I am sorry to say, who profess to know these things, who do not live up tothem as they ought. In their lives there is a degree of inconsistency, and when the enemies of this work declare that among us there is hypocrisy and deceit, lying and wrong-doing, that we are not true to what we profess, there is perhaps a grain of truth in the charge. The lives of everyone enrolled on the records of the Church should be such that every act would give the lie to all such calumnies; but reproach rests upon the Church today because of infirmities, inconsistency, lack of faith and integrity to the truth, manifest by some; this to their shame. May the Lord be merciful unto those whom He has so abundantly blessed, and who are yet so ungrateful for His mercies and blessings. 

It is a source of much regret that among the stakes of Zion we occasionally find a man of experience, who has lived years in the Church, and seen the trials through which this people has passed, how the arm of Jehovah has been made bare in their behalf, yet who will stoop to the use of tobacco, and indulge in habits that are unclean, that render him impure before the Lord, and his tabernacle, consequently, an unfit receptacle for the Spirit of God. Our heavenly Father has designed that His Spirit should dwell in us to comfort and cheer us in our onward march through life, in times of adversity, to give us strength and courage to bear up faithfully under all trials  may be brought upon us, that we ma}' maintain our integrity to the end. This is the purpose of the Lord, who desires our salvation. He would lead us unto eternal life, but there are some rebellious, and will not be led, who break His commandments, disregard His wishes; and render themselves unfit receptacles for the Spirit of God. They plod along through life in darkness, subject to the powers of evil which are about us, subject to the influences of those who would lead us astray. 

What a responsibility rests upon parents in Israel, whose duty it is to train and teach their children the principles of eternal life, and set before them examples worthy of imitation, to be as watchmen over their homes — as shepherds watch their flocks — to see that the evil one does not enter and poison the minds of those whom God has given them. These responsibilities weigh heavily upon us, and if we disregard them it will prove to our sorrow. If we lose these children whom the Lord has given us, we lose one by one the jewels from the crown the Lord has prepared for us if we are faithful and true. If we neglect our duties we deprive ourselves of blessings in this life and in the life to come. 

We should be on guard against the influences that come among us, from Babylon. The Lord has said : "Come out of her my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, that ye receive not of her plagues." Notwithstanding this requirement and the knowledge that in coming out of Babylon we acquire her enmity, that those who are not of us are constantly fighting against us, yet there is danger if too closely .affiliated with them, some may be  to accept their theories, and adopt their fashions. There are foolish ones eagerly looking forward to ascertain what Babylon — "the mother of harlots, the whore of all the earth" — is going to introduce next among us, and they want to be the first to adopt it. The Latter-day Saints should remember they are to be the salt of the earth, the leaven with which the whole lump is to be leavened — the whole lump of humanity; that is the design and purpose of the Lord concerning us. We should adopt proper fashions for ourselves, and not follow the fashions that are brought among us from Babylon. 

Some of the Babylonish fashions of today are of a most deadly nature, and are aiding Lucifer in his purpose to thwart the purposes of the Almighty. When you go into the homes of some fashionable people of the world today, instead of finding children there, as you find in the homes of Latter-day Saints you see poodle dogs, pussy cats, canary birds, things which can be tethered to a string and left in a corner. Not having children to care for, the ladies are at liberty to attend clubs and society meetings, and go to the resorts and public places of pleasure as often as they wish. Such people ignore the great commandment that we should unite in honorable wedlock for time and for eternity, that we should multiply and increase in the land, and replenish the earth. There is no greater commandment — a disregard of it would thwart the whole plan and purpose of Jehovah. I regard with horror the thought of falling into this fashion, or adopting any of the customs which are set before us by Babylon, and which would result in our overthrow and destruction. Oh surely we cannot be so unwise, so indifferent to the counsels of the Holy Priesthood. 

I testify to you today, my brethren and sisters, that this Gospel is true, that it is the saving power and that those who will yield obedience to its principles will be saved and exalted in the presence of God. There is nothing truer, there can be nothing truer. This Gospel is as true as the stars of heaven, as true as the sun which shines in midday, as enduring as the everlasting hills, and is without defect; it is suited to the conditions of all men in all ages, in all circumstances and conditions of life, and it needs not to be modified, amended or changed. I testify that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; I know that, although I never saw him. I know it as Peter knew that Jesus was the Christ — because God revealed it unto him. Who can see the mighty results of the proclamation of Gospel truths, the fruits that have come forth from the tree and then condemn the tree? He is a disbeliever in the word of God who can do so. 

I pray the blessings of the Lord to be with you, my brethren and sisters. May His peace abide with you in your homes. May God's blessings attend us in the continuance of this conference, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Rouse, O ye Mortals." 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Liberty's perfect law. — Charges against Joseph Smith and "Mormonism" refuted. — Eternal origin of the Gospel. — 

Review of the dispensations. — Freedom and her champions. — Joseph Smith an American patriot. — His views on unrighteous dominion. — "Mormonism" versus tyranny. — No king till Christ comes. — How the world will be compelled. — God watches over His own. 

The spirit of poesy seems to have pervaded this conference tosome extent, and perhaps that will account for a little stanza that is now floating through my mind : 

"Break! Break! Break! 

On thy cold gray stones, O sea! And I would that my heart could utter 

The thoughts that arise in me." 

Many good things have been said by the various speakers who have addressed the congregations, and it would be difficult indeed to decide which are the most important or the most edifying. The main difficulty with a speaker at conference time is not tofind a subject, but rather to select one from the many that are presented to the mind, and to so condense his thoughts and his words as to come within the allotted time. I hope that I may have the good Spirit to inspire me, that I may speak the things most needful to be spoken. I have no other desire than to declare the truth, as God shall give me utterance. 

I was very much impressed, upon the opening day, with the address of President Joseph F. Smith, and particularly with what he said in relation to the kingdom whose king is Jesus Christ. I have also been impressed with what Brother Nibley has said regarding the purpose, spirit, and mission of what the world terms "Mormonism;" and I marvel, in the light of such utterances, and in the light of what I know to be true concerning this people and this religion, that the  of misunderstandings and misconceptions can and do exist in relation to them. It was alleged during the life-time of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that he wished to make himself a king, to possess himself of the properties of both Mormons and Gentiles, as his subjects, and to ride roughshod over their liberties. It has been asserted from the beginning that "Mormonism" seeks to overthrow free institutions, to overturn the government of the United States, and to set up, in this land of the free, an Asiatic despotism. I marvel at such charges as these. It is difficult for me — anxious as I am to credit all men with honesty and sincerity, wherever I can — to believe that such charges are made in sincerity. 

What is this thing called "Mormonism ?" You have heard during this conference that it is what Paul, the apostle, declared the Gospel of Christ to be: "the power of God unto salvation." Paul also maintained that the Gospel is "the perfect law of liberty." What he said ' of the gospel of Christ is true of "Mormonism," for they are one and the same thing under different names. Hence, "Mormonism" is "the perfect law of liberty," and is itself a free institution. Why then should it be charged with seeking its own overthrow? 

Joseph Smith taught that the Gospel was of heavenly origin. He said that God, in the beginning, finding Himself in the midst of spirits and glory, and being the most intelligent of them all, saw fit to institute laws whereby the rest might advance like Himself. Here was the first exhibition of tyranny, of despotism, in the history of "Mormonism," when God decreed that laws should be insti whereby the blessings enjoyed by Him might be extended to and enjoyed by those around Him — the lesser intelligences who looked up to Him for guidance. He, as their God, ordained a way whereby they might advance and become like Him, making possible the final attainment of a glory described as the fulness of the presence of the Father, where He makes us equal with Himself, and places in our hands the possession of all things. Joseph Smith taught that before the world was, this plan of salvation, known as the Gospel— and now nick-named "Mormonism" — was instituted and ordained as the means of saving the world, of' doing for man that which he could not do for himself, redeeming him from the bondage of sin and death, and restoring him to the presence of God, from which he fell through transgression. Does this look 'like tyranny? Does it bear any semblance of despotism? Is there apparent in this great plan, having such an object, any design to overthrow the freedom of man ? No! My brethren and sisters, you know, as I know, that Jesus Christ is the author of liberty, that He is the great champion of human freedom, and that He laid down His life that the world might be free. 

It is Lucifer, on the other hand who seeks the overthrow of free institutions, free churches, free government, and who saps wherever he can the foundation of the rights of man. That same fallen being, once called the Morning Star, presented himself before the Father, at the beginning, and offered himself as a candidate for the saviorship of this world. He declared — had the audacity to declare — that his purpose was to save man in his sins. "Not one soul shall be lost." ' He proposed to compel all to be saved, and sought to destroy the free agency of man. But his plan was rejected, and he and all who followed him were cast out of heaven, because they were the enemies of freedom and sought the overthrow of that freest of institutions, the Gospel of salvation. Therefore they were rejected, and one was chosen -as the Redeemer who avowed it to be His purpose to maintain the free agency of man. This One sought not His own honor, his own glory, as Lucifer had done — who demanded as a reward for his proposed service that he might dethrone the Father and reign as God in his stead, but that other Being said : "Father, let me be thy Son; I will go down; I will die for the world, and thine be the honor and the glory." He proposed to save man from his sins to make salvation a free gift, to leave all men at liberty to accept or reject the Gospel, and the purpose of his mission was to break the bands of death, to redeem man from bondage, and therefore His plan is known, and truly known, as the perfect law of liberty. 

The Gospel was revealed first to our father Adam, whom it redeemed from the fall and restored to the presence of God. After his descendants became degenerate, it was revealed to Enoch, whose city was taken into the heavens. Later in another dispensation, it came to Noah, who preached it to the world and succeeded in saving eight souls, including his own. After his day, Abraham had the Gospel; Abraham, the head of the house of Israel, through whom the Savior came in the flesh, and by means of whose descendants the blood of faith was sprinkled over many nations; a scattering of Israel prepar to the great gathering of Israel in the last days. Then Moses had the Gospel, and sought by means of it and the powers of the Holy Priesthood, to bring his people into a condition where they could look, as he had looked, upon the face of God; but they would not have it. That generation would not accept the Gospel, and it was taken away, as it had been taken many times before, and the powers of the Melchisedek priesthood went back into the heavens, and Israel was left with the Aaronic priesthood and the law of carnal commandments, to whip him as a schoolmaster until the days of Christ. Then came our Savior, restoring the ancient faith, the everlasting and unchangeable plan of salvation, framed in the heavens, Himself being the author of it; for He was no other than the king of heaven, Jehovah, the God of Israel. He came as a babe into the world, and grew to manhood without sin, unto salvation, showing what man can *do if he will, even in this mortal state. He laid down His life to break the bands of death, to redeem man from the effects of the fall of Adam and Eve. He chose twelve apostles to establish his Church upon the eastern hemisphere, and then came in His resurrected body to the western hemisphere, where He also selected twelve disciples to establish his Church upon this chosen land. But the world again departed from the faith, and in the last days God raised up another prophet, another champion of truth and liberty, and he,stancling at the head of the greatest and last of the gospel dispensations, preaching no new doctrine, but proclaiming the old-time principles, the eternal principles of ; he, Joseph Smith, was accused of seeking to make himself a king. 

I say of all these prophets, these apostles, these patriarchs, who have stood at the head of or figured in the dispensations of the past, that they are the friends of freedom, the champions of liberty, reflecting the light and power of Jesus Christ. And I say also that a measure of that same light and power, has rested upon other men, upon poets and philosophers, upon warriors and reformers, upon scientists, inventors and discoverers; who have played their parts according to the light given them, and have helped to prepare the way for the great consummation of the latter-days, when the restitution of all things is in prospect and in progress; when God has decreed to pour out His spirit upon all flesh, and gather into one all things in Christenings in the heavens and things upon the earth. 

Luther had a portion of this spirit when he stood before the Diet of Worms, and being asked to recant what he had uttered, laid his hand upon the open Bible, faced a frowning tyrant, and exclaimed : "Here I stand; I cannot do otherwise; God help me!" Cromwell and his Ironsides were animated by a portion of this spirit when they arrayed themselves against a despot king, and ended by cutting off his head. William of Orange was inspired by it, when he succes fully met the encroachments of the Spanish invader, and battled for the freedom of the Netherlands. Columbus had this spirit when he "pushed his prows into the setting sun, made west east," and uncovered this long hidden hemisphere, the land of Zion, the land of Jos eph, where the house of Joseph is  assemble and the New Jerusalem to rise. Washington had this spirit when he carved out with the sword of patriotism the independence of his country; "the embattled farmers" had it when they poured their patriot volleys into the ranks of the British regulars on the slopes of Bunker Hill. Jefferson had this spirit when he wrote with pen of flame, "All men are created equal, and to secure the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." Joseph Smith, in far greater measure, possessed this spirit of liberty, this love of freedom, and there is nothing in his life, in his character, nor in the whole history of the Mormon people that is contrary thereto. 

Who was this man Joseph Smith? He was a native American; a descendant of the pilgrims, and of the patriots whom God inspired to found this nation. He loved his country; drank in the spirit of liberty with his mother's milk, and was taught its principles at his mother's knee. Why should he seek to be a king, to overthrow free institutions, to plot for the ruin of his country? On the contrary, he sought the glory of his country. The last and crowning act of his life, politically, was an endeavor to become president of the United States; and in the platform of principles by him enunciated, he favored the extension of the Union, with the consent of the red man — yes, he even thought of the poor Indian and his rights — with the consent of the red man, he favored the extension of the Union from sea to sea. He also favored the annexation of Texas, of Mexico, of Canada, whenever they should'desire it — so anxious was he to spread the benefits and blessings of free government. And yet this man could be falsely accused of seeking to make himself a king. 

The institutions of the Church that Joseph founded breathe the same spirit of liberty, the same respect for the rights of man, that characterize the government of the United States, also God-inspired. You saw an exhibition of this fact yesterday. You saw submitted the names of men who bear the Holy Priesthood, who have held sacred positions in the midst of this people for a lifetime; you saw their names submitted here, for the people to manifest whether or not they would still accept them as their leaders, their spiritual teachers. That practice has prevailed in this Church from the beginning. Joseph Smith, who had looked upon the face of God; Oliver Cowdery, who with Joseph had seen angels and been ordained by them to the Aaronic and Melchisedek priesthoods — they, after all, were required by the will and the word of God to submit their names to the little flock which they had converted, to see whether or not they would sustain them as the first and second Elders of the Church. The doctrine of common consent, "the consent of the governed," which Thomas Jefferson proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence, and which is practiced in all the electoral concerns of the American people — this same doctrine is practiced in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and yet this Church is charged with seeking the overthrow of free institutions. 

Joseph Smith wrote with his own hand the Articles of Faith for this 

Church, and the 11th and 12th articles read as follows : 

"We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." 

"We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." 

Let me now read a notable utterance of Joseph Smith's, showing what he thought of tyranny and unrighteous dominion : 

"Behold, there arc many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen ? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon 'the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

'That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn. Amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that man. 

"Behold! ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks; to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. 

"We have learned, by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

"Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long: suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, .  shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death; 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever." — Doctrine and Covenants, 121: 34-46. 

Another brief selection from the same book: 

"Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

"And for this purpose have I established the constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." —Doctrine and Covenants, 101 : 79, 80. 

These are among the principles taught by Joseph Smith. The Doctrine and Covenants, the Book of Mormon, every record that emanated from the mind of that great man, bears testimony to the divinity of the principle of liberty and declares for the free agency of man. From the Book of Mormon I will read one paragraph, to show the spirit of that ancient record, and the spirit of the man who translated it. I will say here that the entire Book of Mormon is one great plea for liberty, one mighty protest against tyranny and wrong. Here is a promise of the Lord to an  prophet among the Nephites, regarding this land, North and South America, which Joseph Smith declared to be the land of Zion : 

"And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon this land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles; 

"And I will fortify this land against all other nations; 

"And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God, 

"For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the King of Heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words." — II Nephi, 10: 11-14. 

Does any sane man believe that Joseph Smith would have sent forth such a proclamation, would have published it to the world, and then have sought in this land of liberty to make himself a king? 

Perhaps this is sufficient. President Smith was speaking by the record when he declared that Jesus Christ is the king of this kingdom; it is not Joseph the Prophet, it is not Brigham Young, nor John Taylor, nor Wilford Woodruff, nor Lorenzo Snow; it is not Joseph F. Smith; it is not any man. There shall come no king upon this land until Christ, the king of heaven, comes in power and glory to reign over the earth. He is our king, the only king we recognize,, the only king we serve, and these men are servants of the King, for whose coming we are here to prepare. 

This theme is interminable; I could go on for hours and tell you of the feelings and sentiments that animated Brigham Young and his successors, but let this one fact suffice; that all who have led this Church from the days of Joseph Smith down to this day, have only built upon Joseph's foundation and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the principles that were near and dear to his heart, principles revealed to him by the God of Heaven, Jesus Christ, the King. 

There is only one element of compulsion in the dealings of God with man, and it will never coerce the human mind. It is illustrated in the word of God spoken to the early Elders of this Church, in fulfilment of a parable of our Savior, the one in which He likened the kingdom of heaven unto a feast : 

"A certain man made a great supper, and bade many : 

"And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready. 

"And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it : I pray thee have me excused. 

"And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused. 

"And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. 

"So that servant came, and showed his lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. 

"And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. 

"And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and comoel them to come in, that my house may be filled." — Luke, 14: 16-23. 

What! Compel men to be saved ? God coerce the human mind? Never! And yet they were compelled to come. The literal meaning of this parable is embodied in a commandment to the Elders of the Church in these days, repeating the great command of our Lord to His servants two thousand years ago . 

"Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. 

"He that believeth and is baptized  be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned. 

"And these signs shall follow them that believe: In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 

"They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover." — Mark, 16: 15-18. 

These words were repeated through Joseph the Seer, and then followed other words, not spoken aforetime, but reserved unto the latter days, when the judgments of God should supplement the testimony of the Elders. "And after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, and tempests, and wars, and famines, and pestilences, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds." "All things shall be in commotion," and "not only the earth shall shake, but the starry heavens shall tremble." 

That is how God will compel men to listen to Him, if they turn a deaf ear to the voice of kind persuasion. Lie will not coerce the mind, but will create conditions and shape circumstances that will induce men to come unto Him and of their own accord bow in obedience to His holy will. Meanwhile, it is for this people to abide in the liberty wherewith they are made free, to lift up an ensign of peace to all nations, to return good for evil, blessings for cursings, and leave their cause in the hands of that God who inspired an American poet to write : 

"Truth forever on the scaffold; 

Wrong forever on the throne; Yet that scaffold sways the future, 

And behind the dim unknown Standeth God within the shadow, 

Keeping watch above His own." 7 7 

The choir sang the anthem, 

"In Our Redeemer's Name." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Thomas E. Bassett. 

Conference adjourned till 2 p. m. 


