Afternoon
05 10 1906



ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

The Ten Commandments applicable to the Latter-day Saints. 

I am under considerable anxiety this afternoon in regard to what I shall be led to say, as there appears to be, on the part of some, a fear that I might say something not entirely complimentary to the traducers of the brethren and of our people. But I desire to be conservative, if possible, and in order to be so I will read a little scripture, judging that by reading the scriptures no one will take offense; and I will endeavor to studiously avoid reading the 23rd chapter of Matthew. I was reading a little while ago a story which contained a certain sentence put, by the author, into the mouth of one of the characters of the story, by which it would seem he endeavored to justify himself in wrongdoing. The sentence was as follows : "Everybody knows the Ten Commandments, "but nobody keeps them." Now, that sentence impressed me with considerable force, and I could not instantly dismiss it. I thought over it considerably, and I wondered in my heart how true it was, or if it were true, at all or not. The more I thought of it the more I '.became convinced that, if it were  true, still it approached very nearly to being the truth; and I have in mind this afternoon to read the Ten Commandments, as delivered by the Lord to Moses, in the mountain, and which were written by the Lord upon the tablets of stone : 

"Thou shalt have no other gods before me." I reviewed that commandment and applied it to the Latter-day Saints. I felt in my heart that most of the Latter-day Saints kept that commandment; that there were no other gods that the Latter-day Saints worshiped, but that they worshiped the true and the living God, the God of Abraham, of Isaac; and Jacob — the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. We, as Latterday Saints, worship God, and we have no other god ,; if we worship at all, it is our p£.;r.. " in Heaven whom we worship. 

"Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything that is in the heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth." That also, I am constrained to believe, is a commandment kept by the Latter-day Saints. They have not bowed down to other gods; they have not raised up to themselves gods of stone or of brass; they have not worshiped anything in the heavens or in the earth, or which is under the earth; but this same God, the Father of our spirits, do we worship, and none other. I believe we are not guilty of the charge of not keeping this comandment. "Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them; for I the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments." The Lord has manifested Himself very plainly to the Latter-day Saints, [n our day He has manifested Himself in person, in as great or greater plainness than He was manifest to Moses in the mountain, during the time that these commandments were given; and therefore we know Him. We have received His Spirit; we have become acquainted with some of His works and also with some of His purposes concerning us, and concerning all men who have inhabited this earth, as well as those who now inhabit it or shall do so in the future. Him do we worship, and we love Him; and here we might couple that other commandment, or that emphasis of this comandment, which was given by the Lord Jesus Christ, when He was asked which was the greatest commandment, and He replied that we should love the Lord with all our might, mind, and strength, for that was the greatest commandment. I believe as a general thing the Latter-day Saints observe this law, that they do love the Lord with all their might, mind, and strength; yet I know there are some who do not love Him as fully as they should. A man who spends nine-tenths of his working time, striving to accumulate wealth, to store up and hoard money, and spends but little of his time in worshiping the true and living God, does not give full evidence that he loves the Lord, first and foremost, but he does evidence that his love is devoted, to a greater extent, to the material wealth and accumulations he is striving to gain, which are perish things. Such individuals have learned to worship other gods, I fear — the god of gold, the god of money — at least they have grown to forget, in a great degree, the Father of all. In their craving after the things of this world, they overlook the things of eternal worth. Brethren and sisters, I hope very few of us belong to that class, hive minutes prayer a day, and all the rest of our thoughts centered on the things of the world is not what should characterize our lives. We should more fully observe the commandments of the Lord, wherein we are told to prayalways, without ceasing, for this is the law of God in Christ Jesus, concerning us. We should cry, in prayer, over all things pertaining to our welfare, and the welfare of our fellowmen, and the welfare of the Kingdom of God and the work of the Lord. When not engaged in crying aloud in prayer, we are taught to have in our hearts always a prayer of remembrance to our Father in heaven, petitioning Him for the continuation of His mercies and blessings, day after day. 

"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." When I read this commandment, I am instantly aware of the fact that there are some in our own midst, who know this commandment, yet who do not keep it; but it is not a frequent thing to hear from the mouths of men professing to be members of the Church and believers in God, the profanation of the Lord's name — blasphemy in the midst of Israel, taking lightly and in a profane way, the name of God the eternal Father. It ought not to be; and wherever it is, it should be corrected — corrected by the individuals themselves; and a strong effort should be made by all the leading brethren in the Church, and sisters, and presiding officers therein, to stamp out of the midst of Zion this terrible sin. It ought not to be among us; it is a polluting crime that befouls a man and shows the condition of his heart when such evil proceeds from it. We know it is wrong; we know this commandment; we know the Lord has said that He will not hold a man guiltless when, in his thoughtlessness or wilful disobedience, he breaks that commandment. We know this, yet some men and boys in the midst of Zion disregard this commandment — thoughtlessly per 1 haps, not realizing the extent of the punishment that shall be meted out to the guilty — nevertheless conscious of the fact that it is a sin and ought not to be done. 

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God : in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thv daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." I am fully aware that this glorious day, which the Lord had set apart and hallowed, was desecrated by many in Israel. There are those among us who do not heed it as a holy day, but instead the Sabbath is turned by them into an unholy day, a day of recreation, of sinful pleasure, a day of desecration, of following after their own wills, a day wherein they strive as far as' possible to forget God rather than to remem Him, a day in which they wend their way from the house of the Lord rather than towards it : seeking pleasure and forgetting God; and this ought not to be. Brethren and sisters, we ought to keep this law. While written by the finger of God many centuries ago, and p-iven to the people, it has never been repealed. It was given by the same God who in later times, on the mount, delivered to the people the glorious beatitudes, and has never been rescinded, but is of force today; and those who desecrate the Sabbath, and do not heed this commandment will not be held guiltless before the Father, any more than the breaking of the other law, in the profanation of the name of the Lord. It is said that our sacrament meetings and Sabbath meetings are not as well attended as they should be. We always have a fair congregation of faithful saints in atendance, but there are many who, seeminglv, have forgotten the Sabbath day, who know the commandment but do not keep it. We should correct this. Fathers and mothers are held responsible in this commandment. They are not only commanded to keep the Sabbath day holy themselves, and do no work therein, but to see to it that their sons and their daughters, the men servants and women servants, and even their cattle, shall not do any work on this holy day. If we have forgotten this, brethren and sisters, we should repent and turn unto the Loid. I find 't ^ very eas/ to fh 1 things to preach about which should be a benefit to the saints, which apply and have to 'In villi them more particularly; and now we ex ho "i yc.i to keep the Sabbath clay holy and cease to desecrate it. "Honor thy father and thy njothcr : that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." Another commandment with which we are familiar, and have heard frequently. How closely do we, sons and daughters of faithful fathers and mothers, observe this commandment; Do we return unto them the homage that is their due, the honor they are entitled to ? Do we heed their counsel, and take their advice ? When they tell us : "My son, honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy; go to the meeting house and worship God, and partake of the sacrament," do we honor that counsel, or do we treat it as something pertaining to fogyism — something for the aged, something good for the old but not  for the young? Do we dishonor our fathers and mothers by disobeying them in this case? If we do disobey them, do we realize that we are cutting ourselves off from the promise of long life in the land, this glorious land, of which so much has been spoken in this conference — the land which the Lord our God has given us ? How many of us speak lightly and disrespectfully of father and mother, or any aged man or woman ? There may be some amoncr us who do this, perhaps only thoughtlessly, but nevertheless it is a violation of one of the comandments of the Lord, for which, of course, all men must answer, if thev will not repent. On the other hand, fathers and mothers oueht to live such lives that they will be worthy of honor from sons and daughters. The man, the father, who breaks the commandments of God, the man who violates this and other commandments, is he worthy of honor? Can he reasonably expect that his children  honor him, if he himself is a lawbreaker, violating the commandments of God yet expecting his sons and daughters to honor him? Is there a dishonorable mother who can reasonably expect a daughter to honor her? Let fathers and mothers throughout Israel set an example before their families; let them keep the comandments of the Lord, observe the Word of Wisdom, remember their prayers, remember God and love Him with all their heart, might, mind and strength, so that the children, all the clays of their lives, shall look upon father and mother with love and respect, and say in their hearts : We have the noblest father and the grandest mother that ever lived in the world; they are honorable, truthful, faithful — fearing God and serving Him all their days, and how glad I am to honor such parents. Fathers and mothers, be worthy, so that your sons and daughters may devotedly keep this commandment. 

"Thou shalt not kill." There is a commandment we may say is universally observed by the saints. They not only do not kill, but they have no desire in their hearts to kill their fellowmen or shed blood; that is far from them; they know the sinfulness of it; they know, as has been said, that it is a crime for which there is no forgiveness, and the uttermost farthing must be naid. We keep that commandment as a people. 

"Thou shalt not commit adultery." Another soul destroying crime which is very rare among the Latter-day Saints. There is no other sin, save murder only, that will so soon destroy the spiritual and moral life of men — why, it is spiritual suicide to participate in any such deadly crime. We do 45 sustain it; we do not suffer it; we do not tolerate it; and we do not commit it, as a people. So far as I am concerned I will not support any man or any set of men who are seducers and who commit this deadly sin, be they whom they may, within or without the Church of God; neither will I sustain the men, or the publications, or the party that protect or sustain such corruption. 

"Thou shalt not steal." I hope none of us are given to this sin — the taking of that which does not belong to us, but which belongs to another. We should preserve every man in the possession of his own; we should not take that which belongs to him, neither appropriate to ourselves any of his goods or property. My brethren and sisters, it is writen by the poet : "He that steals my purse steals trash." This comandment may be carried further than the stealing of the material or temporal possessions of men. We can carry it, as did the poet, to the good name of one another. We must not filch from men their good names; we must not steal from them reputation, but in all things we should be honest, truthful, upright, never stealing or taking that which does not belong to us. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." Always speak the truth. We know that commandment, but there are some who apparently cannot keep it; who have grown accustomed to back-biting occasionally, speaking evil of one another, or accusing one another falsely. As Latter-day Saints, it seems to me that, of all persons in the world, we should be most free from that sin. By reason of what we have had to suffer because of the false witness that  been borne against us by our enemies, all the days of our lives — from the beginning until now have we suffered because our enemies have been guilty of the sin of bearing false witness against us — we should not indulge in the same crime, even towards our enemies, to say nothing of indulging in it, in relation to one another. 

"Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor . his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's." There isno need to covet, if we will get the spirit of charity, and of industry and labor. There is no need to covet if we are willing to work, for we can then surround ourselves with the blessings of life, as we were told by Brother Smoot this morning. All these things are within our reach; all we need to' do is to wisely proceed to surround ourselves with them, honestly. We do not need to covet that which is another's, for we may go forward and acquire these blessings for ourselves — honor, reputation,, character, wives, children, homes houses, lands, and all the blessings and gifts of the Holy Ghost; theglorious principles of the everlasting gospel, and in the end eternal life; all may be ours, and therefore we ought not to covet that which others possess. All things shall be given to the man and the woman who will faithfully keep thecommandments of God. 

May the Lord bless you, and may it not be said of us, that we know the Ten Commandments or any other commandments, given by God or His servants, in early or later times, but we do not keep them; but let it be said that the Latter-day Saints know God and know His commandments; that they know the truth, and they are keeping all these things sacredly. God sanctify this condition to His people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

The fruits of Mormonism. — Evil men the greatest opponents of the Church. — Obligations of parents. — Faith of Latter-day Saint children. 

I feel to praise my Maker this day for the blessing of being permitted to meet with you in this conference of the Church. I have been edified and rejoiced in the remarks that have been made by our brethren, and I crave the same Spirit that they have had to direct my utterance, that what I say may be inspired of our Father and that we may be profited. I am reminded that we are a people who receive much instruction, and I rejoice, as I visit among the Stakes of Zion, to see the improvement that is made along many lines. From this stand I have heard the servants of the Lord advise us to patronize home industries, and I am constrained to ask myself the question. How many Latter-day Saints have remembered that wise counsel? We have been taught to keep the Word of Wisdom. How many of us who are here today are fulfilling that law of our Heavenly Father? I take pleasure in one thing I will name. It has only been a few years since the sisters were invited to uncover their heads in public worship, and I see there are only a few today who have forgotten it. So I think we are making some progress along that line, and I desire to commend our sisters who remember this admoni, very much to the comfort of those who are around them and to the blessing of themselves because of their obedience. 

Our Father in heaven has blessed us as a people in a remarkable way. We have been gathered out from the nations of the earth, and have been brought to dwell in this section of His vineyard. As one of those who have been born of Latter-day Saint parentage, I rejoice that I can* look all men in the face and say that the teachings of Mormonism have produced blessing to me in this life, and given me promise of eternal life. There are many in the world who misunderstand the mission of the Church of Christ. To such I desire to say that, as far as I am concerned, if there is anything good in life, any virtue, honesty, integrity, fearlessness to do right; if there is a disposition in me to honor my father and my mother, and a desire to sustain the Priesthood of the living God; if I am disposed to sustain the constitution of this great country that we live in; if there is in my heart a desire to uphold the great man whom God has honored to preside over the destinies of this nation; if there is within me love for my fellowmen, and a desire to serve God and keep His commandments, these characteristics have come to me, my friends, by reason of "Mormonism.'' From childhood, I have never been taught to do anything improper, or that would harm one of my heavenly Father's children; but from infancy I have been taught to acquire industry, sobriety, honesty, integrity, and all virtues possessed by men and women whom God delights to honor and bless. I thank my heavenly Father this day that these teachIngs have come to me from Him through His faithful servants. 

We have listened to instructions from our brethren, and I wonder how many of us will remember to put them into practice. Referring to the 7th chapter of Matthew and the 24th verse, I find the following: 

"Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock : 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded upon a rock. 

"And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand : 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell : and great was the fall of it." 

How many of us, learning the will of the Father, are doing it? How many of us day by day are laying a foundation and building a structure that shall conform to the dignity of the stature of our Master? "Yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple." He has given us intelligence and wisdom above our fellowmen. A knowledge of pre-existence has been given to the Latter-day Saints; a knowledge that we are here because we kept our first estate, and that we have been given the opportunity of gaining eternal life in the presence of our heavenly Father, by keeping our second estate. We will not be judged as our brothers and sisters of the world are judged, but according to the greater opportunities -ilaced in our keeping. We will "be among those who have received the word of the Lord, who have  His sayings, and if we do them it will be to us eternal life, but if we fail condemnation will result. 

Speaking of the virtues that the Church of Jesus Christ is endeavoring to inculcate in its devotees, I am reminded that up to this moment I have never known any really good man or woman in my day to lead a vicious crusade against the followers of our Lord and Master. The Church of Christ is not usually assailed from without by those who are moral in their lives. One of the best evidences to me of the lack of morality in men and women is that the adversary is able to put into their hearts a disposition to tear down the work of our heavenly Father. I say to the boys and girls .of Israel, keep yourselves pure and unspotted from the sins of the world. Be an example of what the Master desired we should be in the midst of the children of men. Magnify the opportunities that our Father has placed in your keeping'. If men among us shall try to lead you from the faith of your fathers, examine their lives and you will find mistakes they have made whereby they have been led captive by the evil one. To my mind this is one of the strongest testimonies of the divinity of this work, that evil men constantly oppose it. Good men, and truly great men, possess the Spirit of our Father wherever they may be in the world. They are desirous to build up, and not to tear down, and that should be our mission and labor while we remain upon the earth. Let us so conduct ourselves that men, seeing our good works, may be constrained to glorify our Father which is in heaven. Our missionaries labor day by day among the people of the world. They receive the contumely and hatred of those who misunderstand their mission, and many good people mistakenly drive them from their doors; but when it comes to outside oppression, vindictiveness and maliciousness, and to wicked, unrelenting persecution of the Latter-day Saints, from the beginning it has been by those who serve the devil, and not those who seek to serve the Lord. So, I raise my warning voice this day to the youth of Zion. Be not deceived when storms of persecution break over your heads. There will be unkind things said in the future as there have been in the past. See that your feet are planted upon the rock. See that you learn the desires of the Master toward you, and, knowing those desires, see to it that you keep His laws and commands. See to it that the purity of your lives shall entitle you to the companionship of the Holv Spirit, because if you are pure and virtuous and upright, the evil one will have no power to destroy you. Bear in mind, my young friends, that this is a serious matter. This life is not given to us as a pastime. There was a solemn purpose in our creation, in the life that God has given to us. Let us study what that purpose is, that we may progress and obtain eternal life. 

I find much in the 93rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants that gives me joy, and I believe I will read a portion of it. It shows how generous our Father in heaven is to the children of men, that there are no favorites. It indicates that every man and woman who will strive to do the will of the Lord may receive His blessing, whether he be in one portion of our Father's vineyard or another. I read as follows : 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh their sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyethi mv voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that. I am." 

This is the word of our Fatherin heaven to His children in theworld. Your mission and mine,, my brethren and sisters, is to soteach that doctrine, that our brothers and sisters of the world may be induced to depart from the mistakes they are making, and accept the nure Gospel of our Lord and' Master. We find in the same section the information that the Savior did not receive a fulness at once,, but grace was given Him for grace. As He overcame He developed and progressed. We ascertain that not only was the Savior in the beginning with theFather, but also that you and I werethere. We dwelt there, and by reason of faithfulness, having kept our first estate, we have been permitted to come into this world and receive tabernacles of flesh. The fact that we are living in the flesh is evidence that we did keep our first: estate. Now, realizing , that thereis a great purpose in life, let uslearn our duty and do it. Our boys and girls go out among the peopleof the world, and they labor in kindness and in love to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We have not striven to force it upon the human family, but upon us is laid the obligation to teach it in sincerity and in devotion. 

Fathers and mothers, are you' teaching your children this Gospel ?' Or do vou wait until they grow tomanhood and womanhood, only tofind that they do not comprehend it? Are you preparing the sons, and daughters God has blessed you with to become messengers of life  salvation among the children of men? Or are you neglecting that sacred opportunity, and permitting them to grow up thoughtless and indifferent regarding these things? I am persuaded that, if there are any children of Latter-day Saint parentage who depart from the faith, they are those who have not understood the meaning of the doctrines of Christ, who have not had instilled into their hearts faith in our heavenly Father, and who do not comprehend that it means eternal life to them to keep His commandments. So I Say we should be imbued with the desire to labor and teach our sons and daughters those things that will save them in the presence of our Father. We need not feel anxious about the progress of Zion, for the good old ship will sail proudly on, and those who are faithful and true will land with her safely in the harbor of God, crowned with glory, immortality and eternal life. I have no fear for these aged men and women that have kept the faith. I have no fear for the boys and girls who are walking in obedience to the comandments of the Lord. I have no fear for those not of our faith who are living up to the light that God has blessed them with, because according to the law received so will we be judged and held accountable; but the Latterday Saints who knowing the will of our Father have not done it, those who hear the teachings of the Lord from time to time and turn their backs upon them, I fear they will not reach the goal unless they turn and repent with all their hearts. 

I feel this afternoon that I look into the faces of a body of men and women who are devoted to the cause of the Master. The question has been asked, Is it possible that  boys and girls that have been reared in these valleys of the mountains would be willing to suffer the hardships, privations and trials that their fathers and mothers endured for the Gospel's sake? Would they leave their homes of comfort to people a new country in the interest of their faith? I say unto you that if our Father has planted in their hearts a knowledge of the divinity of this work as you know it; if faith has been given them by reason of patience and devotion in keeping the commandments of the Lord; if they have been educated to know that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, then I say unto you, Yes! they would do what their fathers and mothers have done, take their place in the ranks of latter-day Israel, and if it means privation, if it means sickness and distress, or even expatriation from home, there are hundreds and thousands of your sons and daughters who, knowing that this is the Gospel of Christ, would, if need be, seal their testimony with their blood. I am grateful that I have this belief and feeling in regard to the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints. President Smith, who stands at our head, is an example to us. All the days of his life he has been faithful and true. No one can put his finger upon an instance where he has wronged any man. The Lord has blessed him, and he has been exalted among men. We would do well to watch his life, and emulate the splendid traits of character that have been manifest in him to so large a degree. He need not feel that the youth are recreant; for I say, as one of the sons of Zion, one of the weakest among you, I believe we stand ready at any time with our faith, our devotion, and all that God has blessed us with, to do His will and keep His commandments, and to sustain those whom He calls to preside over His Church. My belief is strengthened in this by the fact that, as a rule, the boys and girls of the Latterday Saints go willingly to the mission field. They leave comfortable homes, father and mother, and all that is near and dear to them; they turn their backs upon creature comforts, and go out into the world to nreach Christ and Him crucified. They are ready whenever the call comes, if they have been taught the principles of the Gospel. Are your sons and daughters among those who are thus ready? If they are not, then it behooves you to begin at once the teaching of your children, that they may be willing to magnify this call when it shall come to them. 

The Lord is abundantly blessing us in these mountain fastnesses. Our cattle and sheep are upon a thousand hills. The grain crop this year has been bounteous. Our sons and daughters live in more comfortable homes than did their parents. All over this land the good word goes out that Zion prospers, all is well! But let us not be lulled to sleep, let us not be deceived by the abundance of good things of this world; for what doth it profit a man though he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul ? Let not the object of our creation be overlooked; but let us labor for the salvation of our souls while we are blessed with creature co mforts. Let us put forth our energy to save those who do not understand the truth. Let us live together in an undivided bond of love and union, that those who live in the world may look to Zion and see  men and women who serve the Lord and keep His commandments. While we have weaknesses, and make mistakes, while some transgress the laws of the Lord from time to time, I have never seen a people (and I have traveled through the world considerably ) that I thought lived so near to our heavenly Father as the Latter-day Saints do. I have never seen a people willing to make so many sacrifices for the Gospel's sake. So I am grateful to my heavenly Father that I was born of Latter-day Saint parentage. I am thankful that my ancestors were honored of the Lord by being inspired to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I an-, grateful that your ancestors also received light and blessings from our Father;for it is indeed a blessing to receive that inspiration. 

Now, while we live and labor let us magnify our calling. Let no man be found recreant to his opportunities. Let us not turn our backs upon the blessings of the. Lord, but day by day go faithfully on blessing our father's children. We have no hard feelings toward any of our fellowmen; we have no occasion to. If they misunderstand us, misquote us, and persecute us, we should remember they are in the hands of the Lord, who has said,"V engeance is mine, I will repay," and who further has said, "I will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is expected to forgive all men." So when we partake of the sacrament of the Lord's supper, as we do from time to time, let us purge from our hearts all feeling of unkindness toward one another and toward our brothers and sisters who are not of our faith. Let us labor clay by day that our Father may bless us. If we have His Holy Spirit, the peo with whom we come in contact will feel it, because it will permeate the atmosphere in which we live, and they will partake of it and drink it in, even though they may not desire so to do. Let us magnify the Lord by keeping His commandments. Let us popularize His work by laboring to build it up and extend it among the children of men. Let us magnify one another by speaking good only, and by strengthening the hands of those who are weak, and assisting those who are less patient than ourselves. 

I rejoice this day that there are so many of the general authorities here, and that our Father has poured out His blessings upon us so abundantly in this conference. I pray that the influence and spirit of this gathering may go to the furthermost stakes of Zion, that it may be from one end of the land to the other, that there may be an awakening among the Latter-day Saints; that we may not take it for granted that those who live among us understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ, but that we may teach it to them, and teaching it, that we ourselves may receive a strengthening of our testimony. 

I know this is the work of the Lord, that Jesus was indeed our Savior, and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the Lord. I know those who have succeeded him have been men of God, who have honored the calling placed upon them. I know that our Father is blessing Zion at this time, and the man who holds the keys today is honored by all good men and women, wherever they may be in the wide world, who understand him. I feel this day to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that we will do well to live so that other men and women see us may feel to compliment the work of our Father, realizing by our conduct that we are members of the Church of Christ, they may feel to say, there is a good people. If we live up to the teachings of the Church, if we will keep all the commandments of our Father, men and women can say nothing else of us, because we will be the best people that live upon the earth. I believe we are that ahead)'', but there is room for improvement. Let us make this improvement; let us honor the Lord, honor the principles and opoprtunities He has granted us, and be a blessing to His children wheresoever they may be. I pray that His blessing may be in your hearts and in your homes, that your sons and daughters may be worshipers of the living God, that they may keep His commandments, and grow up to bear the names you have given them in honor among the children of men; that wherever they may go the light of the Spirit of the Lord may beam from their faces, bearing evidence of their integrity, their virtue and their worth. That this may be your privilege and mine, that we may work here to prepare for that great future life, and receive in the end from our heavenly Father that welcome plaudit, "Well done, good and faithful servant," is the prayer of your co-laborer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Duties of parents in Zion. — Wrong spirit in some young people. — The warfare of the Saints not carnal. — The Dowers of darkness. — Mission of the Saints. — Jesus, not Lucifer, the Firstborn. — Pre-existence of all mankind—Civil rights equal to all citizens.— Shall we stand the great test. —Final victory of light and truth. 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that I shall obtain the same attention and be led by the same good spirit which the brethren who have preceded me have enjoyed, not only this afternoon, but in all the meetings of this conference. I have seen it in print that the attendance at this conference was not so large as on some former occasions. I could not help marveling at that statement; for from the first meeting of the conference we have had a most splendid attendance. Not only has the lower part of this tabernacle been filled, with the exception of a few seats in the northeastern part, but the galleries also have been crowded with attentive Latter-day Saints, desiring to worship God and to be instructed in the things of His kingdom. The Spirit of the Lord has been poured out upon those who have spoken to us, from the opening remarks by President Joseph F. Smith down to the present time. I have enjoyed the sessions of this conference exceedingly. I have been pleased to see the desire manifest by the Latter-day Saints in their attendance and in their attention, and in the spirit which surrounds them and which they breathe. I have seen in this a token of the spread of the work of God and of the growth of His kingdom — His spiritual kingdom — in the hearts of the people, as well as the spreading forth of the visible Church of Christ among the nations of the earth. 

I hope that our children have been taught to learn the Ten Commandments, read to us this after by Brother Hyrum M. Smith,, also the precepts of the New Testament, that they may be familiar with them. I notice that our children in the Sunday schools are taught these precepts and these commandments, and they will grow up with a knowledge of them if they do not merely learn by rotethe lessons that are given to them,, and if they are also instructed in their homes in relation to these important things. I remember a story told of a man who made a bet that a friend of his did not know the Lord's Prayer, and the bet was taken up, the money was deposited, and the man who laid the money down was very confident. When he was asked to repeat the Lord's Prayer he said : 

"Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep; And if I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take." 

The other man said, "Well, the money is yours; but I didn't believe you could do it." (Laughter). It is alleged that this was a United States senator, but I consider that scandal. It may be true, however. What we need, my brethren and sisters, is to have these principles and precepts impressed upon our own minds, and also upon the minds of the rising generation. There is a spirit prevailing among a portion of the Latter-day Saints — young men — not the young ladies very much, but some of our young men, who are being led astray by a spirit and influence which does not proceed from God,, but from the Evil One, and I am: afraid that they have not been sufficiently indoctrinated in the principles and precepts of the Gospel of Jesus Christ so that they have grown up with them implanted iru  souls. This part of the work -devolves upon the parents in Zion. The Lord revealed in the beginning that inasmuch as parents having children in Zion did not teach them to understand the doctrines of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance and baptism for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the HolyGhost, when eight years old, the sin should be on the heads of the parents; and the inhabitants of Zion were to teach their children to pray, to observe the Sabbath -day, and to walk in all holiness before the Lord. They should teach them the precepts that we have "heard taught in this conference. I do not believe that so many of our young men would run wild, and <lrink into the spirit of the world, use intoxicants, and befoul their systems with tobacco and other things that the Lord has said are not good for man, if a proper example had been always set before them in the home and these principles had been instilled into their minds by their parents. They may learn these things in the Sunday school and easily forget them; but the force of examole in the home and the impressions made upon little children by their mothers are lasting, and will be upon their souls as long as they live in the flesh, and throughout all eternity. 

We have heard today that the Latter-day Saints do not desire to do evil to anyone. They do not seek to bring injury upon anyone. They do not attack the creeds of men. They do not go forth to fight. They do not wish to take up carnal weapons. But they have had to stand on the defensive from the beginning of tnis work. From the rise of the Church of Jesus 

Christ of Latter-day Saints it has been assailed. Generally speaking, the movements against it have originated among people of different religious faiths. It has been from persons professing to hold the Christian religion and to be teachers of it that the falsehoods and misrepresentations concerning us, our acts, our motives, our principles, have emanated; and they have been taken up by corrupt, wicked and evil-minded persons. And so the warfare has continued. We have stood in self-defense. Sometimes we have been a little vigorous in taking up these weapons, not the weapons that are called carnal, but polemics, arguments, statements of the truth, references to the scripture and to the lives and works of our leaders, whom we have held up as honorable men who desired to keep the commandments of God and to live in peace with their fellowmen. But a mission has been entrusted to the people of this Church, and that is, to publish the gospel of peace to the ends of the earth, to declare the truth, to bear witness that God has spoken again from the heavens, that He has restored the authority of the holy Apostleship and Priesthod, that He has placed the power and authority upon men on the earth, to represent Him and to act for Him, and that what they do by His authority and in the way He has appointed will not only be sealed and recorded on earth, but will be sealed and recorded in the heavens, and that this Gospel is "a savor of life unto life or of death unto death" to all that hear it. This mission is given to us. We are required to bear this Gospel abroad, or help to send it, until every nation, and kindred, and tongue and people under the whole heavens shall hear the sound of the Gospel and shall have an opportunity of receiving or rejecting it; and the consequences will be on their own heads. 

Now, in this great work in which we are engaged, as I have said, we do not expect to use carnal weapons. God has declared that He will fight our battles. He has told us not to be afraid of our enemies. I do not believe that the spirit of fear is among the Latter-day Saints. I know it is not among their leaders. We are not to be afraid of our enemies; for God has declared that He will fight our battles. It is true, He has permitted the Church to be driven from place to place. He has allowed the wicked to rise in their anger and wratn and slay some of the saints of God; and Joseph and Hyrum, those two noble brothers who lived toeerhe' in love and who died at the same time and went into the presence of their Maker, were martyrs for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus. But so it was of old; so it has been from the beginning. And while the Lord may permit these things to occur, out of all these seeming evils He will bring out good. The work of God has rolled forth, the principles of the Gospel have been preached, and the world has been roused up by the light that the Lord has sent into it, which has scintillated from the teachings of His servants. But the spirit and power of darkness are here, too, and there will be a great struggle until they are ovei come. 

I want to read two or three verses which have occurred to me while our brethren have been reading scripture. They are from the  of Paul to the Ephesians, in the 6th chapter, commencing at the 12th verse : 

"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. 

"Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able towithstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand." 

This is a real warfare that is taking place on this planet where you and I live. It commenced in thebeginning. It was made possible through transgression. Our parents in the Garden broke a law that God gave them, and by the breaking of that law the power of evil entered into this world. It is stated that in the beginning Satan entered the serpent, and Satan was the serpent;" that he was more subtle than any of the beasts of the field. That is his character. We learn a little about his character by that which he did before this globe was framed as a dwellingplace for the children of the Lord. He was in the beginning with the Father, as Jesus was. Jesus said, "I also was in the beginning with the Father, and am the firstborn." I know that some of our people have obtained a notion that Lucifer was the firstborn, and that he lost his place and birthright through transgression. But Jesus is the Christ, the firstborn among the sons of God, ''the firstborn of every creature." In that 93rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants, from which Brother George Albert Smith read just now, Jesus Christ, who was crucified on Mount Calvary, and who rose from the dead, and who sat at the right hand of the Father, and who in these last  has appeared with the Father and revealed the everlasting Gospel, makes the declaration that He was in the beginning with the Father, and was the firstborn. "Ye also," He says, "were in the beginning with the Father." "Man was in the beginning with the Father." We are the sons and daughters of God, and were in the beginning with Christ. When we speak about "the beginning" we mean the beginning as it relates to this earth on which we live. When the plan was formed for the formation of this globe, to go into its right place at the right time and in the right way, that it might revolve in its orbit and not interfere with the revolutions of any of the planets and stars that God our Father had made, that was "the beginning" spoken of in scripture. But with God there is no beginning, and there is no end. With intelligence which is the light of truth, there is no beginning, and there can be no end. The nature of our spiritual existence is on a par with that. But in our beginning as the sons and daughters of God we were there with the Father and with the Savior; and according to the revelations that God has given in these last days, the being who is called Lucifer, or Satan, or Beelzebub, or the serpent, or the adversary, or the accuser of the brethren, he also was there and led away "a third part of the hosts of heaven, because of their agency," and was indeed a subtle intelligence, but he prostituted the intelligence he had to an evil purpose. Through the transgressions of our first parents he obtained power on this globe, and he has held it from that time to the present. He has aided in setting up kings ana casting down kings. He is "the prince of the  of the air." He is that Evil One whom Christ will bind at His coming, that he may not any more have .power upon the face of this earth. But he is here now, and his hosts are here; and they have been from the beginning. 

I have not time to take up the scriptures and show the influences that he and his associates have exercised over nations and kingdoms,, princes and peoples; but suffice it to say that when Christ Jesus our Lord was baptized of John in the River Jordan, when He was thirty years of age, He was led by the Spirit into the wilderness that He might be confronted with that evil power which has been on the earth from the beginning. Light came upon the world, and there was also darkness. The conditions of this globe are typical of this spiritual condition. Light is here, and men may receive light. Darkness is here, and men may go into the deeds of darkness. When light comes into the world and they reject it, they do so because their deeds are evil, as Christ pointed out. Jesus was taken up into the mount that the spirit and power of darkness might be confronted with Him. He was shown the kingdoms of this world, with all their pomp and might, riches and glory and strength. That Evil One tempted Him, and said, If you will bow down and worship me, I will give you these; for they are mine. Of course, when he works he generally has a little truth mixed up with a great deal of falsehood. That is the way with that wicked one. There was this much truth in what he said to Jesus; he had obtained control, temporarily, over' the nations of the earth, he influenced them and their rulers, and they were under his dominion, but that dominion was only for a time. Still he promised Jesus that if He would worship him, he would give Him all these kingdoms and their glories. But Jesus told him to get behind. He understood better; He comprehended that that was the spirit of darkness. So it was when the same being confronted Moses, as we read in the Pearl of Great Price. 

I merely refer to that to show the attitude of this being. According to the Book of Mormon, he is an individual. According to the Doctrine and Covenants, he is a personage. According to the Bible, he is a spiritual person. He is here on the earth, as Paul says, going about "like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour," or as a serpent, trying to tempt and lead mankind from God. Now, that spirit is in the world — the spirit of the power of darkness, the spirit of that wicked one. After Jesus Christ had been in His ministry for some time He declared, "The prince of this world cometh, but he hath nothing in me." Jesus had been tried and tempted by him; all kinds of arts had been brought to bear upon our Savior; but they utterly and completely failed, and Jesus was without blemish or spot. He knew no sin. Guile was not found in His mouth. He kept every commandment; and He came, not to do His own will, but the will of Him that sent Him. So when the prince of this world came along, there was nothing in Christ that he could touch; for He was sinless and spotless. 

Now, if we will keep the commandments of Christ and walk in the spirit of our Redeemer, there will be no place for Satan in our hearts nor in our homes. But these powers of evil are on the , and they have come down, as John saw them in the vision, just before the time of the end, "having great wrath; for they know that their time is short." How do they work? Why, if they can, they work through the children of the kingdom. If they can, they move upon you, upon me, upon every man and woman in the Church that can be tempted or drawn aside. But after we have resisted, again, and again, the time will come when they will cease their personal efforts upon us; but they will attack us through our children, or our companions in the home — the man or the woman in the home who does not keep the commandments of God. Snares are laid particularly for the rising generation. These spirits are here in this city. They are throughout the land. They are measurably over all the earth; but they are concentrated in their efforts to a large degree right here where we live. Now, we have no personal warfare against even our enemies. Those who slander and abuse,  who try to irritate us to make us respond and retaliate, let them do that and fail. Let them go on with their evil works. Daniel saw in the vision of the last times, that "the wicked should do wickly, and none of the wicked should understand;" but the wise shall understand, he says, "and they that turn many unto righteousness shall shine like the stars and like the sun forever and ever." Let them go on, therefore, with their evil work. But let us do our work of light and truth and righteousness. 

I am sorry to hear remarks that come sometimes from some of our young men, showing that they have drunk into this evil spirit of slander and reproach against men who are pure in their lives, who are 

-serving God, who are serving their country, and who are doing their duty. I will say here for myself, that I think every man in this Church, no matter what authority he may have in the priesthood, has just as many civil rights as any other American citizen. I do not claim for him any more, and I do not concede that he has any less. Every man who is an America?i citizen stands, according to the theory, equal before the law. It is not true that we are all born equal in size or in physical stature or strength, or in wealth, or in intellect, or in some opportunities; but every person born in the United States, or legally naturalized, is a citizen on an equal plane with other citizens, so far as the rights and privileges of a citizen are concerned. I have heard some of our young men talk in a way that shows they do not appreciate that, and they are drinking into the spirit of opposition which comes from that Evil One. I have no doubt that there are some people opposing this Church who are mistaken, and who are not corrupt or wicked in their intentions, but their eyes are blinded by the powers of darkness. But the root of this opposition is in iniquity, in darkness, in corruption, in evil. Scan the lives of many of those who speak, and particularly fight, against the Church of God and against His Zion, and you will find that they are of the character that has been mentioned here today. But we do not want to bring that up against them. We are not fighting against them as individuals. Our warfare is with these powers that are behind the veil; and the only way to fight them effectually is to bar them from our souls, and to teach our children the principles of eter life, that they may not become subject to these evil powers. If we yield to them, they will become the masters. Satan cannot obtain the mastery over any human being, except by yielding to him. We are his whom we list to obey. "Resist the devil and he will flee from you," the Lord says. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we are in one of those tests that have occurred frequently— one of those trials that come upon this Church; and it remains to be seen what we will do. The Lord allows these periods to come upon us that we may be tested, tried and proved, to see if we will stand firm, as we are exhorted to do in what I have read to you. Shall we stand firm, or shall we yield? Shall we give place to the devil and his works, or shall we stand as a united body of the saints of the living God, to serve our heavenly Father, keep His commandments, and preserve the rights and privileges which we should enioy in common with all other people upon this goodly land ? We love the Constitution of our country, as we have heard today. We love the institutions which secure to mankind that liberty which all the sons and daughters of God should enjoy; and we hope to see the principles of liberty spread throughout the world, and the flag of liberty floating in every breeze, and that the time will soon come when all people shall be free to serve God and keep His commandments, or to take that course which pleases them, the consequences being in the hands of the Lord, and will be dealt out to them according to justice and mercy. But we do not want to fight with any carnal weapons. We do not want to descend to the measures and plans and methods of the ungodly and the wicked and corrupt. We do not want to be brought under their dominion, either. And I will tell you that if we will stand firm in the liberty with which God has made us free — in the Gospel, which is the perfect law of liberty — God will take care that out of all the seeming evil good will come, as He brought light out of darkness in the beginning of this globe. He is above all; He is over all. His power and dominion stretch out through the vast domains of space, on this earth and all others that He has created. He has purposes in regard to us as well as to them, and He has sent us down here on the earth for a time and a season, that we may be proven, tested and tried, to see what we are worthy of, so that in the future we mav be placed where we belong, and have glory, immortality and endless increase, with dominions, and kingdoms, and principalities and powers forever, if we are fit to have them; and if not, that we may go!.o our own place, receive the judgment which we ought to have, and enter into that degree of glory for which we fit ourselves. 

Now, shall we stand firm in the Gospel of Christ? Shall we resist the powers of evil? Shall we take care that in our own personal conduct and lives we shall be worthy of the Spirit of the Lord, that Satan can have no dominion over us, in body or in spirit? Shall we stand by the servants of the living God whom He has called and appointed to lead His people in the last days ? Shall our hearts go out to them? Shall we stand by them under every circumstance, in every condition? Shall we be true to the Priesthood that God has restored? Shall we be true to the Gospel which He has revealed? 

Shall we teach our children the things of the kingdom, and train them up in the fear of the Lord? Shall we check our boys and our girls when they would depart from the right and from the straight and narrow way? Teach them tr> keep the Sabbath holy. Teach them to come out from the wicked, and be not unclean as they are. Teach them to shun the very appearanceof evil. Teach them to be pure in heart, in spirit, in word, and in act, as well as in body. Teach them to observe the preceots that are continually being presented. Then the blessing of God will be upon Zion, and she will arise and shine; and though the wicked may look upon her and say, Let her be defiled, God shall deliver her out of all her afflictions in the future as He has done in the past, and bring her off more than conqueror. Christ Jesus, our King, shall come and bind Satan with the chain of the Holy Priesthood, that he may be banished from the earth, and the earth delivered from his influence and his bondage, and prepared for the coming of our Eternal Father, whose tabernacle will be with men, and He will dwell with them and be their Father and their God, wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more sorrow and no more pain and no more death. God hasten Jhe day, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED, 

President Joseph F. Smith presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Uevelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney and David O. McKay. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the first presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as trustee-intrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., assistant historians. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, 

Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

(Elder John Nicholson was honorably released, because of failing health.) 

RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

Bathsheba W. B. Smith, President; Annie Taylor Hyde, First Counselor; Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, Secretary; Clarissa S. Williams, Treasurer; Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipp, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrill Home, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Margaret A. M. Caine, Rebecca E. Little,_Elizabeth S. Wilcox. 

Missionaries' General Society — Harriet Ann Badger, Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary A. C. Lambert, Mary T. Smith, Hattie B. Harker, Priscilla Smith, Leila Merrill Allen, Marian Y. Hardy, Isabel M. Whitney Sears. 

RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES'' DEPARTMENT. 

Emma A. Empey, Superintendent; Phebe Y. Beatie, Secretary and Treasurer; Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, instructors. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

Joseph F. Smith, General Superintendent; George Reynolds, First Assistant General Superintendent; David O. McKay, Second Assistant General Superintendent. 

Members of the Board — Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, David O. McKay, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign. 

George D. Pyper, General Secretary; George Reynolds, Treasurer; John A. Burt, Business Manager. 

GENERAL BOARD YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Joseph F. Smith, General Superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Assistant General Superintendent; B. H. Roberts, Assistant General Superintendent; Edward H. Anderson, Secretary and Treasurer; Evan Stephens, Musical Director; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Music Director. 

Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Ovando C. Beebe, Lewis T. Can, Philip S. Maycock, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Louis A. Kelsch, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe. GENERAL BOARD YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Martha Home Tingey, President; Ruth May Fox, First Counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, Second Counselor; Ann M. Cannon, Secretary; Agnes Campbell, Assistant Secretary; Alice K. Smith, Treasurer; Maria Y. Dougall, Honorary Member; Alice Calder Tuddenham, Music Director; Mattie Read, Organist; Lizzie Thomas Sardoni, Assistant Organist. 

Aids — Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Susa Y. Gates, Minnie J. Snow, May Booth Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Elizabeth ' C. McCune, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle Neff Caldwell, Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace. 

GENERAL BOARD OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS. 

Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, and Clara W. Beebe, Counselors; Olive D. Christensen, Secretary; Margaret C. Hull, Asst. Secretary; Emeline McMaster, Treasurer; Veri I. Felt, Recording Secretary; Ida B. Smith, Librarian; Norma Fenton, Organist; Lillie T. Freeze and Josephine R. West, honorary members. 

Aids — Aurelia S. Rogers, Lulu L. Greene Richards, Isabelle S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza Slade Bennion, Edna L. Smith, Edna Harker, Grace F. Folland, Alice L. Howarth, Anne Wallace, Emma 

Romney, Rebecca Nibley, Lucy Stringham, Zina Y. Card, Vilate Peart, Maria B. Winder. 

RELIGION CLASSES. 

Anthon H. Lund, General Superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant General Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant General Superintendent; Joseph J. Cannon, Secretary. 

Members of the Board — Anthon H. Lund, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smithj Henry Peterson, Horace H. Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Rulon S. Wells, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph W. McMurrin, Louis A. Kelsch, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose. 

BOARD OF EXAMINERS FOR CHURCH SCHOOLS. 

Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford, Willard Young. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR. 

Evan Stephens, Conductor and Manager; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball, Assistant Organist; Noel S. Pratt, Secretary; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Treasurer and Librarian, and ail the members. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, Charles W. Nibley, August W. Carlson. 

All were sustained by unanimous vote of the conference. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn commencing: 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art able, Hold us with Thy powerful hand. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith, and conference was adjourned till Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. Sunday, October 7, 10 a. m. 

The Tabernacle was excessively crowded, and it was announced that an overflow meeting, would be held in the Assembly Hall. 


