Afternoon
05 04 1937

The fourth session of the Conference was held Monday afternoon at 2 o'clock. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." 

Elder Joseph B. Harris, President of the San Juan Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A vocal duet, "I am Sure I Shall not Pass this Way Again," was sung by Sisters Ruth Jensen Clawson and Alice Jensen 'Holbrook. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

It is a great pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to meet again with you in a General Conference of the Church. I feel sure that our prayers have been answered, for have we not asked our Father in heaven to enable our leaders to give unto us that which would mark clearly the way in which we should go? 

As I listened to President Grant yesterday morning, when he spoke on the Word of Wisdom, I could not help but feel that I hoped the Lord would give him a desire to preach on that principle of the Gospel as long  he lived, and when he is no longer with us, that the Lord would raise up another who could preach on it with the same power that he does. 

I believe that when the Lord announced to the Prophet Joseph Smith that a marvelous work and a wonder was about to come forth among the children of men, that work was to include many important things, one of which I think is the Word of Wisdom. I believe that in that alone we shall always stand out as distinguished from all other religious denominations in the world. While today men are talking of uniting the churches, they never will want to unite with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as long as we are true to that great principle. 

Speaking of the marvelous work and wonder that was to come forth, in our mission we try to help the missionaries to grasp the truth of that statement, and to interpret the Gospel in terms of a marvelous work. Referring, for instance, to the Book of Mormon, great stress is laid upon the value of that book as the most tangible evidence of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sometimes it seems rather insignificant, when you take the Book in your hand, to think of offering it for fifty cents to the people you meet. Then, when you stop to analyze what it really is, in and of itself, it is a marvelous work and a wonder. 

I read an article in a newspaper recently on a visit to this land of the United States by Dr. William A. Kennedy, of Lima, Peru. He was here in the interest of securing financial support for the establishment of a university there to investigate and make research into the early civilization of the Americas, particularly dealing with the civilization of the Incas and the Mayas, and President Herbert Hoover had been asked to serve as one of the directors in this school, for which I understand a franchise has already been issued. 

The paper reported that he had been assured of an endowment of $30,000,000, which amount would be increased to sixty or seventy million dollars within the next ten years . 

Now, think of that! The value of the history of the early inhabitants of this land is considered to be worth at least $70,000,000, and we offer them more than they will ever know, after all their research, for the price of fifty cents! After they have searched all the archives and the discoveries of men, then they will only have a dead record. It will speak only of the past. Whereas the Book of Mormon does not only tell of past civilizations, but it declares in most emphatic terms the ultimate destiny of this great land. Who can read the words of the prophets, and not know that, from the time when God first led his children here, after the destruction of the Tower of Babel, he designated this land as a choice land, choice above all other lands, and from that time until this it has been preserved as in the hollow of his hand, to serve some great destiny. 

Read the words of the Book of Mormon, declaring that upon this land the New Jerusalem of the Lord, our God, shall be builded, which shall ultimately be taken to heaven and again return when the earth is purified. Read the promise contained in that Book, that Jesus Christ is the God of this land and the king thereof; that every nation that shall lift its hand against this land shall perish, "For I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king." I wonder what the nations of this world would think if they knew that the God of heaven had decreed that he would fortify this land against all other nations. 

When we stop to analyze and think what the Book of Mormon contains, in addition to what might be discovered through the expenditure of this $70,000,000, is not this a marvelous work and a wonder ? I would like every missionary in our mission to feel when he approaches a home, offering a Book of Mormon, that he is offering something that is worth more than all the gold and silver of this world. If they read it and are touched by the divine spirit contained in its pages, they certainly cannot help but believe it. 

Years ago, when I was doing short-term missionary work in the Eastern States, we were out on the street corner one night, and a young missionary said to me, following the meeting: "Brother Richards, I don't know the Gospel is true." I said: "You don't?" and he said "No." I said: "You take the Book of Mormon and go home and read it, and don't you quit reading it until you know the- Gospel is true." We went out on the street about two weeks later and he stood up in his turn and said: "If the Book of Mormon isn't true, you tell me how Joseph Smith knew that those cities were buried in the depths of the earth out in Central and South America." When he was through I patted him on the back and said : "It works, doesn't it ?" 

When I was in Holland a sister came to me whose love for the truth had been somewhat disaffected, even though she had been a former worker in the Church, but through jealousy she had become lukewarm. Following a very inspirational meeting she said: "Brother Richards, tell me how I can get my testimony back." "Well," I said, "I will tell you if you will follow my instruction," and she said she would. I said : "When you can put all malice out of your heart, you go in to your own secret chamber and ask the Lord to reveal unto you the truth of the Book of Mormon, and then you read it chapter by chapter." She said : "I don't need to do that. I already know the Book of Mormon is true." "Then," I said, "you know all the rest of the story that goes with it." 

Now, I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, that in the analysis of every phase of our work, to me it is a marvelous work and a wonder. 

A young man arrived in the mission field a few months ago. He had had two years of college work. He said that he had received his call two years ago, but it took him that long to make up his mind to accept it. He said : "You know, I am a very practical man. I like to be able to go out in the orchard and pick the pears and eat them, and then I know it is a pear tree." When he was through I said : "Now, my boy, I want to tell you that pears grow on our tree too. Here is the Book of Mormon. With your analytical mind you take the little book, the "Seven Claims of the Book of Mormon," prepared by Dr. Widtsoe and Dr. Harris, and when you have analyzed those claims and the Book of Mormon, you come 

ELDER LEGRAND RICHARDS 65 

back and tell me if there isn't just as tangible proof that that Book is true as the eating of a pear is that the tree is a pear tree." 

I met him out in his district about six weeks later and he gave a fine testimony. I put my arm around him, and said : "Have you found any pears on the tree ?" He said: "Oh, forget it, Brother Richards." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I want to say to you that I thank the Lord for my membership in this Church; and I thank him for every opportunity of service that has come to me. I am on my fourth mission. I have presided twice as a bishop, once as president of a stake, served on two high councils, and I want to testify to yOu that the Lord or this Church owes me nothing. I have been repaid a thousand fold for all I have ever done for the Church, and I hope I shall never falter. 

God bless you all, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that while I stand before you my remarks may be guided by the Spirit of God in whose name this Conference is conducted. 

I have listened with a great deal of interest to the statistical summary of the condition of the Church, the admonitions and the suggestions made by the brethren during these two days of conference. I have tried to probe into the heart of that which has been said to discover what I should say to fit in with that which has been said. 

PROGRESS BRINGS RESPONSIBILITY 

Many thoughts have come to me, — first and foremost a sense of gratitude for the progress of the Church, and secondly, a sense of the responsibility that rests upon every person who receives great favors. As I have thought these things over one thought has come to me more than any other — it has presented itself over and over again — an old and simple thought, one familiar to every Latter-day Saint and to every God-fearing man upon earth. I would like to present that to you even though it be elementary in its nature. 

As a young man, when I began my training for my life's work, I dipped into science and history, and gave attention also, I am grateful to say, to the restored Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I was thrilled by the thought that I belonged to an advancing day, that the day to which I belonged was not as yesterday, but was moving onward; throughout my life I have gloried in and thrilled to the thought that I live in an advancing day and age in the history of the world. 

PERMANENCE ENCOMPASSES EARTH'S CHANGES 

Of late, however, within the last few years at the most, I find that we no longer speak of an advancing day. We speak now of a changing day. This has greatly disturbed me because change Is not necessarily advancement. I must know in what direction change takes place. If I live in an advancing day, then I know the change is one that I may favor and to which I may cling. But unless I am certain of the direction of change, I hesitate to accept it. 

We do live in a changing day. There is no question about that. We have the steamboat, the railroad; electricity with all its wonders; the radio, magnifying my voice at the present moment; we have a thousand other wonders which have changed the older day. But, I cannot believe that these changes represent anything of real, fundamental importance to me as a son of God. I cannot help but believe that the elementary, the eternal, the fundamental things are just as they were thousands of years ago. 

This is not a changing world in the last analysis. This is a permanent world. Change, at the best, is but a play upon permanent, unchangeable, eternal principles. It cannot be otherwise. The mountains may be worn down; they have been worn down; the high mountain may be reduced to a valley — but that which made up the mountain still exists. The particles, the elements, are but used in some other day for the furtherance of the great purpose back of all existence. 

DESIRABILITY OF PERMANENCE AND PROGRESS 

There is no change of value to us, unless it be upward, onward, forward, advancing. That is the thought that has been with me these two days. If any principle or change is connected with and uses eternal principles then it becomes progress. If it is not attached to such eternal, unyielding principles, it may be nothing more than chaos. I must search out for myself these eternal principles and by their use make this day one of permanence and progress. My message to the Latter-day Saints on this occasion is that we would do better not to speak so much about the changing day but say more about the day of permanence, — the day which has existed from the beginning in the mind of the Almighty who is the same yesterday, today and forever. 

"TO YOUR FIRST PRINCIPLES, O ISRAEL" 

. I think that my friend had that in mind when I met him on the street the other day. He said to me, "We would better get back to first principles." I remembered then an old slogan, an old battle cry handed down from the days of Israel "To your tents, O Israel," said the Prophet of old, and all Israel went to their tents and carried on in new and better ways. 

The Prophet Brigham Young made the same statement when he began the exodus into the West, "To your tents, O Israel." And today, "To your first principles, O Israel," should be our battle cry. We need not make a slogan of the minor things that sometimes disturb us and blind our vision. 

You would like to ask me as I speak on this subject if there are any principles of conduct to which we may cling with certainty. We have many. There is the code for human conduct given thousands of  ago known as the "Ten Commandments." These were given to the Prophet Moses amid the thunderings and lightnings of Sinai — a code which I am fully convinced was known to our Father Adam. I know that some people in our day say that "The Ten Commandments belong to a by-gone day, to a horse and buggy day." That I do not believe. To love God, to be kind, to be merciful, are as safe guides for human conduct today as they ever have been. We shall never out-live the eternal principles contained in the Ten Commandments. I have the feeling that if this people and the world at large would read and re-read, would practice and practice again, the simple commandments given on Sinai, we would solve many of the problems that disturb us today. It seems an intellectual folly or a mental aberration for men to disobey these fundamental invariable principles, commandments of God, and then attempt to solve the larger and more difficult problems of human existence. 

"Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not lie. Thou shalt not steal." Do we kill, in this age ? Do we lie, in this age ? Do we steal, in this age ? Suppose we search our own hearts! Suppose this nation search its great heart to discover if these simple commandments are being obeyed. Do we return the dollar we find on the street when we know the owner ? Do we use the law as a shield to defraud the widow, and call it business ? I would like to put questions like these to my brethren and sisters who are before me and to all the Church. These are fundamental questions. Until we learn to speak the truth, to be honest, there will be no safety in the world. There can only be chaos and commotion and blood-shed and wars. We do not need to read books of philosophy to solve the problems of this day. The principles we need to follow have been given us throughout the ages by the Lord from our Father Adam until the - present day. 

OBSERVANCE OF TEN COMMANDMENTS A PRESENT-DAY OBLIGATION 

As I have said some people hold that the Ten Commandments belong to a by-gone age. That cannot be so for I remember that the Lord in this generation reiterated to the Prophet Joseph Smith the principles that are found in the Ten Commandments, and the Lord in this day added something to the Ten Commandments as reported by Moses; and he made them more emphatic, for he said not only "Thou shalt not steal; thou shalt not lie;" but added, that "he who steals or lies shall be cast out unless he repents." 

I feel deeply on this matter, my dear brethren and sisters. It grieves me that I am not able to hang my overcoat in a public corridor for a half hour and then reasonably expect to find it again. It grieves me to know I cannot trust the people of my generation, my fellow men; that they are directed by selfish motives to the extent of telling untruths. 

I would like to say also, that that which we do in opposition to the simple commandments of God, so often forgotten, changes and injures the very being of a man. The body is changed as well as the mind and soul, by that which we do. It is now a finding of modern science that prayer itself and the life of truth influences definitely and favorably the body itself, nerves, blood, the muscles, every part of us, physically, as well as mentally and spiritually. We are touched and changed by that which we do, for good or evil. The dishonest man corrupts his body; the honest man makes it grow into greater strength and power. Therefore it is not a little thing to keep the eternal commandments given for our guidance in life. We reap our reward as we go along life's pathway. 

SECURITY IN OBEDIENCE 

We have many speakers and little time. I bear my testimony to the virtue and value of obedience to the simple commandments of Almighty God, those contained in the Ten Commandments, in the Beatitudes, in the messages that come to us from time to time from the inspired leaders of the Church who have spoken to us during this Conference. 

I bear witness to you that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. We are engaged in his work. Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, called in this day and generation to establish the work of God. We are traveling on safe ground, for Revelation is the rock and foundation of the work. I rejoice in my possession of this testimony, and I pray that it may grow within my heart, and within the heart of every Latter-day Saint, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Only a few days ago there was being commemorated the greatest event of human history, namely, the resurrection of Jesus Christ, our Lord, which only a few days earlier was preceded by its companion event, namely, his crucifixion. 

This year, as well as in years gone by, many prominent speakers have so ably discussed these important and hope-inspiring events that it may seem rather presumptuous, on my part, that I should undertake to make further comment, and yet there are a few features which I would like to emphasize in which there appears to be a variety of conflicting views, and which, if the Lorad will guide me by his Holy Spirit, I shall endeavor in part, at least, to clarify. In doing this I shall give heed "to the more sure word of prophecy"; nor shall I deviate therefrom, nor yet attempt any private interpretation of my own. 

These two wonderful events must be considered jointly if we are to understand their real meaning. They represent the burning questions of life and death; not only for Christ, our Lord, but for all mankind. 

Let us first consider the crucifixion : 

The crucifixion represents death, and suffering, or punishment for sin. We cannot appreciate the enormity of that suffering — that punishment for sin, which Christ endured in the garden of Gethsemane and upon the cross. "But," says one, "Christ did not sin." Very true, and yet he suffered for sin, not his own sin, for he had none; but Christ suffered for , the just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. (I Peter 3 :18.) This intense pain and unbearable agony of his suffering we may not know, and yet he, even the Son of God, suffered these things, which suffering both in body and spirit, caused him to tremble with pain and bleed at every pore, even causing him to pray, saying, "O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless not as I will but as thou wilt." But this had been ordained of God in order to satisfy eternal justice, and so, we read —  

For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent; 

But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I. (D. and C, 19:16-17.) 

And again : 

Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. (Luke 13 :3.) 

Was this death and all this suffering for Adam's transgression only ? No, not by any means. The penalty attached to Adam's action was death, not only for himself, but for all his posterity, and again, not only was it the temporal death, or death of the body, but also spiritual death, which is banishment from the presence of God. And thus Adam and all his descendants would have been eternally lost unless some plan had been provided for their redemption. 

Adam and Eve transgressed the law under which they lived in the Garden of Eden. The Lord said to them : 

Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. 

But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, nevertheless, thou mayest choose for thyself, for it is given unto thee; but, remember that I forbid it, for in the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. 

While the Lord forbade it, as we see, yet it was a part of the great plan of salvation, essential to the salvation of man, and we speak of it as a transgression of the law of heaven that mortality might be granted unto man. The will of the Lord is done in heaven. Why did the Savior teach us to pray: "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven" ? 

Obedience to the will of God is the law of heaven — a necessary condition. Any deviation from his will would create confusion, disorder and disaster, and heaven would not be heaven if his will did not prevail. In this great sidereal universe there is an equilibrium maintained and upheld by the laws of God who created it; let one of those laws, or forces of nature, as some are inclined to call them, either centripetal or centrifugal forces, be suspended even for a day, and this universe would suffer crash in violent collisions, or disintegrate by its members flying off into an endless space never again to return. The equilibrium of heaven must also be maintained and upheld by strict obedience to the will of God. 

Adam and Eve hearkened to the devil and hence were cast out of Eden, which was paradise. But, shall we suffer for Adam's transgression ? In answer let me quote the second Article of our Faith : 'We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. 

But, is there no escape from this suffering — this punishment for individual sin? Yes, if we will repent. Now, let us consider the resurrection. 

The resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. (D. and C. 88:16.) 

Redeemed from what? Redeemed from death and the grave. "O death where is thy sting ? O grave where is thy victory ?" This is what the resurrection of Christ means to us. 

The resurrection then represents life, joy; immortality which is universal; for all are made alive again; and eternal life in the presence of God, which comes only to those who repent, and for all such there is no more suffering, no more punishment for sin, for Christ suffered for all who would repent, but if they would not repent then shall they suffer for their own sins even as the Lord Jesus Christ suffered. They will have to pay the penalty themselves, being cast down to hell to endure the punishment which comes to those who will not repent, even though their punishment should last for a thousand years. (D. and C. 76 :84, 85.) 

How beautifully these two events are symbolized in the ordinance of baptism. The Apostle Paul had a very clear understanding of it as shown in his epistle to the Romans : 

Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? 

Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. 

For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection. (Romans 6:3, 4, 5.) 

How completely then are the crucifixion and the resurrection of our Lord, these two historic events — the greatest events of human history — how beautifully are they symbolized in the holy ordinance of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. And what an unjustifiable change the sectarian world has perpetrated by substituting sprinkling in lieu of immersion, thus destroying utterly its sacred meaning, its beautiful symbolism of the death and burial of our Redeemer on the one hand and on the other his glorious resurrection. A base perversion of a holy rite almost amounting to a sacrilege. 

All through the history of God's dealings with the children of men these two great historic events have been proclaimed both in prophecy and in symbols in order to impress upon their hearts their only hope for a life beyond the grave — the sacrifice for sin, the passover, the slaying of- a male lamb without spot or blemish, and with its blood striking the door posts as a means of saving the children of Israel from the plague decreed upon the first born of the Egyptians; Abraham's offering of his son Isaac; Job's testimony of his own resurrection and of his living Redeemer. All these and many more proclaim the supreme sacrifice made by Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, who was indeed without spot and  blemish, and who suffered for our sins — the sins of the whole world if they would repent. 

These events are also symbolized from the very beginning even in the Garden of Eden. God planted a garden in the east of Eden with trees that provided for the bodily needs of Adam and Eve of which they were freely to partake, but in the midst of the garden he also planted the tree of knowledge of good and evil and forbade them from partaking of its fruit. 

Also the tree of life was planted in the midst of the garden just as was the tree of knowledge of good and evil, and lest Adam and Eve might partake of the fruit of this tree and live forever in their sin they were cast out of Eden and cherubims with flaming swords were placed at the entrance to guard the way to the tree of life. Thus it will be seen how these two events are symbolized in the Garden of Eden. Death and suffering, or punishment for sin, symbolizes the crucifixion of the Son of God, and his resurrection is symbolized by the tree of life, or in other words, life after death, which comes to all, and also eternal life which, however, is withheld from men unless they shall repent. 

Now, let me quote the third Article of our Faith : 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

What are these laws and ordinances through obedience to which all mankind may be saved? They are: 1st — Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. 2nd — Repentance. 

3rd — Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. 

4th — Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Those who have faith in the Lord and repent of their sins and who render obedience to these outward laws and ordinances — which, however, must be performed by one who is commissioned of Jesus Christ to perform them — shall be saved. Washed clean in the blood of the Lamb of God, the suffering of Christ, shall also secure to them complete freedom from all suffering or any future punishment for sin. 

But, are we not to be judged according to the deeds done in the body? The right answer to this question is : "Most assuredly yes." And when we are finally brought to judgment before the Great Judge the books will be opened wherein our works are written — our deeds both good and evil — according to which we shall be judged. It will surely appear that there are two sides to our account — one for the good and one for the evil — the debit side and the credit side. And, if it shall be written on the credit side that we have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ and do now believe in him; that we have truly repented of all our sins and do now repent of them; if it shall be recorded that we have been baptized by immersion for the remission of our sins by one duly commissioned to perform that sacred ordinance, and that we have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by one having authority to bestow that blessing, then our account is balanced. Yes, far more than balanced. There will be a glorious credit balance that shall secure to us the Divine approval, and another book shall be opened which is The Lamb's Book of Life, and our names shall be entered therein, and we shall then receive the crown of Eternal Life — God's greatest gift to man — which he has promised to them who love him and keep his holy commandments. 

But, if when the books are opened it shall appear that we have rejected the counsels of God against ourselves, and have no such entries on the credit side of our account because we would not repent, the suffering of our Lord will not apply to us and we shall be cast down into hell to suffer for ourselves, and that too until the uttermost farthing has been paid — until our sins are purged away, even if it takes a thousand years and until the day of the Lord, when we shall have atoned for our own sins, and when that time comes then shall the gates of hell be burst asunder and the captive shall be let free. Even the gates of hell shall not prevail against the Church of Christ. All mankind shall be saved in one or another kingdom. Even the wicked, after they have paid the debt shall be admitted into the Telestial Kingdom, the glory of which surpasseth all understanding, but where God and his Christ are they shall never come, worlds without end. Thus God has provided for the salvation of all his children excepting only the sons of Perdition, those who shed innocent blood and who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him. 

These are a few of the reflections which come to me as we celebrate the Easter festival in commemoration of the resurrection of our Lord, and in giving expression to them I have endeavored to portray the true meaning and significance of these historic events as I find them recorded on the pages of Holy Writ. And, as I reflect upon them, my heart is filled with joy and gladness even to overflowing, and with gratitude and praise to him, the Giver of all good. 

May the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH J. DAYNES 

President of the Western States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, the admonitions, the encouragement, and the advice given in these sessions of Conference I feel will be appropriate, useful and beneficial to all who accept of the same. 

I was impressed this 1 morning very much with the warning given as to the conditions existing in the world, and I am reminded of a passage of scripture which I should like to read: 

Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord : 

And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from north even to the east, they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not find it. 

Likewise, I read these words : 

For the Lord is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints. 

It is said that a wise philosopher made this observation : 

I have diligently searched the Heavens and nowhere have I found God. 

I think if we look around the world today we will find that confusion is everywhere to be found; misunderstanding, misinterpretation, doubt, and uncertainty are all ever present. The world is fraught with anxiety. We read an article in the paper the other day concerning a condition existing way off in Egypt, where, in a monastery of one hundred monks, these monks went on a sit-down strike because they wanted to go modern. 

From Canton, China, we read an announcement that the police raided a southern province of China known as the "Superstition Belt," and confiscated one thousand man-made gods in an effort to stamp out idolatry. The authorities, fearing that wide-spread opposition would follow the drastic measures for the destruction of the metal and clay images, confined the images to a god concentration camp where the populace would be able to pray and burn incense to their favorite deity. 

We read in an Associated Press dispatch from Chicago of a large convention of churches there advocating the unification of a system that would make one church instead of many. In fact, there were forty different organizations represented, and the great bishop in charge said that he felt it was time for us to drop these different theories and ideas and be united under one hew organization to be called the United Christian Advance. 

We read of the conditions existing in Russia; that the preaching of religion is forbidden. There are twenty-five million children of school age who have been taught that there is no God. The teachers are forbidden to teach religion of any kind in the schools, all religious publications are banned, and 4,200 priests and those in charge of the churches have been confined to concentration camps and many have died in oblivion. At Moscow, where there were four hundred and fifty-four churches in existence, only some thirty now remain. Fourteen thousand churches were closed last year and few are left anywhere throughout the Russian countries. 

Many of these conditions that exist today, as we know, have been brought about as a result of confusion and misunderstanding with reference to religion. It is astonishing how men's ideas are warped; how small they become; and, not being sensitive to the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord, they do not desire to have truth penetrate their souls. If truth could make its imprint upon the hearts of men as the Lord intended, what a marvelous and wonderful thing it would be. 

Truth is a virtue akin to the divine, "eternal, unchanged evermore." 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ stands for the highest in intellectual development. It invites all men to come from wherever they may to join the great pilgrimage that will lead us to our great eternal home. It is marvelous when our souls are touched with the influences of the divine. It enables us to overcome prejudice and bigotry and become mellowed in our feelings, thus permitting the influence of God Almighty to touch us. 

I thank the Lord that this Church is one that has never had to change its policies, never had to change its creed or its doctrine; that there never has been a period when there has been a decline in enthusiasm or in numbers, but that it has grown year by year since its inception one hundred and seven years ago with a very meager beginning of six members, until today approximately eight hundred thousand are following the banner of Jesus, the Christ, the crucified Lord. 

I thank the Lord that there has come to me the opportunity of becoming a member of this Church. I thank my sainted mother and father for the glorious teachings that they gave me as a child to honor and sustain the Authorities of this great Church. It has been born and bred into me that if I will abide the counsel of those who preside over me I will never go astray, and I have undertaken in my weak and humble way to teach these same principles to my own boys and my girls and also to the wonderful missionaries in our mission, that they might have implanted in their hearts and souls that integrity and devotion that will make of them real, genuine, honest-to-goodness Latter-day Saints. 

This Church invites the world to come to it. It is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, in fact the Church of Jesus Christ and the Gospel of Jesus are one and the same, inseparable and indivisible, and we who have embraced its truths and live according to its glorious ideals and standards will assuredly go to our eternal homes, and there will be unfolded to us a glory and a beauty that will be very graciously received by us. 

I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that the three and a half years that Sister Daynes and I have spent in the Western States Mission have been the most beautiful picture in our lives. We have learned the meaning of love, of loyalty and likewise that of faith. We have undertaken to teach these precious truths to the missionaries sent us and to likewise stimulate the faith of the members of the great Church within the boundaries of our Mission. 

I am very happy to say that every one of our missionaries, some eighty-six in all, is well and happy and giving vigorously of his or her efforts for the great truths of the Gospel. 

My testimony has never lessened. It is greater and stronger and more fervent today because I know that the Gospel is true, God being my witness. I hope that I shall continue in the faith and be true to every trust that may be reposed in me. My peace and blessings to you all, my brethren and sisters. 

May God ever direct us in every path of duty I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 75 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, we have had a wonderful Conference thus far. We are a greatly blessed people, but we find ourselves in a world that is sometimes designated as "the lone and dreary world," and as we pass along we encounter many dangerous pitfalls, but the Lord in heaven has provided a guide to take us safely through. 

FOUR IMPORTANT BOOKS 

Let me draw your attention to the fact that we have four great and important books, comprising the standard works of the Church — namely, the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. These four precious volumes which contain the word of God to the children of men constitute the best library in all the world. I say this confidently without mental reservation. 

GIFT OF HOLY GHOST NECESSARY 

In connection with these important books that mean so much and are of such inestimable value to the Latter-day Saints, we have the gift of the Holy Ghost. This is highly essential because it is well understood that the prophets of old wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. And in order to understand and comprehend their writings we must study those writings with the same spirit by which they were written. So that I think I can safely say that this gift which is given without exception to every member of the Church, at the time of his or her baptism, enables Latter-day Saints, and even young children, in great measure, to understand the glorious doctrines of the Gospel; whereas without this gift the most learned and cultured people on earth could not comprehend the words of these sacred books. 

A SURE GUIDE 

In addition to all this, as constituting a sure guide, we have the living oracles of the Church. The prophets in the meridian of time have spoken to us, and now the prophets of the latter days speak; and it should not be forgotten that we have also had one hundred years of most important and valuable experience behind us. We have been well looked after. The Lord has ever been mindful of his people. He is near at hand. He hears their prayers and answers the righteous desires of their hearts. 

There are three great things connected with the guidance alluded to. First, during the past one hundred years a great and marvelous work has been accomplished by the Latter-day Saints; secondly, at the present time a further great and marvelous work is being accomplished; and, thirdly, there is room for great improvement. 

THE PURPOSE OF LIFE 

We read in the Book of Mormon the words of the prophet Lehi (and, mark you, he was a great prophet), — he said: "Adam fell that men might be, and men are, that they might have joy." In that line of but a few words is disclosed the purpose of life : The very purpose of life is then that men might have joy. 

Many people may be happy. Many people may be joyous. But no person, or people, can have a fulness of joy except under certain stated conditions, and those conditions are set forth in one of the great revelations given to Joseph Smith, the prophet. The words are these : 

Man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; 

And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. (D. and C. 93:33.) 

THREE DIFFERENT ESTATES 

We are told in the Pearl of Great Price that man's experience has come to him through certain estates. There is the first estate and the second estate and the third estate. In the first, pre-existent, estate man's experience was spiritual in its character. We were spirits there and we were happy. We belonged to a great family of spirits. It was a heavenly place and we were happy but we could not altogether appreciate that happiness because we had had no experience for comparison. We must have lived a great while. We must have learned much in that preexistent state but something further was essential; something needed to be added to us that was lacking, and that is shown to be the case by certain scriptures that are found in the Holy Bible wherein it is said, "God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into him the breath of life, and he became a living soul." 

Previously he was not a living soul, he was a living spirit. You are living souls; I am a living soul. Satan is not a living soul, neither are those wicked spirits who went with him, who rebelled in heaven and were cast out and came down to earth. Their punishment, according to the words of Joseph Smith, the prophet, is that they should not be given bodies. 

And so this gives us an idea of how very precious and desirable is the body. It is called the tabernacle of the spirit. It is called a living temple of God, and how wonderful that is, and it is only when we have attained to that condition that we can rise in the resurrection, after taking up these bodies, to exaltation and glory in that future third estate; so that we have in this matter of three estates a perfect brief citation of the purpose and meaning of life. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF THE BODY 

Bernard McFadden, the publisher of the Physical Culture Journal, pays a glowing tribute to the importance of the body. It is so much in line with the teaching of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that it seems to me possibly you would be interested in hearing what he says about the body. 

The title of this editorial is "Making our Body Glorious." 

Glorify God in your body is a Biblical command. It is a command also dictated by common sense. Your body is the house in which you must live all through life. You cannot move out of it until you make your last trip to the cemetery. 

To exalt and beautify the body exemplifies the highest degree of culture and intelligence. Your body should be treated with reverence. It should be cared for daily, and given every consideration. You should assume the responsibility as a sacred trust. Therefore, the acquirement of buoyant, vital health is a duty no one should neglect. 

Many of the tragedies that are so interestingly present in the vivid, life-like stories, were made possible because the body was treated with indifference. 

When you possess a hardy, vigorous body, your physical instincts give poise and add force to your character. Your very soul is more keenly alive. And you then have a foundation for spiritual power, that should be invaluable in the attainment of life's great riches of mind and soul. 

Nearly all criminals are physically as well as mentally defective. They have sinned against the body, and they had to pay the associated penalties. 

Man was made in the image of God, so the Good Book tells us. If you expect love and romance to come into your life, you should try and make your body godlike in its proportions. It is only then that masculinity and femininity possess the fascinating lure that leads to a sacred love. The glamor of romance, after all, serves a very practical purpose. It is made to perpetuate the home and guarantee the continuance of the race. Therefore, do not decry the body — your flesh and blood home. Give it careful consideration every day of your life. Make it strong, fine and splendid throughout its every part. 

In I Corinthians 3 : 16-17 we read : "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God?" * * * "If any man defile the temple of God him shall God destroy for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are." Regardless of your religious views, you cannot get away from the truth of this divine philosophy. 

Our bodily house can be built with such fine material that it will stand the stress and storm of the most severe nature. 

Even the most devastating sorrows that seem to sear the soul to the very limit can be lived down and the sunlight of life can still add zest and glory to your daily life if you properly assume the sacred trust of building and maintaining that hardy strength which is our natural heritage. 

THE SPIRITUAL AND THE TEMPORAL 

I have no doubt, my brethren and sisters, that we all concur in what is said, in this splendid editorial because it is in harmony with the teachings of the Gospel. The spirit is precious, the body is precious, and when joined together they constitute the soul of man. The spiritual body is greater than the temporal body, but even so we see how very important is the body and how careful we should be to refrain from taking into the body anything that would be hurtful to it or would have a tendency to defile it. 

In this Conference we have heard of the spiritual and we have heard of the temporal. I have never been able myself to draw the exact line between the temporal and the spiritual. The line, if such there be, is very fine and almost indistinguishable. 

THE TRUE CHURCH 

I solemnly testify, my brethren and sisters, before sitting down, that I do know absolutely that this is the true Church of the Redeemer of the world whose precious blood was shed that we might live and be redeemed and saved in the kingdom of God. I know also that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, faithful and true, and a wonderful man — wonderful indeed, and that his brother Hyrum, the Patriarch, was much like him. 

I rejoice in this testimony and pray that it may ever be with me, and I invoke God's blessings upon you, brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILFORD W. RICHARDS 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the clarity and the strength with which the principles of the Gospel have been taught to us in this Conference. It is indeed good to be here. 

We, in the North Central States Mission, believe that the present time is a very choice period in which to do missionary work. We are constantly being asked such vital questions as : What is behind all these things that are happening on Temple Block in Salt Lake City ? What is it that stimulates and maintains your great missionary system ? Why do you build these temples? How is your Security work organized and conducted? The answers to these questions carry much that is fundamental to our doctrine, our activity and our lives. People have always been interested in results. We as missionaries are delighted to point to some of these things as evidence of our activity and ability to meet the problems of the day. 

It would seem that the theme of this conference may easily be summarized in that passage from the 87th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and be not moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold it cometh quickly, saith the Lord. 

Our inspired leaders have in these sessions clearly marked the path, and not only indicated the holy places, but have indicated the safety associated with them. It is a sacred privilege to be permitted to stand therein. 

Our missionaries stand in holy places. As evidence of this, I suggest a recent experience in our Mission. It appeared necessary to leave one of our cities temporarily without missionaries, due to the release of one of our number. This plan brought from a non-member friend a fervent appeal that missionaries be returned to them. She spoke for her friends and neighbors and called our attention to the fact that they were being taught the sacred principles of the Gospel and needed sorely the help and leadership of the missionaries. 

In due time, I personally accompanied an elder as he returned to this city. Across the aisle in the train was a young man in the custody of a sheriff. The officer was returning his companion to face serious charges of infraction of the law. I witnessed the uneasiness of the young man. 

I heard him discuss the possibility of meeting his accusers, of facing a court and a jury with the possible loss of his freedom for months or years. He traveled at the expense of the state. When the time to eat arrived, he was taken into the diner. At night, he was led into the sleeping apartment of the train. Yet, with all of this, he was unhappy. He was uncertain of himself. It was quite evident he didn't stand in "holy places." 

In the same car traveled the missionary who was also being returned. He was not wanted by an accuser or the arm of the law. He was returning to an unselfish and a sacred service. He willingly paid his own transportation. For food he ate a sandwich and an apple. At night he secured what sleep was possible by dozing in his seat. He was radiating the spirit of calm and cheer as he conversed with fellow passengers. There was no disturbing conscience. He was at peace with himself and with others. He stood in "holy places." This situation, in contrast with the one just mentioned, clearly illustrates the value of the Gospel and the application of its truths. It thoroughly demonstrates the fact that the safe, sane and happy life is the one that is well-ordered and disciplined. It is not difficult to see and understand that the measure of one's achievement, progress and joy is viewed in terms of the degree to which he gives himself wholly and sincerely to the living of the fundamental and potent truths of the Gospel. 

In the North Central States Mission we have many choice and worthy people. One of these I desire to refer to as a man of faith, as the following incident will indicate. I speak of Brother Arnold Wadsworth of Chinook, Montana. A few years ago this brother had the misfortune to lose the sight of one eye. About a year ago, while working on his farm, the lever on a planting machine was accidentally released, striking him in the other eye, which resulted in the loss of sight there also. While receiving treatment in a hospital at Great Falls, Montana, following this accident, he was visited by President Edward J. Wood, of the Alberta Temple, who gave him a blessing with a promise that vision would be restored to the sufferer. For several months there was darkness, but always an abiding faith and a manly courage. Last December, Brother Wadsworth felt impressed to visit the Mayo Brothers at their noted clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, also in our Mission. Here the best of care and attention was given him. Several operations were performed, but each time accompanied by disappointment and apparent failure. After several weeks, an interview was called at which time he was told that nothing could be done for him. The operations had failed and there was nothing left for him to do but to return to his home and adjust himself to such life and activities as could be accomplished without sight. 

This man of faith replied that such could not be. He had been promised by a servant of the Lord that he would see and that he had come to this noted institution for the scientific skill required. Failure could not be accepted. Followed by a brief but intense silence, this answer came from the skilled physicians : "If that is your faith, your purpose and hope, we will try again." Another operation was arranged. A more healthful condition was found than had hitherto been discovered. Followed by other operations and special treatment sight came back into the eye. This experience is recognized as an outstanding event in the clinic. The scientists were deeply touched by it. This grateful man recently returned to his home able to see his loved ones, his associates, and to engage in his activities which had been impossible for many months. He speaks of this experience with a deep and sincere gratitude and a sacred recognition of the kindness of the Lord to him. He, too, stood in "holy places." 

May we, also, be able to stand in such places and be not moved. It is a privilege to drink deeply of the spirit and inspiration of this Conference as it flows through these, our presiding brethren. Such is our blessing, our guide and our refuge. May we all be strengthened by an appreciation of its full significance I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I rejoice greatly, my brethren and sisters, in meeting with you and enjoying the sessions of this Conference. I am fully in accord with everything that has been said to us during all these meetings. I feel that the instructions that have been given are of great value, and that, as Latter-day Saints, we should remember that which has been said, and, undertake to follow it out to the best of our ability for our own welfare. 

CORRECT PRINCIPLES SELF-GOVERNMENT 

I am reminded of a story that is told — I think most of you have heard it — of the time when the Prophet Joseph was in Nauvoo. Nauvoo had become a very flourishing and wonderful city, — the outstanding city of Illinois, — one of the most remarkable cities in the country at that time. It was situated on the frontier and of course did not enjoy the facilities that we have today. Visitors came from all parts of the country. Among them was a prominent minister who was quite interested in community welfare. He said to the Prophet Joseph: "How do you govern this people so remarkably well? There is order and harmony, and splendid results are being accomplished in this city." The Prophet Joseph gave that historic answer : "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." I think that is the keynote for us as Latter-day Saints in all the walks of life. 

LOVE OF MONEY THE ROOT OF EVIL 

President Clawson has referred to the fact that it is hard to distinguish between the temporal and the spiritual. We are concerned with temporal things as well as spiritual things. We need to act properly in temporal things and we need to grow spiritually. We should not allow  temporal things to over-balance spiritual things; because while we have to earn our own livelihood, we ought to keep in mind all the time that we are here for a time only, that this life is only part of our existence, and that eternal treasures are the things for which to strive. We are told by the Apostle Paul that the love of money is the root of all evil. Certainly the love of money may lead to some very serious conditions. Any man or woman whose whole heart is set upon the acquiring of wealth to the exclusion of things that are spiritual and in accordance with the principles, the Savior laid down is failing to appreciate some of the greatest things in life. Anyone whose efforts are so set upon the things of this world, that he does not show fair dealings and mutual helpfulness to his fellowmen, though he may accumulate wealth, is a failure. 

PRESENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

I have been trying to analyze in my own mind during this Conference something of the present economic conditions of the Latter-day Saints. I realize that there has been great improvement in a general way in economic conditions throughout the nation, and in our own localities. I would like to present a few figures to you to indicate something of the recovery that has taken place with, of course, the help of a great amount of Federal funds throughout the nation. These figures refer to the nation as a whole. 

COMPARATIVE BUSINESS INDICATORS 

In 1929 farm income was at a figure of 105, 100 being the normal. In 1936 it was 85. In department store sales in 1929 the index was 108. In 1936, 93. In business, activity in 1928 and 1929 it was 110. In 1936, 108. In the matter of employment in the durable goods industries, — the heavy industries which reflect and indicate in large measure the prosperity of the country, — the index in 1929 was 95. In 1936, 88. In demand bank deposits throughout the country, the total in 1929 was $13,500,000,000. In 1936, $19,000,000,000. 

In our own locality we find that building permits, for instance, in this city in 1929 were $5,670,000. In 1936, $3,373,000, or 60%. In some department store sales in this city, taking the volume in 1929 at 100%, the volume in 1936 was 75.2%. In wholesale groceries, with 100% in 1929, the percentage was 81.6% in 1936. In wholesale hardware, with an index of 100 in 1929, the index in 1936 was 122. In the matter of unemployment, the decrease during the' past two or three years has been very substantial. In fact, it appears that ordinarily, at present, of those who are qualified in the trades, there is, practically no unemployment. In my judgment, one of the best gauges of economic welfare in this intermountain territory is the measure of tithes paid. On a unit basis, this would indicate that in the year 1936 economic conditions among the people were about 83% of what they were in 1929. In respect of building construction, I think we have recovered probably less than in almost any Other phase of industry; but I believe that with the progress we are making in economic conditions, there will be a large increase in this activity in the future; which should take up a large part of the unemployment that prevails throughout this nation. 

IMPROVEMENT IN EMPLOYMENT 

I find in traveling among the stakes of Zion in many places there is relatively little unemployment and that people are feeling much better about conditions. Yet there is and always will be unemployment, and at the present time, particularly in the more densely populated sections, there is still considerable unemployment. It has been found true that a large proportion of the unemployed are those who have not particularly qualified for any line of industry. They have never become skilled in vocations or trades. I think that is one of the things that we ought to stimulate, to encourage and to assist in every part of the Church. All girls and boys among us should learn trades or vocations that will fit them best for life as far as practicable, in the localities in which they live. It appears that in this year, 1937, there will be constantly increasing opportunities for employment in the mining industry, in agriculture, in construction work and in generally increased business activity. 

DEVELOPMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 

In like manner, we should develop all our natural resources under proper state control, and develop industries suitable to local conditions. In Utah, for instance, in the matter of water supply we are not so fortunate as some of the surrounding states. Idaho is much better situated in water resources. To some extent Arizona also has this advantage, as well as California, Wyoming, and Colorado. Water is the very lif eblood of our communities. For lack of sufficient water some of our people have found it difficult, particularly in these drouth years that we have had, to mature proper crops and maintain the population we have, and that we ought to have, with the extent of fertile land in various localities. 

CONSERVATION OF WATER SUPPLY 

I say water is the lif eblood of this intermountain section. The State Engineer of Utah has been making a survey of small reservoir sites throughout the State. Utah has had proportionately less reclamation than any of the surrounding States. Yet all possible water supply ought to be conserved for irrigation of available lands. A large proportion of the people of the Church have been trained in agriculture and are living near to the soil. There ought to be every opportunity given to them, as far as possible, to maintain themselves in the communities in which they live. The results of the survey above mentioned indicate that there are about fifty-four small reservoir sites in addition to some other possibilities of additional water supply. If they can be developed, many communities throughout this State will be helped. I would like to encourage the Stake Presidencies and Ward Bishoprics in those communities where such possibilities prevail to cooperate in every way in an endeavor to get reservoirs  to provide supplemental water for theiinaturing of later crops in localities where our people have already established themselves. The water supply should be controlled and regulated in such a way that the people at large will have the benefit. In like manner it is important that all natural resources should be developed and protected for the welfare of all the people. 

CLASS AND FREAK LEGISLATION 

It seems to me at the present time there is an unusual tendency in our legislation not to consider the welfare of the whole people, but for various groups to seek to obtain legislation that pertains to their particular interests. Now, if there is any particular group that wants any legislation that is not for the welfare of the people as a whole, it is dangerous legislation. As citizens and leaders in these various communities, it should be realized that those who are elected or appointed to act in political office should cultivate the determination to deal fairly with all citizens and avoid anything in the nature of class legislation, for such things are bound to react in promoting strife and disunion. 

AVOID CLASS FEELING AND STRIFE 

There is a tendency among some politicians to stir up class feeling and to pit one group or class against another. That is a dangerous thing. The Lord's heart is open and his blessings come to all mankind; he is no respecter of persons, and in all lands and in all places those who serve him and keep his commandments are accepted of him. I think that ought to be the spirit of the Latter-day Saints everywhere. We should strive against anything in the nature of class feeling or class legislation. We have heard during this conference about the strikes that are prevailing at the present time. We are all familiar with these conditions. We must all come to understand that when such conditions develop, it is high time that both employers and employes shall be made legally responsible under the law in their dealings with one another. Also, it must be remembered that, in many such disagreements, the public at large suffers the consequences. Is it, therefore, not possible to work out some plan whereby friction may be avoided and whereby strikes may be promptly settled to avoid loss of wages to employes, deficits to the employers, and suffering to the public? There must be plans worked out, and proper legislation enacted, that will bring both sides of such controversies together under equitable conditions; otherwise, if they increase they will become a serious menace to the welfare and progress of this nation. 

WISE COUNSEL OF PRESIDENT GRANT 

There have been a number of legislative matters that have been enacted and policies promulgated against which warning has been given by the President of the Church; and I want to say to you, and I believe you will realize it if you will think back upon these things, that in every instance he was right in his counsel. If this advice had been followed we should all have better conditions. Now, we do not believe in blind obedience, but we do believe in discerning obedience. Every one of us is entitled to enjoy discernment. What is discernment? It is recognizing the difference between right and wrong, or developing clearness of judgment or insight. If we are living the Gospel we are entitled to enjoy the light of the Holy Spirit to guide and bless us, to enable us to judge rightly. We do not have to accept the judgment or counsel of the man who stands at the head of the Church here upon the earth; but we will know that the things he advises are right, if we will divorce ourselves from personal or political desires or ideas. We should strive to enjoy the spirit of discernment. The Apostle Paul tells us that one of the gifts of the Holy Ghost is the discernment of spirits. In like manner one of the gifts is discernment of right and wrong. What a wonderful thing it will be when we shall all learn correct principles, and have the discernment to govern ourselves in righteousness. Then we shall grow in justice and fair dealing, we shall avoid strife and contention, we shall enact and administer equitable laws, and improve in temporal and spiritual things. The Lord will prosper this people temporally as well as spirtually if we control our selfish feelings and strive to carry out his purposes. 

FOLLOW ADVICE OF LEADERS 

I rejoice in the truth of the Gospel. I" realize the fact that the Lord has beeni very kind to me; my brethren have been very kind to me, they have borne with me. I sustain these men who preside because I know they are men who have been selected of the Lord by the inspiration and power of his Spirit. And I want to say to you that I realize the Presidency of this Church are in a position to counsel us in righteousness. If we will forget personal feelings or selfish desires and will conform to such advice we will gain the blessings. The people as a whole will be prospered and blessed; and the people of the world will be greatly benefited if they will observe the instructions that are given to us here and that have been given to us all the years past. I know of a verity that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord Jesus Christ, that he was an instrument in the hands of the Lord in restoring the Gospel of which we are the beneficiaries, and that all those who have succeeded him as presidents of the Church have been empowered with the same power and spirit. They have enjoyed the spirit of their calling in rich measure. May the Lord continue to sustain President Grant, and bless all the officers throughout this Church, that they may be watchmen upon the towers, that they may listen to the instructions given by those in authority and carry the same to the people! May every one of the members of the Church cultivate the spirit of discernment and of righteousness, that all may learn proper principles and control ourselves for our own benefit and for the progress of the work of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

As a closing number, the congregation sang the hymn "The Spirit of God like a Fire is Burning." 

Elder T. George Wood, President of the Taylor Stake offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Tuesday, April 6, 10 o'clock a. m. 


