Afternoon
06 04 1937

The closing session of the Conference was held at 2 o'clock p. m., Tuesday, April 6, 1937. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers provided the musical numbers for this meeting. 

An anthem, "How Lovely are Thy Messengers" (Mendelssohn), was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

Elder Wilf ord G. Edling, President of the Hollywood Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Singing Mothers sang "O Morn of Beauty." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of,the Council of the Twelve Apostles I shall read four verses from the 53rd chapter of Isaiah : 

Surely'he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows; yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. 

But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities : the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. 

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth; he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. 

I shall depart from this text for a moment to say that I am happy in the fact that my faith, my feelings, and spirit have been in complete accord with all that has gone before, in the various sessions of this Conference, particularly in the selection of Brother Albert E. Bowen to fill the vacancy in the Council of the Twelve Apostles. 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

I am very thankful to the Lord for the Gospel and its blessings which I have received. I am thankful for the knowledge I have of this great plan of life and salvation; thankful for the evidences that God has provided by which to prove its truth, and for the testimony which I have received. 

I know that this work in which we are engaged is the work of the Lord, the true Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; that which was instituted in the councils of heaven before the world was. It is the power of God unto salvation to all those who are obedient unto its laws and ordinances, and through the atonement wrought out by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ which makes effective all the ordinances of the Gospel administered in his name and by his authority for the salvation of the souls of men. 

I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, I know that those who have succeeded him in the presidency of this Church have been prophets of God to this Church and to the world, including the present president of the Church. I know that those who shall come after will be called of God, and that this work will ultimately triumph, and the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of his Son, and Christ our Lord will reign upon the earth. 

LIVING FOR OUR FAITH 

Now I feel to quote to you, brethren and sisters, a little poem which I think is germane to the text I have chosen. I do not remember the name of the author but it reads as follows: 

So he died for his faith. That is fine — 

More than most of us do. But say, can you add to that line 

That he lived for it too? 

In his death he bore witness at last 

As a martyr to truth. Did his life do the same in the past 

From the days of his youth? 

It is easy to die. Men have died 

For a wish or a whim — For bravado or passion or pride, 

Was it harder for him ? 109 

But to live; every day to live out 

All the truth that he dreamt, While his friends met his conduct with doubt. 

And the world with contempt. 

Was it thus that he plodded ahead 

Never turning aside? Then we'll talk of the life that he led— 

Never mind how he died. 

A LIFE OF INTENSE SUFFERING 

In the songs that, have been composed, as far as my memory serves me, there has been but very little said about the suffering of our Lord during his life up to the time of his betrayal into the hands of his enemies prior to his crucifixion. But as I understand it, brethren and sisters, his whole life, particularly from the time he began his ministry, was one of suffering, intense mental suffering. The bearing of the sins of the world must have been a tremendous load. I think that no mortal man can comprehend it fully, or write it or speak it. We may never know in this life. 

Mosiah, in the Book of Mormon, tells us that the angel of the Lord talked with King Benjamin and showed him certain things that would take place centuries later, pertaining to the coming forth of our Redeemer, and the atonement. I shall read two or three verses from the third chapter of Mosiah which tells a wonderful story: 

For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases. 

And he shall cast out devils, or the evil spirits which dwell in the hearts of the children of men. 

And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, hunger, thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be unto death; for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of his people. 

Christ's mental anguish 

This was fulfilled in the Savior's life as recorded in Luke 22:44, which reads as follows: 

And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly : and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground. 

Jesus not only died for his faith and for us but he lived for it too, and for us he endured mental and bodily pain and anguish of soul beyond the power of mortal man to understand or to endure. The angel told King Benjamin that the suffering of our Lord as experienced in Gethsemane was due to the wickedness and abominations of the people. This was because he loved them so, his love being perfect. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Elder James E. Talmage, in his book, "Jesus The Christ," tells us that it was his belief that our Savior died from a broken heart. If the wickedness of those for whom he suffered and died was the cause of his extreme suffering, we might ask, how far are we responsible, and what is the measure of our guilt? 

HE DIED FOR REDEMPTION OF ALL 

Jesus Christ, our Savior, suffered and died for the sins of the world, for those who lived contemporary with him, for those who lived before, and for those who come after, that all men might be redeemed unconditionally from the effects of the Fall of Adam and Eve, from death, through the resurrection. 

For since by man came death by man came also the resurrection of the dead, for as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. (I Cor. 15:21, 22.) 

Also that all mankind might be saved from the effects of their individual sins by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him : We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. (Abraham 3 :24-2S.) 

TO AVOID THE JUDGMENTS 

If this people are to be delivered from the judgments which are to be poured out upon the earth, by keeping all the commandments; and if we are not to be delivered from the judgments unless we do, as we have been told in a former session of this Conference would be the case, is it right that those who do keep the commandments should be made to suffer because of the unworthiness, or lack of keeping the commandments on the part of some of us ? We owe it to others, to the Church and to the Lord that we keep all the commandments, and that we avoid sin and evil of every form. May the Lord give us strength and power so to do, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORLANDO C. WILLIAMS 

President of the Spanish- American Mission 

I am indeed happy, my brethren and sisters, to be with you on this wonderful occasion. I pray for the Spirit of the Lord to be with me, that I may say something of profit to all of us. I believe that the prayer that was offered at the beginning of this meeting was offered in my behalf, as I had been praying very fervently for many days that I would have strength and guidance on this occasion. 

As I have sat through the sessions oLthis Conference I have thrilled to the inspiration that has come through our leaders, to the instructions 111  the voice of warning that has been raised here to the people of Zion. It is my prayer that we as a people will heed this counsel, that we will take this advice, and that we will accept this voice of warning to the people, that we may escape in a measure the judgments that are to come upon the nations of the earth. 

It is a pleasure to represent this Church and people in the world, to declare the Gospel of peace, a Gospel whose principles will save the human race and to whose shelter those who are world-worn and weary with the cares and burdens of this life can come for peace and for rest. We can say to them with assurance that if they will accept the principles of this Gospel and adhere to them they will find rest and peace from the calamities that may come upon this world, because when a man or a woman is at peace with himself or herself, it matters little what goes on about them. They know in their own souls and their own hearts that they are like a ship in a safe and sheltered harbor and that they will be able to weather the storms that rage in the open seas all about them. I pray that this will be the lot of the Latter-day Saints. 

Running through my mind during part of the sessions of this Conference has been the admonition given to this people at the commencement of the work by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and in connection with that the statement of the Lord to ancient Israel wherein he said, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets." My brethren and sisters, we have been warned in this Conference. That prophecy has been fulfilled to us, and we will be protected if we accept that warning. 

In connection with what has been said regarding opposition within the Church itself, and some of its membership opposing the things that are said and done by our leaders, I would like to raise the warning voice by means of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith himself on this subject. We read in Church history from the sayings of the Prophet regarding this thing, when he charged the Saints not to follow the example of the adversary in accusing the brethren, and said : 

If you do not accuse each other God will not accuse you. If you have no accusers you will enter heaven, and if you follow the revelations and instructions which God gives you through me, I will take you into heaven as my back-load. If you will not accuse me I will not accuse you. If you will throw a cloak of charity over my sins, I will over yours — for charity covereth a multitude of sins. 

Following this same line of thought, on apostasy and the judgments, he gives us the following : 

I will give you one of the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom . It is an eternal principle that has existed with God from all eternity: That man who rises up to condemn others, finding fault with the Church, saying that they are out of the way while he himself is righteous, then know assuredly, that that man is in the high road to apostasy; and if he does not repent, will apostatize as God lives. The principle is as correct as the one that Jesus put forth in saying that he who seeketh a sign is an adulterous man, and that principle is eternal, undeviating; and firm as the pillars of heaven; for whenever you see a man seeking after a sign you may set it down that he is an adulterous man. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

My brethren and sisters, the Savior set forth the same principle many years ago when he was upon the earth, as recorded in Matthew, 7th chapter, wherein he said : "Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged," and he followed it up with the sermon on the beam that was in our own eye. I shall read it to give it to you correctly : 

Judge not, that ye be not judged. 

For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. 

And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 

Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? 

Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. 

I thought of this in connection with the statement of President Grant to us, that the thing that needs to concern the Latter-day Saints is that they condemn their own selves for their faults and their failings, and that if they do this, humbling themselves before the Lord, they would find no time to accuse the brethren or to find fault with them. I can testify that this is a true principle. I have prayed throughout my life that the Lord would magnify within my own eyes my faults and my failings, that they would be made large enough to me that it would take my time and my attention to correct them and to humble myself before the Lord, and I have also prayed while being in positions of trust in the Church, that he would clothe my own faults and failings with mercy, that they would not be magnified in the eyes of my brethren, that they would not take from me my opportunity to do good among my brethren and sisters. 

I wish to thank my Father in heaven for this Gospel, for the leadership we have in this Church, for the opportunity that I have to serve, and for the opportunity that is yours. I am assured that within this Church there are opportunities for every member to serve according to their capacity and their ability, and that in time the Lord will give unto us these opportunities. Our Church is not of the world, and they cannot conceive of the ways of the Lord. I am reminded of the verse in the song which says we should not judge the Lord by feeble sense. It seems rather absurd to the world that we as a people so willingly accept responsibility and yet seek for none. 

My brethren and sisters, I thank the Lord for this opportunity, and I pray for his blessings upon you, and I do it in the name of his Son Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy In the days of ancient Athens, when her citizens took pride in the culture and art of her greatness, the youth who entered the army were required to take an oath before the gods. It read : 

We shall never bring disgrace upon this our city, by any act of dishonesty or cowardice, nor ever desert our suffering comrades in the 113 . We will fight for the ideals and sacred things of the city, both alone and with many. We will revere and obey the city's laws, and do our best, to incite a like respect and reverence in those above us, who are prone to. annul and set them at naught. We will strive unceasingly to quicken the public sense of civic duty. Thus in all these ways, we will transmit this city not only not less, but greater, better, and more beautiful than it was transmitted to us. 

A hundred and fifty years ago, the founders of our Republic announced the sublime truth that men are free and equal. A century and a half have rolled away since then, and the history of the world has no chapter to compare with the accomplishments of America in that time. Standing on Saxon foundations, and inspired by Latin example, we have done what no race or nation or age has ever accomplished. The American people have founded a Republic on the unlimited suffrage of the millions of souls that inhabit this land. They have worked out the problem that a man, as God created him, may be entrusted with self-government. 

Our forebears had a virgin continent to conquer. The fundamental problems they met with hard work and a faith in. themselves. They had inherited from their fathers, the ideals of home-life, freedom of religion, the free state, the public school, and the lands of the vast continent to till, on which they built their homes. 

No nation has ever had a freer people, and no other nation of history has given its citizens the powers of happiness as our Government has done. Great wealth has been produced, but that wealth has been used to build industries and institutions of learning; it has been the power in the hands of men to build humble homes and beautiful churches, and with it all, the ideals of the founders of the Republic have been preserved, and America has worshipped at the shrine' of its great men. 

Our Government was "conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal." America has upheld this ideal before the world, and has opened its gates to all peoples of the world. Religion has been a forceful factor in our growth, and today some two hundred or more Christian sects are attempting to keep alive the divine message of the Savior of the world. The light on the hills of Judea became our light, and we have had faith in the vision of a prophet of ancient Israel : 

_ The secret things belong unto the Lord our God : but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law. 

Our Government started out blessed with the rich inheritance of the ages. Its future lay before it, and that justice should rule the hearts of all its people, the Constitution of the United States was written. The influence of our Government has been felt time and time again among the nations of Europe, for they have looked to America for the solution of their problems. 

A few years ago, at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, a great event took place. In that simple and dignified room, where the Declaration of Independence was written and the Constitution of our country GENERAL CONFERENCE  adopted, no fewer than twelve nations, through their representatives, assembled to make their own solemn declaration of common aims. In that sacred room, those nations made public confession of a faith which linked them in friendship with this nation. What a solemn occasion! The nations of Europe lighting their national fires at the altar of -American liberty. 

The peoples of the world have entered our gates, and have found here a new life and happiness. Never had they been so well cared for; never had they the chance to live and to look up to their God in hallowed feeling as they were given in this land. No nation of history has given homes to its people as has this our Country. Never has the wealth of land been so equitably distributed; never in all time, have so many people owned their own homes. With individual opportunity, there has gone quite naturally inequality. Inequality is a law of all social life, and to try to do away with inequality among men is to substitute tyranny for liberty. 

The quality of democracy in America is that it seeks to protect and preserve that sovereign right of all people to come to a knowledge of their own better selves, and to live their own natural lives. Democracy teaches us that it is not wealth that makes happiness, but the wealth of the spirit, brought about by the opportunity to work on land and in factory, and to enjoy the blessings of church and school. Men may exploit honest labor, but such a thing is foreign to American principles. It is the wealth of America in the hands of men of vision that has built industries, and made it possible for all people to have honest labor, and to live honestly before their God. The schools of America, the churches, the institutions of higher learning have been closed to no one, and the statement of a noted writer on economics that the glory of America is that every head of a family is given an opportunity to own his home, is true. The peasants of Europe, who lived on bread and wine, have found asylum in this land, and the comforts of the humble fire-side. 

This is an age of change. Innovation is the idol of the times. "In this age of novelty, many things are made better, and many things are made worse. Old errors are discarded, and new errors are embraced." Governments feel the same effects in this craze for change. "But the experience of all ages," said Daniel Webster on one occasion, "will bear us out in saying that alterations of political systems are always attended with great danger, for if the Constitution is to be changed, an alteration in one part will work an alteration in another." 

Nor are great and striking alterations alone to be shunned. A succession of small changes, a perpetual tampering with minute parts, steal away the breath, though they leave the body; for it is true that a Government may lose all its real character : its genius and its temper : without losing its appearance. So if we are not careful — very careful — we may find our government changed to a despotism, and yet called a Republic. It may have all the essential modes of freedom, and yet nothing of the essence, the vitality of freedom in it. The form may be left, but the spirit and the life will be gone. 115 

To perpetuate our government, we must cherish and love it. We must preserve a correct and energetic tone of morals. After all, liberty consists more in the habits of the people, than in anything else. There are always men wicked enough to go any length in the pursuit of power, if they can find people enough to support them. Ambition of men to become dictators must be restrained by the public morality. When such men arise, they must find themselves standing alone. 

America will have to suffer the hate and envy of the unappreciative. It is a law of life that we only appreciate that which we are ourselves. Millions of citizens have never risen to the appreciation of the glory of our nation, and therefore they become the fighters and destroyers of right. Wrong rules the day, and in time a wrong is felt to be right. It all means that education is the only way to reach the ideal in our souls of what our Government really means. Did the fathers reach it ? They did, but it was through the faith they had in Almighty God. Such faith is the great help to true education. 

We are the trustees of a sacred trust. We have been given by Providence this Government with all its potentiality, with all its accomplishment, with allots promise. The question should be to every American: How am I discharging this trusteeship? What am I doing to preserve, protect, and perpetuate the ideals of the government in which we have such implicit faith ? We have a solemn obligation before us. 

Every American should read the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States, Lincoln's Address at Gettysburg, and see for himself whether the American policy; has been a selfish program. It has been a program to serve humanity. 

Only the application of the standards of moral excellence can save our fundamental ideals. As we look into the future, will it be progress or decline ? Let us pray God that it may be progress. But progress will never be unless we sacredly preserve our Constitution and hold it as the surest vision for liberty and freedom. 

A few days ago, the Christian world celebrated the Easter Day. Churches were filled with worshipers, and for the moment, as on the Christmas day, men's thoughts were turned to God. The unfortunate thing is that the spirit of the day is soon forgotten, and other hopes and feelings take grip on the soul. People are not happy, for they miss the very things that make for the joy of living. The youth have an aversion for hard work; the mad thirst for pleasure has replaced our sacred home life, and the hate of man for man has brought the nations of the earth to the verge of war. 

Yet there are forces and truths in the world that may yet be taken to awaken a finer conscientiousness in the hearts of mankind, and a more sacred belief in the righteousness and justice of the dreams and ideals which the Christian world knelt in honor of last Easter Day. We are told by St. Mark, the Evangelist, in words of exquisite beauty that : 

When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had brought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. 

And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 

And when they looked they saw that the stone was rolled away; for it was very great. 

And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted. 

And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted; Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified : he is risen; he is not here. 

For all the ills of government; for all the ills of humanity, in these words of St. Mark, there is fundamentally the panacea and the hope for humanity. How many millions of the Christian world have rolled away the stone from the sepulchre of Jesus Christ, our Lord, and know that he has risen as the true and living Christ, whose teachings can rejuvenate mankind? The power that rolls away the stone from the sepulchre and allows the risen Christ to come forth is contained in the words of the Master : 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength : and thy neighbor as thyself. 

This is the way of mutuality and co-operation in human society. It is the Master's way of doing away with hate and fear. It is only by the Christian world allowing the Christ to come forth to eternal life, that the civilization of the world can be saved. 

If in our thoughts of the resurrection of the Savior of the world we could realize more perfectly that he mastered the teaching of the Psalmist, "that the statutes of God give wisdom unto the simple, and the highest conceivable wisdom to the humblest minds," people's hearts would be awakened to a spiritual response, which is so much needed at the present time. It was his life that liberated people from the domination of deceits, and bestowed upon the race the increasing consciousness of the immortality of spiritual values. Every human soul must push away the stone from the sepulchre, and know for himself that Christ is risen unto life eternal, and in this thought, the new day will be a dawn of renewed faith in mankind and in the directive providences of God. 

The Singing Mothers and the congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Come, Let us Anew." 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

One hundred and seven years ago today this marvelous and great Church was born. Last night as I sat in this building and looked into the faces of the congregation which had assembled here for Priesthood meeting, I could not help but think perhaps some of those six souls who joined the Church on that sixth day of April in 1830 would hardly understand and know what was transpiring if they were permitted to be here 117  our midst today and behold the thousands assembled in one service at one place. 

I am astounded constantly at the magnitude of this great work of ours. I cannot help but think to what ends of the earth it has not gone and to what corners it has not penetrated. Realizing all this there yet comes into my heart and my soul this conviction : That perhaps never again will I look upon a scene as impressive as the one I beheld last night — eight thousand or more men in this building attending the Priesthood meeting, and all dedicated and set apart for God's work. 

I do not speak of this splendid body of leaders now before me who for three days have been here attending this Conference, for you are the leaders of the Church, but I am thinking of what this Church means to this great world of ours. I am thinking of the missionaries who have reported — the presidents of missions — the advancement of our work, and the gladness with which certain members of society whom they come in contact with accept their words and express joy at hearing of. this great Gospel again restored. Oh yes! It has reached its arms around the earth. 

And yet, I would like to bring to your attention one thing that is close to us at home — one thing that we ourselves within the Stakes of Zion now, thank God, have to contend with. 

Less than a year ago the Presidency of the Church and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, under the inspiration of the Almighty, gave to the First Council of the Seventy the task of organizing missions within the stakes of Zion. Brethren and sisters, there are 118 stakes of Zion, which run from the Pacific ocean (Honolulu, Hawaii) to the Eastern borders of this great country of ours, and from Mexico northward into Canada. 

What has prompted this? Isaiah tells us that certain things would occur which God had decreed. They do occur because of what the Lord has said and done. This is one of them: 

Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his own work. 

And, so, within the ranks of this Church I feel that there has been inspiration of God upon those who have brought forth this great work. 

Of the 118 stakes of Zion, for your benefit let me say, 112 have either been organized into stake missions or are in the process of organization. Within our own communities there have been brought into the fold of Christ already more than 300 souls who knew not the truth before. In addition to this, through this valiant missionary service, upwards of 600 souls who have known the truth of this Gospel, but who have more or less become indifferent (and I want to say that none of us, I fear, are free from that) more than 600 of the indifferent ones, have been brought again into the Church to renew their activities through the endeavors of the missionaries who proclaim this Gospel in the stakes of Zion. And the work is hardly started yet. 

How minutely, how delicately, every part ordained of our Heavenly Father fits into this great latter-day institution which he has established — GENERAL CONFERENCE  various arms and helps in government, which we behold and taste of today. Surely this Church is not too small to reach to every corner of the earth, and of a surety the earth is not too big to listen to and feel the thrill of conviction from the teachings of the restoration of the Gospel which can and will emanate from the voices of our missionary brethren and sisters throughout all the earth, as well as in the stakes of Ziqn at home. 

The zeal and the pride with which the presidents of stakes and the bishops of wards have taken hold of this work stirs the hearts of those who are engaged in it, and we feel to thank God for such worthy men. 

May this work go on until it shall accomplish its purpose and may we as missionaries in the service of God remain humble and do that which God would have us do, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I hope none of you was more shocked at the proceedings of this day so far as they concern myself than was I. I have never regarded myself as a person of particular consequence, and why I should have been asked to assume this responsible position, I do not know. 

In my lifetime I have dreamed many dreams, I have nursed many ambitions, but this. was never one of them. I have never coveted, never sought, and never desired any preferment in the Church. I have been happy all the days of mylife to work in it, and would have been content to remain in places where I would not be forced to occupy public position. But since the call has come, I do what I have always been taught to do, namely, respond, and pledge you that I will give it all my strength. 

The only thing in the world that counts is people. When the creation of the world was finished, as the last and crowning act God made man to dwell in it, and he gave to him for his use everything that was created, and told him that he might exercise dominion over the earth. In all of his ministry Jesus was concerned only with people; nothing else mattered. 

Whatever our position may be, in whatever sphere we labor, we are all dedicated to the business of ministering to the welfare of people, trying to make mankind rise to the stature of his destiny. That is the province of the teacher, and every man in this Church is a teacher. 

I have thought during this day of the occasion when Jesus was led to the top of a high mountain, and the tempter told him to look out over the world, and promised him that he would give him the world, if he would but bow down and serve Satan. There is a beautiful lesson in that circumstance, I think, for all -of us who would essay the business of teaching others. We need the power to lead men up to high eminences from which they may see the world, their own positions in it, and the destinies that await them if they order their lives aright. If anything is needed more than anything else now it is a voice issuing as from the top of a high mountain, lifting men's visions to the high level whence it 119 , and revealing to them what there is in the world and what they may do in the exercise of their prerogatives and rights in accomplishing the world's work. And if we be what we have pretended so long we are, then we have that kind of voice. It behooves us only to learn to hear and understand it, and govern our walk and conduct by its teachings. 

May God bless us with power to do so, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

v PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Everybody that we wanted to speak has had a chance to speak, and I think that some of the six and seven minute speeches have been among the best we have had. There are forty minutes left. I would like about fifteen minutes of that time, it will take five or six minutes for the singing, and I am willing to divide the remainder of the time with my counselors. 

We shall hear a few words from President Clark, and then from President McKay. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

There is nothing certain in this world. Usually Brother McKay and myself sit here for two and a half days, more or less, on tenter hooks. Then comes our turn, and the Conference is over. This time we have been pluming ourselves ever since the first day that we were through. Now we find ourselves, near the last moment, asked to say something again to you, or at least to try to say something. 

CONFERENCE ADDRESSES INSPIRED OF THE LORD 

My brethren and sisters, I have enjoyed this Conference. I have enjoyed the messages that have come to us during this Conference. When I was not a member of this group — the presiding group— I used to think that perhaps they all got together beforehand, and decided what each should say, what each should talk about, because all the speeches of the Conference fit in together as a mosaic, making a beautiful picture of instruction, counsel, and advice. It was a great surprise to me to find, when I came into the group, that there were no discussions about Conference talks or a Conference program; that every man was left free to follow his own desires in what he should say . No plan or course was marked out. Then there came to me, as I am sure there has come to you, a more poignant realization that the Lord was in charge of these Conferences. The old expression about the keynote speech of the Conference took on, to me, a different meaning entirely. It was not a speech consciously predicting or forecasting what should be said at the Conference, but it was the Lord speaking through his chosen and anointed one, giving a thought and direction to the things that should be said . Therein lies the responsibility, my brethren and sisters, of those whom you have called to fill these high and sacred places of authority. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

RESPONSIBILITY OF SAINTS TOWARDS THOSE WHO SPEAK 

It is our responsibility so to live that when the Lord shall indicate through the one whom he has chosen to' direct his affairs upon this earth the line and direction which should be taken, that we shall be able to follow on, we who hold positions of lesser trust and responsibility in the Church. 

I often say, and thoroughly believe, that whenever an Elder of the Church stands up to speak to the people, the responsibility as to whether or not he shall say that which the Lord would have him say is not wholly his. No member of the Church who sits before him but has the obligation to exert his power in prayer that those things may be said which shall benefit those to whom the Elder speaks. Furthermore, that responsibility carries back beyond the mere coming to the meeting, or the mere attitude in the meeting; it carries back to the character of life which every Latter-day Saint lives, because it is his duty so to live that if, when, and as he comes into church his faith and his prayers may be exercised to the end that they who speak shall be able to declare the will of the Lord. 

I do not say nor do I suggest that there may not be occasions when the Lord speaks in spite of the people. Those times sometimes do come, but I do feel that when the people of the Lord come to these Conferences such is not the occasion in which they find themselves, and therefore it is their duty, coming to the Conference, to come in a spirit of reverence, in a spirit of worship, in a spirit of sanctification. First, that they themselves may be fed, and in order next that they who speak may also be fed, to the end that all the people of the Church, and all the people of the world may be instructed, directed, and built up by those things which may be said at these Conferences. 

SPIRITUAL SIGNIFICANCE OF CONFERENCES 

These are unique gatherings, unique in the whole world, unique because they are gatherings that are directed by the man whom the Lord has chosen to guide and direct his work on this earth. No other people have any such position as this; no other man has any such position as that which I have described, and therefore what we do and say here from Conference to Conference, has a deep, abiding spiritual significance, and that significance cannot reach its full measure, we cannot send out our messages in their full strength unless those who gather here, who participate in these Conferences, are attuned to the Spirit of the Lord. 

May he in the future as in the past bring together in these Conferences faithful Latter-day Saints. May he bring together continually such great gatherings of the Priesthood as we had last night. As has been said here today nobody can stand before that great audience and not be solemnly impressed with the strength and the power which reside in them. 

So I repeat we should come here prepared to help to open up the avenues to the heavens, that from the heavens may come the inspiration which God expects us to possess. That you may be participants, that 121  may be participants, that we shall give to the world those things which the world needs, and that the Lord may bless us always, I ask in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

If at this moment each one present were asked to state in one sentence or phrase the most distinguishing feature of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, what would be your answer ? It occurs to me now .that my answer would be this : 

Divine authority by direct revelation. 

A DISTINGUISHING FEATURE 

There are those who claim authority through historical descent, others from the scriptures, but this Church stands out as making the distinctive claim that the authority of the Priesthood has come directly from God the Father and the Son, by revelation to Joseph Smith.' 

Founded upon that principle, accepting it as absolute Gospel, we have clearly defined in our minds some fundamental principles : 

First, that God is a personal being; that he has a spirit-personality. When we visualize him in that form, we look at him through the clearest lens through which the human mind is capable of perceiving Deity. As someone has said, "He may be infinitely more, but he cannot be less." 

The acceptance of divine authority by direct revelation also reveals to us the fact that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son in the flesh, for the Father in appearing to Joseph Smith stated in definite words, "This is my beloved Son, hear Him." 

Correlated with that revelation is another fundamental fact, that the Lord is interested in his people, that the whole human family are related as his children, and he loves them, and that he has authorized men to officiate among the children of the world, to bring them back into his presence. 

My brethren and sisters, the paramount thought in my mind at this moment is this : That the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith and restored authority to establish the Kingdom of God on earth, and this is my testimony to you. 

TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENTS GRANT AND CLARK 

I will also testify that divine authority rests in, rich abundance upon him whom the Lord has chosen to stand at the head of this work at the present time. I am deeply grateful for the opportunity I have had to sit in council with President Grant and President Clark. I wish every person in this Church might have had the same opportunity to look into President Grant's noble spirit as I have; to know him as I have had the privilege to know him; to glimpse his unbounded generosity, his love for mankind, and particularly for those who are true and loyal to the Church; to GENERAL CONFERENCE  how fearlessly he stands for right. If you realized these virtues more fully, I am sure that when you kneel down to pray there would be a note of thanksgiving in your heart and in your words which perhaps there has not been heretofore. 

I would like to pay a tribute to President Clark, a man of sterling integrity, who loves this work above everything else in this world. He is loyal and true, sound and clear in judgment, a valiant servant of the Lord. 

UNITY IN THE LEADING COUNCILS 

I would like you to < know that there is a spirit of unity and oneness in the council of the First Presidency, the spirit for which Christ prayed just before he went into the garden of Gethsemane: "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us." And as he prayed on that occasion so I pray now that that spirit of oneness may characterize the leading councils of the Church; nay, may I say, continue to characterize the leading councils of the Church. For I believe that there has not been a time in the history of our Church when there was more unity among these councils than at the present time. I pray that that spirit of oneness may spread throughout all the Church, that it may be characteristic of Presidencies of Stakes and High Councils, Bishoprics, Ward Teachers, and particularly of the quorums and auxiliaries of the Church, that they may all be one, to quote the Savior, as he and his Father are one. God help us to achieve this principle, that our faith in God and in his work may be unwavering, and our loyalty never doubted, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The musical numbers of this session have been rendered by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Sister Lottie Sackett. We have appreciated them very, very much. 

The same spirit that Brother Bowen has was my spirit as a young man, as a child, as a boy. My mother used to tell me, as you have heard me say many times, that if I would behave myself I would become an Apostle. I told her that I did not want to be an Apostle, a president of a stake or a bishop of a ward, I wanted to be a business man, but when the call came for me to go to Tooele, I made an heroic sacrifice. I will not enter into the details. 

GRATITUDE FOR PRIESTHOOD 

When the local patriarch in Tooele blessed my little baby who was dying and promised her she should live and be a mother and become a leader among her sisters, I thanked the Lord more fervently than ever before in my life for the Priesthood of God and the power that that patriarch had. Subsequently he said, "I have a blessing for you, and I want you to come to my office and get it." After I had received that blessing I saw and believed that my destiny was to devote my time 123  to the Church, because of the promises made to me. And I have done it conscientiously, and there has never been any fear in my mind of the final triumph of this work. 

A REVELATION IN BRIEF 

I remember that one of my nearest and dearest friends was the late William C. Staines. Staines told me he once received a short revelation of just a few lines from the Lord. He said he was worrying over the rough people, many of them, in pioneer days, and the hardships, and the profanity, a little too much drinking, etc. among the people, and he was broken-hearted regarding these conditions and wondered what would happen when Brigham Young and others of the leading brethren passed away. The Lord gave him a revelation to the effect that he need not worry, that this is His work and the men for leaders of the Church would come when they were needed, and they have come. 

TRIBUTE TO ALONZO A. HINCKLEY AND SUCCESSOR 

I want to say that we have had no truer, more faithful member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles than was Alonzo A. Hinckley. I believe firmly that 1 whenever the Lord inspires a man to make a promise under the inspiration of His Spirit the Lord is not going to allow that promise to fail. Brother Hinckley was given a blessing in which he was promised as a young man that some day he would be an Apostle. He did not- believe it, but the Lord saw fit that that promise should be fulfilled before he passed away to undoubtedly a greater mission. 

After the brief remarks that have been made here today by Brother Bowen, I believe that every true Latter-day Saint believes that the Lord has had something to do with the selection of Brother Hinckley's successor. 

APPRECIATION FOR MUSIC FURNISHED 

I want to thank the choir and the Singing Mothers and their leader, the organist, and the soloists, who have done so much to add to our comfort during this Conference, particularly of course the Tabernacle Choir that sang to us Sunday and that furnished the broadcast. I appreciate our organist and Brother Spencer Cornwall, and all who have furnished music for us. I thank them on behalf of myself and my counselors and the Apostles. 

UNITY IN COUNCIL OF TWELVE 

I can say that after fifty-five years and a fraction in this Church as an Apostle I can repeat and emphasize what President McKay has said, that from my knowledge I do not believe the Council of the Twelve was ever more united than they are today, and I rejoice in it. We have no fear in asking people to speak because we know that they are seeking for God to help them in delivering their message. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

INSPIRED BEYOND NATURAL ABILITY 

I am grateful beyond expression that what I had planned in my mind to say in this Conference I have not said — not a word. I am very grateful indeed that many years ago when I sat on my seat in this'tabernacle for quite a while one afternoon listening to Milton Bennion, and planning what I was going to say in my address that I was going to deliver when he got through speaking, and when I got up to speak and opened my Ready Reference book that I had in my pocket, and turned it down at the pages that I had marked, I forgot all about the speech that I had expected to deliver. I prayed with all my heart and soul that the Lord would inspire me beyond my natural ability, that I would have his inspiration so strong that my brother, whom I saw in a meeting in this building for the first time in my life, might be converted to the truth. 

I told that congregation that never before in all my life had I so strongly desired the inspiration of the Lord while standing before a congregation in this building, that never before had I desired so much their faith and prayers to help me in my remarks. I did not think again of the Ready Reference book, nor did I think of the sermon that I had planned to deliver, but I preached on the divine mission of the Savior, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, and principally upon the divine mission of Joseph Smith, the instrument in the hands of God of again establishing upon the earth the plan of life and salvation. 

Brother George Q. Cannon used to sit in a chair here on the stand facing north. I was sitting on the stand right below him. When I sat down I heard Brother Cannon say, "Thank God for the power of that testimony." I leaned forward and wept for joy, because I knew God had heard and answered my prayer. I had left three quarters of an hour of the time — forty-eight minutes in fact — for Brother George Q. Cannon, knowing that his brother Angus, who was in charge of the meeting, always believed in a two-hour meeting. 

Brother Angus M. Cannon, at the close of my remarks, walked over to where President Cannon sat and said : "George, there is three-quarters of an hour left for you. Please occupy it." 

Brother George Q. Cannon said : "Angus, I came in late, I was in pain at two o'clock, and I do not feel like talking; I don't want to talk. We have had a very wonderful meeting, and I am in favor of your dismissing the meeting." 

Angus said: "Well, I am not going to waste three-quarters of an hour. If you won't talk I will call on somebody else." 

Brother George Q. Cannon said : "All right, take your seat, I will talk." He got up and said : "There are occasions in the lives of all of us when the Lord sees fit to inspire a man and to allow him to reach such heights of inspiration that it is a very grave mistake for somebody else to try to follow him. Therefore, inasmuch as we have had an occasion of this kind in the remarks of Brother Grant, I ask Brother Angus M. Cannon to call on the choir to sing and on someone to dismiss this meeting." 125 

CONVERSION OF BROTHER 

The very next day my brother came into my office and said : "Heber, I heard you preach yesterday." 

"Well, well, well, I am glad to know it — the first time you ever heard your brother preach?" 

He said, "No, Heber, I have heard you lots of times." 

"Well I never saw you in a meeting before in my life." 

"No," he said, "I never took a front seat, I generally went to a meeting where I ' could get in the gallery, or somewhere else where you could not see me, and I could see you. But you never spoke before as you did yesterday . You spoke beyond your natural ability," (using my own words in my prayer), "you spoke by inspiration." 

I said, "What did I speak about?" 

"The idea of your asking that. You know that the main theme upon which you spoke was the divine mission of the Prophet in the hands of God in the establishing of this Church." 

"You are praying for a testimony of the Gospel, I understand?" 

"Yes, and I am getting discouraged. I feel like I shall quit praying." 

I said: "Quit. You say you know there is a God and you know there is a devil, and that the devil tried to get you to commit suicide, and instead of doing it (you went out with your pistol in the high pines of Oregon to do it) you got down on your knees and prayed and got up weeping for joy; and that you know two things, that there is a devil and that there is a God. If you quit praying you have surrendered to the devil. What in the world is the matter with you ? Do you want the Lord to come down here and talk to you : You tell me that you know that I spoke beyond my natural ability, that I spoke by inspiration, that my theme was the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. What more of a testimony do you want ?" 

He said, "I never thought of that before." 

Well, before the week was out he applied for baptism. 

We know as we know that we live that we have the truth. We have absolute confidence as the Presidency of the Church in the men whom we recommend for the apostleship. President Smith, in my judgment, although he called twelve men to the Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve during his life, made no mistake in any one of the men that he called. It may sound egotistical, but I am sure I have made no mistakes in the appointments to these quorums that I have made. 

GRATITUDE FOR GOSPEL 

I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation, that we as a people have, and that we as individuals have. I thank God for the young men who go out upon missions without college education and meet the scholastic accomplishments of the world, and that under the inspiration of the living God they have been able to confound the wise of the world and have touched the hearts of honest people, bringing them into the Church. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

BLESSING AND TESTIMONY 

I pray God with all the power of my being to bless every soul who has embraced the Gospel, and to inspire every one to live the Gospel. "Man is that he may have joy," and there is no joy in the world that equals the joy of knowing in your heart of hearts that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that we as individuals are living the Gospel that will bring eternal exaltation to us and our loved ones. 

That God may help each and every one of us to do this, is my humble prayer. I pray God's blessings upon this people. I thank our Heavenly Father for the marvelous attendance of the Priesthood at our meeting last night. I thank him for all the blessings that he has given me. I humbly pray God that he will multiply the rain and increase the fertility of the soil, and increase the love of labor in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, and a determination with the help of God to live the truth, so that our example may so shine before the world that those who know not the truth may seek for it; and I know that if they will seek for it God will give it to them. I thank the Lord for the statement made by Moroni in the Book of Mormon as follows : "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and, if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." The Book of Mormon is the great, the grand, the most wonderful missionary that we have. 

APPRECIATION FOR POLICE SERVICE 

I want to express the gratitude of myself and associates in the Presidency and of the Apostles for the splendid way that the police department of this city, under the direction, I suppose, of their chief, have looked after the traffic and prevented accidents. We owe them a debt of gratitude. 

A FAVORITE POEM 

Even though my time is up, I am going to read you a poem that I 

intended to use in my opening remarks : 

There are three lessons I would write, Three words as with a burning pen, In tracings of eternal light Upon the hearts of men. 

Have faith, tffough clouds environ round And gladness hides her face in scorn. Put off the darkness from thy brow; No night but hath its morn. 

Have hope, where'er thy bark is driven, The calm distorts the tempest's mirth. Know this, God rules the hosts of heaven, The inhabitants of earth. 127 

Have love — not love alone for one, But man as man thy brother call, And scatter as a circling sun Thy charities on all. 

There is hardly a day of my life that I do not repeat the words of that poem. God bless you all, Amen. 

"Holy Redeemer," a sacred anthem, was sung by the Singing Mothers, William Hardiman, violinist. 

Elder John W. Jones, President of the Long Beach Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The music of the Conference was under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor of the Tabernacle Choir. The singing at the fifth and sixth sessions by the Relief Society Singing Mothers was conducted by Sister Charlotte O. Sackett. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper, assisted by Wade N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 85 

Auxiliary Officers of the Church 86 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 87 

Spain's sad condition, 88 — Vitality in Church of Christ, 88 — Brotherhood in the Church, 89 — Obligation upon rich and poor, 90 — Loyalty will bring success, 90 — Advice to the poor, 91 — Blessings commonly enjoyed, 92 — Episode from Father's journal, 92 — Trouble in nations of world, 92 — America's destiny, 93 — The Kingdom of God to be established, 93. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 19 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 118 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 8 

Callis, Elder Charles A 52 

Righteousness binds Satan, 52 — Works of the flesh, 53 — Works of the spirit, 53 — Freedom in righteousness, 53 — America — Land of Promise, conditionally, 54 — Destruction in unchastity, 54. 

Cannon, Bishop Sylvester Q 80 

Correct principles — self-government, 80 — Love of money the root of evil, 80 — Present economic conditions, 81 — Comparative business indicators, 81 — Improvement in employment, 82 — Development of natural resources, 82 — Conservation of water supply, 82 — Class and freak legislation, 83 — Avoid class feeling and strife, 83 — Wise counsel of President Grant, 83 — Follow advice of leaders, 84. 

Changes in Church Officers 6 

Church Officers, Presentation of 86 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr., 22 

Pays tribute to singers and musicians, 22 — Savior had two great missions on earth, 22 — Responsibility of Authorities, 22 — By way of warning and admonition, 23 — Millions spent on war materials, 23 — Purchases react upon commodity prices, 23 — Exterminating war and/or chaotic depression, 24 — Europeans plan to have U. S. pay for war, 24 — Terrible depression indicated by signs, 25 — Strength needed to meet emergency, 25 — Precautionary measures suggested, 26 — Man must work, 26. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr., 119 

Conference addresses inspired of the Lord, 119 — Responsibility of Saints towards those who speak, 120 — Spiritual significance of Conferences, 120. 

Clawson, President Rudger 75 

Four important books, 75 — Gift of Holy Ghost necessary, 75 — A sure guide, 75 — The purpose of life, 75 — Three different estates, 76 — The importance of the body, 76— The spiritual and the temporal, 77 — The true Church, 77. 

Colton, Elder Don B 56 

Daynes, Elder Joseph J 72 129 

Financial Statement Presented 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 21 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities Presented for vote of Conference 85 

General Officers of the Church Present 1 

General Officers of the Church Presented for vote of Conference 85 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Presiding at Conference, 2. 

Grant, President Heber J 9 

Grateful for support of members, 9 — Acts with full approval of others, 10 — Church sets example to world, 10 — Hymns found aid in going to sleep, 11 — Quotes from memorable revelation, 11 — Virtue should garnish thoughts, 12; — Use of liquor violation of Gospel, 12 — Drunkenness since Prohibition repeal, 13 — Criticism shows failure to observe law, 13 — Will of God to be emphasized, 13 — High salary paid executive, 14 — Avoid having wine in homes, 14 — Liquor, tobacco for other purposes, IS — Word of Wisdom, prayers and health, IS — Benefits accrue from keeping commandments, IS — Church leaders blessed, 16 — Experiences in Europe, 17— Heeds admonition to limit length of remarks, 18 — Blessings and admonitions, 18. 

Grant, President Heber J 44 

Grant, President Heber J 85 

Presents General Authorities and Officers of the Church for vote of the Conference, 85. 

Grant, President Heber J 107 

Grant, President Heber J 119 

Divides remaining time with Counselors, 119. 

Grant, President Heber J 122 

Gratitude for Priesthood, 122 — A revelation in brief, 123 — Tribute to Alonzo A. Hinckley, and successor, 123 — Appreciation for music furnished, 123 — Unity in Council of Twelve, 123 — Inspired beyond natural ability, 124— Conversion of brother, 125 — Gratitude for Gospel, 125 — Blessing and testimony, 126 — Appreciation for police service, 126 — A favorite poem, 126. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 116 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 44 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 55 

McKay, President David O. . 2 

Reads financial and statistical report of the Church, 2. 

McKay, President David O 27 

Moral sense basis of all social law, 27 — Disrespect for law among worst of evils, 28 — Violations bode ill for society, 29 — Man must be made worthy of liberty, 29 — Responsibility to teach children reverence, obedience to law, 30 — Reverence on decline among 

130 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

many, 30 — What lies behind decadence of reverence, 31 — Reverent people law-abiding, 31. 

McKay, President David 121 

A distinguishing feature, 121 — Tribute to Presidents Grant and Clark, 121 — Unity in the leading councils, 122. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 37 

Time cannot change fundamentals, 37 — The first vision a reality, 37 — Resurrected beings appear, 38 — Authority restored, 38 — The Book of Mormon a Physical Evidence, 38— Faith a gift, 39 — Gospel teaches universal salvation, 39 — Activity in the spirit world, 40 — The last dispensation, 41 — Inspiration continues with leaders of the Church, 41 — A warning of dangers ahead, 41 — Divine guidance necessary, 42. 

Pratt, Elder Harold W 99 

Presentation of General Authorities for vote of Conference 85 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr., 42 

Rich, Elder Abel S 94 

Richards, Elder George F 107 

Bears testimony, 108 — Living for our faith, 108 — A life of intense suffering, 109 — Christ's mental anguish, 109 — He died for redemption of all, 110 — To avoid the judgments, 110. 

Richards, Elder L-e Grand 62 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 46 

The Priesthood defined, 46 — Activity required, 46 — Priesthood compared with a stream, 47 — A perfect plan of service, 47 — The Priesthood in the home, 48 — Humility and integrity, 49 — Priesthood from divine source, 49 — Attributes of Priesthood, SO — Admonition to be true, 51 — -A strong testimony, 51. 

Richards, Elder Wilford W 78 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 62 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 44 

Smith, Elder George Albert 31 

Helped by wise counsels, 32 — Scripture teachings appropriate today, 32 — The purpose of Conferences, 32 — The path of safety, 33 — Kindness toward those who err, 34 — Unkind criticism unbecoming in Latter-day Saints, 34 — Influence of home, 35 — Safety in living the Gospel, 36 — Set homes in order, 36. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 58 

Peace taken from the earth, 58 — A true Church, 59 — Zion to rejoice, 60 — Judgments coming upon the world, 60 — Fault-finding, 60- — Predictions being fulfilled, 61 — Warning of President Woodruff, 61. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 104 

Hearings in Smoot Case, 104 — Senator Beveridge's interest, 105 — Questions asked of ministers, 105 — Witnesses in the Smoot Case, 106— A strong testimony, 106. 

INDEX 131 

Statistical Statement Presented 5 

Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast 8 

Taylor, Elder John H 97 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 107 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 85 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 68 

Wiberg, Elder Reuben M 101 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 65 

Progress brings responsibility, 65 — Permanence encompasses earth's changes, 65 — Desirability of permanence and progress, 66 — "To your First Principles, O Israel!" 66 — Observance of Ten Commandments a present-day obligation, 67 — Security in obedience, 68. 

Williams, Elder Orlando C Young, Elder Levi Edgar 

110 

112 

A Few of the Books that will Help You to Understand "Mormon ism" 

The Book of Mormon 

The latest edition comes to you in four different bindings. Of course the text remains the same but there are added features which make the edition more complete. 

Missionary Edition # .50 

Cloth binding, embossed 1.50 

Full Morocco 3.00 

The Gospel and Man's Relationship to 

Deify 

BY B. H. ROBERTS 

"It is to place within their reach a brief and simple exposition of the first principles of the Gospel that this work has been prepared, and is now presented to the youth of Zion; and it is the earnest hope of the author that by a patient perusal of these pages those who now believe the Gospel will find their faith strengthened and confirmed; and those who do not believe it will be convinced of its truth." 

Price *l-25 

The Story and Philosophy of "Mormonism" 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Comprising "The Story" as told in addresses at Cornell and Michigan Universities and elsewhere, followed by an address delivered at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, entitled "The Philosophical Basis of 'Mormonism.' " 

Cloth * -75 

In Search of Truth 

BY ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE OF THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE 

Bound in Art Cloth $1.00 

This new book answers the questions, "What is Science" and "How does the Church view Science." A practical book for our THINKING, young people. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

"Mormonism 

and 

Freemasonry "This brief treatise is addressed primarily to the members of the Masonic fraternity. The author requests Masons and others who may read it to patiently consider its contents, and in a spirit of fairness and reason determine whether the ground taken by the writer is truth or error." 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

+ 2% Sales Tax in Utah 

Distributed by the 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







