Morning
05 04 1937

The Conference reconvened Monday morning, April 5, at 10 o'clock 

a. m. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation." Elder Mark W. Cram, President of the Sacramento Stake, offered the invocation. 

A vocal solo, "Come Ye Blessed," was sung by Sister Jessie Evans. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have decided not to call on all the mission presidents to speak at this Conference, and we may not call on all the General Authorities. We have tried and tried in vain to include all the people from whom we would like to hear, but we have not the time to hear from them all unless we should finally conclude, in years to come, that we should have four days of Conference instead of three days. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters: It can never become a commonplace to speak in this historic tabernacle, nor in this presence. We are living a long way from home. We miss the mountains, the people and the tabernacle. The generation of men who laid out this city, erected this temple, and builded this house, built far better than they knew. I do not think there is another place in this broad land that people look to with more interest than they do this Temple Block. Whether they belong to our faith or not there is something that radiates from here that interests and satisfies them. 

On November 28, last, President Grant arrived in Chicago to organize the 118th Stake of Zion. He was received with great respect. The organization of the Stake was effected on Sunday, November 29. This was an additional confirmation of the fact that the Church is moving forward on many fronts. It visions a world-wide establishment. Its benefits and blessings are not limited to any people or to any location. It can serve the people of Chicago and California, of New York and Hawaii, just as efficiently as it can serve the people of Utah. It can help those that dwell upon the Islands just as effectively and well as those who live upon the continents of the earth. Mormonism is just as strong to save the people east of the Rocky Mountains as it is those west of the Rocky Mountains. No matter how far flung its Stakes, how wide the territory which it covers, how numerically great and strong it may become, it has the divine genius of reaching the individual, of lifting him up; of filling his heart with hope, and inspiring him to great endeavor. The humblest Saint living in the remotest corner of the land may know that the Gospel is true, with the same assurance that the Saint who lives under the shadows of the Temple may know it. 

Men frequently comment upon the marvelous organization of which we are a part. They not only comment upon it, but they have tried to copy it, but they cannot make it work. It is not a man-made institution. It is of divine origin. The Almighty accomplishes his purposes through men. They are his agents. He clothes them with the holy Priesthood which is the strength of the Church, the source of authority. Referring to this Priesthood — I was deeply impressed with what the President said yesterday. All my life I have read or listened to the other people read the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The President said that this great revelation was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith while he was a prisoner in Liberty Jail, Missouri. No mortal man ever gave to the world a better plan for the government of men than is contained in this revelation. It declares, "The powers of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of Heaven." Think of it — as powerful as this Priesthood is, as mighty as it is to save, it can only be exercised upon the principles of righteousness. No matter who the man is who bears this Priesthood nor the circumstances under which it is exercised — to be effective it must be exercised in harmony with the powers of Heaven. 

Yes, the Church is moving forward on many fronts and no one need be alarmed over its growth nor apprehensive about its motives, for all its purposes are beneficent and its objectives are righteous. It is more than an intelligent plan for the betterment of the world, it is an institution inspired of the Almighty through which he will work out his purposes. 

Every missionary bears this testimony and I want to testify that the Almighty has set his hand for the last time to establish his work upon the earth and that it shall never be thrown down and given to another people, that it shall roll forth until it fills the whole earth — He has so declared it. His power permeates this great work and in his own due time and in his own appointed way he will make it victorious in the earth. Every man clothed with divine authority should walk in humility before his Maker. 

A missionary's voice in this world is a very small voice. The discourses which he delivers are not so convincing as the life which he lives. God be praised for this great system of building character in men and boys. May he help those who have been commissioned to bear his message to the world, I pray in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

If I could say anything that would contribute to a larger appreciation of the Priesthood of our Church I would be grateful indeed. I can scarcely hope to add a new thought about it. It is an old principle of our religion and all religions and it is a common subject of discourse. Because it is old, however, and because it is common, it is not stale nor trite and it is not cheap. 

THE PRIESTHOOD DEFINED 

The Priesthood is a priceless thing. It cannot be bought; it cannot be sold, — at least not for considerations that are monetary. Its values are measured in terms of benefaction and blessing. While it is essentially spiritual in nature and essence, the results which flow from its use and administration are often temporal and material. It is at once the key to the "mysteries of Godliness" and the power and authority underlying the ecclesiastical organization of God's work in the world. It is everlasting in duration. It existed before the foundations of the earth were laid and will endure eternally. In its last analysis it is the enduring, perpetual power of the Gods, — that is, Elohim; the power by which worlds have been and will be created; the power by which all everlasting covenants and conditions are established and perpetuated; the power and the only power which gives warrant and convincing assurance for the fulfilment of the highest and noblest aspirations of the human family. 

The Priesthood is usually simply defined as "the power of God delegated to man." This definition, I think, is accurate. But for practical purposes I like to define the Priesthood in terms of service and I frequently call it "the perfect plan of service." I do so because it seems to me that it is only through the utilization of the divine power conferred on men that they may ever hope to realize the full import and vitality of this endowment. It is an instrument of service. Its uses and purposes are all defined in terms of service and the man who fails to use it is apt to lose it, for we are plainly told by revelation that he who neglects it "shall not be counted worthy to stand." 

ACTIVITY REQUIRED 

The Priesthood is not static and a man's ordination to it is not a static investiture. There may be some men, however, who so regard it, for they seem to be so smug and content with their ordinations. 

I can well imagine such a man going into the presence of the great Eternal Judge and saying in substance, "While I was on earth I was a High Priest. I come now to claim the reward of a High Priest." I think it is not difficult to suppose what may be his answer. He will likely be met with such questions as these, "What did you do when you were a High Priest ? How did you use this great power which you held ? Whom did you bless with it?" Upon his reply to such interrogatories as these will his reward be predicated. 

PRIESTHOOD COMPARED WITH A STREAM 

I have sometimes compared the powers of the Priesthood bestowed on men with the waters that flow from our mountains down into the valleys below, as those waters are controlled and regulated by the law of irrigation which prevails in our western states. An early settler might have diverted from its natural channel the whole of a mountain stream upon lands which he occupied and thereby set up a claim of right and ownership to the entire flow, but the law said, "No, you cannot have the whole stream. You may have only so much of it as you can put to beneficial use in the culture and production of crops on your land,- — no more." Is it not so with the great stream of power that flows from the fountainhead of God down to his servants in the earth? Can anyone claim the right to more of that power than he uses wisely and well for'the blessing of his fellowmen? I think not and I believe that if he indulges such a hope he will be disappointed. 

A PERFECT PLAN OF SERVICE 

But the Priesthood is not only a plan of service, it is the perfect plan of service. All worthy service is commendable. The man who builds my house to shelter my family from the storms and the elements merits my approbation and gratitude. I am indebted to the man who tills the soil, for food and bodily sustenance. To the scientists, the inventors, the skilled artisans and mechanics and the captains of industry, we owe lasting praise and thanksgiving for innumerable comforts and conveniences that make life easy and desirable. The artists of the world have gratified our inner craving for expression of beauty in tender and lofty sentiment in art, music,' literature and idealism. 

How grateful we are for all these benefactions! We almost worship the modern medical man who, with patiently developed skill and large scientific knowledge, is able to relieve our bodily distresses, mend our broken bones, and set us up in health and vigor. We venerate our statesmen and cheer to the echo the heroes of our society. 

But, who of all these, who serve so well and so nobly the interests of the human family, can do for me a service that in real vitality, in everlasting benefit, is comparable to that performed by a humble Elder in the Church who takes me into the waters of baptism and raising his hand to high heaven, truly says, "Having been commissioned of the Lord Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost." What service is there that man can give which approaches in importance and eternal beneficence the laying on of the hands of the Priesthood and the utterance of those divine words "Receive ye the Holy Ghost" and "be confirmed a member of the Church of Christ" ? 

So I pronounce the Priesthood "the perfect plan of service" because through its administration and offices our lives are eternally blessed. Not only is it essential for our induction into the Church and fold of Christ but is it of constant application. We use it in the blessing of our sick, to relieve suffering, physical, mental and spiritual; for the encouragement and direction of our officers and missionaries as they are set apart for their respective duties in the Church; for the blessing and naming of little children; for the administration of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper in the partaking of which we continue frequently to renew our covenants with the Savior; in the ordination of men and boys to offices in the Priesthood which are so widely distributed in our Church; and lastly and perhaps more importantly than any of the items I- have mentioned, in the carrying forward of our temple work which is so unique in the world of religion and so distinctly a product of latter-day revelation in which, through the authority of the holy Priesthood, vicarious work is done for kindred dead, transcendently beautiful ceremonies and ordinances are performed for the holy, eternal, celestial marriage of man and wife, for the sealing of children to parents, for the establishment of eternal bonds and covenants as an endowment of men and women by which they make preparation to come back into the presence of God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. 

I said the Priesthood is widely distributed in our Church. There are 180,000 men and boys who hold it. The boys have what is termed the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood. The men are ordained to the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood. Within these orders of Priesthood several offices are designated by revelation and the duties thereof prescribed. The men and boys are divided into quorums or groups in numbers conveniently designated for the establishment of fraternal relations and the accomplishment of service in the Church. 

THE PRIESTHOOD IN THE HOME 

Every man is made a better man by reason of his membership in one of these quorums and by reason of his ordination to the Priesthood. A man with the Priesthood is a better father and husband than he would otherwise be; that is, if he appreciates and uses the powers conferred upon him. He presides over his household in dignity and love. He wins the respect of his wife and children by his constant solicitation, not only for their temporal but for their spiritual welfare also. Children in a home presided over by the Priesthood do not flippantly and disrespectfully refer to their father as "the old man" or their mother as "the old woman." The very nature of the government of the Priesthood precludes such impropriety. A wife does not begrudge a man of the Priesthood his position as head of the household. She honors him as such and teaches her children to- do likewise, for she well understands not only what the 

Priesthood means to her husband but what it means to her too. She knows that if she sustains her husband in his Priesthood calling she has assurance of exaltation with him, and she knows moreover that if he is true to his Priesthood he will always be kind and faithful and righteous. I feel sure that if we could have more of the authority and influence of the Priesthood in the homes of the land we should have infinitely -less disrespect for law and order and the established institutions of society than we now see about us everywhere. 

The man of the Priesthood is a better citizen and a better neighbor than he would be without it. Holding authority himself, he is constrained to respect authority. Being a part of the government of God, he sustains all governments. His life is dedicated to service. He must be a good neighbor, serving the needs of those about him. 

The man of the Priesthood loves knowledge and education. He is taught that "the glory of God is intelligence," that "man cannot be saved in ignorance," and that knowledge is power. He is enjoined to teach truth and righteousness and he knows that he cannot teach unless he learns. 

HUMILITY AND INTEGRITY 

While the Priesthood is a principle of force and action it nevertheless makes a man humble. The realization of the responsibility it entails, — this partnership with God in the exercise of His power, and the very nature of the grant itself tends to subdue natural human egotism. When one blesses the sick he knows that it would be futile to rely on his own talent, his own influence, or fine words in the presence of distress and suffering and the imminence of death. His native powers seem as nothing. He realizes that it is only through faith and with a pure heart that he can pronounce, with a power superior to his human faculties, a blessing that will be efficacious. 

Those who bear the Priesthood know too that their lives must be consistent with the divine commission which has come to them. No man can lie, steal, malign his neighbor or pollute his body with poisons and defile himself with sin and expect the stream of God's power to flow through him. The holding of the Priesthood stimulates a man more than anything I know to conform his life to the standards and attributes of the Master whose authorized representative he is. 

PRIESTHOOD FROM DIVINE SOURCE 

And it is true that a man who has been properly ordained to the Priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is an authorized and duly accredited representative of the Lord Jesus Christ. To many, no doubt, this appears as a bold and highly presumptuous statement to make. But it is a fact substantiated by creditable evidence. I am not infrequently asked, particularly by those whom I ordain, as to the derivation or lineage of my Priesthood. I reply by setting forth four steps only : I was ordained by President Joseph F. Smith, he by Presdient Brigham Young, Brigham Young by the Three Witnesses, one of whom, Oliver Cowdery, was ordained by the angelic ministers, Peter, James and John at the beginning of this dispensation. So the authority of the Priesthood which we bear is proximate to the divine source from which it emanates. Neither its origin nor its descent is beclouded and obscured in remote antiquity by equivocal and doubtful beginnings and transfers. Living witnesses or the recorded testimony of those who have recently passed away attest the validity of each act and event which has brought to us this delegation of divine power. 

Not only are we able to establish the legality of our credentials to participate in this great work but in' addition thereto, I feel sure that the experience of our people with the powers of the Priesthood, extending now for more than a century of time, furnish irrefutable proof of the genuineness - and divine nature of the powers which have been exercised. Spiritual manifestations and temporal blessings derived through the Priesthood have been altogether too numerous to estimate or recount. Under the Priesthood the Church was set up by a young man unlearned in the things of the world. Its marvelous organization, its procedure and practices, its ordinances and ceremonies and its incomparably beautiful and uplifting interpretation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are all attributable directly to the powers of the holy Priesthood. Even its temporal successes and those of its members, the migrations of the people and their establishment in different sections of the earth are due to the inspired direction of the Priesthood of the Church. So that, if you ask any man who has had experience with the Church or knows its history what one thing it is that more definitely distinguishes our people from any other group and what one thing is most accountable for all our successes and achievements, he will readily respond: the Priesthood of the Church of Christ. 

ATTRIBUTES OF PRIESTHOOD 

I wish all the world would come to understand the real essence and inner nature of this precious power. I fear that there are too_many who look upon it as autocratic, compulsory and dictatorial. The Lord has set forth its nature and constitution in a revelation, which, it seems to me, more nearly breathes the true, kind, loving, considerate, merciful and righteous spirit of Christ than anything we have on record. I will not quote it here because you are all familiar with it. You well know how it enjoins humility, "long suffering, gentleness and meekness and love unfeigned" upon those who minister with the Priesthood, warning against any compulsion, unrighteousness and ulterior motives and advocating methods only of kindness and persuasion. 

Knowing the attributes of the Priesthood as we do, we do not fear it. Our unanimity of thought and action in response to its suggestions or nominations is not constrained upon us by domination and coercion. It is but the natural product of our accord with the wisdom and the inspiration of our leaders and the persuasion of righteousness and truth. We who give our allegiance to the Priesthood are not slaves and puppets,  are free, and the more perfectly we yield to the doctrines and the dominion of the Priesthood, the more unanimous we become in its support. It is the truth that makes one free. Error is bondage. 

Very often things that are common come to be regarded as cheap. If gold were as common as clay it might not be the standard of values in the world. I fear that in some instances and with some people the extensive and common bestowal of the Priesthood upon the men and boys of our Church tends to lessen respect and deference for it. Being easy of acquirement, its value is sometimes deprecated. 

This is a great and serious mistake. In the first place the Priesthood has not been easy of acquisition in this or any other dispensation when it has been in the earth. Those who acquired it in the beginning of our Church and those who have preserved it and passed it on as a heritage to this generation suffered for it and endured trials, tribulations and even death that it might be established and preserved. In the second place, it is not common among the peoples of the world. If all of our men and boys who bear it were to be distributed among the people of the world there would be but one in every ten thousand of the world's population who would hold the Priesthood of the living God. If such a distribution were actual, I have an idea that no man would look upon his Priesthood as being common or cheap. 

ADMONITION TO BE TRUE 

So I say : men of the Priesthood, be true. Use the power that God has given you. Bless your fellowmen with it. It will save you and it will save the world. 

And to the sisters may I say : support your husbands in God's work. Encourage them and commend them in the performance of their duties. It is not always easy for a tired wife to forego the help and companionship of her husband in the evening when she needs his assistance and his comfort in the care of the family. It is a real sacrifice to have him go to his duties in the Priesthood. But urge him to go; you will never regret it; your sacrifice will be rewarded. 

I wish I could say something about the quorums of the Priesthood, those divinely appointed organizations which are designed to promote and conserve the education, the brotherhood and the service of the members, but time will not permit. I must close. 

In closing, I offer my personal testimony. I do so with some hesitation because my personal conviction seems so private and so sacred to me. I am constrained to do it by the hope that the assurance which has so blessed my own life may bless the lives of others. 

A STRONG TESTIMONY 

I know with a conviction that satisfies every knowing faculty that I possess, that the Priesthood of God is real and genuine, that it is a vital essence of force and power. I have felt its influence; I have been consciously aware of its passing from me as I have laid my hands on the heads of others in the administration of its kindly offices. I have seen its effect. I know that it is more than a narfle and a symbolism. I prize it above all earthly possessions. I look upon it as the key to all the happiness and joy and glory for which I aspire and I would rather lose anything else that has ever come into my life than to lose my Priesthood. 

I humbly pray that I may prove in some measure worthy to hold and exercise the divine power which, in the providence of God, has come to me, and that I may be worthy of the association which I have been so highly privileged to enjoy with President Smith and President Grant and the other noble men with whom my lot has been cast. I pray also that like blessings may come to all my brethren who bear the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ. In His name, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles The prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me. (John 14: 

30.) 

These words were spoken by Jesus in his last discourse before his crucifixion — the discourse which ended with that divine prayer that flowed from the soul of the Redeemer. That glorious sermon began with the words that have cheered myriads of souls, "Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me." In the Savior alone are found all the treasures of love, true science and infinite wisdom. He is the joy of the desolate, the hope of the penitent. 

RIGHTEOUSNESS BINDS SATAN 

The prince of the world is Satan. He is the prince of darkness. Satan could find no taint of sin in the Savior. In the Lord there was nothing for the evil one to fasten on, for he was without blemish and without spot. 

Last summer, in a certain park, I observed that a number of the trees were fast losing their beautiful leaves. They were attacked by caterpillars and worms. It was evident that these pests were attracted to those trees. In the same park were other trees; their foliage was lovely with bright colors. There was nothing in these trees to invite the destroyers. They were immune. 

It is possible, thank God, for every righteous man to bind the evil one so far as he himself is concerned. The Almighty alone knows the wonderful help and example we extend to our fellow creatures when our lives are such that Satan can find nothing on which to fasten. 

Each man makes his own stature, builds himself, Virtue alone outbuilds the Pyramids, Her monuments shall last when Egypt's fall. 

WORKS OF THE FLESH 

And Jesus said, 

That which cometh out of the man, that defileth the man. 

For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, 

Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness : 

All these evil things come from within, and defile the man. (Mark 7:20-23.) 

After enumerating the works of the flesh and declaring "that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God," the Apostle Paul says : 

WORKS OF THE SPIRIT 

But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, 

Meekness, temperance : against such there is no law. 

And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. (Galatians 5:22-24.) 

There i are certain institutions that can create and maintain a nation. They are the foundation stones of any nation that hopes to endure. Chief among these institutions are marriage, virtue, sobriety, industry, obedience to law, loyalty to country, love of fellowman and an affectionate respect and reverence for God, our Heavenly Father. But when a republic or a monarchy rejects these foundation stones, these roots of Christianity, there shall arise another Gibbon to write the decline and fall of a nation that rejects God and disobeys his commandments. "Righteousness exalteth a nation but sin is a reproach to any people." 

FREEDOM IN RIGHTEOUSNESS 

There is something grand in being free, and true freedom is found in righteousness. There are those who say that Christianity has never had a fair trial in the way of relieving economic distress, but it has had a fair trial and it has succeeded in improving the temporal needs of the people whenever and wherever it has been conscientiously observed. 

In the Book of Mormon we read of a nation that lived in peace for over a century and a half. They had all things in common. There were no rich. There were no poor. Each man loved his neighbor as himself, and they prospered : they became exceeding rich as to this world's goods. Moreover they prospered in the unsearchable riches of Christ, the only riches that endure. But pride crept in, the pride that goeth before a fall, and the words of Byron portray the unhappy result : 

Here is the moral of all human tales. 'Tis but the same rehearsal of the past; First freedom and then glory; when that fails Wealth, vice, corruption, barbarism at last, And history, with all her volumes vast, Hath but one page. AMERICA LAND OF PROMISE, CONDITIONALLY 

Moroni, an inspired prophet, whose words are in the Book of Mormon, declared that America is a land of promise, choice above all other lands, but he said, by the word of God, that "whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ," or they would perish when the fulness of his wrath came upon them because they were ripe in iniquity. 

That same prophet, in giving this warning, looks down the ages and talks to the people of this great God-established, glorious republic. He warns them of the evils that have brought other nations down into obscurity and covered them with destruction, and says : 

And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done. (Book of Mormon, Ether 2:11.) 

Our father's God, to thee, 

Author of liberty, 

To Thee we sing. 

Long may our land be bright, 

With freedom's holy light, 

Protect us by thy might, 

Great God, our King. 

DESTRUCTION IN UNCHASTITY 

I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the sinister crime, that destructive sin, which brings down the fulness of the wrath of God upon the people, the iniquity in which they ripen, is the sin of unchastity, uncleanness. Men's hearts are filled with the things that the Savior said defiled them, and of these things they must repent; for if they do not purge themselves of these things God has forbidden, no matter how great their might, they will go down, for sin never was happiness. 

I don't know, I am sure, how long this nation will survive disregard of God, unchastity, Sabbath breaking and other evils that are in our midst. Tennyson said: 

Ring out the old, ring in the new, Ring out old shapes of foul disease; Ring out the narrowing lust of gold; Ring out the thousand wars of old, Ring in the thousand years of peace. Ring in the valiant man and free, The larger heart, the kindlier hand! Ring out the darkness of the land. Ring in the Christ that is to be. 

I humbly pray that every Latter-day Saint and all men may live such dives that with their blessed Redeemer they can say: 

The prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 55 

God help us to reach that heavenly, soul-saving ideal, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I feel greatly honored to be permitted to stand before you brethren and sisters and take part in this great Conference. 

Brethren, and all who are members of the Church, I have discovered that I am still alive, and I am very pleased to be living and to be in your midst. 

I have nothing in the world before me that has any great value, other than faith and hope and love of God and his commandments. I can think of nothing before me that has any greater value than the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I have tried to impress the people that I was sincere, frank, and honest in my beliefs. I think I have had a pretty hard time in the last year, a sort of a crucial test as to just how I will finish my work. I have been with you people in conference assembled pretty nearly a half a century, and at no time during my life have I been treated more kindly, more courteously and more helpfully than during the past year. 

I have spoken at several Priesthood and Seventies' meetings during the past year . A little over a year ago I attended a young peoples' meeting in Forest Dale. I was in my usual physical condition. I undertook to speak to the young people. In about five minutes I went silent. I sat down. They dismissed their meeting. I went home. I felt then : "I am through; I have finished," but it hasn't come true, because I am still alive and trying to fulfil my mission. 

I have great joy and pleasure. God knows that I still want to fill a mission and be honorably released and return from whence I came. 

When I was sixteen, my father, Heber C. Kimball, was sixty-seven years old, as strong, powerful, masterful a man as ever lived; with a great family — twenty-five sons and ten daughters. He was injured by accident and later was paralyzed — I can remember the very day when he was stricken — and he never spoke afterwards, although he was conscious of his surroundings. 

Well, I have been favored in the past year. About one year ago I went to California. Mrs. Kimball was very sick, unable to walk. I am not telling you a hard luck story. While I was there I was stricken blind for eleven or twelve days. I have overcome that partly, and I am able to see. 

Now, I don't know of anybody here present that has a greater reason to be thankful than I have. I may be ungrateful at times, and I may be unthankful, but I honor God, the eternal Father, and His Son Jesus Christ. I believe with all of my soul that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; that Brigham Young was a prophet of God; that Heber C. Kimball and all those other great men were inspired of the Lord. As far as I am concerned, if these things are not true, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

is not true, I wouldn't give you twenty-five cents for what you leave behind you. But it is true. It is my testimony to you that it is true. 

Before I conclude I want to say to you brethren that I have been personally acquainted with the First Council of Seventy since the days of President Seymour B. Young. The Council that we have now — I happen to be senior President but am not able to do very much — this Council has sustained me. They have been so kind and considerate that I honor them. I am testifying to you good people — and we have ample proof of it — at no time in the history of the Seventies has the First Council been more faithful as witnesses for God to the nations of the earth, and preachers of righteousness, than these men are; the Twelve Apostles the same; and the First Council is under their direction. They have been greatly blessed by the Lord, and they are, through the Seventies, doing a wonderful work, fulfilling a great mission among the stakes of Zion, and at no time have they accomplished a greater work. They have the spirit of their office and calling. I sustain them. I want to leave my testimony with them. If it isn't true, as I said before, there is nothing true. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. I pray God the Eternal Father to bless President Grant. It isn't the man. We don't worship men. I don't. I have never believed you get on higher ground by worshiping a man. I am a good deal like my father. Before he died he was praying. He called together this great patriarchal family of his, and he got to praying. When he prayed, he just talked to the Lord. He wasn't talking to men; he was talking to the Lord. So father finally burst out in a laugh and he said : "Oh, Lord, forgive me. When I pray for some men I have to laugh." He had to apologize to the Lord, because it amused him to pray for some men. 

I honor President Grant. I have every reason for it. I have known him all during my ministry; and it isn't the man; it is the prophet. God bless the prophet whom God raised up to guide and direct his people, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, something has been- said during this meeting regarding the respect shown to the Authorities of the Church, and the love and esteem in which they are held by those who are working with them. I share in that esteem. Fortunately for me, I have known many of them for many years. 

The thing, however, that impresses me most in this respect is the fact that our missionaries, young men and young women, called from remote sections of the Church, have the same testimony, and support these Authorities with the same enthusiasm and zeal with which they are supported by those who know them best. 

It has been my great privilege to labor among these missionaries. I love them. This great missionary work has become dear to me. One  the finest things about it is the attitude, my brethren and sisters, of your sons and daughters with respect to God and the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I have seen them, in a few short months, transformed from hesitating and doubting boys and girls to mature, earnest men and women. The thing that pleases me most is to hear them bear their testimony. They speak the truth. They are not seeking to deceive. 

The words of the Apostle Paul, in writing to Timothy, come to 

me : 

I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry * * * 

And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 

This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief. 

We have had a great experience during the last six months in the Eastern States Mission. We have been blessed with a great deal of publicity. Newspapers have treated us kindly. They have spoken well of the great movements of the Church and of the people. Now I am wondering, and the challenge that seems to come to me is : How can we somehow make the people of the world realize that the people, in and of themselves, are no greater than other people, but that something has come into their lives to make them worthy of the things that are said of them and the things that they are doing? How can we put over the message that water does not rise above its source; that "men do not gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles;" that there is something in this message, of itself, inherently, that makes this people do what they are doing? 

If we can do that, if we can make them know that we believe that the greatest character who has ever crossed the pages of history is the Lord Jesus Christ, and that we serve him best when we keep most perfectly his commandments, and that we are what we are because of him, then we have done well. If we have faith in this world only, in the Savior, then well might the Apostle Paul say: "We are of all men most miserable." If we can somehow get the people to understand that whatever there is great among the Mormon people it is because there has been translated into their lives the principles and teachings of our Savior, and unto him we give the honor, the praise and the glory : If we can let them know, in the language of the Book of Mormon, where Mosiah said : "Moreover, I say unto you, that there shall be no other name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord omnipotent;" and that because we get these truths into the lives of people we succeed in getting them to accomplish the things for which we are commended. It is the Gospel of Christ that has made the Mormon people what they are. 

To me, our great mission and work in the field is to preach Christ and him crucified. I rejoice also that in gaining a testimony of the Savior our missionaries are impressed with the fact that as they study Mormonism, so-called, they see that it is but the pathway, the guide to life eternal, through the course mapped out by our Savior. They sustain these men as prophets of God, because God gives them a testimony of the Gospel, not because they know them personally. Those of us who know them personally can bear testimony to their integrity, but I rejoice that the young people, particularly the, missionaries, throughout the world say that they are prophets of God, because they know the Gospel is true. They have learned that by finding out that Christ is the way to salvation and life, and that in this Gospel are found the teachings of that Lord and Master; that the same principles which he advocated are advocated now; that the same powers, the same saving graces, the same gifts and blessings that were given to his people anciently are given now, if we are obedient unto that Gospel. 

They discover that these men, these principles, these things that are making us known, are but the results of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ being translated into life. 

Oh, I pray that we shall appreciate sincerely that the good things that are being said of us shall be said of us because we are worthy; that we shall indeed translate into our lives these glorious principles of the Gospel; that in all things Christ, the Redeemer and Savior of the world, shall be magnified and his name glorified in all the earth. 

In humility I bear witness, too, that I know that he lives, and that he is the Redeemer of the world. As has been said by Brother Stephen L. Richards, this testimony is peculiarly sacred to me, but I feel, nevertheless, constrained to bear this witness unto you, and to say that the most glorious privilege of my life has been preaching our Lord and his work in the earth. 

I close with a voice of prayer, in the language of one of our poets : 

Oh, Thou by whom we come to God, 

The Life, the Truth, the Way! The path of prayer Thyself hath trod; 

Lord, teach us how to pray. 

May the Lord teach us to be obedient, to love and keep his commandments, and translate into our lives the things that are worth while in the Gospel, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of, the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel my weakness this morning, and seek your faith and prayers. I have been happy in listening to the testimonies of my brethren, and especially the words of counsel and warning which have been given unto us by those who have spoken thus far. 

PEACE TAKEN FROM THE EARTH 

We are living in perilous times. The world is in commotion. One hundred years ago — to be exact, in November of 1831 — the Lord gave  Preface to his Commandments. You know the Doctrine and Covenants is different from any other book. It was not written by Joseph Smith. It is the work of God, and as its author he had the right, of course, to write his preface, which he did, and he said this : 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. 

One year after the organization of the Church, peace could not have been taken from the earth, in justice, but the Lord said the time would speedily come. That time has come. Peace has departed from the world. The devil has power today over his own dominion. This is made manifest in the actions of men, in the distress among the nations, in the troubles that we see in all lands, including this land which was dedicated to liberty. 

There is no peace. Men's hearts are failing them. Greed has the uppermost place in the hearts of men. Evil is made manifest on every side, and people are combining for their own selfish interests. Because of this I was glad to hear the warning voice raised by our beloved President and by his counselors, yesterday, and by others of the brethren who have spoken; for I think this should be a time of warning, not only to the Latter-day Saints, but to all the world. We owe it to the world, to raise a voice of warning, and especially to the members of the Church. 

A TRUE CHURCH 

I would, with all my heart, that we, the members of this Church, were living in unity and peace and the love of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; which is perhaps more than we can expect under mortal conditions, for the Savior, in one of his parables, stated that the kingdom of heaven was like a net that was cast into the sea; it gathered of all kinds, some good, some bad, some neither good nor bad, and they had to be sorted. 

The Lord also said in this preface, that this is the only church upon the face of the earth with which he is pleased. Let me give his exact words : 

And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually. 

I say if the Lord had to make such a statement as that in 1831, how much more necessary would it be today ? He would have to say that this Church is the only church upon the face of the earth with which he is pleased (because it is his Church; he organized it; but he would also have to say he is speaking collectively and not individually, simply because there are so many professing membership in this Church, who are not abiding in the laws and the ordinances of the Gospel, nor are they true to the covenants and the obligations that they have taken upon themselves, to keep his commandments. 

I want to read to you another passage of scripture. This was given in the year 1833, after trouble had come upon our people, and they had been driven from their homes, because they had failed to keep the commandments : 

ZION TO REJOICE 

Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion, the pure in heart; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn. 

For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly, as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it? 

The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come. 

Therefore I can say there shall be no peace come to this world until Christ comes to bring it. 

For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works. 

Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. 

But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with the sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire. 

Nevertheless, let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more none of these things shall come upon her. 

JUDGMENTS COMING UPON THE WORLD 

As I observe conditions among the people I cannot see how we are going to escape when the judgments are to pass over the nations, which are promised in this revelation and in others which I cannot take time to read. Because of our disobedience and our failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, the righteous, as in times past, may be called upon to suffer with the unrighteous among us. 

So I rejoiced in having the voice of warning raised. Are we keeping the Sabbath day holy, as Latter-day Saints, when the picture shows are filled every afternoon and evening, and that, too, in communities of Latter-day Saints; when the pleasure resorts are crowded on the Sabbath day; when we turn our attention to pleasure rather than to the worship of God ? Do we have a claim upon his blessings, and are we entitled to have the angels of destruction pass us by, according to the promise that is given here, if we will keep the commandments of God ? Are we doing it ? 

FAULT-FINDING 

Are we guilty of finding fault with those who preside over us ? Are we willing to listen to the counsels that they give to us, and receive the voice of God as it comes through the one who stands to represent him as his mouthpiece upon the face of the earth ? How many of us are willing  do that ? We stood upon our feet here this morning and sang : "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," and yet there are some among us who criticise him, who find fault with him. When he speaks by the power of the inspiration of Almighty God, we are ready to condemn him, as we have done in times past. 

Do you think, under these conditions, that we are prepared to escape from these penalties here enumerated in this revelation, given on the 2nd day of August in the year 1833, a month after our people had been driven from their homes for violating the commandments which they solemnly had promised they would keep ? 

I want to raise the warning voice, and I am doing it among the stakes of Zion, as you happen to know. I want to cry repentance. Are we keeping ourselves clean and pure and unspotted from the sins of the world, and are we entitled to receive the blessings? 

PREDICTIONS BEING FULFILLED 

I want to tell you the judgments have gone forth and they are going forth. All these strikes that are taking place, this commotion, this unrest, this dissatisfaction, this desire on the part of people to overthrow governments — and that is going to come, for hasn't the Lord said that he will make an end of all nations? Is it not so recorded in these revelations? And so it must be. The angels of destruction have gone forth upon their mission. 

WARNING OF PRESIDENT WOODRUFF 

Permit me to read a few words from President Wilf ord Woodruff. This seemed to be the burden of his message from the time of the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple until his death, for he repeated it time and time again, and I heard him : 

What are the signs of the times? Do the Latter-day Saints comprehend them? This is a fast age. The Lord is going to cut his work short in righteousness. Read these revelations, for they contain the history of what is coming to pass in the earth. 

That is, these revelations out of which I have been reading. 

The Lord said to Joseph Smith in the beginning of this church — 

Then President Woodruff read from Section 86 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 5 to 7, in regard to the wheat and the tares. You know in that revelation the angels cried to the Lord that they might go forth and reap down the earth. After reading that passage President Woodruff said : 

What is the matter with this world today? What has created this change that we see coming over the world ? Why these terrible judgments ? What is the meaning of all these mighty events that are taking place? The meaning is, these angels that have been held for many years in the temple of our God have got their liberty to go out and commence their mission and their work in the earth, and they are here today in the earth. 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I feel in saying this to the Latter-day Saints there is a meaning in these judgments. The word of the Lord cannot fall unfulfilled. If you want to know what is coming to pass, read the revelation of St. John. Read the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. These things are at our doors. What is the matter with this nation, — thousands of men striking, mobs raising up and destroying property; tribulation prevailing! 

I want to say that you will all find, before you are many years older, that Utah is a pretty good place to live in. 

Now, I can't take time to read more of it, but he raised this warning voice, and I believe Utah .will be a pretty good place to live in, and other stakes of Zion, for I don't believe President Woodruff intended to confine this to the borders of Utah, but to the stakes of Zion. But the judgments of the Almighty are being poured out, and they shall continue, for the Prophet of God has said it. We shall not escape, unless we repent, turn to the Lord, honor our Priesthood and our membership in this Church, and be true and faithful to our covenants, which I pray we may be, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn "Praise to the Man who Communed with Jehovah." 

Elder J. Frank Killian, President of the Emery Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


