Morning
03 04 1921

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am indeed delighted to see such a wonderful audience here this morning. It is gratifying to note the interest that has been manifested by the Latter-day Saints in their assembling together, throughout the various stakes of Zion, during the past six mojnths, in fact, during the past year, in their houses of worship, to render thanks to the Lord for his goodness and mercy to them, and to testify of the blessings they have received. 

I have prepared some items that I believe will' be of interest to this conference. It has been usual, in the opening address, to give some items regarding the condition of the Church. 

INCREASED ATTENDANCE AT SACRAMENT MEETINGS. 

Our reports show that there has been an increased attendance at our sacrament meetings and fast meetings, all over the Church. I never listen to the revealed prayers: that came from God, to> be used in our sacrament meetings, wherein we, through those who administer the sacrament, express our determination to remember our Lord and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, and to express our willingness to obey him and to keep the commandments which he has given us but what I rejoice in the inspiration of Joseph Smith, in translating the Book of Mormon, and giving to us those two wonderful sacramental prayers, those two marvelous covenants that all Latter-day Saints make when they assemble together and partake of the sacrament. I rejoice in knowing that there has been an increase in the attendance at these meetings, and also at our fast meetings, where we are able to testify of the many blessings of God to us as a people. I am grateful to our young people for adopting the slogan that they were in favor of developing spiritual growth by attendance at our sacrament meetings. The attendance has increased, and therefore there has been a spiritual growth. 

LOCAL MISSIONARY LABORS. 

The missionary work which was outlined in our general Priesthood meeting at the last October Conference, has been successfully conducted in most of the stakes and has been the means of doing a great deal of good. This labor is twice blessed. It blesses him that gives and him that receives. Some of the choicest meetings that I have 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

been permitted to attend, during the last six months, have been gatherings of those who are engaged in missionary work in the various stakes of Zion; and I rejoice to know that many people who have heard the word of God, through these missionaries, have been baptized into the Church. I believe that in proportion to the amount of labor that has been put forth in the various stakes of Zion, o'f a missionary character, among those who are in our midst, but who know not the gospel, there have been as many, if not more, baptisms than there have been in the missionary fields throughout the different parts of the world. 

TEMPLE WORK. 

The work in our temples is progressing very satisfactorily; the attendance has been increased, and the great interest throughout the Church in temple work is very encouraging. We are now having four companies daily in the Salt Lake Temple. I think that it was a very wonderful .example of the faith of the Latter-day Saints in temple work, when a fast-day was declared and the people were requested, last September, to make donations to aid in the erection of the temple in Arizona, that over one hundred eighteen thousand dollars was collected without one cent of expense, by donation upon the special fastday set apart for that purpose. Nothing could more conclusively show the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints to that principle of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, revealed again to the earth, namely, the right and the privilege to perform labors in the holy temples of God for those of our ancestors who have passed beyond the veil than to have upon a single fast day throughout this Church one hundred .eighteen thousands dollars contributed by the people for the erection of the Arizona Temple. 

TEMPLE BLOCK LABORS. 

I wish to commend the splendid missionary work done on the Temple Block, under the direction of the Bureau of Information, together with the free organ recitals which are given to the public. The amount of good done by this excellent labor can hardly be estimated. I have met people who have visited the Temple Block, from Salt Lake City to the Hawaiian Islands, and from Salt Lake City to New York, and to San Francisco, and in Canada and other places, and I know from my conversation with them of the splendid impression that has been made upon their minds by coming in contact with those devoted men and women who are working upon the Temple Block here as missionaries. 

CHANGES OF OFFICERS IN STAKES AND MISSIONS. 

There has been a slight increase in the payment of fast offerings, although there is still room for much improvement in this matter. Since our last Conference there have been two new Stakes organized — North Sevier stake, with Moroni Lazenby as president and South Sevier stake, with John E. Magleby president. Since our last Conference, John N. Henrie, President of the Panguitch stake, has passed 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

away. He was a faithful, diligent president of that stake of Zion. 

Since our last Conference the following bishops have passed away : Bishop Herbert Beck, of Centerfield ward, South Sanpete stake; Bishop Godfrey Fuhriman, of Providence First ward, Logan stake; Bishop Walter Roberts, of Sutherland ward, Deseret stake, and Bishop Clyde A. Hammond, of Moab ward, San Juan stake. We extend the blessings of the General Authorities to the families of these our brethren, who have been called from us since our last Conference. 

The following changes in stake presidencies have been made since our last Conference: Albert Choules has succeded Don C. Driggs as President of the Teton stake, William J., Henderson has succeeded the late John N. Henrie, as president of the Panguitch stake. Brother Driggs was released with the love and confidence and blessing of his brethren, as the President of the Teton stake. 

In the Netherlands mission, John T. Lillywhite has been appointed president, to succeed John A. Butterworth. Mark Coombs has been appointed as President of the Tonga mission to succeed Willard L. Smith. J. Wiley Sessions has been appointed president of the South African mission to succeed Nicholas G. Smith. I have received a letter from Brother Sessions announcing his arrival in South Africa. Brother Sessions had been trying for nearly a year to get to South Africa, but on account of the obstructions put in the way by officials, who refused to vise passports and to allow him to go there, we have been under the necessity of keeping Brother Nicholas Groesbeck Smith in that mission another year after we felt that he should have been released. Brother Smith has filled a splendid mission in South Africa and will return with the love and blessings of all the authorities of the Church. 

; VITAL AND EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS. 

Seventy-five per cent of the families of the Church in the Stakes of Zion own their homes. The birth rate of the Church is now 38 per 1,000. The death rate is 9 per 1,000. The marriage rate is 15.5 per 1,000. There has been expended for educational purposes $718,497.19. There has been expended for tabernacle, meeting houses and amusement halls, $346,203.17. 

MISSIONARY ACTIVITIES. 

There has been expended for missionary activities $511,709.97. This does not take into aocount the amount expended by the individuals who go upon missions, nor the amount that they lose by giving up their employment to go upon missions. This, I am sure, would be more than two million dollars a year, in addition to this half million dollars. So that the Latter-day Saints, as a people, are giving to the world an object lesson, such as I believe no other people upon the face of the earth are giving of their love of God, that first great commandment given to us, and also the second commandment to love our neighbor as ourselves. When we stop to reflect that a handful of people, 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 5 

numbering in all parts of the world only five hundred thousand men, women, children and babies, that they are expending $2,500,000 a year in time and means to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, with no hope of earthly reward, we find an object lesson of the love of our fellows that I believe cannot be matched, in fact I know it cannot be matched, in all the wide world. 

HELP FOE THE POOR. 

There has been expended for assistance rendered to the poor, $450,000, of which $110,000 was raised during a single fast day for the relief of the sufferers in Europe, in Armenia and other places. There has been expended for Temple purposes $158,715.29. 

I received a splendid letter from the Near East Relief Committee, in New York, which I failed to find this morning; but a day or two ago the following letter was received from Herbert L. Gutterson : 

"New York City, March 21st, 1921. "Mr. Heber J. Grant, 47 E. South Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 

"Dear Mr. Grant: We are in receipt of your letter of the 16th, addressed to Mr. Hoover, which we wish to acknowledge in his behalf. 

"The contribution of $68,318.21 from your Church is a most splendid testimonial to the cause, which was the basis for the formation of the European Relief Council." 

"Please accept in the name of the European Relief Council as a body, our most sincere, heartfelt thanks for the contribution from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and we beg that you will express to them this sentiment and gratitude for their co-operation. "With kindest wishes, we are, 

"Very sincerely yours, 

"Control Committee. 

"By Herbert L. Gutterson." 

DEATH OF PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Since our last Conference we have suffered the sorrow of parting with one of the Presidency of the Church, President Anthon H. Lund, than whom, from the day of his baptism as a boy in Scandinavia, to the day of his death, no more faithful, diligent, energetic, painstaking, conscientious and intelligent worker have I known in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Lund was a man beloved by all. I never heard one soul in my life say anything but good of the late President Anthon H. Lund. His ability and capacity were known to all the General Authorities as that of a great and noble and a true man, a Latter-day Saint to the very core. We mourn his loss. But in the providences of the Lord we feel that he will raise up others to assist in the rolling on of this great work. We had here a most wonderful audience at his funeral, the house being crowded to overflowing, thus showing the love and confidence and the respect of the people for President Lund. 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

CHANGES IN THE FIRST PRESIDENCY. 

I believe that in the promotion of Brother Penrose to be First Counselor in the First Presidency after he has labored from the time that he was a boy, nineteen years of age, for ten long years in his native land, proclaiming the gospel, and returned to that land to fulfil three more missions, a total of over twenty years of missionary work, and then labored here at home constantly with pen and tongue to proclaim the gospel; after his having accomplished all this, I feel sure that the Latter-day Saints rejoice in the promotion of this aged man, now in his ninetieth year, to be the First Counselor in the Presidency of the Church. 

I believe that the Latter-day Saints generally have approved in their hearts of the selection of Anthony W. Ivins to be my Second Counselor, to become a member of the Presidency of the Church. We have not yet presented these names but they will be presented before the Conference adjourns. 

CHOICE OF A NEW APOSTLE. 

I am convinced in my own heart that if President Anthon H. Lund had had the privilege of nominating a man to fill the vacancy caused in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, through his death, and through the promotion of Brother Ivins, that he would have named Brother John A. Widtsoe. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has gathered from the British Isles and from the Scandinavian countries many thousands upon thousands of honest, energetic, faithful, loyal, true Latter-day Saints. Scandinavia, second only to the British Isles, has furnished great numbers of converts to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I believe that the Saints generally approve of those who have been called to these positions. I am; convinced beyond a shadow of a doubt that the Presidency and the Apostles, under the inspiration of the Lord, nominated the proper man to fill the vacancy in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and T have absolutely no doubt but what the Latter-day Saints will sanction our having set apart and ordained to the Apostleship Brother John A. Widtsoe. 

HEARTY RESPONSE TO INSTRUCTIONS AT LAST CONFERENCE. 

I rejoice in what I believe has been a response to the speeches made here six months ago. The keynote of our Conference at that time was to obey the commandments of the Lord Jesus Christ, to have in our hearts a love of God, a love of our fellows, to have in our hearts the spirit of forgiveness and of long-suffering, to have in our hearts a desire to do those things that would be pleasing and acceptable to our heaveniy Father; and I feel grateful that, during the past six months, there has been a spiritual! growth. I believe that there has been a better feeling, that some of the animosities that were existing six months ago, because of political differences, have disappeared, now that men 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 7 

have had time, figuratively speaking, to "cool off." I would rejoice beyond all the power which God has given me to express my feelings, if the Latter-day Saints could express their opinions in times of political campaigns without animosity, without vindictiveness, that they could simply proclaim those principles in which they believe, without indulging in personalities. 

CHANGE OF SENTIMENT FAVORING THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 

I think that we as a people have very great cause to rejoice in the era of good will and fellowship that is existing today for us as a people, among those not of our faith, in comparison with the conditions that existed some years ago. I do not know of any single thing that has happened in my experience, during the long time that I have been one of the General Authorities of the Church, that has impressed me more profoundly with the change of sentiment towards the latter- day Saints than the reception that was accorded to mei December last when I went to Kansas City and delivered a speech upon the accomplishments of "Mormonism." When I reflect upon the fact that in the leading hotel: in that wonderful and progressive city — (I don't know that all of the people here, in fact I feel sure that perhaps the majority of those here are not aware of the fact that although *that city is only one-half as large as St. Louis, its bank clearings are larger than those of St. Louis, that in some particular items they stand first, in commerce, among all the cities of the United States; and I do not know whether you are aware of the fact that they have one paper there that is conceded to be one of the six leading newspapers of the United states, the Kansas City Star)- — I was permitted to stand up within ten miles of Independence, the place from which the Latter-day Saints were expelled, by an expulsion and exterminating order of the Governor of the State, Governor Boggs, and to proclaim the accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints; to relate the prophecies of Joseph Smith, to give to those men that were there assembled — over three hundred of the leading influential business men of the city — the testimony of Josiah Quincy regarding the Prophet Joseph Smith; to repeat to them the great Pioneer hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints;" to relate the hardships, the drivings and the persecutions of the Latter-day Saints and to have that body of representative men receive that address with approval, applaud it in many places, and many of them come to me after the meeting and shake hands and congratulate me upon the address; and to have some of the members of the Board of Directors of that great club — the Knife arid Fork Club of Kansas City — (which I have been informed is the second greatest dinner club in the United States, the Gridiron of Washington standing first) to have them say that they hoped for a return date so that they could hear more of our people; and then stop to reflect upon the fact that the Prophet and his followers, in the early days, were expelled from 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Missouri; that many of them were murdered; that all kinds of crimes were committed upon the people; that their property was confiscated; that we have never received anything for our property that belonged to us in that section, that today some o fthe valuable country that we traveled over there is the very property that our people owned, (for when you follow up many abstracts of valuable property you will find that the title centers in the bishop of the "Mormon" Church, and only because of lapse of time have people secured a proper title to these lands, and not because it was ever paid for) — I say to stop and reflect that the drivings and the persecutions of the Latter-day Saints, of which no tongue can tell and no pen can paint th.e conditions; and then to realize that there is a feeling in that community now, among the people residing in the very place, so to speak, from which President Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the living God, arid others were driven out; to be invited to go there and be asked to talk of the accomplishments of "Mormonism," and to have that talk received, with open arms, shows the most wonderful change of sentiment. 

A short time ago the editor and publisher of the Coast Banker a paper that has a circulation all over the Twelfth Federal Reserve banking district, asked me to write ah article on the accomplishments of our people. I did not have time to write the article, but I sent him my speech delivered before the Knife and Fork Club, and told him if that would fill the bill, I would be very glad indeed to have him publish it. Of course, I realized it was a very long speech, because I talked pretty rapidly and I talked for fifty-seven minutes, but he published all that I said. He published, besides, an introduction of such a character that I am very proud of it. I thanked him kindly, when I met him, for this introduction to my speech. 

Now, I pray the Lord to bless the Latter-day Saints. I pray the Lord that we may remember that same keynote that was given here six months ago — keep the commandments of the Lord. Why, you know, if we can just remember those first two great things, to love the Lord our God with all our hearts, with all our might, with all our mind, with all our strength, and to love our neighbor as ourselves, we are sure to walk in that straight and narrow path that shall lead us to life eternal. God bless you one and all, and all Israel, and all the honest, the world over, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang, "The Lord's Prayer," music by B. Cecil Gates. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I feel grateful to the Lord for the inspiration of his Spirit to so many of our people in the writing of the beautiful music that we have for our hymns, and for selections such as this that we have just listened to. May God bless our composers and our poets who have given us such inspired words and such inspiring, sweet music. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

It is a great pleasure to me to behold this vast congregation, composed chiefly of Latter-day Saints, gathered from different portions of the Church, also to listen to the remarks that have been made by our President. I was in hopes that he would have continued his remarks and taken up the time of our first session of this Conference, for several reasons. One of them is that I was doubtful, this morning, when I arose from my bed, whether I would be able to get here. I experienced a violent vertigo, attack of swimming of the head. In these troublous times and in the great and swift changes that are taking place, there is enough to turn anybody's head, bigger heads than mine a great deal. But I have been able, since coming into this congregation, to compose myself and to listen to the inspired utterances of our President, and they have had a splendid effect upon me, physically as well as mentally and spiritually. 

REJOICES IN CHANGES OF SENTIMENT IN FAVOR OF THE SAINTS. 

I rejoice in these changes which he has spoken of, that have taken place among the people who are not of our faith. So many are now beginning to understand a little about "Mormonism," that it does not consist of one peculiarity which has been proclaimed throughout the world as our chief tenet. They are beginning to understand that the Latter-day Saints, the "Mormons," are a practical people, that they have a practical faith, and that they da things, and the knowledge of this is coming to the nations of the earth more rapidly than I ever expected it to come. I always had faith, from the time that I was a boy and joined the Church — the only one of my family who did so, that "Mormonism," as it is called, would prevail, that the kingdom of God, which it was and is to me, would overcome all things, and that the name of the true and the living God would be brought before the world ultimately for their adoration and their obedience. I never had a doubt about the triumph of this great organization, established by the Almighty, by the personal action of the Father and the Son and', the Holy Ghost; and today I rejoice in my soul to see the evidence of the progress of this work, here on these tabernacle grounds, where people have' assembled at our first session in such numbers that the Assembly Hall has to be used for an overflow meeting and the grounds themselves for another, at the beginning of our Conference. Thank the Lord, praises and blessings be to his Holy Name! 

GOD OUR ETERNALj, FATHER AND HIS SON JESUS CHRIST, 

The beautiful music we have just listened to called "The Lord's Prayer," brings before our attention that prayer which Jesus uttered; not that people were always to repeat it, although it is a mighty good 

10 GENERAL CONEERENCE. 

thing that so many people do so, even if they do not realize what it means. Ever since I was a little boy, I have heard that prayer repeated in the churches in the world, before I ever knew anything of this work. It begins with a truth that all people ought to understand, and that is that God is our Father, that he dwells in heaven; that he is not and cannot be personally omnipresent, as is taught in the heathen and so-called Christian churches of the world; that he is a divine being, a personage, a perfect and perfected man so to speak. We do not say that God is a man; he is a perfected man; he is exalted above all mankind, and he is our Father. He begat us in our original being, as his sons and daughters, verily and [literally and truly. Jesus Christ who uttered that prayer is his Son just as we are, in the spirit, only he was the first-born. There is a truth connected with that principle which we should all understand, for Jesus Christ himself has declared it. He says to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints : "I also was in the beginning with the Father, and am the first-born. Ye also 1 were in the beginning with the Father, that which is spirit." That part of mankind which is spirit was in the eternal world with the Father, before this world began, as we read in the first and second chapters of the Epistle to the Hebrews, which I commend to your attention, my brethren and sisters. We learn a little;of this fact : 

"God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, 

"Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds; 

"Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his peison, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high." 

He was the firstborn in this great family of the Almighty, the Creator of the worlds, and they were made by him, through and by Jesus Christ, his Son. Some of our brethren get the idea that he could not have been the creator of this world, as is declared in the latter-day revelations, that he was with the Father in this work, and that "all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made," as we read in the opening chapter of the writings of John his beloved disciple and apostle. 

JESUS CHRIST THE ONLY BEGOTTEN OF THE FATHER IN THE FLESH. 

We should understand this, that Jesus the Christ came into the world, in the meridian of time, to be the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh. That is a doctrine established in this Church, and we have received it by revelation, so we can put aside any doubts or speculations or contentions in regard to it. That was when he came and tabernacled, being in the image of his Father, the "express" image of his Father before he came into the world; and with power, as the heir of all things, God honored him and loved him, and he knew the faithPRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 11 

fulness in all the work entrusted to him, and knew beforehand what he would do when he came on the earth to be the Redeemer of mankind. This is a subject that I do not want to dwell upon now, because I do not want to take up too much time, but it is a most important thing in the progress and development of the purposes of the Almighty. Jesus, as we call him, the Nazarene, the son of Mary, of the offspring of David — therefore the Son of man — was the Son of God, who is the Father of his spirit. So, in the beginning he was with God and was the firstborn of this great family, and on the earth he was the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh. He lived and died as a Son of God in all things, and was raised from the dead and appeared to his disciples. In these last days he appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in his boyhood, and has manifested himself personally several times, on several occasions, and he lives as the Son of God and our eldest brother in the spirit. The declaration of the doctrines of the Church in that remarkable condensation of principles which are called The Latter-day Saint's faith, begins with : "We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." 

THE HOLY GHOST, A PERSONAGE OF SPIRIT. 

In regard to the Holy Ghost, I want to say a few words this morning, since I have this grand opportunity, in reply to questions and letters that come to us, in the President's office, concerning this matter. There seems, in spite of all the preachings and writings and explanations and expoundings of the Church, some confusion of mind in regard to this question about the Holy Ghost. "Is the Holy Ghost a personage?" So we are told in the 130th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which contains several grand principles uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith. One is that God is a personage of tabernacle, the Son also, but the Holy Ghost is "a personage of spirit." This seems to create great wonderment among some of our people, because they confound the two terms "Holy Spirit" and "Holy Ghost" and think that there is a difference in their meaning. There is a difference in one sense of the word. We attach the words "the Holy Ghost" to the personage of spirit; and we attach the name "Holy Spirit" to that universal means by which God and Jesus Christ are omnipresent. That divine, beginningless and boundless essence is called the Holy Spirit; but the two terms really mean the same thing, so far as language is concerned. Brother Lund used to talk a good deal about the one German word which means the Holy Ghost as well as the Holy Spirit. The word means "Ghost" but it attaches to the influence which we call spirit, 'the spirit of man, and to the Holy Ghost the Comforter. Now let me say just two or three words on that point, to settle this question. In the fifth chapter of the first epistle of John, the beloved disciple, we read this : 

"There are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word," — that is the name that John generally attached to the Savior — 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." That is applied to the Son, the first born in the spirit and the only begotten in the flesh— "There are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost; and these three are one." Some people get very much confused in regard to that oneness or unity. There are three persons united as one God, one Deity, and it takes three of them to bear record in heaven; or rather, as the Prophet Joseph Smith explained very fully, that in all the presidencies that are divine, there are three. The Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost are three personags. Two are persons of tabernacle. Now, questions arise as to whether the Holy Ghost will ever get a body. I do not know anything about that, because the Lord has not revealed it; and if our brethren, while trying to be wise when they are not always so, would leave out of their preachings and their speculations that which they think may be in the future, but do not know, there will be a good deal of contention avoided. 

The Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit, as Jesus Christ was when he was Jehovah. He was Jehovah from the beginning of the world, according to the history we have in the Old Testament scriptures. He was a personage of spirit, and he came here to the earth that he might be exactly like his brethren and like his Father, and have a body made out of the lower elements of the universe. The elments of his body are eternal, and the elements of the spirit are eternal, without beginning; but there was a beginning to his body, when he was born of the virgin Mary, and God was his Father. His power overshadowed the virgin and, as she was told by the angel Gabriel, the offspring was the Son of God. Jesus Christ taught that doctrine to his apostles and made it very plain, I think, as it stands in the New Testament : "Our Father which art in Heaven" — not our Father who personally is throughout all space, without center and without circumference; but his dwelling place is in heaven. The Lord says : "Heaven is my throne; the earth is my footstool;" and to the ancient Jews he cried: "Where is the house that ye build unto me, and where is the place of my rest?" Our Father is a personage of tabernacle. He has a spiritual body, as well as a spiritual existence besides the physical body; the elements in him are joined inseparably. One of the revelations of God, the 88th Section in the Doctrine and Covenants, declares that "the elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably, connected, receiveth a fulness of joy; and when separated man cannot obtain a fulness of joy." 

The spirit of man is the offspring of God. It has affinity with spiritual things. In its spiritual being and nature it is above earthly things, but when tabernacled in a body, it becomes, to a great extent, subject to the laws that govern earthly things. When death comes as we call it, ( the separation of the spirit and the body, aa| we learn in the Scriptures, "the body without the spirit is dead," when that separation comes, then the spirit goes back to its former condition, to this extent, 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 13 

that it is without the natural body until the resurrection. But the necessity for the resurrection is shown, very plainly, when we understand that only by these affinities can we obtain a fulness of joy. That which is spirit in our nautre has affinity with things that are above. The natural body has affinity with the things that are grosser or beneath. But when the two, spirit and element, are inseparably connected — quickened by the Holy Spirit — and I mean by that the spirit which is called the spirit of life and light, then perfection can come to the individual, and without that union there cannot be obtained a fulness of joy. ' 

Now the pattern of it all is in the life and service and devotion and death of Jesus our Redeemer, and his resurrection from the dead, his return into the presence of God, where he sits with him on the everlasting throne. But about the Holy Ghost, what about that ? Why, he is a personage of spirit, an individual, a being, and he bears witness of the Father and of the Son and makes them plain to man. He is called by the Savior, the "Comforter." If you read the writings of John, the 15th, 16th and 17th chapters, there you will see that he is called the Comforter. He is a personage. "When he, the Spirit of truth, is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, he will teach you all things and he will show you things to come." John calls him "He" and "Him." He is a person. "If I go not away," said Jesus to his disciples, "the Comforter will not come, but if I go away, I will send him to you, and he shall bear witness of me and of the Father;" for that is his office and calling. The understanding we have is that the Holy Ghost, as a personage, came on the day of Pentecost, and that he was manifested in the sign of the cloven tongues, as he was to John the Baptist by the sign of the dove, when the Savior was baptized in the river Jordan. Now then, understand that the personage spoken of there, the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, is an individual, the third person in the trinity, and it takes the Father and the Word and the Holy Ghost to make a complete record in the heavens; but the apostle John goes on to say, "there are three that bear witness, on the earth — the spirit, and the water, and the blood, and these three agree in one. Now as to the oneness I was just touching upon, it is clearly explained* in the prayer of the Savior, offered to the Father before he went to the garden of Gethsemane. He prayed for his apostles : 

I pray "for them * * * which thou has given me; for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; that they all be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us; that the world may believe that thou hast sent me; and the glory which thou gavest me I have given them, that they may be one, even as we are one." (John 17:9, 20, 23.) 

There is the oneness of Deity, the three in one; not as some preachers try to expound it, in the doctrines of the outside world, in 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the Article of Faith that they have, making them one immaterial spirit — no body, no real personage, no substance. On the contrary, they are three individuals, one in spirit, one in mind, one in intelligence, united in all things that they do, and it takes the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, to make the perfect Trinity in one, three persons and one God or Deity, one Godhead. 

THE HOLY GHOST BESTOWED IN CONFIRMATION. 

Now about the Holy Ghost bestowed in confirmation.^ It is required of people who are baptized in water, to be baptized with "the Holy Ghost and with fire." Of course, the word "fire" does not mean a literal blaze to burm you up; it is a divine fire, and all people know, who have been baptized with fire and the Holy Ghost, bearing witness of the Father and they Son, (and in these times, to the; divine mission of the Latter-day Prophet, Joseph Smith) that this Spirit is in the Church, and each individual member receives it as a gift. The Holy Spirit or Holy Ghost if you please, is "the true light that enlighteneth every man that comes into the world." So John teaches in that fine treatise that he wrote, called the Gospel of St. John. Now then, the light that is in the stars, that light that shines dimly in these lamps here this morning — what is it? Why, it is one manifestation of that divine essence called the Holy Spirit, and it permeates all things, not only on this globe, but in all the worlds that have been made. For we read in the Doctrine and Covenants, take the 29th Section and read it carefully, that God created all things by that Spirit, firstly spiritual and afterwards that which is temporal. That Holy Spirit, so we read in the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, "is in all things, and through all things, and round about all things, and is the law by which all things are governed. It is the light of Christ, and it is in the sun, and the moon and the stars, and the earth on which ye stand." It permeates all things throughout the vast domain of space, which has no bounds. It is the spirit that gives life, it is the spirit that gives light; and when we came into' the* world and breathed the breath of life we became "living souls." 

There is no time now to talk about this creation, as we read of it in the book of Genesis. However, when man was formed out of the dust, and afterwards by eating the products of the earth and becoming earthly thereby, when he came into his being on the earth, he breathed the breath of life, and "man became a living soul,"thereby. So we, you and the rest of us, when we were born into this world, when we came to the condition that we could breathe the breath of life and be quickened by it in our mortal being, we were living souls; and when we are resurrected from the dead we will still be living souls, but in a more perfect state. If we are worthy of the celestial glory we shall be quickened thereby when we are raised. As Paul puts it, "the body is sown in dishonor, it is raised in power; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in strength; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 15 

body." So, when we are raised from the dead, the body that is sown in the grave, in weakness, is raised in power, glorified like the glorious body of the Son of God. These are simple! things taught in the Scriptures, and when we go beyond them and make theories of our own, we get into the dark. 

The Holy Ghost, spoken of in the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants is in all things, round about all things, throughout the immensity of space. What is it? Why it is a spiritual essence which gives life and light to all things, to animals and vegetables as well as to human beings; but that is not the Comforter that Jesus said he would send, because it was here already, and is the light that enlighteneth every person that comes into the world. It is the essence of ordinary life; it is the very essence of life in the fulness of its manifestations around the personality of God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son; in heaven, where they dwell. Therein is the glory of God. 

In its smaller or lesser manifestations, it is the same Spirit but not to the same degree. When we are born/ by water baptism into the Church, born of God, then we are baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost, we have an additional manifestation of light and power in that Holy Spirit which is given to us in the confirmation — '"Receive ye the Holy Ghost" — as a gift from God, as a light to your feet, a lamp to your path, as a perpetual witness, an additional gift of light! and truth. Don't I know in my own being that I received that gift? I certainlv do, a swell as I know that I see things naturally by those manifestations of light that come from the sun and the moon and the stars and the lamps that we light, and the electric light that we bring forth by touching the button. We do not create that light, we do not bring it into being, we only bring it into action. It is governed by law, and when the laws are fully understood and we live by them, and we are quickened by that power to the full, in body and in spirit, we will be like our Father and like Jesus Christ his beloved Son : "Beloved," says the Apostle John, "now are we the Sons of God. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is, and every man that has this hope purifieth himself even as he is pure." 

By keeping the commandments of God, as we were exhorted to do six month ago, and today also, by keeping the commandments of God and walking in his ways, that spirit is developed in us. Its light is clearer and plainer and it shines out and reveals the things of God. "No man knoweth the things of man but the spirit of man that is in him, and no man knoweth the things of God but the Spirit of God, and the Spirit searcheth all things, yea the deep things of God." That is good plain scripture. 

Now my brethren and sisters do not get into confusion about this matter. The Holy Ghost is an individual, is a personage of spirit, one of the great Three that the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke so plainly about so many times just before his death. PERTAINING TO THE STATEMENT IN THE LECTURES ON FAITH. 

There is one little point in regard to that which I will mention : In the book of Doctrine and Covenants we have a number of lectures inserted in the first part; which are not revelations. There are seven lectures, and in the fifth lecture, particularly, we are told that there are two personages in heaven, the Father and the Son, and that the holy spirit is the mind of God. That is true, so far as it goes. But the revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith as to the personality of the Holy Ghost came many years after; it was given in 1843. In that revelation we are clearly instructed concerning the third personage in the Trinity. Now, as far as Sidney Rigdon, and some others who delivered those lectures, went, they spoke the truth. There are two persons in the heavens, the Father and the Son, but the Holy Spirit is passed by almost, as the "mind of God." It is true that the Holy Spirit conveys the mind of God; that is, I am speaking now of this universal spirit which is the life and the light of all things, which is in.and through and round about*- all things, and God says he made the world by the power of that spirit. That is his agent; but the personage, the Comforter, which Jesus Christ said he would send when he went away, that was a personage of the Trinity. He promised to send this Comforter to reveal the things of the Father and to bear witness of the Father and the Son. 

When Joseph the Prophet saw the Father and the Son in the grove where he was praying, the Holy Spirit made them manifest. When he commenced to pray, or tried to pray, he could not say anything. He was seized upon by an opposing power which seemed to almost overcome him, but he struggled against it and continued to pray, until a light came, a pillar of light, the manifestation and presence of the Holy Spirit, and by the power of that Spirit, which quickened his spiritual vision, he saw two personages in that cloud of glory, and they conversed with him, or rathen one did. The Father does not converse much with mankind individually. He said : "This is my beloved Son, hear him;" and he is the person we want to hear and to obey as representing the Father. As we read in the Book of Mormon he is, in some respects, both the Father and the Son. He represents the Father to the full. We are in the image of God, but the Christ, the great Jehovah, is the express image of the Father's person, God manifest in the flesh, and he has gone into his glory. We will follow him to that glory if we will keep his commandments. He is the resurrection and the life. God has entrusted that to him, given him that power and made him heir of all things, in the heavens and in the earth. "All power is given to me, in heaven and upon the earth. Tarry ye at Jerusalem, until ye are endowed with power from on high." That is what he told his apostles. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 17 

THE LIGHT OF GOD MANIFESTS THE THINGS OF GOD. 

I hope, in what I have said on this subject, I have made this matter clear. All I want to do when I get up to talk before my brethren and sisters, is to make the things that are clear in my own mind, clear also to them, if I can. It is. the light 'of the Lord that manifests the things of God, and if we live in that light and walk in its rays we will keep the commandments of God. That is the tendency of it. In the operations of natural light, displayed by the spectrum, there are seven different colors or rays, as I remember being taught, when I was a boy at school — red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet; they are all one in a pencil of light, and that is a manifestation of the Spirit of God. In that there are, as in the higher revealings, various operations, as the apostle teaches in the twelfth chapter of First Corinthians : 

"For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another knowledge by the same Spirit; 

"To another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healings by the same Spirit; 

"To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues; 

"But all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will." 

So, my brethren, if we receive that gift, when hands are laid upon us, after we have been baptized into the Church and it is said unto us: "Receive ye the Holy Ghost," that gift is sealed upon us. The gift is ours whether we act upon it or receive it or not, the gift is given to us by the Holy Ghost, which explains and manifests and enlightens our souls in regard to these things that are divine. It searches all things, yea, even the deep things of God. I know it in my own being and have known it ever since I was baptized into the Church. That gift was sealed upon me, and in all my labors and duties, spoken of by the President this morning, it has only been by the power of the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of the living God, the light of the Almighty, through Jesus Christ his Son, that I have been able to bring people to an understanding of and obediencel to the truth, and to conduct affairs with wisdom and in the light that I have received from God. 

A TESTIMONY. 

I know that God lives, I know that he is my Father, I know he has guided me on land and sea, that he has been with me in all my travelings at home and abroad, and that his Spirit is with me today. Thanks and praise be to his holy name. All I care for, of position' or office in this Church, is to build up the work of the Father through Jesus Christ his Son, by the power of the Holy Ghost. Truly we believe in God, the Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost; and to God the Father, to Jesus Christ his Son, and the Holy Ghost, be honor, praise, glory, and dominon forever, Amen. 

13 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Thanks be to God," by Mendelssohn. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I do not remember, my brethren and sisters, a period in my life's experience in the Church when I felt my dependence 1 upon the Lord to a degree greater than I do this morning. Should I follow my own inclinations, I would not attempt to make remarks at all, but to gam wisdom and knowledge and understanding by listening to the remarks of my brethren and communing with the Spirit of the Lord which is here this morning. I feel the necessity of wisdom, of sound judgment, of the help of the Lord in expounding the scriptures, and teaching the Latter-day Saints, and in discharging the responsibility which has come to me,, as I have never felt it before. 

THE CHURCH AFTER NEARLY ONE. HUNDRED YEARS. 

We are here to review the condition of the Church, after nearly an hundred years of its existence. We .'are here that we may determine whether or not progress is being made, to hear the scripture expounded, and the order of the)Church explained, that we may determine whether or not in the administration of its affairs, we are adhering closely to the word of the tLord. The Lord has declared to us that all scripture is given by inspiration from God, that it is of great value to us as a means of proper exhortation, a means of reproof and of correction where correction may be necessary, and he has reminded us that it must always be expounded and explained in a spirit of righteousness. The Lord has admonished us to search the scripture, because in it|we think we have everlasting life, and that it is the scripture which testifies of him. I have beeni thinking, my brethren and sisters, while listening to the remarks made, that it was through obedience to this latter admonition of the Lord, that Joseph Smith found the key which opened this gospel dispensation. He searched the scriptures and in them (found the path which leads to everlasting life, to all of those who care to enter in through faith in God our Father, and in Jesus Christ, his Son. 

OPENING OF THE LAST DISPENSATION. 

At the time that Joseph Smith went to the written words for light, the" scripture which 'I have quoted was understood to apply, and he undoubtedly so understood it, to the Bible, this book which I hold in my hand. It was the only book which was accepted by the world as containing the fundamentals of Christianity, and of the hand-dealings of the Father, as they applied to his children! Who were here upon earth. Through the prayer which he offered, and to which reference has been made by President Penrose, the faith which he exercised in 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. WINS 19 

obedience to this admonition of the Lord, he received that first glorious manifestation, -when the Father and the Son appeared to him, now more than a hundred years ago, at which time he was not >|et fifteen years of age. This glorious manifestation, with the great importance which attaches to it, carried with it no authority to act in the name of /the Lord, neither in the opening of this gospel dispensation, the organization of the Church, nor in the administration in the ordinances thereof. As time passed and the 'boy gradually approached manhood, he waited and, undoubtedly, wondered when the time would come for the accomplishment of the .greater work which had been outlined in this first manifestation which came to him from the Lord. On the night of September 21, 1823, after he had engaged in prayer and retired for the night, Joseph Smith states that he observed that light began gradually to appear in his room, which increased in brilliancy until the room was lighter than at noon day, when a personage appeared at his bed side, who declared that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God and that his name was Moroni. He declared to Joseph Smith that the Lord had a great work for him to perform, a work which would make his namte known among all nations and people, that among some it would be held in' honor, among others it would be held in reproach. He declared many important things to Joseph Smith, but the (principal purpose of his visit appears to have been to announce to him that there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, which contained the history of the ancient inhabitants of this continent, and the source from which they came, and that it contained the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as it was delivered to the ancient inhabitants of this continent by the Redeemer of the 'world, and that means had been provided by which the inscriptions upon the plates might be translated into the English language. Joseph Smith visited the locality and readily recognized the place where the plates were deposited but was not permitied to take possession of them until four years later, at which time he was in his twenty-second year, when the plates were entrusted to his care by the same messenger who had first appeared to him. The work of translation was commenced and continued until completed, when the plates were returned to the messenger from whom he had received them, and Joseph Smith proceeded to publish their contents to the world in the form known as the Book of Mormon. 

\ THE BOOK OF MORMON. 

The first .edition of the Book of Mormon was issued in the 3'ear 1830, under the circumstances and in the style which tthe time justified, a style which would not be considered appropriate at present. From time to time other editions were issued, the arrangement slightly changed to make the book more appropriate, with chapters, index, footnotes and references added. The existing edition having become exhausted, it recently became necessary to issue a new 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

one and the suggestion was made that the style of the book, which still' adhered closely to the original, might be so changed that it would be better adapted to the use for which it was intended. A committee was chosen from among the Council of Twelve, who carefully examined all editions, including the original, compared them carefully, compared and checked the footnotes and references, and after making some slight changes in arrangement, tore have issued a new edition of the Book of Mormon, which I hold in my hand. The text remains as heretofore, but the book has been printed in double columns instead of single, a change which has resulted in a reduction in size of one hundred pages. The frontispiece remains as heretofore, but there has been added a brief synopsis of the contents of the book and the story of its origin! as related by Joseph Smith. The testimony of the witnesses remains as heretofore, and then follows the general text. The name and order of the books contained in the volume are also given; chapter headings have been added; the footnotes have been carefully compared and revised, where revision was necessary; a pronouncing vocabulary has also been added : and a brief synopsis of chapters and a very greatly improved index which facilitates the study of the book. So we have brought out a new edition off this book which is of such great interest to the Church and its members, which we commend to you, my brethren and sisters, and to all other people for study. 

The Book of Mormon is the scripture of the American continent, preserved and brought forth by the power of the Lord, that his decrees and purposes might be m&de known to the people who were to occupy this continent in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, the greatest dispensation which 'the world has ever known, for in it the Lord has said that he will consummate the work commenced in all other dispensations which have gfone before it. This book is the strongest corroborative evidence to the divinitv of the things contained in the Bible, that there is in the world. Tt is the strongest evidence of the divinity of the mission of the Redeemer of the world, that can be found, the Bible alone excepted. It contains the fulness of the everlasting gospel, in simplicity, easy to be understood, as it was taught to the people bv the Redeemer who established his Church among the Nephites. The code of morals which it teaches is beyond criticism, and if adhered to would redeem the world from the condition of moral degeneracy which now prevails. Tt teaches ethics in civil government which, if adhered to, would solve the perplexing nolitical questions which bewilder the world today, would remove the burdens of taxation from the backs of the struggling masses, and bring peace to the earth land fraternity among all mankind. Tt declares the redemption of the remnant of Tudah, the gathering- of the Ten Tribes, the restoration of scattered fsrael, and the fulfilment of the words of the prophets, both ancient and modern. While it stronglv denounces wickedness, it holds out great hope to the righteous, and 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W'. WINS 21 

forgiveness and redemption to the repentant sinner; it unfolds the hitherto unknown past, and outlines to us events of the great future upon the threshold of which we stand. It has been before the world now for nearly one hundred years, during which period it has been subjected to the criticism of the learned and to the ridicule of the ignorant. Not one line in it, not one doctrine which it teaches, not one truth which it sets forth, has been found to be out of harmony with the word of the Lord, as contained in the Bible, and as it has come to us through his inspired servants — a thing which can be said of no other book in the world. It should be an evidence of its truth, that with the closest scrutiny given it by this committee, in the light of the present, with he past behind us, not one single instance was found where it needed correction or amendment. 

So, my brethren and sisters, we commend the Book of Mormon to you and to the people, particularly of this country in which we live; for this record is of special and transcendent importance to them. It declares in plainness that this is a land choice above all other lands, that it is dedicated to the service of the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, and it warns the people who occupy this land that whenever the time shall come that they are lifted up in pride above all other nations, when the time shall come that they are full of all manner of iniquity, of secret abominations, of whoredom, and priestcraft, and of all manner of wickedness, that at that time, except they repent and turn to the Lord, destruction shall come to them, as it has come to> other nations and people who have occupied the land before .them. We ask you, and particularly the people of the United States, to become familiar with its contents. If we will do so and be governed by the doctrines it teaches, we will be redeemed from the sins of the world, will understand the purposes of the Almighty as! they apply to us, his purposes in the opening of this great gospel dispensation, the great accomplishments of the past and the immediate future which is before us. It will redeem us from the sins of the world and enable us to live clean and spotless before the Lord, regardless of our surroundings. It is the word of the Lord brought forth through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith for the redemption of mankind, to go with the Bible as an additional evidence and witness to the people of the world that the decrees of the Father are unchangeable, that the words of the prophets will be fulfilled, that Israel will be gathered, and that redemption will come to the covenant people of the Lord. Search the Scriptures, my brethren and sisters, for in them we have eternal life, and they are they which testify of God and of the truth of these things which I have said to you. I pray that we may all become familiar with them, that we may all, through adherence to their tenets, attain to everlasting life, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 


