Forth Overflow
03 04 1921


A fourth overflow meeting was held outdoors, near the Bureau of Information, Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock, April 3, 1921. 

Elder Melvin J. Ballard, of the Council of the Twelve, presided. 

Music was furnished by the congregation, Elder Clare Reid of the L. D. S. School of Music, accompanist. The congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Oscar Winkler. 

The congregation sang, "Come, let us anew our journey pursue." 

ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY 

{President of the Wayne Stake.) 

The multitude of people assembled upon this Temple Block today is an evidence of the continued growth of the work of the Lord in the earth, and of the faith of the membership of the Church. The promise made to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the very commencement of the work that he was called by the Lord to establish in the latter clays, was that notwithstanding the persecution and the opposition that should be waged against the cause that he was called to advocate in the world, the work would survive; that the Church to be established or set up, and the gospel of the Kingdom that should be preached in the world as a witness before the coming of the Messiah, should never be overcome, that the Church to be established should never be given to another people. When we think of the combined opposition of 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the world to the work that was commenced by the Prophet, and think that notwithstanding all the trials and vicissitudes through which the Saints passed in their early pilgrimage in the Church, notwithstanding the opposition of the world, today our eyes witness upon this Temple Block thousands of people, who have assembled from the remotest parts of this state, from surrounding states,- and have gathered here to worship the Lord, in evidence that there is still faith in their hearts, and that this work will continue, it is comforting, my brethren and sisters, to know that God has given this promise that if we are faithful in the keeping of his commandments, all things that have been promised and foretold by the) prophets concerning the things that should happen in the latter days will be fulfilled. 

I rejoice with you this afternoon to be present at this conference, to associate with the leaders of the Church, to hear the living and burning testimony of the prophets and the apostles of the Latterday Saints, to mingle with the men and women who have received the gospel and whose hearts are filled with faith and whose works testify of their integrity and of their devotion. 

I rejoice that the principles of the gospel are such that by yielding obedience thereto, men may obtain for themselves a living testimony of the divinity of the work which they espouse. The promise of Jesus is being fulfilled just as literally today as in the day when he made the promise to the people in Jerusalem, that if any man would obey the doctrine that he taught, if any man would do the will of God, he should know of the doctrine, whether it was of God, or 1 whether he spoke of himself. And so today, the person who receives the gospel in a good and honest heart, who complies with its precepts, obtains that living testimony, and that leads to good works. 

I recall that on one occasion the Prophet Joseph was asked concerning the secret of his success as a leader among the people, in holding them together, and his reply was that he taught the people, correct principles, and, having been taught correct principles, they governed themselves. This is the secret of the growth of the work of the Latter-day Saints. This is the secret of the faith, the unity, and the progress that is being made in the Church of Christ. This is not a work of coercion or of compulsion. The words of the poet are very applicable in the doctrines that are taught by the Latter-day Saints. God will not coerce any human mind : 

Know this, that ev'ry soul as free, 

To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, 

That God will force n,o man to heaven. 

He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love and light; 

In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. 

ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY 87 

Freedom and reason makes us men, 

Take these away, what are we then? Mere animals, and just as well 

The beasts may think of heaven or hell. 

And thus when the elders go forth into the world proclaiming this message of truth, they plead with the people to investigate, to search the Scriptures, for in them is the truth. In them, by obedience to the principles that they teach, there is eternal life. There is no coercion, there is no attempt to frighten the people, as it were, into a belief in the principles of the doctrines of the Redeemer; but it is a doctrine of love, a doctrine of persuasion, leaving to mankind their agency, the power to choose; and so we receive the gospel and become members of the Church. That same principle applies throughout our lives. We may, by obedience to the principles of the gospel, one by one, improve our lives, be of greater service to mankind; but there is never at any time an attempt to force the observance of any law that God has given for the salvation of his children. 

I rejoice in the freedom and in the liberty of the gospel. I rejoice in the truth as it has been revealed and restored. I rejoice in the knowledge that if men do the will of God, they for themselves shall know of its truth, and whether it be of God or whether men speak of themselves. I feel, brethren and sisters, this afternoon, that we have much to be grateful for as members of the Church of Christ; and I pray that we may be inclined to take advantage of the opportunities that are within our reach to grow in faith, and knowledge, and grow in the love and fellowship of our Father in heaven, and in the fellowship and love of all good people, that we may foe faithful and true to the mission that has been entrusted to us — not only to seek to save ourselves and our own immediate families and kin, but that we may be willing to make sacrifice in the interest of mankind, that we may be willing, as servants commissioned of the Lord, to go forth and declare his truth and preach the gospel as we may be inspired, as we are called, from time to time. That the blessing of the Lord may continue with us, and that we may manifest our gratitude to him for the blessings that we enjoy in devotion to his service, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER E. FRANK BIRCH 

(President of the Tintic Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters. It is with a feeling of timidity and weakness that I try to speak to you this afternoon, but with the help of our Father in heaven, I may be able to say something edifying. 

I endorse heartily the remarks of the former speaker; they express my feelings exactly. I have felt today a renewal of my testimony that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is true; 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

that this great work, the Church of God, has been established never again to be taken from the earth or given to another people. 

I was greatly impressed this morning, as I am this afternoon, with the large attendance at this conference, and with the realization of the power and strength of our Church organization today. I thought of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the different officers and organizations of the Church today, with a realization of the power and strength they are in the earth. 

I thought, if we could assume that the Church, as we have it, were man-made, it would still be the most powerful organization in the world today. Assuming that the Master were not the organizer or the head, that it were a man-made institution, even then, consider its leadership. President Grant, a wonderful leader, a man of great experience, who has made mistakes in life, perhaps, because he has done things, but he is a man who has profited by his mistakes, and a mighty man in Israel today! Consider his counselors, President Penrose, a man of great experience, a practical man, a man who has shared the joys and the sorrows of the people for many years; and then President Ivins, a practical man, a success in life, both temporally and spiritually — an agriculturist, a man educated in many of the sciences of life — when I think of these three great leaders, for my part, under any condition, I would be willing to trust the Church. Then, consider their associates, the members of the Council of Twelve, men who lead in the world of affairs, in science, as statesmen, as agriculturists, as educators — I have been impressed all day that for my part, I am willing to trust the Church in their care. 

When we further consider that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, according to our knowledge and testimony, is at the head, that he is sanctioning and inspiring, with his holy Spirit, their actions, I am again perfectly satisfied and content to trust the affairs of 'this Church in their hands. To me, a man or a woman who would assume to dictate, who would assume to set them right, would be ridiculous, would appear insignificant. Yet, we have such characters in the Church today, who attempt to do that, and ask God Almighty to inspire them, that they may dictate to the leaders of our Church. I say we have them, but you business men, you men of affairs, will agree with me when I say that no organization can exist and flourish if subordinate officers, lay members, dictate to the ruling authority. I am a man in charge of mines, superintendents and foremen, and I have learned this, that when a shift boss undertakes to pass over the head of his foreman to the management of the mine, he is out of order, the organization is immediately in confusion. I have also learned that when men holding the high positions undertake to dictate over the heads of their superintendents, their subordinate officers, again the organization is in confusion. So I say that the Church is built on natural principles, business principles; and no man should 

ELDER E. FRANK BIRCH 39 

dictate to those in higher authority, nor pass over the heads of those who are their immediate superiors. 

I have said before, we have people in the Church who undertake to do this, and I believe when they do, there is confusion. We get, as people say, our wires crossed; we get the wrong information; we get "in wrong;" we are understood wrong; and there is confusion. I know of people, and have had recent experiences with people, who have thought that they could go into the solitude of the deserts and pray unto God to help them set the Church right; who have thought that, through fasting and prayer, they could set the Church in order, that they could dictate. Much has been said informing us that every member of the Church should have a testimony of his own, every man stand on his own foundation, that every man should receive inspiration to the extent that he will have a living testimony that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. Men have misinterpreted that. They have taken unto themselves the thought that they must receive directions, revelations, from the higher authority, even from the Master, as to the dictation of his affairs on earth. And they have done wrong. They have caused confusion, and they have not accomplished what they expected to accomplish. As I say, they have undertaken to do this, and so misinterpreting the advice that has been given to us that we must rest on our own testimony. As I understand it, every man and woman is entitled to inspiration from God Almighty for his own welfare, or the welfare of the thing that he may immediately control — I would say a father in his home is entitled to inspiration to rear his family, the President of a Mutual Improvement Association is entitled to inspiration to lead his association. But they must follow the standards that have been set up by the General Authorities! 

The Prophet Joseph told us that God never reveals anything that is already made plain and revealed. Therefore we have plenty, and we may go to our superior authorities to receive the same. Men have misunderstood things and have taken it that they themselves shall receive revelation from God Almighty to lead the affairs of this Church; and when they do this, when they fast and when they pray, and when they insist on revelations, contrary to that which is already revealed, the Spirit of the Lord forsakes them and the devil crosses them with his wires. I have had recent experience with men who were deceived and who thought they were receiving inspiration from Almighty God, when they were obtaining it from an evil source. These men received "revelations" that they were to sacrifice their dear wives, and take other person's wives — somebody else was to sacrifice theirs to them! This is the way the devil does things. He puts men upon pedestals, and when he gets them there, he kicks them out from under them, and then they lose the companionship of our Father in heaven and gain the friendship of the devil. 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I do not feel to speak any longer; but never before in my life have I had more confidence that God has instituted his Church in the earth, and that we can feel at ease that it is entrusted in good hands, and in a perfect organization. My prayer is that we will live according to the inspiration given to us from the authorities of the Church and to ourselves from the Spirit of God for our own direction, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS 

(President of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.) 

It seems a long time since 1 undertook to speak on the gospel, in the open air. I remember doing so some years ago on the streets of London, as well as in Brooklyn. Those undertakings were somewhat different than this. One very great difference is in the matter of furnishing the music. In those exciting experiences, I attempted to do the singing and received no assistance from the listeners. They came to see what was, the occasion for such a strange and distressing noise. I ceased my musical efforts at the first stopping place, and started to preach :to them. On this occasion the audience does the singing and, by comparison, I am a very grateful and happy listener. 

Another difference was the probability of my being driven from the streets, if things didn't go smoothly. Here there is small probability of mob violence unless, perchance, one speaks unsufferably long, in which case no one can tell what might happen. 

In looking over this great throng of people, assembled as they are upon this historical square, one is impressed with the vast area from which representatives composing this audience have come. I see faces that are familiar to me in the remote quarters of the intermountain country. There are also many faces of those who live close in. This might well be called a "General Conference" because every section of the country and every organization of ithe Church is represented in the Conference proceedings. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as an organization, is just ninety-one years old this year. Consider the accomplishments during that period of time and pay full attention to the obstacles and handicaps that have all the way beset the Latter-day Saints, and you will recognize a demonstration of the power of faith unsurpassed in history. The achievements! of this people in the field of social and industrial, as well as religious, progress are well recognized by men of clear vision and true appreciation for the things of real value to humanity. These men, some of whom stand high in the affairs of the nation, as well as in the world of education and social welfare work, are frankly expressing their admiration for the accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints. This people is looked upon as a very essential element in our national life, and in some respects 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS 91 

as leaders in the most praiseworthy of undertakings. For one, I will admit all these good things which are attributed to us. 

We are conspicuously a people who do things. We may have done some things that were peculiar and not understandable to the outsider. We may have done some foolish things in the many vicissitudes through which we have passed. Aside from these trivial and inconsequential things, we have done really big things in the earth during the past one hundred years. The first great accomplishment in our history, in Western America, is that of coming here and making a "go" of it in this once undesirable country. That a mighty empire should arise in the vales of the Rocky mountains, teeming today with their millions of people and bounteous crops and products, where three-quarters of a century ago a desolate wilderness held sway, is an achievement well-nigh bordering on the marvelous. To have been the means of such an accomplishment is glory enough for any people. This is a very great distinction won by the Latterday Saints. And time will only throw this achievement out in more imposing boldness as \ distance and opportunity for comparison are given by the improved perspective. 

This is another instance of great things being accomplished under the stress and strain of a tragic necessity. Men seldom do very great things voluntarily. Circumstances sometimes compel '.them to action and the impossible is often accomplished. Had not our neighbors in Missouri and Illinois made life intolerable to us we would have remained among them to this day. Had not the sharp and incisive argument of thebayonet and the musket been resorted to this great western country would have been peopled by others, and in a very different manner than that which has occured. ) "We came here willingly because we had to," said one naive pioneer, and I may add, we remained jhere because there was no other place for us to go to. Our erstwhile "enemies" were rapidly migrating to the Pacific, and settlement along the coast would have me^nt continued conflict. So we remained here, because we had to. In so doing we worked out our own destiny, and, in my candid judgment, made the greatest single contribution to our national wealth and well-being it will be the destiny of any other people, to make. For an event that compares in importance to humanity and this nation, we shall have to go back to the Pilgrims and the Puritans of three centuries ago. Their motives and service to mankind are in many respects very similar, to those of the "Mormon" pioneers. The latter, however, saw the fruits of their sacrificing efforts because they accomplished more in a shorter period of time. 

This morning we heard President Grant express his supreme pleasure over the cordial and hearty reception given him at Kansas City, while there last December, addressing a prominent and influential club of busines men who had invited him, as the head of the "Mormon" Church to become their guest at a banquet and recep92 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

tion. He was asked to speak on the accomplishments of the "Mormon" people. In doing so, he recounted the events which led to the expulsion of our people from the state in which he was_ then addressing a great business organization. He told of the industrial, social, educational and religious attainments of our people. His remarks were so well and favorably received by the four hundred leading business men who composed the club, that many words of sincere commendation were expressed for him and his people.^ He was strongly urged to come again and address them on another occasion. 

This welcome reception was in such remarkable contrast with the feelings manifest toward the Latter-day Saints some seventy-five years ago that President Grant was profoundly impressed with the change of attitude toward us. While we need not solace ourselves in the comforting thought that the. world at large loves us, it is highly gratifying to know that people of dignified positions in the country have the vision to see our good works and the candor to admit it. If they do not glorify God for these things, we do with all our souls. It was the Savior who said to his disciples : "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." . In the light of these attainments, may we not all be profoundly grateful that the Lord has blessed our efforts and is beginning to magnify us before the world? 

Greater than the subduing of the desert and the building of a mighty empire, is the fact that this people has been true to God and has kept his commandments with remarkable fidelity. I wonder if the spirit of optimism is running away with me when I think I see in these events the prophecy, in course of fulfilment, wherein it was foretold that Zion would be as a light set upon a hilltop that could not be hidden. I have in mind the special work of the Lord and his Church, not the great land of America and its mission and glorious destiny. Perhaps the Latter-day Saints are already moving toward their place in the world. Their place is in the front ranks of humanity, or I have mistaken the destiny of this thing called "Mormonism." 

It required greater time for the world to arrive at a true appreciation of the Lord and his work in a 'former dispensation than has elapsed since he set up his Church in this dispensation. When Jesus came to earth he was rejected and despised of men. His disciples were put to death with pagan hate and fury. Generations passed and the Lord was more generally understood. Then he became enshrined in the hearts of humanity. His disciples were consumed by the devouring flames of martyrdom, and torn limb from limb by wild beasts in the amphitheatres of ancient Rome and Ephesus. Yet a few centuries run their course, and these same followers of their crucified Lord, are denominated Saints, and shrines and sacred temples are hallowed by their names, History is full of 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS 93 

such anolmalies and paradoxical reversals of sentiment. Such things occurred with respect to the Former-day Saints. It will be so with respect to the Latter-day Saints. Diid not Josiah Quincy make that very prediction in the year 1844, with respect to' the future position of Joseph Smith in History? Read his words: 

"It is by no means improbable that some future text-book, for the use of generations yet unborn, will contain a question something like this: What historical American of the Nineteenth century has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his countrymen? And it is by no means impossible that the answer to that interrogatory may be thus written: loseph Smith, the 'Mormon' Prophet. And the reply, absurd as it doubtless seems to most men now living, may be an obvious common-place to their descendants. History abounds in surprises and paradoxes quite as startling as this. The man who established a religion in this age of free debate, who was and is accepted by hundreds of thousands as a direct emissary -of the Most High — such a rare human being is not to be disposed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets." 

Time will work just such changes as here suggested. It was exactly so with respect to the discovery of America. One historian has very cleverly put it thus : "America was never sought, but stumbled upon; that when found it was not wanted; that much of its exploration was due to a persistent effort to find a way around it." Today it is the hope of the world. 

History again repeated itself with respect to this Rocky Mountain region. No less authorities than Daniel Webster, and Senator Dickerson of New Jersey, placed so low an appraisement on this whole region of country that the one would not vote one cent from the public treasury to place the Pacific Coast one inch nearer to Boston; and the other said the great northwest would never be admitted into the Union because of its remoteness from the seat of government. To one it was the worthless wilderness of the west, to the other it was damned by distance. Today the world may see what misconceptions men had on the matter. And precisely in the same manner have these two great movements that of the Pilgrims and that of the "Mormon" pioneers been underestimated. When the Pilgrims and the Puritans left the shores of Europe in quest of a land where religious and political freedom might be enjoyed by them and their children after them, a bigotted and stupidly blind and selfsatisfied world said, "good riddance for bad rubbish." So was it in the states of Missouri and Illinois, with respect to the "Mormon" people. About the only difference was that the thumb-screw and the rack were substituted with the violence of mobs and the orders of extermination issued by governors. Now the Pilgrims are held in veneration, and Americans are proud to trace their descent from those European outcasts of three centuries ago. With the steady movement of the "Mormon" people to their place in the world what will be the verdict of, perhaps, the very next generation? My faith 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

is that vindication will completely come to them if they hold fast to their professions and ideals. 

Already the very states that expatriated our first leaders have evinced a desire to have us return to those commonwealths and contribute to their upbuilding. The Latter-day Saints., have proved themselves to be very successful empire builders. That great quality grows out of their belief in the family and the home, the sacred trinity of civilization — the father, mother and child. They, like the Pilgrims and Puritans, were home-builders. All things come from the home. That was the great factor of success in both colonizations, those of 1620 and those of 1847. 

I well remember sitting in the east end of the Tabernacle gallery with the late Elbert Hubbard — he of the Philistine and East Aurora fame. He said, "Brother Morris, you people beat Denver, didn't you?" A little slow to grasp the philosophy of his observation, I replied, "No, Denver has nearly twice our population." Then came his answer to which I quickly assented : "They borrowed their wealth, you dug it out of the ground." Man, soil, labor — the agencies of creation. Freedom and the home are the agencies of human progress. A steadfast devotion to these same principles, along with industry, education, and true religion, are certain to lift a people to an exalted place in the world. And on the other hand that nation or people that turns against these things, the home, labor, education, religion, and human liberty, will rapidly sink into an ignominious oblivion. This great truth, affirmed a thousand times in history, is the real philosophy of history, as I see it. Where is Egypt? Babylon? Nineveh? Greece and Rome? Where is ancient Israel? A melancholy whisper from the dust. The winds of time have blown them all away. Because the -agencies of their progress and elevation to splendor and glory were thrown away at the acme of their achievements. What a tragedy is the death of a nation. Yet, that the race might survive, these tottering empires, full ripe to destruction, must crumble into dust. I am reminded of the lines of Byron : 

There is the moral of all human tales; 

'Tis but the same rehearsal of the past. First Freedom and then Glory — when that fails, 

Wealth, vice, corruption — barbarism at last. 

And History, with all her volumes vast, Hath but one page. 

May not a people some day learn these great truths from history and avoid the pit-falls that have completely engulfed and swallowed up all there was of national g'lory in the past? May not some nation ultimately learn the lesson of life and perpetuity in the earth? These questions lie close to the hearts of the Latter-day Sains because of a belief they have in their destiny and enduring mission in the earth. They believe they represent the Kingdom of God on earth, which Kingdom "is never to be thrown down or given to another people." 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS 95 

Other peoples have held similar views with respect to their high destiny. The ancient Jews were fondly looking forward to the coming of their Messiah. They believed that his coming meant the elevation of their race to world supremacy. But when he; did humbly come they knew him not. Even the gentile governor evinced more faith in him than did they. For Pilate pleaded his cause against the Jews themselves. Said he, "Whom will ye that I release unto you, ilarabas or Jesus?'' And they yielded to the demands of the rabble and cried, "Release unto us Barabas! As for Jesus, crucify, him, crucify him:!" Pilate remonstrated with them, saying, "What evil has he done ?'" But they cried the more, "Let him be crucified!" Then the Pagan magistrate, or governor, said, "I am innocent of the blood of this just man." And the answer came back, "Let his blood be upon us, and our children after us, release unto us Barabas!" So sealed they their doom. History has but one page for Judah from then till now. "The wandering Jew." A man without a country; a hiss and a by-word among men. Jewish blood has drenched the soil of every European and Asiatic country during the two-thousand intervening years. 

The Jews are still in darkness with respect to their .Messiah. His message was turned to the Gentile nations and blindnes was given to Judah for a season. "The last shall be first and the first shall be last." Centuries past, and the Gentle nations perceived the appeal of his message and turned to him. Then as Europe emerged from the darkness of the "night time in history" great churches arose in the earth and built temples for his worship. Empires are overthrown, in his name; continents are reclaimed from; heathenism for his glory; and for generations he has been held in his place as the Savior and Redeemer of men. Time brought about the change. Truth and principle won the inevitable victory. It must always be so-. It will be so in the future. The conquest of truth is eternal. He who was rejected and despised of men becomes the chief corner stone. Ultimately every knee shall bow and every tongue voluntarily confess the Kingship and Messiaship of the Man of Sorrows, who was crucified between two thieves on Golgotha's hill. But before that day shall come the Jews will be gathered in unbelief. In a most remarkable manner that gathering has already commenced, as one of the outcomes of the great war. Jerusalem is being redeemed from the mercilessness of Gentile rule under the unspeakable Turk, whose rule has well-nigh been supreme and continuous for a thousand years. The gates of the Ancient City are now thrown wide open to the children of the patriarchs of old, and a remarkable migration has already set in for that place. The City of David will be restored to beauty, and the country will again flow as with milk and honey. Then will the gospel be taken to them, and a partial conversion, at least, will be brought about as they cry out, "Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." Not until that conversion is 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

brought about will they "look upon Him whom they have pierced," and ask, "What are these wounds in thine hands?" To which the answer shall be, "These are the wounds I received in the house of my friends; I came to my own, and they received me not." Their poignant anguish will then draw forth his divine compassion and he will be their God and they will be his people. But, O what a price shall they have paid for their perversity and unbelief. 

The history of Israel is, in a measure, the history of all other races. But shall there not ultimately he an exception to the rule? In the light of history, there is little ground for basing such a hope, we admit. But the word of the Lord has been spoken concerning his people and his purposes. If the end is attained, it will be by the simple means of virtue, obedience, industry, and human service of the highest order. The Lord has assured the salvation of the earth at his coming, providing the hearts of the children of men shall be turned to the eternal welfare of their fellows, both 'those who have gone before and those who are to come, when men shall seek the well being of their fellows and bury selfishness. But the thing of vital interest to us is, how shall we avert the disasters that have been the fate of other people? The lesson seems to be obvious. Our people were taken through a school of experience that ought to make the lesson a lasting one. It has been written in blood and tears and in sacrifice and patience. The school of experience is calculated to make men strong and powerful to resist. 

Emerson set forth this doctrine perfectly in the four lines which opens his essay on Self Trust. They are : 

"Cast the bantling on the rocks, 

Suckle him with she wolf's teat; Wintered with the hawk and fox, 

Power and speed be hands and feet." 

Men grow strong and powerful as they learn to do things for themselves. The administration at Washington seemed 5 cold and unsympathetic in its answers to our appeal for help when it said, "Your cause is just, but I can do nothing for you." Yet that is similar to the attitude of the Creator, out on the border of time, when he drove man from the Garden of Eden and seti him to work in the spirit of self reliance and conquest. The fiat of Eden, "Go forth and multiply and replenish the earth, conquer it, and subdue it rind have dominion," as well as the sentence which soon followed it, vis: "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread," seemed very severe and harsh. Time and accomplishment have taught men that those were kind words, in the light of the blessings which came from the results of their being chosen by the Deity for the training of the human race in the beginning. And that there might be no retreat back into Eden's Elysian bowers, a Cherubim, with flaming sword, was placed at the Gates of Paradise. So, God apparently intended that we should he outside of Paradise. None of us will doubt the 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS 97 

successfulness of the Deity, in that intention, and in a wholesome confession we will also admit that to the healthy, virile man, conditions subsequent to Eden were far better for man than Eden itself. His progress was all attained on this side of Paradise. 

These are the things which account for the greatness of the Pioneers. But shall wealth, and luxury, and self-indulgenence effeminize their descendants who have, in a large measure, been deprived of that kind of education? Already there are disquieting symptoms manifest in the present generation. To be like the rest of the world would be to the Latter-day Saints a lowering of their standards and a repudiation of their ideals. Young men and young women of "Mormondom" we have been taught the principles of Everlasting Truth. And they will stand for ever. If we wish to stand likewise, we must grapple to our souls these true principles. They are, faith in God, and obedience to the gospel. No amount of learning, or philosophy, can take their place. Constant repentance from sin, and a successful forsaking of sin. Can a man take fire to his bosom and not be burned? The youth of today who takes a compromising view on the matter of chastity is playing with fire. Nothing but the providences of God will save him from the burning. We must cherish virtue as dearer than life, or we are not true to the faith of our fathers. We cannot retain that beautiful, Christian spirit, which is strength unto victory, if we cease to be a praying people — a people who pray always, in public and in private. "Prayer is the Christian's vital breath." I have heard groups of boys, and girls of our faith confess their abandonment of some of these Christian virtues which are so essential to their happiness here and hereafter. 

We should hold to the sanctity of the marriage relationship and not shun the responsibilities of parenthood. In this sacred institution, ordained of God and honorable withal, lies the power of life and death to the individual, as well as to the race. Its preservation, in unsullied purity, is the supreme duty of every generation. Lives of self-Ttstir'aint, and temperance in all things are not only true as the word of God to us, but the fate of races proclaims them to be everlastingly safe. Service for others is the highest evidence of the love of God. What a fine tribute was paid to our people this morning in the statement by President Grant that we annually cointribute by sacrifice, and actual expenditure, two million dollars in carrying the gospel message to the world. There is real altruism. The preaching of the word to the world is a great duty resting upon us, but a still greater duty is to inculcate the principles of the Faith in the lives and characters of our children. I am convinced there is occasion for concern in this regard. It is my strong conviction that the outlines for every class, studying the gospel in the several organizations of the Church, should pay attention to the principles of our faith in every lesson recital. I find that children, at the time of baptism, are in many instances, entirely uninstructed in the mean98 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ing and sacredness of that holy ordinance. These are some of the disquieting symptoms that my work in the Church is constantly bringing to my attention. I throw out these suggestions in the hope that the family and the priesthood and the auxiliary organizations of the Church will see to it that the Savior's parting injunction to Peter may be carried out in this dispensation, viz: "Feed my lambs." 

May the Lord God of our fathers keep us in his good favor, and may we, through steadfast devotion to him, move steadily on to our place in the world, not that we may glorify ourselves, but do greater service to mankind, and glorify our Father who is in heaven. In Jesus' holy name I ask it. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Surely time has been kind to the Latter-day Saints. I have believed always that time is on the side of right and truth; and those who hold the truth, though misunderstood, can rest contented that time will vindicate them. 

I remember an experience in preaching to the public in the open, 

THE KEOKUK DAM FORETOLD BY JOSEPH THE PROPHET. 

I remember an experience in preaching to the public in the open, when my soul was thrilled with the evidence that God was vindicating his work. It was during the course of some of my early missionary experiences, I was permitted to visit Nauvoo, Illinois. It was on the occasion when there was a gathering of the Military Tract Press Association, being the newspaper men of the western part of the state of Illinois, who met in Nauvoo. They were wearing a badge, upon which was a cut of the Nauvoo Temple, and a description of that house. 

I listened to a paper read by one of the editors. He traced the gathering of the Latter-day Saints to Nauvoo, from other sections, told of the rise of the work in that city, the building of the city until it became a city of considerable note, there being twenty thousand people in the city of Nauvoo when Chicago, on the north, was but a village, and St. Louis, on the south, a trading post; and Nauvoo, he said, might have been the great city of the Middle West if the "Mormons" had been allowed to remain there. He told of the prophet's plan to cut a canal across the horseshoe bend of the river and make the lower portion of that city into a splendid commercial center, with the residences and public buildings upon the hill, and the farms extending onto the prairies around it. He also called attention to the prophet's project in a petition which he sent to Congress, asking that Congress should erect a dam at Keokuk, Iowa, to back up the waters of the Mississippi river over what was known as the Rapids, and that by reason of the construction of the dam, greater water power would be developed, and locks could be installed that would enable boats to go over the rapids. The prophet estimated, in his petition to Congress, that the dam would cost 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 99 

approximately $7,000,000. And then the gentleman called attention to the recent completion of the dam at the identical site where the prophet forecast it. And later I had the privilege of going down and inspecting the dam, wonderfully built, at the very place, for the purpose of furnishing the locks that would lift the boats up into the higher water to pass over the rapids. And tremendous electric power, power which the prophet could only have forecast by inspiration, was there developed and disseminated in a radius of 400 miles away from that great power site that now is established in connection with the dam at Keokuk — and, strange to say, also, the cost of construction was but slightly in excess of $7,000,000. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS DRIVEN FROM NAUVOO. 

After reciting the prospects that were before early Nauvoo, he then told of the prejudices that drove the "Mormons" from that district, and that after they were driven away, those who came in possession of their property did not esteem it of sufficient value to protect the central building, Nauvoo Temple, and through their vandalism, they set fire to it. ' 

But I thought I saw the hand of the Lord in this, and how that he has always made the wrath of man serve him. I felt grateful in my heart that the Nauvoo temple was destroyed, for, unlike its predecessor, the Kirtland temple, it was built for the sacred ordinances of the work of the house of God, while the Kirtland temple was built as a place where these sacred things might be revealed. There was no vestige of any of the interior of the Nauvoo temple left. But, he said, while the blackened walls of the building yet stood, steamboats stopped half a day at the wharf to allow passengers to go up and view the ruins. He remarked that if the building had been preserved, it would have been of great value to that city. He then called attention to the fact that the city had gone down in numbers from its once beautiful Nauvoo of 20,000 people to 1,200 souls, and not a railroad yet. 

THEIR JOURNEY WEST TWO SCENES COMPARED. 

And then he traced the Latter-day Saints across the prairies of Iowa into the fastnesses of these mountains, where, he said, wherever they went, the favor of God seemed to go with them. They made the wilderness to blossom as the rose; and while their enemies thought they would perish in the barren, desolate wilderness, or be destroyed by savages or wild beasts, yet they survived and prospered and flourished. 

Then he said, when we look at these two scenes, surely we are forced to conclude that there was grave doubt as to whether God wanted the "Mormons" driven away. "If he did want them driven away," he observed, "why doesn't he give today's Nauvoo a broader hint that it was all right. Maybe," said he, "God loved the 'Mormons' better than 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

he does bigots and vandals." I heard that statement in the city of Nauvoo; and in conversation with many of these gentlemen, they said that the only hope of that country was to have the "Mormons" return again, and there wasn't anything in the way of our coming back; and in my heart, I am sure I express the sentiment of President Grant and the other brethren who have referred to our history and experiences in those states that we have no feeling of animosity nor bitterness in our souls. We pity them, we sorrow for their mistakes, and they today are the losers, while, as Elder Morris has said, we have profited by their action. 

DECLARING THE GOSPEL IN THE ILLINOIS STATE CAPITOL. 

I remember going from Nauvoo over to the capitol of the state, Springfield, Illinois, and holding a conference of missionaries from northern and southern Illinois. And I remember that two of us, myself and companion, who had charge of these two districts, applied to the governor of the state. It was considerable nerve, I will grant you; but in my youth I was zealous and was willing to ask for anything — and we had the nerve to ask the governor of the state of Illinois to give us the State Capitol building in which to hold a "Mormon" conference. Well, he happily surprised us by granting us the privilege, and that without a dollar's cost to us. We were permitted to use the Hall of Representatives; and before large numbers of people, who filled that hall, we discoursed upon the principles of the glorious, restored gospel and bore witness and testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the Book of Mormon was true. My soul was thrilled, because, I remember, as I looked about that place and saw on the one side of the rostrum a life-sized portrait, full length, of Abraham Lincoln and on the' other side a life-sized portrait of Stephen A. Douglas, I could not help but wonder in my soul, What does Stephen think about it now? For it was in this identical place that Stephen A. Douglas delivered his address on the "Mormon" question, while running for the Presidency of the nation, and proposed that if elected he would apply the knife to this pestiferous cancer "Mormonism," which was a growth upon the body politic, and he would burn it out and destroy it. Well, he did not live long enough to do that, and "Mormonism" came back to his home, into the very place where he was eulogized by his associates for his stand against this work, and yet, here we were, peacefully, at the kindness of the officials of that state, permitted to declare again the glad news that the God of heaven had spoken to Joseph Smith, and that we had a message for all men. 

DECLARING THE MESSAGE ON THE STEPS OF THE STATE CAPITOL. 

I remember that on the Sunday night of that conference the hall was not large enough to admit all the people who attended, and so we retired to the steps of the capitol, and there were more than a thouELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 101 

sand people seated upon those, steps when we delivered again the message to them. And that is the outdoor meeting that I had in my mind as I began to speak to you. 

While thus addressing these people, I saw by my side, at the entrance of the building, on the public square, the only remaining perfect stone, known as a sun stone, from the Nauvoo temple. There were twenty-four of them, weighing above a ton each, placed upon the top of the twenty-four hewn pilasters of the temple. I had seen portions of these stones elsewhere, but none of them perfect like this, and this was the property of the state, preserved by the state, and guarded by the state against vandalism. Well, I say, as I saw these things, my soul was stirred, and I said, surely God is at work moulding the sentiments of men, altering their will and purpose for the accomplishment of his will and his purpose. 

A TEMPLE WILL BE BUILT IN JACKSON COUNTY, MO. 

I remember in the city of Independence, to which President Grant made reference this morning, the feeling and the sentiment of the people are friendly toward the Latter-day Saints, that one of the prominent gentlemen of that city, in the commercial club, said to me that he would be glad to see the "Mormons" build their contemplated temple in Independence, and suggested that he thought they could raise $100,000 in Independence to help us build it. That temple will be built, as well as other things that have been projected by the inspired servants of God, for the Lord knows how to work it out. All we need to do, my brethren and sisters, is to keep on the Lord's side and make him our friend, stand in his favor, keep his commandments, and he will work out the salvation of Zion and her redemption. It is a glorious thing to be alive in this dispensation, to live on the earth today, a glorious thing to live in America, a wonderful thing to live up here, where the Lord appointed the gathering place of his people in the tops of the mountains. 

THE MERCY OF GOD SHOWN TO TLIE SAINTS. 

These are the last days, days when the judgments of the Almighty shall be poured out upon the nations of the earth, and the Lord has promised protection to those who would respond to the call — "Come out of her, O ye my people, that ye may escape from the judgments that are to come." He had in mind the need of protection and security and safety for such a people, and so he brought us here, even though it were unwillingly, and as Brother Morris suggested, "we came here willingly because we had to." But we have not had to wait long to see the mercy of the Lord. I thought a few weeks ago, while we were gathering contributions in our special fast meeting for the aid and relief of the distressed in the European nations, how the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, as they gave, should swell with joy to know that the merciful Father had brought our fathers away from those lands, away from the place of distress and of famine. And I want to tell you 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

that these are but the beginnings of troubles that shall come. O, that they might be stayed, that they might not fall upon the children of men! But light has come into the world, and by reason of the fact that light is in the world, and men have sinned and are sinning against that light, they cannot escape the indignation and wrath of an offended Father, who has been long-suffering and patient toward the children of men. I am sorry to say it, but it is the truth; these are but the beginnings of days of sorrow and distress. We and our children shall rejoice in the years that are to come that our fathers and and mothers had no place to rest in peace or in security, but they had to come here. This is the place! Thank the Lord that we did not stay down in Missouri or Illinois. Already we have seen the hand of the Father. Surely it was a trial to those who were driven from Nauvoo and other places, to which Brother Morris has been calling our attention. Many of them, no doubt, thought the Lord had forsaken them, and yet they did not have to wait long in their mountain retreat to see behind a frowning Providence, his smiling face, having brought them to the only place in this country where there was peace, and where there was security and safety — for the homes they longed to stay with and the habtiation of the Saints in that section became the very battle field between the North and the South. And so we are here through the mercy of our Father, for protection and safety against the days of trouble that are to come. 

I am glad we did not go to Oregon. I have thought of it many times while traveling in that section of the country — because the Prophet sent a petition to Congress at the time the bill was under discussion to which Brother Morris has referred, asking for appropriations to establish military roads and posts along what was known as the Old Oregon Trail; and the prophet said he would furnish men cheaper than anyone else, and that when we were discharged, we would be near the country we wanted to go to. But the bill was defeated, and the military posts at that time were not established, and so the prophet's plan was not accepted. It might have perchance landed us in Oregon. That was not the place the Lord wanted us to be in, although Oregon was a good country. There would not have come the development to the Latter-day Saints in Oregon that we have received here in this country. It is true we might have become wealthy, for there was an abundance that nature had provided. They have today two-fifths of all the timber in the United States, in the state of Oregon. It has been a source of great wealth. There would have been no building of irrigation ditches, because nature provides an abundance of water, more than 90 inches of rain falls in the Willamette valley every year, enough to drown everybody if it did not run off. The streams were full of fish, and today the great salmon industries of that country are an added source of wealth not placed there by the hand of man. The forests were full of wild game, from which furs were obtained that established the Astor fortunes and others. And yet that 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 103 

was not the place. We would soon have been surrounded by the old enemy, and there would have been conflict and trouble, and maybe the Latter-day Saints would' have become rich and forgotten the Lord. At any rate, we would not have done the work we have done here. Where nature does much for man, man is inclined to do little, or less; but where man has to struggle for his existence, there is the place where his physical powers are developed and his faith increased. There is the place where there is the possibility of growth such as cannot come in any other section of the country. And Theodore Roosevelt, the late honored President of the United States, said, in the great building across the way here, that it was not so much what the Latter-day Saints did as where they did it, that counted. And so it was here that we should develop physical strength and power, by industry, by labor, by toil, by frugality, such as we would not have had to face in any other portion of this western country, either in California or in Oregon. Then there would not have been those circumstances that called forth faith and led us to build a monument like this Sea-Gull Monument that is before us as evidence that here the power and mercy of God were given a chance, an opportunity to make themselves manifest. We needed him here, we had to depend upon him. I will tell you in the midst of prosperity, when men thrive, when everything moves well for them, there is always a natural tendency for them to forget the Lord, and to become self-sufficient and to be confident in themselves. It was so with the Children of Israel when they had before them the armies of the Egyptians and at their back the Red Sea, when they were in imminent peril and they could not help themselves — it was then in mighty faith/they cried unto their Father in heaven, and he came to their deliverance, and the waters of the Red Sea were parted, and they were permitted, through his mercy, to 'be saved. And so it was in the day of their famine for food and for water in the wilderness. When they were in need he revealed himself, but in the days of their prosperity, they were not so near to him. And so in our history, in these trials and difficulties, we have gone to the Lord, or at least the Lord has provided the opportunity whereby we had to come to him, we had to depend upon him; and he has never deserted us nor left us alone in any of these times of trial and difficulty. 

OUT OF DISTRESS GREAT GOOD SHALT. COME. 

There are days of trial undoubtedly ahead of the Latter-day Saints, days when their faith may be shaken, if it will be shaken. I earnestly pray that our Father shall keep such a guard over this Church, over the individual membership of it, that we will never be left to a feeling of absolute independence of him, that we will never become so prosperous that we will feel that we can get along without the Lord's blessing and favor; and if we have had days of difficulty — and we have, brethren and sisters — the whole world has been through days of stress and trouble, financial difficulty and depression, and it is not ended. Great 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

nations that have never in many years been touched by poverty and by stress and by internal strife, today are being racked in the midst of these distressful conditions. England itself never was in a more serious condition than she is today, with millions of her workers on strike. No man can tell what the outcome of this trouble shall be. Thank the Lord that we live in the land of peace, in the land of security from these things, although we have not very much money just now, although we have not had a very prosperous season. But, my brethren and sisters, I bear witness to you that out of our present distresses, if we are distressed financially, great good will come; lessons that we need to learn, lessons of thrift, lessons of economy, lessons of trust, lessons of faith in the Lord, lessons that shall take away from our heart a feeling of greed and selfishness to want the last dollar, a feeling of sympathy for our brethren and sisters; that we shall be coming toward the point where we are to be our brother's keeper, where we may establish universal brotherhood rather than to be banded in groups contending against other groups, the motive of which shall be pure selfishness in our hearts. 

IN THE FALL OF HARD TIMES LET US LEARN THRIFT. 

Now, let us learn from the experiences through which we are going, lessons that shall be of value to us. Let us keep out of the bondage of debt; do not get the spending habit, so that if times of short years shall come, we will find ourselves in great distress. It is an excellent thing to save a little, to conserve what the Lord gives us, that if there shall come hard times, we will survive them, for I want to tell you we have not seen the last of hard times. The Lord wants to humble the earth and bring it to a condition of repentance. He knows how to do it; he has said in one of these revelations to the prophet Joseph Smith that days of famine would come, that by fire and hailstorm the crops of the earth should be destroyed; and if the crops of the earth for one season were destroyed, there would be such suffering as we have not dreamed of. And the Latter-day Saints, from the beginning have been taught to save a little, to conserve their breadstuff, so that they may have in their stores supply for man and for beast. 

Now, you Latter-day Saints, rejoice in the habitations that have come to us in these mountains, cultivate every acre of ground you possibly can, save every head that the Lord gives you, both of cattle and of sheep, conserve it and preserve it, for it will be important in days that are to come, and do not feel that you won't survive. You will. The Lord is just teaching us lessons of thrift and of economy, and to listen to the council of those who preside over, us in our wards and stakes. 

A KEY TO SUCCESS. 

My advice to the Latter-day Saints who are in debt is that whenever they harvest their crops of grain or shear their sheep, they sell 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 105 

what the Lord puts into their hands and do not speculate upon it, for the chances are it will bring you into difficulty. You cannot afford to speculate; it is one thing to know how to raise corn, cultivate the soil and tend flocks, and another man's business to know the markets. Now, if you will be wise in this respect, and if you are in doubt, I will tell you what to do concerning your labors upon the farm and in the business in which you engage and all things with which the Lord blesses you. I give you this key — you will find it in the 9th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that you are to study out in your own mind the best thing, what you ought to do, and when you have reached your conclusion that, "this is the thing I will do about my farm," or sheep, or business, or something else — when you have reached your conclusion, go to the Lord and tell him what you have decided to do, and if that is the thing that you ought to do, he will cause that your bosom shall burn within you, that you will have the conviction, a testimony within your soul, and you will know that the thing is right. But if it is not right, he will take away the feeling to do the thing that you had contemplated to do, that you shall have a stupor of thought and will not have that feeling to go ahead, but shall reconsider it and counsel about it, and go again to the Lord, and go forward when we are sure we are right. But we are to get right, and we have the privilege to enjoy the spirit of inspiration from God. Keep close to him and he will guard us. I testify to you that God Almighty will put into the hands of this people all the means and the wealth and the power he can trust us with, if we will only keep the faith and keep from apostatizing and becoming a law unto ourselves and being selfish. He is just giving us today all we can stand. He will not give us more unless we will prove to him, that we will serve him no matter what may come. 

AN APPEAL TO THE SAINTS TO PROVE FAITHFUL TO GOD. 

I pray earnestly that we shall go forth from this conference, when it is concluded, with a determination that we will show to our Father in heaven that we appreciate what he has done for our fathers, what he has done for us, in bringing us to this place, and that we will manifest that we have the same regard for him and his word that our fathers had, who served him in faithfulness, and whom he heard, and that we shall never lose sight of the fact that we are not here wholly to obtain the blessings of the wealth of the hills and of the valleys and of the things of this world, that these are mere stepping stones which the Lord has placed within, our hands as means for our accomplishing his great purposes. 

I want to read to you, in conclusion, a few words from the Book of Mormon. Here is a prophecy dealing with our time. You will find these words in the 14th Chapter of First Nephi, where Nephi speaks as follows : 

"And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall hearken unto the Lamb ,of God iin that day that he shall manifest unto them in word, and also in power, in very deed, unto the taking away of their stumbling blocks." 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

And among the gentiles who came to this country and their posterity were many of the house of Israel, and among them there were those who did listen and who did serve God, and who formed the nucleus of this, his great Church, and the stumbling blocks have been removed through the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the revelations contained in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. 

"And if they harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they shall be numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they shall be numbered among the house of Israel; and they shall be a blessed people upon the promised land forever: they shall be no more brought down into captivity; and the house of Israel shall no more be confounded." 

O, how wonderful, that he who hath been with us and with our fathers, hath vindicated us, hath made us a promise, if we will be true to him he will see to it that we shall not be brought into bondage, nor be confounded! O, can we not trust him ? Has he not vindicated us? Has he not been our friend? Has he not wrought out, when the circumstances made it difficult the salvation of this people ? He surely has. Now let us not desert him, nor desert his word, for we cannot, in view of the light and the knowledge that have come to us, we cannot close our eyes to these things and become a law unto ourselves, and obtain the favor of Almighty God. 

"And that great pit which hath been digged for them, by that great and abominable church, which was founded by the devil and his children, that he might lead away the souls of men down to hell; yea, that great pit which hath been digged for the destruction of men, shall be filled by those who digged it, unto their utter destruction, saith the Lamb of God; not the destruction of the soul, save it be the casting of it into that hell which hath no end; 

"For behold, this is according to the captivity of the devil, and also according to the justice of God, upon all those who will work wickedness and abomination before him. 

"And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Nephi, saying, Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent, it shall be well with them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of the Lord unto the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard, that whoso repenteth not, must perish; 

"Therefore, wo, be unto the Gentiles, if it so be that they harden their hearts against the Lamb of God; 

For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, That I will work a great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work which shall be everlasting, either , on the one hand or on the other; either to the convincing of them unto peace and life eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their minds, unto their being brought down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally and spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of which I have spoken. 

"And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these words, he said unto me, Rememberest thou the covenants of the Father unto the house of Israel? I said unto him, Yea. 

"And it came to pass that he said unto me, Look, and behold that great and abominable church, which is the mother of abominations, whose foundation is the devil. 

"And he said unto me, Behold there are, save two churches only; the one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the other is the church of the 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 107 

devil; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the church of the Lamb of God, belongeth to that great church, which is the mother of abominations; and she is the whore of all the earth. 

"And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of all the earth, and she sat upon many waters; and she had dominion over all the eaith, among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of God." 

He saw this day. He saw us, here, gathered as we are in the tops of the mountains. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of God, and its numbers were few." 

Indeed, we are but few — as the President remarked this morning, but a handful in the midst of the mighty hosts that cover the earth's surface. 

"* * * And its numbers were few, because of the wickedness and abominations of the whore who sat upon many waters; nevertheless I beheld that the church of the Lamb, who were the saints of God, were also upon all the face of the earth." 

And so we are, and in nearly every land of the earth today, or.r missionaries — almost back to our original numbers, a little more than 1700, — are in the various nations of the earth, declaring this day the message of life and salvation. 

"* * * And their dominions upon the face of the earth were small." 

Great as they are, still they are small in comparison to others. 

"* * * Small, because ,of the wickedness of the great whore whom I saw. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the great mother of abominations did gather together multitudes upon the face of all the earth, among all the nations of the Gentiles, to fight against the Lamb of God." 

If we have not been through that experience, with a combination against us everywhere, with forces arrayed in our great gatherings such as the world's great! Christian Citizenship Conference and others! No matter what else they may disagree upon, on one point they are always agreed, to fight the "Mormons." 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of God was poured out upon the great and abominable church, insomuch that there were wars and rumors oi wars among all the nations and kindreds of the earth. 

"And as there. began to be wars and rumors of wars among all the nations which belonged to the mother of abominations, the angel spake unto me, saying, B«hold, the wrath of God is upon the mother of harlots; and behold, thou seest all these things; 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"And when the day cometh that the wrath of God is poured out upon the mother of harlots, which is the great and abominable church of all the earth, whose foundation is the devil, then, at that day, the work of the Father shall commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling of his covenants, which he hath made to his people, who are of the house of Israel." 

We stand in that day, when the favor of Almighty God shall be poured out upon his Church in greater abundance than it has ever been. We shall make progress which shall far excel the progress and advancement of the past, if we serve our heavenly Father and do not desert him. And all the promises he has made from the earliest day until this time, concerning the redemption and establishment of his righteousness in the worldd, are to come to pass not only by this power upon his people, but by reason of his chastisement that shall be upon those who do not serve him. 

CLOSING TESTIMONY. 

This is God's work. He is in it. He is with those who lead it, I know. The light is in the ship. The great and glorious caravan, the Church of the living God, is moving onward and forward to the accomplishment of its great purposes. And let the dogs bark. They amount to little when they fight God, for they are fighting Him when they fight this work. And we will not amount to much except we be true to this work, for it is God's, and he will not be mocked. When we have light and knowledge, there comes responsibility. Let us each assume it, do our part, get our homes, and with all our hearts serve him, as we never have done before, and set our houses in order and prepare ourselves that we may be worthy his favor to escape the judgments that are yet to come. 

For, as I have already remarked, I wish I could say to you that we have seen the end, but I am sorry to say we have but seen the beginning, and yet, so far as this people are concerned, they shall be immune against them, if they will serve God and keep his commandments; for he who hath delivered us, and who hath been the friend of our fathers, he who hath made the wrath of man to serve him, and hath vindicated his servants and exalted his work, will be with us to our redemption and salvation, if we are willing that he shall do it. 

May the Lord help us, that we may find favor in his sight, continue to be his people, approved of him, and escape his disfavor and the judgment that shall come upon the wicked and the unrepentant and the rebellious, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Junius Romney. 



