AFTERNOON SESSION 

President Heber J. Grant called the congregation to order at 2 o'clock. The building was comfortably filled with representatives and Saints from all parts of the Church. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

Prayer was offered by Elder James W. Lesueur, President of the Maricopa stake of Zion. 

The congregation sang, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

In common with all the general assemblies connected with our great conferences, this meeting is open to the public, to non-members as well as to members of the Church; and we welcome the visitor, the inquirer, the investigator particularly, and those who are called, conventionally, the strangers within our gates. But I take it to be a selfWIIO COMPOSE THIS VAST AUDIENCE. 

evident fact that the very large majority of this vast assemblage comprises Latter-day Saints, those who have come in at the door, those who have received the message of salvation gladly and have availed themselves of it, those who have complied with the requirements laid down by him whose Church this is and whose name it bears, as conditions for membership therein. 

These are they who have had and have a living faith in God the Eternal Father and in his literal Son Jesus Christ, our Lord and Redeemer, and in the Holy Ghost, the third Personage in the Godhead. 

These are they who have become keenly conscious of the need of repentance, and who have in fact become repentant and have offered unto the Lord that most acceptable of offerings, surpassing all the slain bullocks and rams and other bleeding victims on the altars of Israel, under the law of Moses, namely, a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

These are they who have humbled themselves, submitting them110 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

selves to the hands of men holding authority of God, commissioned by Jesus Christ, and who have been severally by such a one laid beneath the water, and who have come forth out of the water, as though resurrected from the dead, 'being thus baptized for the remission of their sins. 

These are they who have had hands laid upon them in the authority of the Holy Priesthood, for the bestowal of the right and title to the companionship of the Holy Ghost. 

WE REJOICE IN THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS. 

We have good reasons to rejoice. What boon of greater worth could be offered unto man than the forgiveness of his sins, with the innumerable attendant blessings; to be made eligible for pardon, for acceptance by and before the Lord? To such I need not preach the gospel of baptism, for ye have been baptized. I need not dwell upon the requirements respecting faith and repentance, for ye have manifested the one and the other; but I address myself, nevertheless, more particularly to the Latter-day Saints present, and what I shall say to them I am quite sure will hurt none others who may be with us, our welcome visitors who have not yet come into the Church, who have not yet complied with the requirements laid down by the Lord, our Master, as the conditions of citizenship in the kingdom of God. 

Yes, we have been baptized for the remission of our sins. To remit, in the sense in which we speak of sins being or having been remitted, is to grant pardon for the offense, and to annul, suspend, or render inoperative the penalty which otherwise would have been inevitable. A question arises in my mind. Are we, you and I, Latterday Saints, retaining the remission of our sins which we received through obedience to the law of God? 

ARE WE RETAINING THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS ? 

Remission, the pearl of great price, was ours. It is a fit subject for individual inquirv — Is it now yours and mine? Is it ours still? 

The righteous Nephite, King Benjamin, toward the close of a forceful address, which he offered on the occasion of his yielding up the authority of kingship unto his son, admonished the people most earnestly to retain the remission of sins which they had received through their baptism, to make it perpetual. And Alma, prophet, high priest, and chief judge, rejoiced when he found that a great part of his people had verily retained the remission of their sins. I refer you to the Book of Mormon, Mosiah, chapter four, verse twenty-six, for the first instance, and to Alma, chapter four, verse fourteen, for the second. Neither you nor I will waste time by reading it again, nor in pondering upon the principle embodied therein — the retention of the blessing of remission of sins. 

ELDER JAMES E. T ALU AGE 111 

But perhaps one may ask: Having received a remission, are we not forever entitled to it? Is it possible that God can give and then take back? Let us rather say, it is possible, and all too commonly a reality, for men to receive and then to forfeit. You note that baptism for the remission of sins is the first ordinance specified and the third principle named in our ordinary summary and arrangement of the principles and ordinances of the gospel. It has been beautifully called the gate to the kingdom, whose keeper is the Holy One of Israel. Blessed is he whose sins are forgiven, remitted; but this remission comes as no capricious act, as no favor in the sense of a discriminatory gift, even from God; for he is a just God and he remits sins according to the law of God, which combines both justice and mercy. 

The mercy of God is extended unto those who make themselves eligible to receive the gift. God desires to be merciful to us and ofttimes we block his way. He desires and yearns to bless us in some particular, and ofttimes we make it impossible for him so to do, because we do not comply with the conditions that render us eligible for that exercise of the divine power. 

THE LORD CAN GIVE AND RECALL, PRONOUNCE AND CHANGE. 

That the Lord can pronounce and change, that he can give and recall, is attested by scripture after scripture. There comes to my mind the parable spoken by the Son of God while He was in the flesh, known to us as the parable of the unmerciful servant, in which we find that though one was forgiven, that forgiveness was revoked, because he forfeited his right to it. He did not retain it, he did not keep it. Not to take time here to read it in full, I commend the parable 

AN ILLUSTRATION FROM ANCIENT SCRIPTURE. 

to you for perusal. You will find it recorded in the eighteenth chapter of Matthew, beginning with the twenty-third verse. It tells the story of a man who was deep in debt. He owed his creditor the enormous sum of ten thousand talents, and being unable to pay he was greatly disturbed when his lord called for payment, and he pleaded for time saying: "Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.'' Now, the lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and instead of giving him time in wdiich to pay, he forgave him the debt, so merciful was he, so full of kindness and goodness, almost above that of men. But that same servant went out, and, meeting on the way one of his fellow-servants who owed him a paltry hundred pence, seized him by the throat and said : "Pay me what thou owest," and the fellow-servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying: "Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all." One would have thought that the very similarity of the plea of the small debtor, in words so like those of the plea he, the greater debtor, had made immediately before, would have moved him to re112 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

membrance, but he would not, and he cast his fellow-servant into prison, according to the law of that day, whatever we may have to say as to the justice of it. When the other servants saw that they were sorry, and came and reported the matter unto their master. Then the lord of those servants, after that he had called the unmerciful one, said unto him : "O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desiredst me: Shouldst thou also not have had compassion on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my Heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every man his brother their trespasses." 

The sin of unforgiveness, hardness of heart, cruelty, herein exemplified, is but a type of sin in general. Let us note the fact that though the lord of that servant had forgiven him his debt, had canceled it in fact, yet when he learned that that servant was no longer humble, that he did not live so as to be worthy of the mercy extended to him, he reversed his act of remission, recalled his forgiveness and demanded of the wicked one payment in full. The blessings of the Lord are always conditional, the condition being our living up to the requirement making us fit recipients of blessing. 

The act of baptism does not simply blot out the sins of the past and enable us to begin with a new start, but it provides that if we have submitted to baptism worthily, we are entitled to remission of sin, that is, if we try to do our best, so as to be worthy of that boon. 

It is not required nor is it allowed that we shall be baptized over and over again with the thought of wiping out our sins up to date; but it is ordained of God that having been baptized, after manifesting true faith and sincere repentance, if we shall live to be worthy of the remission of sins, through continued repentance, through our unfailing efforts to overcome,, through our course of good works, doing unto our neighbors as we would have them do unto us, and in short, through our continued compliance with the commandments of God, we shall have our sins remitted, if they be not so heinous as to be unforgivable. 

AN ILLUSTRATION FROM MODERN SCRIPTURE. 

The scripture I have cited is ancient; the parable, while truly as applicable today as ever, is nevertheless many centuries old, so far as its record is concerned. In this very day in which we live the Lord has spoken, and that very definitely, concerning this matter. We find recorded in the 56th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : "Behold, I, the Lord, command, and he that will not obey shall be cut off in mine own due time, and after that I have commanded and the commandment is broken." It is necessary to bear in mind, as the first paragraph indicates, that this revelation is addressed to the people of the Church : 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE  113 

"Hearken, O ye people, who profess my name, saith the Lord your God." Unto them he declares that the Lord does command, and he that will not obey will be cut off in the Lord's own time. Now please note the next verse. 

"Wherefore I, the Lord, command and revoke, as it seemeth me good; and all this to be answered upon the heads of the rebellious, saith the Lord." 

Only the rebellious, those who will not obey the commandments of God are to be thus dealt with, are to have their blessings revoked; only these will forfeit the blessings to which they were entitled. In another revelation given shortly after that, Section 58, the Lord takes people to task because they were in the habit of saying — and he might well take some of us to task, for we still say it — that the Lord doesn't keep his word, that he makes promises and fails to fulfil them. The Lord makes explanation; let me read a few verses leading up to that particular declaration: 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. 

"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? 

"Who am I, saith the Lord, that hath promised and hath not fulfilled? 

"I command and a man obeys not, I revoke and they receive not the blessing; 

"Then they say in their hearts, this is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above." 

THE LORD GIVETH AND TAKETH IN RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

The Lord is guided by righteousness. In righteousness he giveth and in righteousness he taketh, and blessed be his name. 

The sacrament of the Lord's supper has been provided as an ordinance whereby at frequent intervals we can testify unto the Lord that we are still under the covenant that we have made with him by baptism, even witnessing unto God, the Eternal Father, that we do always remember his Son, our Redeemer; that we still bear his name; that we desire and intend to keep the commandments which he has given unto us— and all for this great purpose, that we may always have his Spirit to be with us. Thus we may retain the blessings that we have hitherto received, making them ours throughout time and for eternity. And I cite you to one more scripture which, consisting 

THE GREATEST DECLARATION ON THE SUBJECT. 

of but few lines only, is perhaps the greatest declaration of its kind on record, and the best summary that I can possibly give unto you in 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

connection with this thought, as recorded in the 82nd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, 10th verse : 

"I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." 

Let us keep the commandments of the Lord. Then, by his own word, he is bound to give unto us the blessings that have been promised; but when we do not do what he says, when we go back upon our covenant, we forfeit. May we retain the remission of our sins I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters : I have the honor, once more, of standing before you in the General Conference of the Church, in this great building that has witnessed so many gatherings of the Saints. 1 believe that all persons, making units of this congregation today, have come here with a prayer in their hearts that they may receive blessings, that they may receive new light and intelligence as a guide for their feet and a prompter for their conscience, to lead and direct them in the future, in the way of truth and right. 

We have been favored with discourses from our brethren, and 1 believe that I echo the sentiment of every one, that we have received a blessing from the Lord, and the remarks and the sermons given by our brethren, leaders of the Church, have found a ready place in our hearts, because we are in need of this kind of instruction and in thh way proper impressions are made on our lives, from time to time. I rejoice in being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I remember very well the day I was baptized, when eleven years of age. I missed the opportunity of being baptized sooner, or I didn't have an opportunity, for the reason that, when my father's family emigrated from the city of Nauvoo, just prior to his leaving his home in that city, he took my elder brother and my elder sister down to the Mississippi river and baptized and confirmed them members of the Church. I was only seven years of age and he explained to me that I could not receive baptism and become a member of the Church until another year. But 1 pleaded with him, and he finally yielded the point and took me into the Mississippi river and baptized me for my health. And that satisfied me for the time. An opportunity for baptism again did not present itself until I was eleven years of age. 

I remember very well the day and the person who officiated. Doctor Orin P. Lee, was the one that administered to me that sacred ordinance. Just near by the bank of the creek where the baptism occurred lived my uncle, Phineas H. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 115 

Young. I returned to his home after baptism, and there I met with a man somewhat famous in the history of the Church, namely Oliver Cowdery, one of the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon, one who wrote the manuscript of the Book of Mormon as the interpretation fell from the lips of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Oliver Cowdery was numbered as the second elder in the Church at the time of its organization, in 1830, on the 6th day of April. He had left the Church some years after and had engaged in the practice of law. On one occasion an opposing counsel said : "How can you listen to a man who has proclaimed that he is a follower of Joseph Smith, the 'Mormon' Prophet? How can you accept of his testimony, when he is far off in his calculations of things that occurred in a most natural way, and he looks at things from a spiritual standpoint, so he claims, and was at one time an associate of Joseph Smith, the 'Mormon' Prophet, and received a revelation, so he states, from the Lord?" Oliver Cowdery, after the gentleman had exhausted his tirade of ridicule, arose to his feet and said : "May it please your honor, I was once a member of the 'Mormon' Church. I was associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith, but through my own weakness I have been disfellowshiped by that people, and I am sorry that this ever occurred." And with tears streaming down his face, he declared that if the opportunity ever presented itself, he would again ally himself with the "Mormon" Church. When he came up to Kanesville to visit, at the conference held in 1848, under the direction of Apostle Orson Hyde, he stopped at the house of my uncle, Phineas Young, and that is where I met him. Oliver Cowdery had come to Kanesville for the purpose of asking to be again admitted a member of the Church. He had repented, so he declared, and on the stand the following day, in making the request to President Orson Hyde, said : "I do not ask for place or power or station or any responsible position. All I ask is that I may be again admitted a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and die with my record a member of the Church." His request was granted and he returned to Richmond, Missouri, and in a few months, died and was buried there. Early in the 70's another witness, also one of the principal witnesses, Martin Harris, came to Salt Lake valley. He, too, had seceded from the Church. He came to Utah with a desire to again be identified with this people, and made his request to President Brigham Young. In bearing his testimony that day, I remember that he made these remarks : "I had the honor, said he, "of being the scribe for the Prophet Joseph Smith in translating a portion of the Book of Mormon, but through my carelessness and through my want of foresight, the manuscript that I had written was lost, and never regained, and I justly received censure and reprimand from the Prophet Joseph Smith. Now I have returned to the bosom of the Church with the hope and prayer in my heart that I may again be admitted a member. His prayer was also granted. Soon after he moved up to 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Clarkston in Cache Valley and died there, and his body was buried in the cemetery of that place. 

The testimony of those two men, I have always remembered, and as they bore them personally they seemed overwhelmed with grief and sorrow to think they had forfeited their membership in the Church and their rank and their standing as they had it at first. Men who receive the testimony of the gospel, men who receive the witness of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, men who receive a witness of the divinity of the Savior and his great mission, seldom see the way to repent after they have lost the faith, .but these two men seemed to be specially favored of the Lord, and the gift of repentance had not entirely been blotted out from their hearts, and according to their prayers they were restored again as members of the Church. 

I remember very well that soon after President Brigham Young had returned to Winter Quarters, from his pioneer visit to Salt Lake Valley, on the 5th day of December, 1847, the Twelve gathered' in the house of Willard Richards, one of the Twelve Apostles, the one that was ordained in Manchester, England, in 1840. If you remember the history of this good man, he was chosen an apostle before he left for England, at the time of President Young's mission to that country, but was not ordained until they arrived in Manchester. There were five of the Council of the Twelve found in the city of Manchester at that conference, and the proposition was made that Willard Richards be ordained an apostle, there and then, making him the sixth member of the apostles in that old country at one time. He was accordingly ordained by President Brigham Young, the president of the Twelve Apostles. On this 5th day of December, 1847, the Twelve gathered together and chose and elected Brigham Young to be the prophet, seer and revelator to and president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world — that was the exact wording. How this last sentence thrilled me. President Brigham Young chose for his counselors. Elders Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards. I know that the Saints universally acknowledged President Brigham Young as the president and leader of the Church, before he was called and set apart by the rest of the apostles, for when Colonel Allen, the United States enlisting officer, came up from Fort Leavenworth to Mount Pisgah, there were several of the Twelve encamped at that point. He made his errand known to them and asked if it were possible for him to get an enlistment of five hundred ableboded men from the camps of the "Mormon" people, to go to Mexico to fight the battles of our country under General Zachary Taylor. The brethren listened to his request and then said : "We cannot decide this question for you, Colonel Allen. There is but one man that can decide it. That man is President Brigham Young. He is at the 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 117 

present time encamped near Council Eluffs, on the Missouri river. If you will take the journey with us, we will go to his camp, and you may ask him that question and obtain his answer for yourself." The question of raising five hundred able bodied men from the camps of the Saints thus leaving their wives and children and aged parents to the mercy of the camp of the plains, without a supply of food and clothing and covering, seemed appalling to everyone; and, as I remember, the majority of the apostles did not take the request kindly, but after discussing the matter, President Brigham Young said: "This call must be answered. We must furnish the men. It is a trial of our faith. It is a test of our loyalty, and we propose to furnish the men as the Government requires." 

Many a test has come to this people, many a trial to their faith. In the loss of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and then finally, as one leader after another had passed away, yet this eternal truth and testimony of President Brigham Young has always found a ready echo in the hearts of every Latter-day Saint. He said when the news of the martyrdom reached him in Boston, "although the leader of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, has been taken away from us by violence, his blood has been spilled, he has sealed his testimony, but he did not take with him the Priesthood of the Son of God. That is still on the earth, the Twelve Apostles are still the representatives holding that power and that Priesthood, committed to them by the Prophet of the Lord. 

And so it has been, from time to time, and today we are honored again with having a full organization of the First Presidency of the Church and the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. And always the Saints have recognized at a glance the leadership of the man that has been chosen to lead Israel in every age of the history of the Church; and today, my brethren and sisters, you are assembled here in this great conference, rejocing in the fact that the Church is growing, is marching on, is increasing in strength and power, commensurate with the humility and the firm, determined action and devotion of its members. As they devote themselves to the cause, so the Lord increases his blessings upon them. So their reward is sure, as sure as they work for it unselfishly. Today we are requested! to promulgate the principles of truth in our own communities. There are many non-"Mormons" living in our midst. The Seventies quorums have been requested to furnish missionaries to carry the gospel to these worthy citizens that have lived in our midst, some of them for many years past. I met one of our brethren recently who said : "I saw a gentleman who has been a neighbor of mine for years. Said he, T have been to your meeting tonight, and I didn't know before that the "Mormons" believed in Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world, and I did not know that you had any faith in Jesus Christ, that you taught that he died, that men might 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

live.' 'Where have you been? Haven't you attended our meetings before?' 'No, this is the first time I have ever attended a "Mormon" meeting since I lived in your community.' " The necessity of preaching the gospel here at home became apparent to the officers of the wards and the stakes of Zion, and now this movement of preaching the word to all of our neighbors and of giving them a chance to know of the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph and the result of his labors, and the doctrines that we believe in, will reach these people who live in our communities, who have not known it heretofore. And this 1 believe is a step in the right direction, and is going to result in very much good, and many people will be won to a knowledge of the truth without cost or without very much sacrifice of time and means. A soul here in Zion is just as precious as a soul that is saved abroad in the nations of the earth, where it takes many hours and days and weeks of time and considerable expenditure of money to convert each one. The principles of the gospel are just as acceptable to those who are honest in heart, who live in our midst, as those who live far away, and the elders seem delighted with the work that they are engaged in, and seem intent upon carrying the principles of the gospel to their neighbors, evincing, more than ever before, that they have accepted of those two great commandments given unto them : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul; and thy neighbor as thyself." May this be our prompting sentiment continually, that we seek the welfare of others, that we seek to serve one another, that we seek to do good to our fellow men and to win those who do not know the truth, to a knowledge of the same, at any sacrifice that we are called to make, devoting our time and our best energies to the spread of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that we may stand approved and acquitted all the day long, and be acceptable to him, that we may have the spirit of the gospel within us continually, and the knowledge of its great truths burning within our hearts, desiring only to give these evidences to others that they may profit by them. I pray that we may be faithful to this end, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Ralph Jensen, of Heber, and David Cook, of Syracuse, sang a duet. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

Elder Orson F. Whitney, in the course of his impressive remarks yesterday afternoon, very solemnly declared, referring to our faith, our Church, and all that we believe and all that we are doing — "This is the work of the Lord." Now, is it? .1 wonder sometimes when we 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 119 

say those things, and when we listen to them, if we really gather into our consciousness all that that means; or whether, in many instances at ljeast, it takes on the nature of a mere form of speech, and we fail to realize all that is involved in a declaration of that kind. I never arose before a congregation, perhaps, where I felt less disposed to undertake the task of speaking to the people than I do here and now, this afternoon. After Brother Young, of the First Council, was called to address you, and the likelihood of President Grant continuing to call upon the members of the First Council of Seventy to address you in the order of their standing, made it likely that I might be the next called upon, I have been able to think of nothing else but just this declaration that was made by Elder Whitney, and which in some form or other, has been expressed, I think, by every speaker in this conference; and since this is the only idea present in my mind just now, I propose to work upon that for the few minutes that I am to speak to you. 

And now the question : Is this work we are engaged in the work of the Lord? And if it is, then just what is involved in that statement? Why, this is involved in it, to get over the grounds very hurriedly, and touching only the high points in relation to things. If this statement of our brethren, made in various forms, is true, then God the eternal Father, the Creator of heaven and earth, and of worlds and world systems, through Jesus Christ his Son — together with his Son Jesus Christ — appeared unto a mortal man, unto a young man, Joseph Smith, and the Father introduced 1 , to him Jesus the Christ, He who was taken by cruel hands and crucified, as the scriptures say, for the sins of the world; and as he himself declared over here on the American continent, by his own mouth, that He was the Redeemer, and had been slain for the sins of the world. These two heavenly personages appeared unto this young man and proclaimed what they alone were competent to proclaim, that all the religions of the world were untrue, that men were teaching for doctrines the commandments of men, that they had forms of godliness, but denied the power thereof, and for him to follow after none of these, but giving him a promise that if he was faithful he would be chosen as an instrument in the hands of God for re-establishing the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and restoring the Church of Christ again in the earth. Now, if this work that you and I are connected with is indeed the truth, then that splendid but awful vision and announcement is a reality. 

Next it is declared, as a truth, that a new volume of scripture was revealed — a book making known the history of nations that flourished in past ages upon the American continents, the ruins of whose civilization we are more or less acquainted with through its surviving monuments in various parts of America. It purports to be a record of the hand-dealings of God with millions of people who lived and died upon these western continents, among whom God raised up in120 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

spired men to teach and instruct them in righteousness; to tell them also of the plan of life and salvation devised from before the foundation of the world. These prophets held divine authority to teach the plan of life and salvation. Also in the Book of Mormon is an account of the most splendid vision that is of record, on the appearing of the resurrected Christ to man. He appeared to the survivors of the awful cataclysms and earthquakes and tempests and destructive storms that passed over these lands of America during! the crucifixion and the entombment of the Christ, and proclaimed himself to be the life and light of the world and the savior of men. If what we say in our general testimony be true, then this volume of scripture, containing the testimony for God of sleeping nations, is a verity. 

In connection with the Prophet Joseph Smith, three other men received divine testimony of the verity of that work; for three men, namely Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris, testified that an angel from heaven came down into their presence and showed to them the original plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated. In their presence he turned over the leaves of this ancient record and they curiously observed the engraving and saw that it was of fine workmanship. This angel declared unto them that the book had been translated by the gift and power of God, and was true; while the very voice of God, Creator of heaven and earth, the sustaining power of all worlds, who holds them) in exact balance, and has the universe under the control of his almighty will — He commanded them to testify of the truth of this record. If our testimony that the work in which we are engaged is the work of God is true, then the Book of Mormon is true, and all that is in it is true. 

When the young men, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, were engaged in the work of translating the Book of Mormon, the question of baptism came up in their minds, its purpose, its form, what was accomplished through it. That question they referred through prayer, to the Lord. Then John, the Baptist, the one above all others who would know all about baptism and who would be a perfect instructor of that ordinance and doctrine, he whose hands held the body of the Christ, the Son of God, when he buried him in the waters of baptism — he came and gave instructions on this important subject, and directed these men to baptize each other; and conferred upon them the authority to preach repentance and baptize others. Again, if our testimony to this work is true, then Peter and James and John, 'who seem to have constituted an inner circle within the college of the Apostles in the days of the Christ, who were with the Christ on several special occasions and who seemed to receive special attention from him and privileges from the Christ — these three men, to on^: of whom the Christ had said : "I give unto you the keys of the kingdom of heaven" — these three apostles came and conferred the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 121 

That is a verity if our testimony is true; and being true what an important thing it is! Inspired and instructed by the commandments of God, these men, now holding the holy apostleship, proceeded to organize once more the very Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth by divine appointment and under divine authority. 

Subsequently, when the fulness of times for such things had come, then Moses, Elias and Elijah appeared in the Kirtland Temple and bestowed upon these men the keys of authority and power they held while they were on the earth. Moses restored the keys for the gathering of the children of Israel; Elias, perhaps the patriarchal order, together with the keys or authority that unlocked the knowledge that was to link together the families of men in all nations, and that the Lord shall at the last combine into one; family all the children of men. Elijah restored those keys of authority that shall turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and doubtless the hearts of the fathers to the children. All of these things, and each one of them, are true, if our general testimony is true. The renewal of the promises and the hopes and assurances of the resurrection from the dead included in the work we call the work of God, is also true. Our hopes in Christ Jesus our Lord are not limited to our hopes and visions of things in this our mortal life. We have hope anchors within the vail that hold. The vail is rent to our vision and we see a race redeemed and raised from the dead, for as in Adam all died, so in and through the Christ shall a\\ be made alive. And the race shall be united — bound together in the golden chains of God's love and human love. The same unity that abounds and holds in the government of the universe, will obtain as to the race of men. A unity akin to that which unites in one the Holy Trinity — the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Now, when we say that this Gospel, Church and priesthood of ours is the work of the Lord, that this is the truth, this is what we mean : All these things that I have enumerated, severally and collectively, are true. Being true, how splendid, how glorious all this is! What strength; what power; what faith; what hope; what unity; what benevolence; what love, ought to and will and does abound with a people whose faith is founded upon these great truths that are involved in our faith and jn our Church! The world is beginning to take note of the effect of a people having such a faith as this, as it begins to be manifested in the lives of the Latter-day Saints; and the world is going to take more note and yet more note of this as the years pass- The little "all hails," now given to the successful system of the religion that is fostered and advanced by the' Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is insignificant in comparison with that greater "all hail," that shall yet come to the work of God of which we testify. 

For a moment let me call your attention to how this work has been built up by witnesses for God. When the Lord would commence this great dispensation of the fulness of times, a dispensation 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

in which all other previous dispensations will come pouring into, as streams find their way to the ocean — when he would begin this great work of establishing faith in the world, he began by creating a witness for himself, one who could testify that he had seen, that he had heard, that he had received instructions from the very lips of the resurrected Son of God, and that in the presence of the Father — God raised up one who could go among men and testify that he had seen and heard and had been instructed by the; God of the whole universe. God raised up that witness to himself, and though he was young and inexperienced, and though persecuted for his testimony, reviled and mocked, men could not move by one hair's breadth that witness for God from) the truths that he had proclaimed. Unpalatable as it was to have to say to the inhabitants of the earth that they were all wrong, he did it, though it tested even his strength. He was a good and true witness. 

Then when the Book of Mormon was brought forth, the Lord found and equipped with knowledge the three men whom he would have testify to the truth of the book; and these! witnesses testified and were true to their testimonies. No matter what else happened to them, how foolish they may have been, or how stubborn they were as to other matters, they remained true to the thing that God had called them to be witnesses of. They were good witnesses and I do not know but what something of strength has been added to the weight of their testimony by reason of the experiences through which they passed, for in good report and evil report, in the Church and outside of it, they remained true and steadfast to that testimony which, from the nature of it, I cannot conceive how it could be possible for men to dare to depart from, and they not depart from it. Well, thesfe three witnesses were commissioned to go and find twelve other witnesses, special witnesses to these great truths that God is unfolding in the dispensation of the fulness of times; and they found the twelve witnesses who became the twelve apostles of the Church, especial witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world, holding the keys of the ministry of the Church in foreign nations — in all the world; so that when the door of the Gospel is to be opened to any nation, one or more of these men holding these keys of authority and power, go to these nations and open the door of the Gospel formally, for the proclamation of the truth. There is a long list of such openings of doors of the Gospel to various nations, and in each case it has been done by one of these men holding this divine- commission and authority. But you begin to see how the work is built up by witnesses. It will readily be seen how twelve men are not equal to the task of making proclamation of the Gospel in all the world; and so assistants are provided. Men are gathered into- quorums of seventy, and each quorum is presided over by a council of seven men, a different presidency from any of the other quorums of the Church, and doubtless for the reason that these quorums need to be well nigh indestructible at the 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 123 

head, so that several of them may be called away and go upon missions' for some length of time and yet not disrupt the organization. Well, these men are called to be especial witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ in all the world, to testify of Christ as well as the twelve special witnesses, or apostles. They are to testify of his divinity, that he is indeed the very Son of God, chosen as the Redeemer of the world, in whose name only may the children of men hope for salvation; also they are to testify of the resurrection and the eternal life of man through Jesus Christ — that .eternal life which, we are told, God, who cannot lie, promised before the world began. Well, these men, the twelve and the seventy, are chosen to be witnesses of these things which God is unfolding in the world. So, indeed, are we all witnesses — all have the right to have the witness of God's spirit to their own souls that all this mass and volume of truth is true, is the word of God; so that in a way all the Saints may receive the witness of these things, and stand up before each other and the world and say as Elder Whitney and the rest have said here, that this work is God's work. 

Now, I happen to be one of the Seventy, one chosen to be officially a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ; and having reviewed all these developments of the work of the Lord, involving as it does this blessed thing to have our sins forgiven, and oh how much that means! It has been my fortune, good or ill, to come in contact with men whom I have seen laboring under a very 'agony of mental and spiritual distress because of their sins. I have seen them break down and cry out in their agony that they would be willing to give a right arm if only such, and such things as they had done could be undone. They would gladly give their lives if their hands could only be washed clean of the crimson stain of human life. I have seen men under the stress of agony until I have, in part at least, been led to appreciate how blessed the boon is that we may have forgiveness of sins. One other of the great gifts, and one of the greatest mercies of God, is to receive under the divine authority established here by the revelations of God. and existent in the priesthood, the right to be baptized of the Spirit that a baptism takes a poor human life up into union with the Spirit life of God. Who shall be able to tell how great that blessing is, to have God's strength become available to man as strength; his wisdom for guidance to become man's wisdom; God's strength to resist evil, his power to persist in good is given to man. What a boon it is to have one's spirit united with the Spirit of God by which we become spiritually alive, and restored to that blest state that men enjoyed before that thing we call the "fall" had happened. Now, in the presence of all this, I exercise the office of my calling as one of the witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ concerning these things. Without argument, without debate, without even an elaborate statement of the things that are true, only having brought before your vision just how large a thing it is to say that this is the work of the Lord, and depending 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

now upon the spirit that is within you, and by which you too know the truth, with nothing between us, standing more than heart to heart, spirit touching spirit, your spirit meeting mine, our spirits congenial to the truth and of such nature that when we hear the truth we know the truth; now, in this attitude, I solemnly declare to you that these things that make up our history, and make up the development of the Church and kingdom of God, as we know it, I say to you that each one of the great things, and above that, all of them together, are true. And I say it conscious that I am speaking where God hears and takes cognizance of things that are said, and will hold men to an accountability for what they say. I say unto you, in very deed, and out of a clear conscience, and with a consciousness of it being approved of God — I say to you, these things are true; and heing true, how strong, and noble, and brave, and broad a people the Latter-day Saints ought to be! 

O God, the eternal Father, in the name of thy Son Jesus, the Christ, our Redeemer, with all my heart and soul I thank thee for a knowledge of these great truths. Seal them upon our hearts. Let us, O Lord, gather unto our souls the strength and the power that come from thee; and Thine be the power and the glory forever and ever, worlds without end. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

CONCERNING THE JEWS. 

Some of you may be familiar with the agitation that is going on at the present time, in the publications, against the Jewish people. There should be no ill-will, and I am sure there is none, in the heart of any true Latter-day Saint, toward the Jewish people. By the authority of the Holy Priesthood of God, that has again been restored to the earth, and by the ministration, under the direction of the Prophet of God, Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ have been to the Ploly Land and have dedicated that country for the return of the Jews; and we believe that in the due time of the Lord they shall be in the favor of God again. And let no Latter-day Saint be guilty of taking any part in any crusade against these people. I believe in no other part of the world is there as good a feeling in the hearts of mankind towards the Jewish people as among the Latter-day Saints. 

The congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder William L. Jones, President of the Moapa stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a. m. Tuesday, April 5, 1921. 

THIRD DAY 


