Second Overflow
03 04 1921


ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

I rejoice, my brothers and sisters, in the opportunity of meeting again in conference with the Saints of the Lord. To me there is nothing sweeter than "communion with Saints." I rejoice in the spirit of the great work in which we are engaged, and am reminded that just a little more than two years ago I received a letter over the signature of President Heber J. Grant wherein was contained the information that I had been selected to preside over the Northwestern States Mission; also these inspiring words, the spirit of which is in my soul, and I thank the Lord therefor, and trust that this spirit shall never become dim, but every hour be brighter and brighter, so long as, life shall last: 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto hin.'., on conditions of repentance; and how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth. Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people; an : if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it he one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father? And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me?" 

Another revelation of the Lord, containing the same spirit and sentiment was given to John Whitmer, through Joseph, the Seer, in Fayette, Seneca county, New York, June, 1829 : 

"Hearken, my servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer, for behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth, and I will tell you 



58 ' GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone, for many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you. Behold, blessed are you for this thin^, and for speaking my words which I have given you according to my commandments. And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you, will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father. Amen." 

No greater work was ever entrusted to men than to cry repentance, and labor for the salvation of souls in the kingdom of God. Upon me as an individual, a preacher of repentance, lies the responsibility of directing the labors of 180 missionaries, among them the sweetest and most beautiful young men and young women in all the world; and I assure you that keenly do I sense it, and sincerely do I pray that the spirit of this calling — important above all others that come to men in the world — shall be mine. My great task has been to know, as I instruct those young men and young women, that which is better than any other thing, to posses; that more than all else which will qualify them to make of them efficient servants and preachers of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In Paul's instructions to the Corinthian Saints, declaring his own power and the source thereof, he recognized that it was not in his profound learning (for he sat at the feet of Gamaliel; and among the philosophers and learned men of his day he stood foremost), but from some other Power, the source of which he has indicated most unmistakably in his Epistle to the Corinthians, from which I desire to read a few words. 

In II Corinthians, 12, he speaks of the wonderful manifestations of God, the revelation of Jesus Christ, who appeared to him while on the way to Damascus, to bring bound the Saints that he was persecuting. The Lord said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" and in answer Paul said, "Who art thou, Lord?" and the Lord said, "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest;" and Paul replied, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" In this wonderful revelation he was caught up into the third heaven where he beheld indescribable glories and heard things which he said were not meet for men to utter; yet he affirmed that not upon these did he depend for the strength of his testimony and the power of his ministry, for, said he : 

"And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thii..g I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness." 

The Lord would have Paul know that in the humility of his heart, the sincerity of his soul, and in the recognition of God, lay the source of his power, wherein he should find great strength, and not in the wisdom of man. This was also indicated in a previous declaration to the Corinthian Saints, wherein Paul said : 

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 59 

"And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not wjith enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power: that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." 

When I read these words, I think of that most wonderful and successful of all converters of souls in this latter dispensation — aye, I believe of any dispensation of the gospel of Jesps Christ, the humble, unlearned Wilford Woodruff, who taught, converted and baptized by the power of God, nigh unto two thousand souls — a record, I believe, that is not equalled by any other servant of the Lord in any age of the world. This he 1 accomplished, not with the wisdom of man or the philosophy of the sage, but by the power and Spirit of Almighty God, which possessed his innocent and humble soul. Continuing, Paul declared : 

"But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory: which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory." 

(And they who crucified the Lord of glory were not the ignorant men of the world; they were those who stood in high places and occupied 'positions in the courts of kings and royalty; they were the learned men of the world who crucified the Lord of glory.) Paul further says: 

"But as it is written, Eye hath not seen nor ear ,heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the de.ep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. 

"Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is .of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man." 

And as I read the '12th and 13th verses of this chapter, I think of another illustrious example of the inspiration of the Almighty, manifest in one of his chosen servants : 

"Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdori teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual." 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Of Joseph F. ' Smith, our late revered prophet and leader, it has been said', by one who speaks with understanding and from personal knowledge, that Prest. Smith never prepared in his life a sermon. This man who traveled with him in Europe, on the isles of the sea, and through the stakes of Zion, year after year, thousands upon thousands of miles, and heard him deliver hundreds and thousands of sermons, asserts that he never heard Prest. Smith deliver two sermons of which it could be said, "this sermon reminds me of another one I heard him deliver." To me that is a marvelous testimony to the divinity of the calling and inspiration of the man, for such achievement is not humanly possible. Human intelligence has its limitations. But the intelligence and inspiration of the Almighty are infinite; and the man who is in touch therewith, inspired thereby, has no limits, and can preach sermons day after day, year after year, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Almighty, and never repeat. But when men prepare their sermons, and by worldly wisdom hope to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, and glorify themselves, then they are not possessed of this unlimited, irresistible power which finds lodgment in the souls of honest men. Wherein, then, lies this wonderful power? What is the character of it? That is the question that should concern every mission president, and every teacher of righteousness, and preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You remember what Paul says in the 13th Chapter of First Corinthians : 

"Though 1 speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not love, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knoiwledge! and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not love, I am nothing." 

In comparison with this wonderful power, charity or love — these accomplishments here mentioned pale into insignificance. Qualified, and endowed with these rare gifts we naturally conclude, one must of necessity be a most powerful preacher; he can speak with the tongues of men and the eloqunce of angels; he understands all mysteries, and has all knowledge and faith so that he could remove mountains. But he lacks one thing, and that Js the vitalizing force which is the secret of his power. And what is that? It is that supreme love which the Savior describes in the following words : 

"Except a man is willing to leave father and mother, houses and lands, wives and children, and all for my sake and the gospel's, he is unworthy of me." 

It is that love of God, which overshadows and transcends the love of everything else in the world whether it be personal glory and honor, wealth or fame. It matters not what it may be, there is no love in his heart equaling his love of God. That is the source of his power; and possessed of that, his words are irrestible, and his power will redound to the honor and glory of God and the salvation of his children 

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 61 

— which power may God endow us with, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

{President of the Canadian Mission.) 

My brothers and sisters : I sincerely pray in my heart that I shall have strength of mind and body to speak to you a few moments this morning. I have found it to be a very taxing ordeal to speak in the open air to a large congregation. 

With President Iverson, who has just spoken to you, I too rejoice in the privilege of meeting with you in this general conference of the Church. With all the power of my soul I rejoice in the knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know it is the power of God unto salvation. There is nothing in the realm of things knowable for which I an so deeply grateful as I am for my knowledge of the divinity of God's great latter-day work. I do know that the God of heaven, with his own hands laid the foundation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know that the Spirit of the Almighty has inspired the hearts and the minds of those who have built the superstructure of this Kingdom of our God. I know that this Church is endowed with the Priesthood, the authority of Almighty God. I know that this Church is the depository of the riches of God's wisdom and his knowledge. 

I rejoice in the knowledge that the great achievements of this great people are coming to be known among the children of men. The day is past and gone when men can speak evil of this people and escape rebuke. There are men and women in every center of population today who know of the splendid achievements of the Latterday Saints. These men and women are brave enough and true enough to speak in defense of the truest and noblest people in this world. 

I have had occasion frequently, in the cities of eastern Canada, to tell the people that the Latter-day Saints, inspired by the power of their noble religion, have established in the world, the highest civilization known to modern man. That is a bold statement to make about a people, but the statement is just as true as it is bold. 

What is the first essential to civilization? What is the first essential to the highest wellbeing of humankind? It is good health and clean blood. The statistics of the United States tell us that during the year 1920, 101 babies out of a thousand in the United States died before they became a year old. These same statistics tell us that in Utah only 64 babies out of a thousand died before they became a year old. What do these figures mean? They mean that the Latter-day Saints have clean blood in their veins. These figures mean that Latter-day Saint fathers and mothers live moral and wholesome lives. 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

What is the next essential to the highest civilization? It is the common prosperity. I use the expression the "common prosperity" advisedly, because a people who are partly rich and mainly poor cannot attain to anything great in moral or civic progress. What do the facts show concerning the conmon prosperity of our people? On the 29th day of January, 1921, the Country Gentleman, one of the leading farmers' magazines of the United States, carried the statement that Utah should be known as the "home-owner's state." And this statement was followed by the further statement that out of 62,662 farms in the state of Utah, seven-eights of them were owned by the men who operated them. What do these figures mean? They mean that our people have made the greatest progress in material prosperity of any people in the world. 

What is the next mark of a highly civilized people? It is education. On the 23rd day of July, 1920, the Toronto Evening Telegram, one of the largest papers published in the Dominion of Canada, published a statement quoted from Dr. E. A. Winship, one of the greatest educators in the United States, in which Dr. Winship said, "No state is within hailing distance of Utah in an efficient attempt to solve the civic, industrial, and moral problems of the education of the youth from 12 to 18 years." You will notice that he says that no state is within hailing distance of Utah. He does, not say that our state is almost on a par with other states in education; he tells us that no state ranks with us in an efficient attempt to provide for the education of the youth. 

What is the next mark of a highly civilized people? The next essential is morality. Theodore Roosevelt, that grand man, whose name has rung around the world, in an article published in Colliers Magazine, in February, 1911, said, "Indeed among these 'Mormons' the standard of sexual morality was unusually high; they were better than their neighbors." 

What is the next mark of a highly civilized people? It is spirituality — that quality of which President Iverson has spoken so fervently this morning. How do the Latter-day Saints rank in spirituality? In April, 1920, Colonel William Jennings Bryan sat in the great tabernacle, over there at one of the sessions of that conference, within three feet of the mission presidents, and listened to the sermons of the leading men of this Church. At the conclusion of that session of the conference, he made an informal talk, in which he said, "I have never witnessed such religious fervor in all my life before." 

Here we have a people who have the five leading marks of a great people. They are a healthy people, they are a prosperous people, an educated people, a moral people, a spiritual-minded people. I tell you, this people is God's people. With all my heart I thank my God for membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and with all my strength I pray for power to do my part in 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 63 

making known to the world the great things which God has wrought in our day and time. 

My brothers and my sisters, let us remember our heritage of power, of truth, our heritage of inspiration of faith. If we will remember these things, we shall rise and shine and be the glory of all mankind 1 — which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to make myself heard, and that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord and be able to say something this morning that will encourage us in living our religion. 

It is truly an inspiring sight to see this vast congregation gathered together here, and to know that our great Tabernacle is filled to overflowing, and also the Assembly Hall, and that these people have gathered together for the purpose of worshiping the Lord and of hearing his word. To me it is an evidence that there is burning within the hearts of this people a testimony of the divinity of this great latterday work. To me it is an evidence that they are desirous of growth and development in the Lord's work, that they desire to become a better people, that they desire to learn more of his will and of his purposes; and I take it, my brethren and sisters, that it is with a desire that they might also extend this great knowledge to our Father's children, wherever they may be — because upon us devolves the responsibility of carrying the gospel to the nations of the earth and to people everywhere. 

As President Iverson was speaking this morning of the great missionary work being done, I was reminded of the words of the Savior, his commission given unto his disciples, when he appeared unto them after his resurrection : 

"And be said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and lis baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." 

It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that inasmuch as this is the same gospel, established by our Savior, and that the same authority held by those unto whom he gave this commission is held by the Church today, through its membership, that the call is to us today; and I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, that we have resting upon us the responsibility to go into all the world and to preach the gospel unto every creature, for it is indeed the power of God unto salvation unto all who will believe. And how can a man believe a thing that he has not heard ? and how can he hear, save someone be sent to teach it unto him? 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The preachers have preached ever since the Reformation, but religious thought throughout the world has not been particularly improved. Divisions have continued to occur. We hear today the thoughts expressed of a uniting of the religious world; but, my brethren and sisters, men cannot unite in the true Church of God if they have it not. We have been told here this morning that we are perhaps a distinct people, a people better than other people; I want to tell you the reason of it is that we have the truth, we have the gospel, and we have restored to earth again the power of God to speak in his name, and I say, Woe would be unto us, if we were not different; woe unto us, if we were not distinct, and if our righteousness — as the Savior said to his disciples — were not better and greater than the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, or the righteousness of the world, we could not in any way inherit the Kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

Brethren and sisters, represented here among the speakers this day are missionaries extending their labors and their activities from the provinces of Canada to the boundary line of southern Mexico, down to Guatemala. Under their direction are laboring hundreds of young men who have responded to this call. I am thankful to the Lord that I have been counted worthy to he associated with them and to labor with them; and, as one who knows, because your sons have been under my care, I want to report to you that your sons are acquitting themselves admirably and nobly in the mission field. They are men on the day after they arrive there, although they come into the mission field many of them boys of 18, 19 and 20 years of age. They are told, when they come into the mission field, to be men, and they respond, and they seek for the Spirit of the Lord, to assist them in their labors, and they are able (though not at first from the standpoint of the wisdom of the world, not being educated in seminaries of learning particularly along the lines of religious thought), by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord which they enjoy, and by the power of the holy Priesthood which they have, to confound the wisdom of the wise. 

I recall just now how our boys, in a foreign tongue, on the streets of the great city of San Antonio, many times have been able to congregate as many people in the streets as stand before us here today, telling their message of salvation unto the people. And they are not left alone, but they are heckled and they are contested by the preachers of the day — they are boys just come from the farms and from the workshops and from the vocations in life from which our boys go into the mission field, but by the power of the Lord, and his help and assistance that come to them, they have been able always to come off victorious in any contest that they have had in that city. And the same is true, I am sure, wherever our boys go. You have reason, my brethren and sisters, to be proud of them. 

We know the very great sacrifices that the fathers and mothers 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 65 

are making in these times to support their boys in the mission field, but I will say to you, my brethren and sisters, you could not invest your means to a better advantage than by supporting them there, and I wish to bespeak for them your support by way of encouragement — not sympathy, for the boys are well off, they are well taken care of, the Lord is their helper and he raises up friends to them, and if they betimes fast a day or two, it is only for their good; they are all in good health, they are in good condition, and they do not need your sympathy along that line. What they need is your support, what they need are letters from home encouraging them to do their part, to give their all to the service of the Lord; to remember this, that they must love him with all their hearts, with all their minds, with all their might, and with all their strength, and that next to that they must love their neighbors as themselves. 

And who are our neighbors in the world? I say to you, we are all neighbors, we are all brethren, we are all children of the same great heavenly Father, and we should manifest our love for our brethren in the world by taking to them that greatest of all gifts, which is the gospel, the power of God, by which they may be saved. Our mission is not particularly to any one people, or to any one race, but, as I have read to you now, and as I could read many other passages, which show you that the gospel is to be preached to all nations as a witness, and to every creature, everywhere. The saving powers of the gospel are manifest among one people just as much as they are manifest among another people, if those people strive to live in harmony with the gospel teachings. 

It has been my great privilege, my brethren and sisters, after the tempestuous times that Mexico has passed through for the past ten years, and after we have had to withdraw our missionaries, and our brethren, natives of that land, have been left for many years almost isolated from the Church, it has been my privilege, and I thank the Lord for it, to have returned last month, with twelve of your boys, and to have picked up again the broken threads of the work in that land; and if I could express to you as I felt it, and your boys felt it, the happiness that came to those people upon our return, I am sure, my brethren and sisters, those of you who have sons among that people would be grateful to the Lord that they are the instruments in carrying such joy and such happiness back to that people. 

And I would speak a word in praise of our brethren and sisters in that far-off land; for, nothwithstanding the fact that they have been alone for ten years, we found their branches perfectly manned, the Priesthood had been left with them. That is the thought I should like to leave. Although the missionaries from Zion had been withdrawn, the Priesthood of the Lord had been committed to those people, and their own people had been ordained elders and set apart as branch presidents, and not for one single day had they forgotten their obligations to the Lord. They are living their religion, they 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

are teaching it to their neighbors, and many are being brought into the Church through the efficient labors of our native brethren in that far-off land, and they are living as near as may be in harmony with the principles of the gospel. 

I am thankful to the Lord for the intergity of those people. I would just like to quote to you what one of our native brethren said in a fast meeting, not long ago, in El Paso. He was a young man who served as a missionary there some ten years ago, a very efficient missionary, too, and someone was saying how bad it was that we had all been called away from the mission down there, and that perhaps things would go badly because the elders from Zion were not there. He said, "I thank the Lord that the Priesthood has been given to my people, and that that Priesthood will never again be taken away from them; and with that Priesthood, men will be raised up among them to carry on the work." And I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that we have seen a demonstration of the truthfulness of the testimony of that young man concerning the Priesthood, as it is operating among the people of Mexico. 

I am thankful to the Lord for the integrity of those people. I went into the mission field as a very young man, and I have been in the missionary, field ever since. I am not very old, but I remember that I am getting a little older all the time, and that many years have passed over my head during the time that I have been associated with the missionary work in that land. I do not begrudge a single hour, nor one single penny nor labor, nor regret one single affliction that has come to me; but I deem it a privilege and a great blessing that the Lord has bestowed upon me in permitting me to go out and lift my voice in defense of the truth among the children of men. 

I feel weighing upon me greater today than I ever have in all my life, the responsibility of going into all the world to preach the gospel to every creature. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, this must be done. We have witnessed signs that bespeak the coming of the Redeemer of the world, through wars and rumors of wars and through pestilences : but I recall also his prophetic words which he said, "This gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the world, as a witness to all men, and then shall the end come." That responsibility still weighs heavily upon us, my brethren and sisters. O, what a' responsibility to know that we have within our hands that power that can save men, and what a responsible position we will be in if we do not do all that is within our power to take this and give it unto those who have it not, who are in the world! 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may rest upon you. I pray that you may be prospered. O, how I pray for the parents of those boys who are struggling in poverty to fulfil their missions! I hope that means will come to you, and that you will be able to maintain your boys. Do it, if you possibly can. T know that no greater blessing can come to you than the privilege, of sacrificing in that way. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 67 

And the blessings of heaven, remember, after all, come through sacrifice, and we must be tested, and we must be tried. Support your boys, encourage them to stay. We encourage them to be frugal, we encourage them not to spend your means unnecessarily, and we wish your support in every way, my brethren and sisters. And I believe we have it. I know that you have trying times at home. Many times have I talked with missionaries in our particular mission who are cramped for means, and my heart goes out to their mothers and fathers, or to those who are supporting them. I know what they are passing through; and if reward comes to those who proclaim the gospel, so also will reward come to those who support them while they are there. May the Lord bless you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

Sincerely do I pray for the spirit of this occasion. Like my brethren, who have spoken, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for I realize it is the power of God unto salvation unto all those who obey it. I have felt all my life that I need make no apology for my religion. We have nothing to be ashamed of and court the fullest and freest investigation of all its principles and practices. The world, with all its strife, turmoil, bitterness and confusion, needs the gospel of Christ to bring peace again to the earth, and I am happy to play my 1 little part in testifying to the restoration of that gospel, in this dispensation, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I have felt in my heart of hearts that we have a definite message for the world, and that the world is in need of that message. While Elder Jensen was speaking I remembered the words of Josiah Quincy, who visited the Prophet Joseph Smith just forty-four days prior to his martyrdom at Carthage, Illinois, and published in his Figures of the Past, this: 

"It is by no means improbable that some future text book, for the use of generations yet unborn, will contain a question something like this: What historical American of the 19th century has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destiny of his countrymen? It is by no means impossible that the answer to that interrogatory may be thus written; Joseph Smith, the 'Mormon' Prophet. And the reply, absurd as it doubtless seems to most men now living, may be an obvious commonplace to their descendants. History abounds in surprises and paradoxes quite as startling as this. The man who established a religion in this age of free debate, who was, and is today, accepted by hundreds of thousands as a direct emissary from the Most High — 'Such a rare human being is not to be disposed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets. Fanatic, impostor, charlatan, he may have been, but those hard names, furnish no solution to the problems he presents to us. Fanatics and impostors are living and dying every day, and their memory 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

is buried with them; but the wonderful influence which this founder of religion exerted and still exerts, throws him into relief before us, not as a rogue to be criminated, but as a phenomenon to be explained. The vital questions Americans are asking one another today have to do with this man and with what he has left us." 

Such a text book has not yet been written, but the vital questions the world is asking today, have to do with this thing called "Mormonism." lit is becoming a real nightmare to some of them, but the vile epithets they hurl are hurting it not at all. Its power and influence are being extended in every part of the land, thinking men and women are listening to the testimony of the servants of God, a knowledge of its great truths is coming into their lives, and some of the very best among them are yielding obedience to its principles. The promise made by the Redeemer of the world to those who accept the gospel and obey its teachings, namely : 

"My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak pi myself." John 7:16-17; 

is being realized. They are sure it is true, and that it is the power of God unto salvation. I was reading, a few days ago, an article that appeared in the Denver Post, one of the leading newspapers of the western states, entitled, "The Churches Have Failed to Find the True God," "Religion Flas Succeeded in Creating Everything but Real Deity." Alfred W. Martin, associate leader of the Society of Ethical Culture, addressing a New York audience, according to the Nezv York World, has this to say : 

"The spectacle of leading representatives of Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity, and the rest, each claiming that his religion will be the religion of the future, makes the claim, ridiculous and absurd. No less absurd would be the claim that the ethical movement, with its inadequate name and its deepest religious issues not yet fully worked out, will hold the future. Rather is the ethical movement an instrument for finding a satisfying religion. In the search for it the movement originated forty-five years ago, and it is still searching. The most that can rightly be claimed for it is that it will make important contributions to the religion of the future, notably by its doctrine of morality. A futile and thankless task it would be to attempt a description of the religion of the future. Of this much, however, we may feel certain, namely, that the religion of the future will not be either the Ethical Culture Movement as we know it today, nor any of the existing religions." 

I do not know if Mr. Martin is acquainted with the Church of Jesus Christ, commonly called "Mormon," but I want to bear testimony that this is the one Church that will hold the future, with its adequate name, "The Church of Jesus Christ," with all its fundamental and deepest religious issues, principles, and doctrines fully worked out by its author, Jesus of Nazareth, and stated in definite, positive, concrete terms by the Prophet Joseph Smith,the leaders of the Church, and the elders 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 69 

who are promulgating its truths in the world; and is the one gospel that removes doubt, fear and anxiety, and brings the satisfying feeling of peace, joy and contentment to the soul. I am happy to know we are not classed, as a rule, among the so-called Christian churches; that we are not apostate from the Catholic church, nor a product of the great reformation. Our bitterest enemies and severest critics have never accused us of coming from either source. We stand out in bold relief before the world, as the one church claiming to be the Church of Jesus Christ, and of receiving our authority and appointment to preach the gospel from the Foundation of all Truth. Resurrected beings having visited the earth and conferred upon Joseph Smith the holy Priesthood, which gave him the right to organize the Church of Christ in the earth, which he did, April 6, 1830. I want to leave my testimony with you that the church of the future will be the Church organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the dispensation in which we live, and that it will go forward in power and might until, it shall accomplish its mission and destiny in the earth. That mission and destiny is to preach the gospel of repentance and bear witness of the life and ministry of the Son of God. 

I want to read another item that appearead in the same paper on the same day. It is from Rabbi Louis J. Kopal, of Buffalo, New York, speaking of the mockery of present-clay religion, he said : 

''The mockery of present-day religion is the pathetic feat that we seem not to be profiting from the experiences of the centuries, that we seem not to heed the lesson of how and why religion failed to prevent the world war, but rather are slumping back into the smug and fruitless religious life of pre-war days. The war evidenced the fact that religion had succeeded in creating everything but God. All the peoples of the earth- have sought to find God, but they have each and every one failed. The way of the Jew has failed, the way of the Christian has failed, the way of the Catholic has failed, the way of the Protestant has failed. They have failed and failed ignobly, and the moral maelstrom, the spiritual chaos, the social reactionism of the moment is the child of their creation. Because religion has proved itself to have created everything but the reality of God in life. Religion will fail again unless God becomes to us more than a name, an idea, a fetish, a prayer, a Cathedral, a Church or Synagogue. 

"Let us prove our sincerity by closing our Churches and Synagogues and Cathedrals until we are ready to make our practice consistent with our profession. Such sincerity may bring a religion that is real. Sincerity will remove the shallow sham, the menacing mockery of present day religion, and bring God to America." 

That is a terrible arraignment of the religious world, but it is in keeping with the words of the master to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the woods of New York, when the boy was told to join none of the existing sects; that they had a form of Godliness, but denied the power thereof; taught for doctrines the commandments of men; draw near with their lips while their hearts were far from him. Why have the churches failed to find God, and to make him a part of their lives ? It is because they have created their own gods, made their own 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

deities instead of worshiping the God of the Bible. To all of them he is incomprehensible, unfathomable, unintelligible, and' to thinking people it is no mystery why the Jew, the Catholic, the Christian and Protestant have failed to find him. 

The Latter-day Saints have a definite and positive message for the world on this subject, declaring unto the world that the God of the Bible is a personal being, we ourselves being fashioned in his image : that Christ was God, manifest in the flesh, the exact counterpart of his Father, both of them being intelligible and in a measure at least, understandable. The people of the earth will continue their search without success until they are willing to acknowledge the great truth expressed in the first revelation given to Joseph Smith, in the personal appearance of the Father and the Son. Then it was that God came to America, and I say to you, my brethren and sisters, in the face of the statements I have read from the learned gentlemen, both of whom are prominent in the religious world, there is needj of the elders of the Church of Christ in every part of the earth to proclaim the God of heaven, and testify to the divine mission of his Son, Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified' for the sins of the world. They have the same commission as the disciples of old, and bear witness of the great plan of redemption wrought out on Calvary by the Redeemer of the world for the salvation of the human family. From one end of our mission to the other, the elders are faithful in bearing witness to these things, and to the restoration of the gospel, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this day and age of the world'. They are not afraid to lay down the gauntlet and declare unto men and women everywhere, that if they will accept the truth, yield obedience to the gospel, repent of thir sins and be baptized by immersion for the remission of their sins, they shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. This witness of God' will manifest that we speak not of ourselves, that the doctrines are not ours, but his that sent us. It will reveal unto them the truth of all things, and by it they may come to know God and his Son, Jesus Christ. i 

The world at large is without this great gift, they deny its power, not beliving in present-day revelation. Paul, the apostle, writing to the Corinthian saints declared unto them: 

"Wherefore I give you to understand that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." (I Cor. 12:3.) 

The Savior himself declared' to the people in his day, in the wonderful prayer recorded in St. John 17 : 

"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." 

Since all the peoples of the world have sought to find God, it is 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 71 

really interesting to discover in his word how we may come to a knowledge of him and his Son; and since a knowledge of them is necessary, if we obtain eternal life, and we can only obtain that knowledge by and through the revelations of the Holy Ghost, it is absolutely essential that men and women be in possession of this gift of God. They can receive it only upon obedience to the fundamentals of the gospel, and in no other way. 

I rejoice that these truths have become a part of our lives, that God is more to us than a name, an idea, a prayer, or a church, and that we are in no way responsible for the menacing mockery of present-day religions. 

I pray that God will be with us as his children, that wq may have power to live the principles of the gospel, be consistent with our profession, exemplary in our conduct, that in reality we may be the salt of the earth, the leaven that will leaven the whole lump, putting our light upon a hill, where it can be seen, and not under a bushel — that others seeing our good works may be led to glorify the God: of heaven. 

I testify to you in the name of the Master that I know, as I know I live, that this work in which we are engaged is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that it was restored to earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that it will fill its mission and destiny in the earth, and that no power under high heaven can stay its progress. God hath spoken it, and he will not be mocked. It will go forward until it shall fill the whole earth; men and women in every clime will recognize in it the truth of heaven. I pray that the peace of our Father may be with you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Our God, we raise to thee." Benediction was pronounced by Elder C. S. Martin. 


