Overflow
03 04 1921


ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

{President of the Northern, States Mission.) 

We are met today in our General Conference, and this particular conference, in the spring of the year, brings to our minds the wonderful experience that the boy Joseph Smith had 101 years ago. As I ponder the glorious revelation that was vouchsafed to him, and look back upon the early days of his ministry, I sometimes wonder if he. in his wildest fancies, in his greatest hopes and ambitions, dreamed that, in the short space of one century, conferences of the Church would be held where there would be in attendance thousands and tens of thousands of its members. To me these gatherings are a testimony that the work is of our heavenly Father, that it has his sanction, and that that which we are doing and striving to do has his hearty approval. He is blessing us and sustaining us in our efforts to do that which he gave to his children, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, at the beginning of the last century. Nowhere in the world is there a gathering of people comparable with these conference meetings held in Salt Lake City today, and for the next two or three days. Nowhere in the world is there such a gathering of men and women giving their all for the great work of the Master. Nowhere on earth will you find the body of men bearing the Priesthood of the living God, that you find here in Zion, on the occasion of these conferences. The power, the influence, and the spirit of these gatherings, are carried into all the world by the men and women, who come here and attend these meetings. 

It is a wonderful thing to know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and to know that, in this day and age, a mighty work has been begun, and that we, the children of our Father, are active in this great work. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of being here and bearing my testimony. I am grateful for the opportunity of being as helpful as I can, in the work of the Lord. I trust that in coming together we have done so with one thought only, and that is to strengthen ourselves, to build ourselves up, so that when we go back to our homes, to our wards, to our stakes, to our various activities, we will take with us a stronger testimony, and a firmer determination to do the 1 work that God has placed in our hands. We make wonderful claims to the world. In fact, there is no body of religious worshipers making a claim that compares with ours. We stand aloof from all the world, and in our aloofness, we maintain a position that is true or false. If it is true, and we know that it is, we have taken upon ourselves the most tremendous responsibility that any people upon the face of the earth has been called to bear. We declare to the world that with us, in our Church alone, in our organization, is the power of the Priesthood of the living God. We declare to the world that with us alone there rests the right to officiate in the name of Him on high; 

ELDER WIN SLOW FARR SMITH 45 

and, in this declaration, we place before the world something that, sooner or later, it must acknowledge. Individually there is responsibility. We cannot live careless lives, failing to walk uprightly before our heavenly Father, and, at the same time, hope to convince the world of the great claims we make. We make bold declaration in our articles of faith; yet something plain and understandable. We say to the world : "We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved; by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. We believe that these first principles and ordinances are: first, faith in the Lord, Jesus Christ; second, repentance; third, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority, to preach the gospel, and administer in the ordinances thereof. We believe in the same organization that existed in the primitive church, namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc. We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc. We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." 

It is that old fashioned religion, which we declare; that religion that God gave in the beginning. It is the plan of salvation to his children. It is the same religion that he has given, time and time again. It is, in fact, the same plan, with the same laws, the same ordinances, the same gifts and blessings, that he gave through his Son, Jesus Christ, when he was here fulfilling his earthly mission. We believe these things, and we declare them to the world. We go forth, giving our time, our means, and sacrificing, that the world may know them. Then, brethren and sisters, with this belief, there rests upon us the responsibility of living so that the world by our lives, and by our fruits, will see that we really do believe the things that we declare, and not only say that we do. Our responsibility is of the greatest, individually and collectively, and we will stand before the judgment seat of our heavenly Father, and we will be judged according to that which we will do. We will be judged according to that which we know. When the time comes that we will be called to stand before the great "white throne," "the books" will be opened, and righteous judgment will be meted out. We will be called to answer for the degree in which we have fulfilled our mission, and done our duty here on the earth. 

Your sons and your daughters, your boys and your girls, are going into the world by the hundreds and by the thousands. They are 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

declaring this message. They are working hard. They are sacrificing, they are meeting opposition, they are taking the revilings, and the scoffs, and the scorn of the world. Why? Because they know that this thing is true. Are you, my brethren, and sisters, supporting them ? Are you back of them with your faith and prayers ? Are you sending them words of encouragement? If you are not, you are not doing your part in bearing the responsibility. Are you criticising the priesthood ? Are you, in your homes, speaking evil of the men who are called to preside in your ward, in your stake, or in the Church at large? Are you sharing with these men, in the mission field, fully their responsibility ? If you are not, then there is room for improvement, and" you will be called to answer before the throne of our Father, when the time comes that you shall be judged. I testify to you that, this being a divine work, we dare not do anything, or say anything that will retard its onward progress. It is the work of our heavenly Father, who is God Jesus Christ is his son, and, in this age, he has raised up a prophet to do a great and mighty work, and to you and to me has come the duty of sharing the responsibility of the work. Let us bear it. Let us sustain the authorities of the Church. Let us magnify every calling that comes to us, and live our religion in the home, so that when our boy or our girl goes into the mission field, he or she will go from a home where God has been served, and where his religion has been lived. Then when our boy, on a mission, writes letters home and bears testimony of the joy he has in his labors, our own joy will be greater, and we will feel fully comforted for the sacrifice we make for him, and for the Church. 

My brethren and sisters, it is a wonderful thing to hold membership in the Church, and to bear the Priesthood of the living God. Can you conceive of anything more glorious? Why, we may die tomorrow. We will all be called some day; this may be our last. Are our lives right? Have we ordered them and lived them so that if our call should come, we are ready? Can we say we have done our duty? 

I rejoice in this privilege of meeting with you. I rejoice in the men that God has placed over us to lead us in this work. I sustain and support them with my whole heart and soul. They are the choicest men of this world today. Their hearts and souls are in this work. Let us be loyal, let us be true; let us remember that this is God's work, and that it will triumph. If we hold fast, we will triumph with it. If we fall aside, we will not be greatly missed, and the Church will go on just the same, but the day will come that we will feel keenly our loss. 

May God bless us and preserve us; may he prosper us; may his work roll on; may this great Latter-day gospel be preached to all the world, that no man can say that he has not heard that Jesus is the Christ, and that God has spoken from the heavens, and begun again his mighty work here upon the earth. My testimony is that the gospel is true, that the missionary work will go forward, that mankind will be warned, and that upon you and me rests a responsibility to do our 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION 47 

part in bringing to pass God's purposes. May we do our part nobly and well, that we may be worthy of the choice blessings of our Father. God bless you. Amen. 

The LeGrand male chorus sang a selection entitled, "Content." 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission.) 

I sincerely trust that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, and be able to say something that will be for our benefit. One of the great testimonies that comes to me, from time to time, is the presence of so many people who gather at the conferences of the Church in this city many of whom come hundreds of miles to spend a few hours in meeting, listen to the truths that are made plain by men who are appointed to speak; and who, undoubtedly, make a great sacrifice to be present. Those of you who live in this immediate section of the country, I feel never understand fully what it means for men and women to come to conference from great distances. You are not put to much expense. Your homes are here, which can be reached in a few hoitrs or a few moments. But the fact that people travel from the northern end of our country, and from the south, and from all parts, is a wonderful testimony to me; and if it were not for the testimony of Jesus that is found in the hearts of men and women, they would not come. It is the power of our Father made manifest in their souls, that this is the work of the Lord, that this gospel is the power of God unto salvation, and the inspiration that comes to them as individuals prompts them to a high sense of duty. And when one attends to his duty in the highest sense of honor, he is always happy and in a. progressive state of mind, and the inspiration of the Almighty is found in him. 

This comes through a continual observance of the principles and doctrines of Christ, and through a repentance daily. While much improvement coukl be made by all of us, yet I believe that the spirit of repentance is felt by the majority of the men and women in this Church, and as they repent, the more the spirit of repentance comes upon them, and they feel their weakness, and their need of living near the Lord, in order to obtain the blessings that are so necessary to last them through the day, or as the days come and go. Paul, upon one occasion, said, "I die daily." And that is true. There were many things that he put out of his life daily, as all men and women do who progress and grow in a knowledge of their Redeemer. And if there ever was a time when repentance needed to be preached or practiced it is at the present time. 

It takes a lifetime to repent. We hear of men who repent at the last moment of time on the earth. Not long ago the great newspapers 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

of the country contained an account of a certain individual who had lived a most wicked life; his experiences all testified that he had no reverence for God. But just before his death, his minister met with him in his confession, and "he made peace with his God," repented of his sins. While I have never felt to criticise what was in the heart of that man, who professed to be a minister of the Lord Jesus Christ, the fact is that millions of people read an account of this man's repenting at the last moment of time, and I am quite sure that thousands were impressed with the idea that even at the last minute a man can repent. Such a doctrine never came from the Lord. It is not true, because men do not know that they are absolutely relieved or pardoned for all sin until they have fought the fight which they came into the world to fight, until they have lived, and have made an attempt during their life to overcome. The spirit' of repentance must be found in the hearts of men and women continually, and it must be there to keep them not only from the greater things that are wrong, but the lesser things, for it is the little things in life that cause men and women to stumble and fall. A man walking along does not fall over great objects, he goes around them; but the little things, even the small stone or splinter, may upset him, and cause him injury. So it is with troubles in life. Men become influenced by little things that really ought not to enter into their hearts, but which do nevertheless. And people are often led to oppose the work of God until they finally find themselves outside the Church. Men do not go wrong all at once. It takes time. 

And so it is with our duties. They cannot be accomplished all at once. It takes time. For who knows how strong he is until he has been tested and tried. This whole life is the time for men to be tested and tried. We are away from home. This is our temporary abode only. We did not have a beginning here. We existed before we came here, and we lived and walked in the presence of an immortal Sire and Mother, and were there taught in the principles of life as revealed in this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph Smith; and as we lived there we' were given power to overcome when the time should arrive in which we should be called upon for our reserves. After we had advanced in that life, perhaps as far as we could, we were given, in accordance with our desire, the privilege of coming into this world. And here we are in these bodies of flesh and bones, enjoying full faculties of mind with the laws of God always before us, associating with men and women of righteous desires and also with those of the opposite nature. We find evil as well as good, and men and women are swerved by the things to which they pay attention; one is swerved one way, and another, another. Somethings that would tempt me perhaps may not tempt you at all, and vice versa. And so the fact of the matter is that as we live we grow daily, and if we keep the commandents of the Lord as well as we can, we are always found in a progressive state, and we are in a measure able to say 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 1 49 

"no" when we ought to, and say "yes" when it is right to do so. But it takes time and study and faith and work and devotion and attention in order to do it. 

I believe that men and women ought to commit to memory, so that they would become a part of their lives, the principles of the gospel as they are given unto us from time to time in the pulpits of the Church, and in the revelations of the Lord, both of these last days and of ancient times. I fully believe that die Ten Commandments were not only for ancient Israel, but were given as a guide unto the Children of Israel forever, of which we are a part. That man or woman who becomes better acquainted with the laws of life is less likely to violate them. For instance, that man who has become fully convinced of what it means to violate the law of chastity, when he has been fully converted to the fact that it is wrong and contrary to God's law — when he remembers that the Savior of the world gave to Moses and the Children of Israel this commandment which he wrote with his own finger, that it was as their life and their guide! — that man will not be found violating it. The man that has learned in his heart, "Thou shalt not commit adultery," and who cherishes the law and who loves it, will not be swerved by adulterous men and women to crime. So you may take any one of the commandments that the Lord has given, a man will not be found violating them when he has learned to believe in and cherish them. The Sabbath day was a day set apart for men and women to honor, whereon to rest from their daily labors; they were to prepare their food in singleness of heart, even the day before if necessary, they were to feast spiritually, they were to study, they were to go to church and bear testimony, and let that be a part of their lives. Men and women who do this will always be found much richer and better in a spiritual way, they will be more firm in the faith, and more fully established in the gospel of Christ and also in the things of this world, than those who do not. These laws are given, they are within our reach. They are testified of continually by men and women in every part of the Church, the bearing of which testimonies brings the inspiration of God. 

We make a great sacrifice, we think, as missionaries. It is true that the man or woman who sends a son or daughter into the world does make a sacrifice in more ways than one. The money they pay out for them is indeed a sacrifice; but if it were not for that sacrifice there would not be the blessings. For there is a great blessing which comes to the individual who answers this call, even one that is not to be measured. I have seen men grow so in missionary work that you would not think them to be the same individuals as before. As Joseph Smith, the prophet, said, some men were called before the world was, called while still they were in the prior estate, and given this privilege, to be ordained and to go into the world as missionaries at certain times, and each one who goes and fills a mission is fulfilling the blessing that was there pronounced upon him. 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Further than that, it is the duty of men and women who have learned the truth and who have become obligated to the Lord for the things which he has given to them, to give them unto others, and in the future I believe there will be much room for criticism if we fail to do our duty. Opportunities come to all men, and that man or woman who makes the best of life is the man or woman who succeeds. I tell you, it is wonderful to find men and women who have had the power to resist evil and to stand for the right. It only proves that God is no respecter of persons; but in every country and clime men who respect the Lord are given power to overcome, and when they have overcome, and they have substantially proved that they have overcome, they are not tempted, but they are blest and revered and given privileges that men never know who have not had that experience. 

So I say, in conclusion, that the spirit and testimony of Jesus Christ is in the earth; it is borne by the thousands of men and women who live upon the earth, men and women who are in this congregation and others coming from all parts of the country, who are working today, testifying to all men that there is a spirit and a vitality in Mormonism that cannot be found in all the world. And this spirit will lead men to repent. That is the great key-note that was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that men must repent and prove themselves to the Lord, and honor him and keep his commandments. It takes time, and cannot be done at the last moment before the death of any individual, no matter what men may preach or declare. Such doctrine never came from the Lord, nor is it reasonable or true. The spirit of testimony is what brings about the spirit of repentance, and correct living only clinches it and proves it to be true; and when men find out this truth it enables them to do what they were intended to do. 

May the Lord help us, that we may not be swerved by fear or by things that may be wrong, great or small, but may so live that we may correct things that go wrong and set men and women straight, and at the same time set ourselves straight; that we may have the testimony of Jesus, and may be able to declare and know that. Joseph Smith was called to be a Prophet of God, and that he was selected to be a leader of men that he, indeed, received a visitation from the Father and the Son, that he heard them and saw them, and that he died for his testimony. May we live according to the truth that the Lord has revealed, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Enid Orlob and Bessie Newman sang a duet entitled, "I waited for the Lord." 

ELDER J. N. LAMBERT 

(Associated with the Bureau of Information.) I am happy to add my testimony to those already borne in your hearing this morning, by those who have preceded me, for I have a testimony that this work is the work of the Lord. 

ELDER JAMES N. LAMBERT 51 

While President Winslow F. Smith was speaking, and reminding us that something over one hundred years had elapsed since the Prophet Joseph received his manifestation in the visit of the Facher and the Son, my mind ran back to what has been accomplished since our people reached these valleys. It was my privilege, some years ago, to go back and visit a number of places where the Saints formerly lived, in Missouri, Illinois, Ohio, New York and Vermont. Previous to this visit, I had indulged somewhat in a feeling not altogether wholesome toward the people of Illinois. My grand-parents with other Saints had been driven from that state, and I felt they had not had justice, and that if the time ever came, perhaps, that I could do something to the people who lived there for the treatment they had given to my grand-parents, I would have been happy in doing so; but the visit I made took that unholy feeling out of me. When I visited Nauvoo, and thought of what it had been at one time, with a population of upward of twenty thousand people, with a hum of industry on every hand, and to see what it was then, with but a few over a thousand souls, and more like a country village, I could not help but think the Lord had withheld his blessings from that people and from that land, and I came back with a different kind of spirit from that which I had when I left home. 

I then thanked the Lord that my grand-parents, with the other Saints, had been driven out from that place, and that they had found a better place to live in. I then appreciated more than ever before the inspired words of Brigham Young, when he said upon arriving in this valley, "This is the place." There was no mistake made on the part of the Lord in bringing our people to this land. Great as is the state of Illinois, with its wonderful acres and their great production, I believe that within the confines of this commonwealth, together with the state of Idaho and other surrounding states in which our people are now living, there are far greater and better conditions of productiveness, reserved by the Lord for the people who are now living here, than ever could have been found in Illinois. 

The Lord did not make a mistake in leading President Young and our people here, in the year 1847, notwithstanding, that such men as Col. Bridger and others tried to persuade them that this was not a fit place of habitation for men, that crops could not be matured here, and suggested that we need not attempt to make a home here. That has all been set at naugh by what has been accomplished by those who settled here. Compare the wisdom of such advice as that of Col. Bridger, to the inspiration of President Young. No doubt in his prophetic eye he could see what our people would some day accomplish. 

We have people coming here as tourists, to this block, who come here, you might say, to scoff, and literally remain to pray; people who have no idea, no desire even to affiliate with us, or to indulge in the faith that is so dear to us, and yet after being told the story of "Mormonism," and what has been accomplished by our people, and 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

seeing it for themselves, have gone away and marveled at what we have done. 

I remember President Roosevelt coming here in the year 1903; when over in the tabernacle he said, "I pay my respects to the early 'Mormon' Pioneers, who came here to this great American desert, and made it literally to blossom as the rose." 

You remember when President Brigham Young came here and said, "We will settle here," that there were some in that first company who thought a mistake had been made. They had seen other spots that were more inviting to the eye, than what presented itself when they first saw this valley; thev were willing to take chances on what lay between here and the Pacific ocean, and so expressed themselves, but President Young, said, "This is the place;" and when reminded that this was a desert, said, "We will make it blossom like a rose." Years afterwards President Roosevelt, holding the highest position in the gift of the people of this great country, the United States, gave testimony of the wonderful wisdom and prophetic utterance of President Brigham Young. Surely the Lord made no mistake in leading us here. 

The Lord established his Church and kingdom here upon the earth for a purpose. We have been privileged to become members of the same, and ought to appreciate our standing and membership in the Church. I wonder sometimes if we really do appreciate such a blessing. If not, and we need to repent or adjust ourselves so that we can more fully appreciate our standing, we should do so. 

If we are not in harmony with the commandments of God, if we cannot purge from our beings whatever is unholy, whatever is not consistent with the mind and will of the Lord, and live consistently with the Spirit of the Lord, which will lead into all truth, then we are not Saints in very deed. 

On the other hand, if we can order and so conduct our lives as to conform to the requirements of the Lord, keeping the commandments and laws of the gospel, our influence and power cannot be measured. Such unity cannot be hidden. Do you not think, then, that our influence will be felt all over the earth? Whv certainly. Ask these mission presidents, who are sitting here, and who can testify of what they hear men say about the work being done in a missionary way by the Bureau of Information. They can tell you of hearing men say how they have been impressed with what thev have seen and heard while here, and they have gone away to tell it to their friends, and to urge them to come and see for themselves. 

The positive stand that we have taken as a people on education, morality, clean living, and other things that have put us in a class by ourselves, is now being brought to the attention of the world, and people are beginning to better, appreciate us. Our stand on these thing's ought to be of a most positive kind, however. 

I remember a man I knew, when I was a little boy. I was imELDER JAMES N. LAMBERT 53 

pressed with his goodness, and I remarked to my father, "Brother So-and-so, is a pretty good man, isn't he?"* and my father said, "Yes; but what is he good for?" And then he went on to impress me that we must be good for something, not good for nothing. As I look back now, I cannot remember anything that this m;an did that was positively good. Now we want to be good for something. We want to be positively good, not negatively good. We want to be so good that other people will appreciate us; for we are told that the time will come when people will know us as w.e are known, when they will know us as we should be known. And yet, I almost fear the time when all people will begin to say good things about us. 

I remember the admonition of the Savior, when he said that, we should take care when a time like that should arise, and that we should rejoice and be exceedingly glad when people would speak evil against us, falsely. But beware when people begin to prate about our good points. I believe, however, that the time is past, long since, when people want to believe something that is not true. I believe the time is past when people should ask, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Now they are wont to say, "I am my brother's keeper." 

The movement that has grown up among the Rotary, Progressive, and other clubs, that we are brothers, the Big Brother and the Big Sister idea, and which has spread to nearly all parts of the world, is a sign that the people of the world are looking out for one another rather than, as it has been in the past, each for himself. 

My testimony to you is that the Lord is at the helm and will guide us through trouble and storm. He is not going to desert his people. My testimony is that Joseph Smith was a prophet; that his legal successors have been prophets. Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith and Heber J. Grant, have been sent by the Almighty for a purpose; the Lord has blessed them with prophetic vision, and with the power to discern and tell the people the things that they should know. He has given to this people a mouthpiece, that we may know when to go and where to go, when to do and when not to do things; that if we find we are not doing the things we should do, that we should repent, and repent sincerely; that we should get in line and remain in line, not set up our judgment against our leaders, or against the rule or direction of the Church. 

There have been men, I regret to say, who have had the audacity to say that tbey have known certain things to be the mind of the Lord, when they have not been in accord with the Church. I cannot think that such a man is going to be prospered, or is going to_ have the Spirit of the Lord to be with him. The Lord may be with him. The Lord may be long-suffering and patient, considering that such a man might see the error of his way and repent; but in the long run that man, unless he repents, is going to fall The Spirit oi the Lord will not always strive with man, and oh, what darkness when he is left dependent on himself 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

This morning, I stood at the tabernacle door. A man came along. I asked him, "What is your position in the Church?" I knew the man, and I knew he had been doing some things that I did not think would entitle him to come to a certain place that had been reserved tor those holding certain positions in the Priesthood, 'Ie said, "I am an old man, and for the first time in my life I am without a position." Just think of it, after a man is' almost ready to go down into his grave, he is stripped of the Priesthood of the Almighty, and he is without a position in the Priesthood, in the Church of God! Do you want to be in a position that will compel you to make such a confession as that? God grant that the time will never come when anv of us will have to give such an answer. 

May the Lord ever bless and assist us in our faith; may he encourage us to keep the commandments of the Lord, that we may be able to hold fast to the Iron Rod, which will bring us back into his presence, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

I humbly pray that I may speak under the power of the Holy Ghost, for only by that power can the servants of God reach the hearts of the children of men. The missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in preaching the everlasting gospel, have this thought in their hearts, which they express in their testimonies and in their discourses; namely, "Friend, go up higher," for that is the effect of the gospel, in the lives of men. It lifts them up higher, for it is the "power of God unto salvation." The Latter-day Saints are blessed with gospel ideals. We are a people with ideals. Jesus said, "Ye are the light of the world," and he also said, "For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." And by obedience to the gospel teachings we desire to be a light unto the world; we are a light unto the world; and we are, in a measure, at least, letting "our light so shine before men, that they may see our good works, and glorify our Father which is in heaven." 

We believe in the gift of healing; we cherish that as one of the most precious blessings that our Father has given to his children in the household of faith. James says, in the 5th chapter of his epistle: "Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the Church: and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; And the prayer of faith shall save the sick." You and I bear testimony, that the power of the Father is in this Church, and 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 55 

our loved ones who are afflicted are. raised up by his power, to his glory and to the magnifying of his holy name. 

A few weeks ago, in the city of Atlanta, the Episcopal Church organized an association, the purpose of which is "to visit the sick and pray over them;" and the dean of that church, in a sermon, declared that the gift of healing was once a gift in the church, that the Redeemer and his apostles preached it and practiced it, and he said, "we must restore it." The clean continued, "the religion that does not care for a man's body as well as his soul is a ghastly joke." Is not this a testimony that Joseph Smith was a restorer of the ancient faith? And it was restored in God's way. John, the apostle, said: "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred and tongue and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is come." That is the way the gospel was restored, by a holy angel, in accordance with the mind and will of the Creator. Did not Paul say, "For I neither received it [the gospel] of man, neither was I taught it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ." And by the revelation of the Redeemer, the Prophet Joseph Smith received this gospel. By the power of the Highest he restored it to the children of men. 

No man could have restored this gospel. It is a heavenly gift; it came from heaven, and you and I bear testimony that, from the courts of glory this plan of life and salvation did come. 

The Latter-day Saints are expressing their love for the gospel in service. There are thousands of men and women in this Church who are not on the "firing line," in the mission field, but who nevertheless are doing a splendid work. "Peace hath her victories no less renowned than war." 

In this assembly hall, a few months ago, I was talking to a good sister who has a son on a mission in the Southern States. I said, "how many children have you?" "Seventeen," she replied, "but we have never been blessed with any children of our own." I said, "Sister, will you please make this more clear to me, and this is the substance of that good woman's reply : "We have never had any children of our own. We took four babies, three girls and one boy, when they were twenty-four hours old to six days old, adopted and reared them. The boy filled a mission. We reared a little girl of seven; she is adopted to us. She has filled a mission. We emigrated from Germany two boys and their sister. The boy stayed with us ten years, the girl until she was married. One of the boys filled a mission; we helped him to fill it. For five years we cared for three little boys whose ages ranged from 4 to 7 years. We took two boys, one was 7, the other 8; they stayed with us nine years. One of them served in the war. We have four orphans now at our home, two girls 12 to 15 years old, two boys, one 13, the other 10. I took the ten-year old boy when he 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

was a year old. W,e have emigrated 15 children from the old country. For sveral years we have kept three children, from Switzerland. We don't want to stop the good work of taking orphans to bring up." There is a story of service. This woman's name may not be written in the book of fame, kept by mortal man, but in heaven angels have recorded her name. She is among those who are saving souls, who are helping young people to find their way through the temptations and tribulations of life into the salvation that God our heavenly Father hath in store for them. 

Two weeks ago, I was holding conference in Mississippi, not far from New Orleans. We had no church to meet in, so we met in the shade of the trees, because it is warm in that climate, about this time of the year. Why did we meet in the open air? Because in that settlement mobocrats have burned down two of our churches. But some of the very men who instigated this outrage, and who assisted in the destruction of our humble places of worship have asked to be allowed to donate toward the building of another house, in which the Latter-day Saints there may meet for the worship of God. God has softened the hearts of the people. Your sons and your daughters are preaching the gospel in the power of the spirit of testimony, for only in the spirit of testimony can this gospel be preached in a manner to reach the hearts of the people. Day unto day brings forth testimony, that this gospel is the work of the Lord, day unto day brings forth testimony that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, the instrument in the hands of Deity to establish this glorious work which bids men to go higher up, lifts men up, which purifies their nature through the spirit of repentance, by the gift of repentance, from evil and wrong doing. 

And now, with you, my brethren and sisters, with my brethren who have preceded me this morning, I bear my testimony that the Redeemer lives, and that he shall stand upon the earth in the latterday; that he will come in glory to reign on earth with his Saints a thousand years. And I bear my humble testimony that the Book of Mormon has been brought forth to testify, among other things, that Jesus is the Christ, that he was resurrected, and that all men will be resurrected. 

I also bear you my testimony that President Heber J. Grant is a servant of the Lord, his mouthpiece to his people, a man of honor, a man in whom we can depend, for he is led by the Spirit and power of God. This testimony I fearlessly bear, for I know that these things are true. May the Lord bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "O worship him." 


