Third Overflow
03 04 1921


The third overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, Sunday afternoon, 2 o'clock, April 3, 1921. 

Elder James E. Talmage, of the Council of the Twelve, presided. 

The music was furnished by the LeGrand ward choir. Liberty stake, Heber K. Aldous, conductor, and James Gilbert and Gladys Spry accompanists. 

The choir and congregation sang, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

Prayer was offered by Bishop Edward M. Ashton. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Grant us peace." ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

The congested condition existing upon this block at this time is but typical of the congested condition in the Church. It seems impossible to provide meeting houses enough, or room within the walls sufficient, to accommodate the Latter-day Saints in their assemblies. There is, without doubt, a great spiritual revival amongst the people; and in this we all rejoice. Besides this gathering at this hour, there is an open-air meeting in progress on the grounds, and also the main assembly in the great tabernacle. 

When the brethren of the Twelve go out amongst the people they have, of course, very close and cordial dealings with the stake presidencies, but we have one little criticism to offer that I think may well be voiced here. It is somewhat difficult to get one of the stake presidents to say much when one of the Council of the Twelve is present. I want these brethren to understand that they are the visiting brethren on this occasion, and I want them to do just as we have to do when visiting their stakes. And I pray that they may be inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, for I know you will be edified by what they have to say. 

ELDER HEBER L. ALLEN 

{President of the Taylor Stake of Zion, Alberta, Canada.) 

It is not a very pleasant sensation to have the tables turned on you, the way Brother Talmage has done towards us this afternoon, in requiring us to do all the talking, because I believe the situation which he has stated exists in most all the stakes. I know it does in our stake. I know I once attempted to speak on the first principles of the gospel, and one of the presidents got up and said it was very refreshing to hear a stake president talk on that subject. We usually let the other fellows do that. 

I pray that the Lord will bless me with his Spirit that we may be benefited by meeting together. As Brother Talmage has stated, I come from the far north, Canada, a name that makes most of you, I suppose, shiver; you think that that is so far off and such a cold country that you have no desire to go there; but I assure you that we have a great many people in that land of the Latter-day Saints. And the Lord has blessed us fairly well in that land during the last thirty-four years, since we first began to settle there. We try to do what we can, in our weak way, in that stake of Zion. We have adopted the method counseled at the last conference: we have sent out a few missionaries, and I think they have done a great deal of good. You know, there are only eight or ten thousand of us in that country — in that great nation. Most of us came from the United States. A few 

ELDER. HEBER L. ALLEN 73 

children, of course, have been born there, in fact quite a number. We have been treated in that wonderful land with the fullest measure of liberty that could be extended to any people. We have had every advantage enjoyed by any other people in that country, and we feel very thankful that that is the case. 

Now, in our missionary labors that we have taken up recently, we have advised the elders to go to the non-"Mormons," who do not understand the gospel, and also to those of our brethren and sisters who have been a little careless; and when they come back, they report that they have a great many very agreeable gospel conversations with some of our non-"Mormon" friends. Some who are not members of the Church have entertained our elders for hours at a time, and they have stated that they had no idea that we promulgated such ideas as we have. One man who had been educated for the ministry had the privilege of hearing two of our elders, and he had been so prejudiced against our people and doctrines that although the meetings were held in the schoolhouse, nearby, he would not go in. When the elders called on him, he would not invite them in; but they finally persuaded him to go into the schoolhouse. He said, "I was educated for the ministry, but I don't believe anything now, there are so many conflicting ideas." But when they left, he said, "Come back again, because I did not know, nor have any idea that you had such splendid principles as you have been telling me of." 

A great many people feel that our people are away up out of the world in Canada. Thirty-four years ago, when people first went up there, many of our people felt that after the storms had blown over the time would soon come that they would be called back to Utah. My grandfather was one of them who said that. I told him, no; because, I said, "You have heard some wonderful predictions in relation to the labors of this people in this land. I have heard people who come up there say that 'you will have very many more settlements in this beloved country.' President Joseph F. Smith said, 'You would have thousands and tens of thousands, and they would extend far up to the Great Bay, pointing up to the great Hudson's bay.' " I have taken a great deal of pleasure in predictions of that kind, and I have spent all my time and energies there, in fact. I have become a citizen there, over 30 years ago; but still I can say that no man born in this great country can feel a warmer feeling in his heart for this great Republic in which you live than we; and we always look back and say, That is a wonderfully blessed land where the Lord said that he raised up good and wise men for the purpose of establishing his great work. Now I say, we see the fulfilment of these prophecies. 

I have often thought of that wonderful vision that Nephi had. He said, he saw that wonderful Church, and it spread abroad, and multitudes of people belonged to it; and he also saw that the people of the Lord were scattered over the whole earth, but their numbers .were few. It may be that the Lord will use that as a means of 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

promulgating his work in the last days. Some people are so full of prejudice they will not give attention to the principles that we preach. If they did, they would say, as this man did, that they had never had any idea that we had such wonderful and noble principles. But when they come to examine our principles they wonder, and think they could be patterned after. 

Some of our people have attended some of the meetings of a great Farmers' association there. We have a very strong organization along that line in Alberta, and our bishops have been strong representatives of that organization, and in one of our meetings they put forward a resolution in relation to tobacco, and they petitioned parliament, or at least the provincial legislative body, that they would raise the age at which cigarettes could be sold to boys. In the recent vote for prohibition, the province went overwhelmingly in favor of prohibition, and of course our people stood where they ought to stand, in the lead, and our vote was the largest in the province. Now they can see what we are doing. We have already maintained, for a great many years, the only local option district in that country. Through the efforts of President Card, that was brought about, and finally the majority of the people there voted in favor of temperance, prohibition. 

We live on a little branch railway known as the Cardston branch, and some of the travelers, after we had put forth the M. I. A. slogan, have said, "Why, my house has told me not to come down this way with our wares, because the people have adopted that resolution, and won't buy our coffee there. Now our stores are quitting the sale of tobacco," he said. Another man said, "I sell tobacco, and my house has ordered me not to go down there, for none of the stores are selling tobacco, and we cannot sell very much down in that country." An example of that kind begins to have its effect upon the people. 

I was in a big banquet not long ago, at which one of the members of the board of trade, with a wide reputation, happened to be sitting by me, and they have a habit of almost smoking you out in their banquets. He said, "Mr. Allen, I feel that it is almost a sacrilege to sit here and smoke beside you." That meant to me a good deal; it meant that they had begun to take notice of what we had been teaching. In a few ways of this kind the gospel is being preached in that great land. 

In that great convention I mentioned, we were told, "You 'Mormons' are not getting the benefit of all the taxes that you ought to get, and that you help to pay, because you haven't got enough men in the penitentiary." Those men said, "You haven't got any men in the penitentiary, and still you are paying your share of the taxes." 

Up where I live they organize for the farm women also, so that they can get social and other privileges. When they came into our midst they said they recognized something that there was not in any other province. They said, "You are looking after your own poor better than anybody else in the province; and this is a part of our 

ELDER HEBER L. ALLEN 75 

work that we do not emphasize, because you do not need it in this community. " 

Recently when we paid a visit to the leading educators, and on the occasion of the visit of Superintendent Adam S. Bennion, in the interest of the Church schools, they said something that was interesting. You know, there has been talk of closing up Church schools; but the minister of education said, "You hold to that Church school just as long as you possibly can, because it has filled wonderfully a want felt in that community, that no other province has done, in getting young men into the school and educating them." He said, we want to introduce domestic art and other manual and domestic training in our Church schools, and the best representative of that was right in Raymond, and these things are efforts along a line of work that is highly important. They are carrying out the ideas that President Young advocated more than fifty years ago, when he said that the boys ought to be taught to be better farmers; and the girls, better housewives, so that they can be better citizens. We had the first schools in the province that introduced domestic art and science; and, in fact, others want us to cooperate with them. 

When our trustees went up to the educational convention they reported that ours was the only school outside of their large cities that was carrying on any of that work. 

In this way, it may be that the gospel may be preached, for they will get a chance in that way to see some of our good works. May be, after a while, they will begin to recognize that there are some other principles that are very valuable, and for the uplift and benefit of men; and I hope that the day will soon come that they can recognize us for our real worth, and when the spirit of the gospel shall be better than anything else with them, and when they can be baptized into the same spirit that we are baptized into, and a spirit of brotherly love and kindness shall exist in all parts of the world. Then they will begin to receive the benefits of "Mormonism," for which it has been restored to the .earth. 

Now, at home we have the privilege of entertaining most of the general authorities of the Church, and I would just like to bear testimony of the worth of these men. I do this because we are sustaining two new members of the general authorities at this conference. We have had the privilege of entertaining 22 out of 26. Brother Talmage has not yet favored us with a visit, nor Brother Widtsoe, of course. I want to bear testimony that they are very, very good men, and that we are perfectly safe in following their footsteps; and we don't want to get the idea that we want to do something that is contrary to the will of the Church; because, from the ideas that I have received from carrying them over our great prairies, and having them in our own homes, they are splendid men, and I have not heard any one of them suggest that which would smack of trickery or anything of that kind, but they are pure-minded men. While I loved President Joseph F. 

76 GENERAL CONEERENCE. 

Smith above all other men, I can see that the Lord raises up other men who are carrying on the work, just as well as men have been carrying it on in the past. At the present time I can say that I admire President Grant very much. I rode with him all over our stake, just previous to his being promoted to the presidency of the Church, and I found him to be a man that is pure-minded, and one who has the interests of the people at heart. And these other brethren who have recently been sustained, I can sustain them with all my heart. It is a source of pleasure to sustain these men by raising our hands and then going home and supporting them in everything that we do in life. May the Lord enable us to do that, and also recognize that there is order in his Church, and that whenever he has anything to do he will do it through the proper channel. I pray that we may follow our file leaders, that we may be indeed true Latter-day Saints, and also, that we may do our part in promulgating the gospel. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The LeGrand ward male quartet, under the direction of Leland I. Acomb, sang, "Nearer, my God, to thee." 

ELDER ROBERT D. YOUNG 

{President of the Sevier Stake of Zion.) 

This inspiring congregation, the opening prayer and the beautiful music, all make one feel like Peter oif old, that "it is good to be here," although one's individual part m,ay be a trying ordeal. 

The Sevier stake of Zion is not situated in the extreme north or south. We are centrally located; and, until recently it comprised what President Grant notified you of today, both North Sevier stake and South Sevier stake. We had a very large stake, both in number of wards and in large territory to cover; hence, the brethren deemed it wise to divide it up into three different stakes. So the Sevier stake is not today as large as it was at the time oi our last conference. 

I have enjoyed the remarks of President Allen. In just a few words, I will tell you why : when I hear the name "Allen" it links an incident up in my life that has always been and always will be sacred to me. I do not know whether President Allen is a representative of the Allen family I now speak of. My mother was an orphan girl. Her home was in Glasgow, Scotland. She was fourteen years otf age when she received the message of truth, through the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She received a testimony and became converted. She had been cared for during several years by the Allen family who were neighbors to her mother and father before their death. They asked her, "Mary, are you interested in the 'Mormon' faith?" In tellmg the story, the tears welled up in the little girl's eyes, for she knew what was coming, and she told 

ELDER ROBERT D. YOUNG 77 

them, yes, that she was very much interested in them, that she believed that they were true servants of God, and that this was actually the Church of Christ. They asked her, "Do you insist in going to their meetings?" She answered, "I would like to." Grandpa Allen said, "Very well, my son John says that you are disgracing the family." Inasmuch as they were business people in that community, he said, "I hear it from all our customers and from people on the street, that the little girl who is with you and whom you have been caring for, is giving continual attention to those 'Mormon' people and John is very much offended; it has come to this, Mary : you either accept of our home and its hospitality, or take 'Mormonism,' and there is the door." She took the door. Thank God for the courage, for the faith, and the stability the Lord had granted to her in her teens. She had but one shilling. She secured what was known as the Townshead hall; and she pleaded with the caretaker, for the one shilling, to permit the elders, who were traveling without. purse or scrip, to preach there that evening. She prevailed upon themi, and they permitted the elders to speak. She related to them that she was homeless, and the elders blessed her. Before she left the meeting, she was offered several homes, by several people, who were impressed by the power of the Lord to give her assistance. But the story is this — I don't intend Brother Allen personally to take this — that Grandpa Allen said, to his children and his wife : "If 'Mormonism' can fasten itself upon a little girl securely as it did on Mary, knowing her life as we all know it, knowing her appreciation for our home and our comfort, then I want to say that there is some greater power than just man's, about this great work known as 'Mormonism.' " To cut a long story short, the first dinner my good mother received, after she left the old country, she received here in Utah, prepared by the Allen family, and as far as I know they have continued to remain firm, steadfast and immovable to the cause of our Savior. 

Here, this afternoon, we sang that beautiful hymn, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in his excellent word." Is it not to all of us an excellent word? Is it not the most secure foundation that we could imagine? Is there another organization, that is as secure, as solid, as perfectly organized, as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ? 

We have heard, this morning, from the Prophet of the Lord, who gave us his blessings. With him are his counselors, the Council of the Twelve, the seven presidents of Seventy, and like organizations, as you go down the line of the priesthood, one by one, organized in every stake and ward of Zion. Now. I know that they are men of God. I have been acquainted with them for many, many years. They have been in my home; and they have slept there and eaten there. I have labored with them in various capacities, some of them, and I want to testify that there are no men that I have ever come in contact with in my life who are so absolutely devoted, heart and hand, dedicated to 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the service of the Lord, for the welfare of their fellow men, banishing selfishness, and thinking of others. I think of the home, if you will pardon me, that I was reared in; I think of my good old father standing up, and with tears in his eyes, saying to his boys and girls : "O how bad I would feel, if one of my boys and girls ever in their lives permitted the servants of God to be assailed in their hearing." All the days of my life I heard, in that home, while my father lived, courage, good words, words of counsel and advice. If we will follow closely and carefully the counsel of these meh, and; be painstaking we shall have success in life, and be able to live in righteousneess; and we shall be crowned with a crown of glory resulting from successful life here in mortality. 

Just one word with reference to our organizations. Sometimes our boys and our girls, at certain ages, are a little careless, probably grow a little doubtful, skeptical in a degree, and do not quite understand clearly. I think of the words of the poet, wherein he said : 

THE OLDER I GROW 

The older I grow the more patient I am, 

And fonder of people I seem to become: I find much that's real hidden deep in the sham, 

I know that life's juices are under the scum. The care that once fretted as trifles appear: 

And the faults that loomed large in the friends that I know, Seem to fade in a background of kindness and cheer. 

The older I grow. 

Time was that I questioned the purpose of life — 

In the mad way of youth I was quick with my hate: But I knew not the depth nor the breadth of the strife, 

And I knew nothing then of the workings of fate, I judged from the surface and not from the deep, 

I was wasteful with pleasure and fearless of woe, But I find that my joys I'm more eager to keep 

The older I grow. 

I chose all my friends with particular care, 

And heedlessly wounded the truest and best: To many a false god I sent up a prayer, 

Then the real things of life seemed a subject for jest, And the bad seemed the good, and the good seemed the bad. 

I scorned in my haste what was splendid below: But I find myself longing to have what I had, . The older I grow. 

I have learned that men's follies are not printed deep: 

That many, youth mocks at, are splendid and fine: And young people scatter the joys they should keep, 

In the very same way that I once wasted mine. I'm more tolerant now, I am slower to sneer, 

For I've suffered my griefs and I've winced at a blow: And the money I find matters less and less here, 

The older I grow. 

From the Wall Street Journal. 

ELDER ROBERT D. YOUNG 79 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if I may say one more word. As in all parts of the Church we see manifest in our own stake and wards, a spiritual uplift; we see an increase in activity in all branches of the work, and in all the organizations of the Church in our stake. We notice that there is more painstaking and care, that people keep the commandments more truly than they ever did before. But with all that, I feel that our homes are not just given the full attention, they deserve, because of the many worldly affairs, with which the blessings of God have provided us. I wonder if we are remembering our boys and girls, are we praying with them morning and night? I wonder if we are asking them to take their turn, and thank God for these peaceful homes in the valleys of the mountains. 

Thank the Lord for our leaders, these good men whom God has chosen; there are no better; they will guide this people safely through all the storms of life, may we become endeared to these men, and know them; as they truly are, servants of God. Good reading is good seeding, it has been said; good counsel is good seeding, and if we can bring and keep our boys and girls under a beneficent influence, then we have accomplished a successful thing. If not, as we grow older, we will find our hearts long to taste what was offered us, but which we did not fully appreciate as young men. As one grows in years, comes to the years of accountability, the teachings of childhood stand more specifically and clearly in one's life; then the youth sees more clearly what he has to do, and if his parents have been faithful, they have given him just what is kith and kin to his better nature. 

While all this is going on, while we have a general increase in our activities, I wonder if we are watching the home circle carefully. I spoke to one of our special missionaries lately, and I know that once he had been just a little obstinate and I said to the brethren : "There is the meeting house; I am not my brother's keeper, if they want to go to meeting let them go to meeting." He said to me just the other day: "Oh. Brother Young, I feel so sorry for what I once said to you. If this missionary work has not done anything else, it has converted me beyond the possibility of a doubt, that I am my brother's keeper, and that God holds me responsible to discharge to the very best of my ability the work that he places in my hands." Our work is increasing. We have never had anything else in our stake that has accomplished so much good, apparently, with those who were wandering, careless, and negligent in reference to their duties, as this special missionary work. 

We have a wonderful foundation laid for our faith, and I want to say that these wor : - r,f Christ are true: "My sheep know! my voice, and a stranger they will not follow." When I was in the mission field I had a wonderful testimony. A Scandinavian brother who came to Australia, had a sister who was converted to "Mormonism" and before he left, she put in his trunk a Book of Mormon and a Doctrine and Covenants. There were two Lutheran bovs who came to 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Australia who were very bitter. One of them became converted out there. He asked the other man, his companion, to read with him, because he had got a testimony that the gospel was true. Finally he died, and on his deathbed, and to the disgust of his Lutheran minister, he said he was a "Mormon," and wanted to be buried as a "Mormon." But his last words to his companion were, "Will: you read the Book of Mormon, and will you ask the Lord to guide you and direct you, and if you do not receive a testimony, as far as I am concerned, I will hold you no more responsible. He died; his companion received a testimony. He did not know for some time that there were any elders in Queensland until he had heard from Copenhagen to this effect. He came to search for us. The ministers tried to keep him away. Finally, when he landed in Brisbane, Aus., he was met by them, and inasmuch as he was determined to find the elders, they told him where he would find the re-organized church. As a last resort they thought, we will send him there. He listened to their story. He had never met an elder in his life. His name is Peter Christensen, and he is now in Idaho; he had never met an elder, but he listened to their story, and he said: "You are not the people that I am looking for;" and he went on. He came to our headquarters. I met him; and talked to him, and the tears streamed down his cheeks, as he said, "You are the people." I thought that a wonderful testimony. 

May the Lord bless us. May we sustain, uphold, love our neighbors as ourselves, and never be found speaking evil of God's anointed, our brethren and sisters, or our fellow men, is my prayer, in Ihe name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Leland I. Acomb sang a tenor solo, "Comfort ye my people." 

ELDER JOHN M. BAXTER 

{President of the Woodruff Stake of Zion.) 

In listening to the report of President Grant concerning the progress of the Church and the increase in attendance at the sacrament meetings throughout the Church, and in witnessing the thousands of people who have come up to attend this great conference, I have had a great deal of joy and satisfaction in my heart, for I can assure you that my heart is in the work of the Lord and in the progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints upon the earth. 

There is no greater evidence of the faith of the people than the sacrifices that they make in order that they may enjoy the blessings of the Lord and the teachings of the gospel. It is a wonderful thing to me to see hundreds of people at this conference who remained in their seats from one meeting to another, in order that they might be able to hear the servants of the Lord. As a people we have manifested our 

ELDER JOHN M. BAXTER 81 

faith in the Lord and in the gospel of Jesus Christ from the beginning of this Church. We have read in the good books, which we call the Scriptures, evidences of the faith of the Saints- in former dispensations; we have evidence of the faith of Abraham and. those of his dispensation, the faith of the apostles of our Lord in their day, in traveling throughout the earth, promulgating the principles of eternal life; but it does seem to me that there has been no greater faith evinced by any people than that of the Latter-day Saints in our own dispensation. The early elders of the Church, and in fact all of the prophets and apostles of the Church from its organization, have manifested the same great faith and diligence and labors in the cause of the kingdom of God as were ever manifested by those of ancient times. Not only these, but the Latter-day Saints generally, as referred to by the previous speaker regarding his mother, who embraced the gospel in her girlhood days, and therefore was driven from her home. Hundreds of people have done the same. The people of this dispensation have been gathered "one of a city and two of a family," and have been gathered to these valleys of the mountains under greater or less trying circumstances, and they have been faithful and true to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a great evidence of its divinity today. 

In this conference are assembled today people from all over this western country, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, and I presume that as an organized stake of Zion, we are farthest on the east; and we have also those from the ocean on the west, who have spent their means and their time, and gathered up in this great concourse of people to worship God and be instructed in the principles of eternal life, and to assist in sustaining before God, our eternal Father, those who have been called to act as our leaders in this great dispensation of the fulness of times. It seems to me that this is a wonderful testimony, for it is a wonderful display of the faith of the Latterday Saints. 

I was thinking, while the former speaker was speaking of his mother joining the Church in her childhood days, of my own mother; and you will pardon me a moment if I refer to her, as I am perhaps better acquainted with her efforts and labors in the kingdom of God, and the training she gave me, than any other thing I am acquainted with on this earth. She was one of those who left her home, country, and everything near and dear to her for the Gospel's sake, and came across these barren deserts, and she drew a handcart with a little child three years old from the Missouri river to these valleys. She did not draw the handcart all the way. Her husband accompanied her part of the way, but he laid his body down upon the plains, and left her to continue the journey with the little child three years of age, in the handcart. She was one of those caught in the snow with a late company, in the Sweetwater country, when the teams and brethren came to meet them, and saved them all from starvation. And then she came to this country as a widow, having left a comfortable home, parents, 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

brothers, sisters, and friends, and all that was near and dear to her upon the face of the earth, in a foreign land, and traversed these plains, and got caught in that deep snow. I have heard her say many times, that when they slept in their tent out in the snow, their campfire went away down in the deep snow, and they were above the fire. And I remember her relating a little incident in connection with the death of her husband. He became so fatigued and worn out, that he could not travel any further. They took him in a wagon, after the brethren and teams had met him; she had a little piece of candle that she had carried in some way. She could not stand to see the breath of life leave her husband in the dark, and she not be able to behold his face. She prayed to God that this little piece of candle might remain lighted as long as life remained in her husband. This prayer was granted to her, for with the going out of the candle the breath of life went out from her husband. Nine persons were buried' in the same grave, the next morning. Now I just refer to this to show you the faith of those who have received the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

It seems to me that the Lord is pleased with us who have assembled at this conference today. It must be pleasing in the sight of God to see us hungering and thirsting after righteousness. I see people trying to get access to all the buildings here. I know that the time is far spent, and there is another speaker, and I do not wish to intrude upon his time. I pray God to bless you. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL F. SMITH 

(President of the Snowflake Stake of Zion.) 

I pray that my heart beats true and that my voice will ring in accord with the Spirit of the Lord which is in the hearts of the Latterday Saints assembled here. The mention of Arizona may warm you up, and I trust that it will warm up your souls unto salvation. Arizona is a good land to live in. 

At the suggestion of Elder Talmage, I might say something about our stake, if it may not be considered throwing boquets at myself and my people. There is no one present, I believe, who belongs in our stake, because there were only five persons who came in our company, and I believe they are all in the Tabernacle, and they will therefore not hear what I may say, and so perhaps I may be pardoned for saying something kindly about our own people. I want to say something about our climate, though, so that you will not be going away with a misapprehension. Snowflake, Arizona, is in (the mountains of that land, and therefore is not hot. Our climate is delightful, as much so as that of Salt Lake City. The Latter-day Saints there are trying their best to keep the commandments of the Lord, as you are. We are glad, always, to compare notes with our neighbor stakes. We are delighted when the bulletin comes down there, and we can compare our 

ELDER SAMUEL F. SMITH S3 

record with others. We very seldom, I am sorry to say, get first rank, but we are sure that we never get at the foot of the ranks. In the matter of attendance at sacrament meetings, that is very good, above the average; and the best part of it is, our young people attend the sacrament meetings. This is due largely to the work of the Mutual Improvement Associations and our Church school. The teachers are with the young people, and they take them with them. They are all engaged in the activities of the Church. They participate in the singing of the choir; in fact, they are the choir, and I am sure you, could you hear, would bear witness with me that it is beautiful singing. We have as large a percentage as, and I think greater than, the average of the Church, of missionaries in the world, preaching the gospel. We have a large percentage of our young people in attendance at Church schools, much larger than the average. 

Our Mutuals have a full equipment, considering the standard of the Church schools, as to the enrollment, and more. The activities of the priesthood include nearly all the brethren. Forty-seven of our brethren who hold the higher Priesthood have been and are now on missions. 

In connection with our Church schools, I want to 1 mention our religion class. We conduct an ideal religion class every morning, at 8:45. The religion class assembles for 15 minutes. The children are so interested that usually they are there on time, and for 15 minutes they are fed upon gospel truth, for five days of every week. It is a most splendid help in the education of our children. It fills a much needed want in our educational work. 

I want to say to the credit of our neighbors and friends in Arizona, that they are exceedingly liberal, and I have not found any who thought it was polluting the land to permit us to teach religion in the school houses, outside of school hours. The people have appreciated what we were doing, and have permitted us to go forward instead of being prohibited from the use of the school house at all, for these purposes, as has been the case in some places in our country. We have had the benefit of our school houses every day for a number of years. We have seen splendid results from this. Our boys grow up to know the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ as naturally as they grow up to know the truth of arithmetic. 

Our people are loyal to the temple work. I believe that, of late particularly, the Latter-day Saints in our country have been very much led to contemplate temple work. That has come, I am compelled to say, very much by the work and efforts of;he Relief Society; but they are doing a splendid work, and as suggested oy the Prophet, they are "provoking the brethren to good works." Our attendance at priesthood meetings is very good, though not so good that I desire to make special mention of it. Our brethren and sisters are devoted to the work of the Lord. I think we stand very close to the top, in the matter of tithing, and offerings. We are not, perhaps, in a wealthy land, but 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

our people would rank as being wealthy, if judged by their tithing per capita. It is a barometer at least of their faith in the gospel. 

I rejoice to be associated with my brethren and sisters, and I rejoice to bring to you the good feeling and cheer of the people of our land, and to tell you that we are engaged in the same great work, and that we are all fully expecting that the kingdom of God will be established. There must have been a tremendous amount of faith in the hearts of those men and women associated with the Church in early days, when a little handful of people declared that they were connected with the Church and kingdom of God, and that it would prevail in the world. To the world, and even to us now, it looked presumptuous. But when we see this tremendous concourse of people on this block and know of the faith of the Latter-day Saints which is manifested by the people in all of this mountain country, we can partly see the fulfilment of the prophecy of the early leaders of the Church, and it does not require the same amount of faith, it seems to me. But there is opportunity for the same amount of work, and the purposes of the Lord will be accomplished exactly in proportion to the efforts we put forth. 

I pray the Lord that what I have said will tend to strengthen and stimulate my brethren and sisters to more earnest and more zealous works in helping to bring about the blessings of the Almighty. May his blessings be with us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

I trust that you have gathered the spirit of the remarks made by the stake presidents to whom we have listened. Remember, this is a conference, not merely an ordinary assembly. You are entitled to know what is going on in the different parts of the Church. Those who were in this building this morning heard reports from the different mission fields, and now you have heard of some of the peculiar conditions prevailing in a few of the many stakes of Zion, four out of eighty-five now in existence. We find the same spirit prevailing wherever we meet Latter-day Saints. I have found that to be true in meeting my fellow worshipers in this country and beyond the seas. You can recognize them by their spirit, by their manifestation of feeling, by their ways and manners. There is a sort of a family likeness prevailing among Latter-day Saints, and you can readily recognize that if you meet one who is a stranger to you. There is a spirit of earnestness manifested in the spirit of the Latter-day Saints. There is a spirit of awakening at this time, as T mentioned at the beginning of our meeting, and the remarks of my brethren have borne me out. But, thank the Lord, his Spirit is striving earnestly with the people. But the power of evil is likewise aroused, and is also active among the people. Satan knows how little time is left before that day which is spoken of as being both great and blessed, and likewise terrible, which shall characterize the Coming of the Lord in his glory to take 

ELDER SAMUEL ECKERSLEY 85 

his place as ruler of this earth. With him shall come concourses of angels, the blessed ones, and many upon the earth at that time shall meet him and his goodly company, and be numbered among them. Verily, that day is near at hand. The evil one knows it, and knows his time is short, and therefore, amidst our rejoicing over the improvement that is manifest among the Latter-day Saints, we must beware of the evil powers that are at work, that we may not be led away, that our children may not be led away, but that they may be firm and true to the faith which the Lord has implanted in their hearts — the faith of their fathers. 

I am sure that all will join me in the feeling of appreciation, which I express for all, to the choir of LeGrand ward for the music that has been rendered this afternoon. 

The choir sang an anthem, "Hark, hark, my soul." Benediction was pronounced by Elder William Robinson. 


