Afternoon
03 04 1921

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

CHANGES IN CONFERENCE PRESIDENTS 

iWe announced here at the last conference, the changes in the Australian, New Zealand and the Swiss and German missions. At that time Brother James N. Lambert who had been to New Zealand was with us and spoke to the congregation. Since then, Brother Arnold G. Miller, from the Australian mission, and Brother Angus J. Cannon from the Swiss and German mission have arrived home. We welcome them and tender them our sincere thanks for the very splendid, long and arduous labors that they have performed in those missions. 

INCREASE IN PAYMENTS OF TITHING 

In reading a number of items this morning, I read what became of several millions of dollars of the funds of the Church during the last year, and lo and behold, I skipped the all-important item of tithing. The Saints have done remarkably well, during the past year, in the payment of tithes, especially when we consider the hard times through which we are passing. I wish to commend' the bishops, and other officers of the Church, as well as the membership of the Church, in general, for the faithfulness exhibited by the Saints in payment of their tithes. I think that it is nothing less than wonderful in view of the great hardships financially, through which all sections of the country have been passing, during the year that is just closed, that there should be no falling off at all in the tithes of the Latter-day Saints. The tithes for the past year have been slightly in advance of those for the previous year, which was one of the largest years for the payment of tithes in the history of the Church. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 23 

AN EDITORIAL IN THE "COAST BANKER." 

Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, President of the California Mission, came up and suggested that I should waive my insurance modesty, and that I should read the introduction to my speech, as written by the editor of the Coast Banker; and I shall do so. One of my insurance friends in San Francisco, president of one of the greatest companies in the United States, remarking on the photo of myself that is printed' with the article, stated that he would pay a great deal if he could only have a picture taken of him that would flatter him as much as this picture flatters me. 

(The editorial, which was here read by President Grant, and the speech in full may be found at the close of this record. — Clerk.) 

THE CANTATA "THE MARTYRS," BY EVAN STEPHANS 

The sacred cantata, "The Martyrs," by Evan Stephens, and a chorus of 400 will be presented in the Tabernacle, Monday evening, April 4. I read an editorial in The News, last night, and felt that Brother Stephens was entitled to have this splendid editorial read to you here today: 

"Among other events of the approaching Conference season claiming th: attention of both residents and visitors the rendition of Evan Stephens' sacred cantata, "The Martyrs," in the Tabernacle, on Monday evening next, is deserving of special notice. A year ago this gifted home composer fairly electrified a mammoth audience in the Tabernacle with "The Vision" — an appropriate precursor of the present woik; and those who- are in a position to speak with intelligence and authority on the question, affirm with enthusiasm that 'The Martyrs' is in all respects the equal of, and in some respects is superior to, the earlier masterpiece. Certainly in the matter of attention to detail in presentation, Mr. Stephens has allowed nothing to be overlooked — a fact upon which those who know his artistic and indefatigable nature will need no assurance. He has in conspicuous degree the talent of infusing into his performers a measure of his own zeal, so that to the most exacting demands of practice and rehearsal they yield without demur. The result is that when at length the hour for the public performance arrives, all those who have been engaged upon it are prepared to give it a rendition as nearly faultless as is humanly possible. Apart from the fame of the soloists, the heavier choral work of the great chorus of four hundred voices should prove at once a mighty attraction and inspiration. In short, it is to be hoped, and it is the probability, that, vast as is the auditorium where the performance will be given, the demand for seats will be so great that not all can gain admission, for it promises to be in all respects a stupendous and memorable occasion." PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My dear brethren and sisters: We had a glorious meeting this morning, and now are gathered again in this building, a great assembly of Latter-day Saints, members of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church under the heavens that bears the name of the Savior. It is true that he is not here with us in person, but he is here by the power of his Spirit and his authority. His authority, is called the Priesthood, the holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, and this authority is held by the prophet, seer and revelacor and the president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Not only does it rest upon him, but it is widely distributed throughout the Church, and rests in some degree upon every worthy man in the Church. 

WOMEN" AND THE PRjIESTHOOD. 

The Priesthood is not received, or held, or exercised in any degree, by the women of the Church; but, nevertheless, the women of the Church enjoy the blessings of the Priesthood through their husbands. This emphasizes very strongly the importance of marriage. Every woman in the Church, of mature age, and worthiness, who is ambitious to attain to exaltation and glory hereafter should be married, should be sealed to a man for time and all eternity; and we trust that the young women of the Church as well as the young men of the Church realize the responsibility of this important ordinance. 

THE POWER AND AUTHORITY OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD. 

The Priesthood, my brethren and sisters, is complete in itself. Nevertheless, we know that there are two great divisions in it, namely the Melchizedek, or higher Priesthood, and the Aaronic, or lesser Priesthood, which lesser Priesthood is an appendage to the higher Priesthood. The Melchizedek Priesthood administers the gospel and holds the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. Therefore, in its ordinances the power of God and of godliness is manifest, and without the ordinances and the holy Priesthood the power of godliness is not manifest among men. Therefore, wherever the holy Priesthood of God is not found in a Church, such a church cannot be the Church of Christ. 

Moses very well understood this great principle. He held the higher Priesthood. He was a great prophet of God and he sought diligently to sanctify the children of Israel, that they might behold the face of God. But it is said in the revelation that they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence and therefore the 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 25 

Lord in his wrath — for his anger was kindled against them — swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is a fulness of the glory of God. In consequence of this, the holy Melchizedek Priesthood was taken from their midst. But the lesser Priesthood — the Priesthood that holds the keys of the administering of angels and the preparatory gospel — was continued in Israel down to the time of the Savior. We learn a great lesson from this incident, for we perceive that because of the hardness of their hearts and their unbelief and rebellion, at times, Moses and the holy Priesthood were taken away from the children of Israel. But it is not so with the Latter-day Saints, because you will find the authority of the holy Priesthood, the high Priesthood as well as the lesser Priesthood, throughout all the stakes of Zion and in every ward. In this is shown the mercy and the loving kindness and generosity of our Father in heaven, because it is seen that God is no respecter of persons, and that the right to the Priesthood belongs to every faithful man in the Church — I think I may say it is his by right divine. So it is. 

Now, brethren and sisters, we say to all Israel, beware of hardness of heart, and the spirit of rebellion, and the sin of idolatry, for these sins are great evils in the sight of the Lord. He requires humility of heart and diligence and faithfulness and submission to his authority. I think that there is nothing in the scriptures or in the revelations of God that emphasizes the greatness of the power of the holy Priesthood as the words which occur in Doctrine and Covenants, section 84, a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Latterday Saints, give ear to these words and ponder them in your hearts, for the Lord said : 

"For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the ' Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God; 

"And also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's' kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; 

"And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. 

"Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved." 

But now, mark you, there is a proviso, and it is significant. It is highly important: 

"But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come." 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

This is the reservation, that is the proviso. Now if we shall attain to these great blessings we must be humble, faithful, consistent Latter-day Saints. 

SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS TO THOSE WHO HOLD THE PRIESTHOOD. 

Now, brethren and sisters — and I say sisters because, as I have said, the sisters participate in the blessings of the Priesthood through their husbands — do we appreciate the Priesthood of God, this divine authority? Do we honor it in our lives? Do we honor it in our file leaders ? Do we teach our boys at home the importance and value of the Priesthood? Are they receiving this instruction in the various organizations? Because, I take it that the Priesthood of God is about (the greatest gift unto man, for it represents divine authority. Let us give heed to this matter. Oh, I pray that the responsibility of it may rest down mightily upon the authorities in the stakes of Zion, and that they will see to it that proper and full instruction is given in respect to this matter. 

Now may the Lord bless you, the Lord bless our President, who has spoken so beautifully and so powerfully to us today, and Presidents Penrose and Ivins. We have had rich instructions already. Oh, if we could only fully receive it into our hearts, and carry it out in our lives, how blest we would be! May the spirit of the Lord continue to be upon this people and in the congregations of the Saints, and may it rest upon the authorities of the Church, and all the speakers at this Conference, is my prayer,! in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

I have rejoiced with you, my brethren and sisters, in this general conference as far as it has progressed. I feel in my soul to endorse what has been said. I feel that the Spirit of the Lord is with us, and was with usi very richly in the opening session. T desire to contribute something, through the help of the Lord, that will be of profit to some of us, if we will listen and hear, and be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving ourselves. 

EVIDENCES OF THE FAITHFULNESS OF THE SAINTS. 

The key-word of our Conference, six months ago, was given us by President Grant, to keep the commandments of the Lord. If I understand the key-word given to us in this Conference, it is to continue our faithfulness in keeping the commandments of the Lord. We have abundance of evidence of faithfulness on the part of the great majority of the Latter-day Saints. The very fact that, under existing financal conditions, the tithing of the people has increased, during the past 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 27 

year, is an evidence of their faithfulness in keeping the commandments. The reports we have of the increased attendance at sacrament meetings and of stake conference meetings is an additional evidence of faithfulness on the part of the people in keeping the commandments of the Lord; also, the increased attendance and membership in the auxiliary associations of the Church, is an evidence of faithfulness on the part of the young as well as the older people of the Church. I have the utmost confidence in the Latter-day Saints including Zion's young people. I have the utmost confidence in the ultimate triumph of God's work in the earth. No power can stay the progress. Zion is to arise and shine and become the glory of the whole earth, and we can see her brightness already. Those who are not of us, and among us, and those of the world whose eyes have been turned toward us, are also mindful of this fact. A friendly feeling toward the Latter-day Saints and the doctrines which we have for the world is growing up wherever the gospel is being preached. There are, of course, some exceptions. In our travels in the Stakes of Zion we have abundance of evidence of devotion on the part of leading men and women to their callings in this great work. I feel in my heart to commend them for their faithfulness and for their devotion and to pray God's choicest blessings to rest upon them, that they may be abundantly rewarded of him in time and in eternity for the sacrifices which they are making, of time and means, in the carrying on this great latter-day work. These matters of which I have been speaking, of which we know by records which are kept and reports which are made, indicate to me that the Latter-day Saints are making improvement in other ways, where we are unable to check them up so completely as on some of these matters, such as attendance at meetings and the payment of their tithes and offerings. The tithing is an index of the faithfulness of the individual. I am sure that the Lord manifests his pleasure to the individual who is making the required sacrifice for the onward progress of his work, and for the salvation of his children and such is the character and the work being done by the Latter-day Saints. 

CARING FOR THE FATHERLESS, AND KEEPING OURSELVES UNSPOTTED FROM THE WORLD. 

The Apostle James said: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." 

We should not overlook this latter part of the definition. I believe that the Latter-day Saints are improving in that respect in _ keeping themselves unspotted from the sins of the world. We are visiting the widows and the fatherless, we are feeding the hungry; we are clothing the naked; we are visiting the sick and the afflicted; and we are taking care of the stranger and feeding him the bread of life, as opportunity is afforded. I do believe, Latter-day Saints, that when we pay our 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

tithing in full, conscientiously before the Lord, and are generous in the giving of our offerings, that we are answering the requirement of the law, and there will be none to suffer. The widow and the orphan will be well taken care of in the Church, if we all attend to these particular duties in faithfulness; and the Lord will reward us amply for our efforts and our sacrifices in this direction. I believe that the people today, the Latter-day Saints, answer the call to leave their homes and go into the nations of the earth to preach the gospel among strangers as readily as they ever havei done, notwithstanding the individual expense of the elders is almost double what it was a few years ago. This is another evidence of faithfulness which inspires confidence in the Latter-day Saints. It is the young people in the main — our sons and our daughters, who are called to bear this responsibility and to make this sacrifice. They are answering the calls in a generous and satisfactory manner and the Lord takes these weak men and women and with them threshes the nations, and the wisdom of the wise does perish before their humble, truthful testimonies. 

SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES OF THE SIN OF NEGLECT. 

This is the time, my brethren and sisters, for our planting, this period of our eternal progression, while we are here in mortal life. If in the season of the planting of our crop, the planting be neglected, there will be no time of reaping. I do hope that we will bear this thought in mind and make every preparation that is necessary while we are here and have the opportunity; that when we go beyond we will find peace, we will be satisfied with that which we have to reap as a result of our life's work here. The Savior gave us a parable that is very impressive upon this point — at least to my mind. It refers to the rich man who dressed in fine apparel and fared sumptuous every day. The pear man lay at the ga|te of the rich man; the dogs licked his sores, and he fain would have taken the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table. After a time the poor man died, and the angels bore his spirit to the paradise of heaven. The rich man died also, and went to hell; and in hell he lifted up his eyes in torment. Seeing Lazarus afar off and in Abraham's bosom he cried to Abraham : "Father Abraham, send Lazarus that he may dip his finger in water and touch my parched tongue, for I am in torment." You know the answer. That was impossible. Then the next request was to send Lazarus or somebody else from the dead, that they might go down to earth and visit his five brothers that they might be specially warned that they might not come to his fate. But that was impossible. The answer was : "They have Moses and the prophets. If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither would they be persuaded though one were sent from the dead." There are several important lessons to be learned from this parable; but the one I wish to bring to your attention is the serious consequence of the sin of neglect. There does not seem to have been any other charge made against this 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 29 

rich man than that he had the means to do with, the opportunity was laid before him, his responsibility he clearly saw, and ignored it. 

OUR DUTY TO FEED THE SPIRIT AS WELL AS THE BODY. 

Now it is a blessing to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked. That is a part of pure religion and undefiled; but I have thought and I do feel, my brethren and sisters, that it is better to feed the soul of a man or woman than to feed the body, to minister unto their spiritual and eternal needs and welfare rather than to their physical. The body must perish soon anyway. There are those among us who are starving for the word of God. They are wandering from sea to sea, and from the north even unto the east, running to and fro, seeking the word of God and cannot find it. They do not hope to find it among the Latterday Saints. They are blinded to the truth which we have received, but we know we have received the responsibility to preach it in all the world as a witness unto all nations before the end shall come. This is the food of which the world of mankind are so much in need today, and with which we are so bountifully blest. It is that kind of food that we can give to those who are in need, generously, and they become the happy recipients and are blest through it, and we will not be impoverished. Indeed, as we undertake to minister unto the spiritual needs of men and women, our souls grow and enlarge, our love for our fellow men increases; our love for our Father in heaven and our Savior increases; our love and appreciation of the truth also increase, and we are even more blest than they. The very anticipation and desire to do good brings happiness and peace to our souls. On the other hand, if we, having the abundance of this spiritual food, and knowing those about us who are in a starving condition, if we fail to minister unto their needs we are likely to experience in the life beyond, a disappointment corresponding with that of the rich man who neglected to minister unto the needs of his poor neighbor. As it is more blessed to feed the soul, so is it a greater neglect, a greater sin, and I believe will be attended by a greater penalty to neglect to feed the souls of men and women. 

NOW IS OUR OPPORTUNITY TO BLESS BOTH THE LIVING AND THE DEAD. 

The work for our dead, brethren and sisters, we have not been organized in the past to do, as we have been organized, as a Church, to preach the gospel abroad. We have been left to our individual initiative largely, in this matter of searching for the genealogies of our ancestors and going up to the temples of the Lord and doing the work for them. This responsibility rests heavily upon us, and some of us do not realize it. If we neglect our dead, when we go to the other side, they will reproach us, and that will be hell and torment. We may desire to come back to have another opportunity, but it will not be afforded us. Now is the time; this is our opportunity to bless mankind, both the living and the dead, and to prepare an eternity beyond 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

that will be one of peace, contentment and all that our hearts can desire. 

In conclusion, let me recite you a few lines impressive of this principle. It is entitled "A Little Parable/' and reads like this : 

"I made the cross myself, whose weight was later laid on m.e, This thought is torture as I climb up life's steep Calvary. To think my own hands drove the nails! 

I sang a merry song, And chose the heaviest wood I had, 

To make it firm and strong. 

If I had guessed, 

If I had dreamed its weight was made for me, 

I would have made a lighter cross to bear up Calvary." 

May the Lord add his blessings, I pray in Jesus name, Amen. The Elite Male Quartet sang, "Jesus, I my cross have taken." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

You perhaps have noticed from the announcement in the paper, that Elder Whitney will go to Europe to preside over the European mission, succeeding Elder George Albert Smith; so this will probably be the last time that we can hear from Brother Whitney for some months at least. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

For the past fifteen years I have been preaching the Gospel in the Stakes of Zion, and after living on "stakes" all that length of time, 1 need, and it seems I am to have, a change of diet. If you wish to know how I feel about the call that has come to me, I will tell you : I rejoice in it. I am going with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance to do my duty — is I have done it here — on the other side of the world. 

EARLY MISSIONS AND APPOINTMENTS. 

This will not be my first mission as an Elder of the Church. My first mission of all was to the United States, from 1876 to 1878, I labored five or six months in Pennsylvania, and theh went to Ohio, my father's native State, where the Whitney family embraced the Gospel in early days. While I was in Ohio my mother wrote to me asking why I did not return. Said she : "AH the missionaries who went with you, or went at the same time that you! did, are back home. Why don't you come ?" I answered : "Because I have not been reELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 31 

leased; and I shall stay here until I receive, without any solicitation on my part, an honorable release from the Presidency of the Church." Having been honorably released, I returned, and was made a Ward Bishop. 1 served in the Bishopric for nearly twenty-eight years, and in April 1906 was called into the position that I now occupy. Meanwhile, from the autumn of 1881 until the summer of 1883, I filled a mission in Great Britain, laboring most of the time as assistant editor of the Millennial Star. 

NO TIME LIMIT. 

No time limit was placed upon my missions. I never felt that 1 ought to ask for a release, or come home until the servants of the Lord presiding over me said : "It is enough; you are at liberty to return." 

An impression now prevails in the mission fields among some of our young elders, that they were called to labor for a set time; and after that time has expired — say eighteen or twenty months — ihey seem to think they are entitled to a release, and some even ask for it. This is contrary to my traditions and training. I have never called myself upon a mission; have never appointed myself to an office; and have never thought it my privilege to resign, or ask to be relieved of any responsibility in connection with the Lord's work. I have responded to every call miade upon me thus far, and I expect to do so as long as I live. 

LABORS OF THE TWELVE. 

In times past some of our brethren and sisters have worried over the question of the labors of the Twelve apostles. They have hinted that we ought to be out preaching the gospel in the world — evidently overlooking the fact that the Twelve travel under the direction of the First Presidency; that they do not call themselves upon missions, but have to wait until they are sent. I have never known one of the apostles to refuse or even hesitate to respond to ahy call that came to him from rightful authority. Years ago I said from this stand, quoting a little verse that we sometimes sing: 

"I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, 

On mountain on land or on sea; I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord, 

I'll be what you want me to be." 

And I paraphrased it thus : 

I'll go where you want me to g,o, dear Lord, 

I'll go whenever you say; But till I am sent I'm not going to go — 

I'll stay where you want me to stay. 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Now that I have been appointed to go, I am going; and I promise President Grant and his counselors, and you my brethren and sisters, that I shall go with a free will and with joy in my heart, having no desire to be released at the expiration of any set time. I leave that with the Lord. I am going where he wants me to go, and will stay there as long as he wants me to stay. This is God's work, and I know it, and I am proud and happy to be engaged in it. 

alma's wish. 

I would like to read you a few paragraphs from the Book of Mormon. A Prophet named Alma, standing upon the American Continent seventy-six years before the birth of the Savior, uttered these wonderful words: 

"O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people; 

"Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance, and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. 

"But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me. 

"I ought not to harrow up in my desires the firm decree of a just God for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. 

"Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience. 

"Now seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called? 

"Why should I desire that I was an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth? 

"For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word; yea. in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true. 

"I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in it: I do not glory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord hath commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God, to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy." 

PROVIDENCE IS OVER ALL. 

Many beautiful lessons might be drawn from, this passage of scripture, but I have only time to dwell upon one. It tells me that Providence is over all, and that he holds the nations in the hollow of his hand; that he is using not only his covenant people, but other peoples as well, to consummate a work, stupendous, magnificent, and altogether too arduous for this little handful of Saints to accomplish by and of themselves. Alma seems to have thought, for the moment, 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 33 

that man was doing God's work for him, instead of which it is God, who is doing his own work, and using men as his instruments. Nor is he limited in the choice of instruments to his own people. He sways the scepter over all nations, and they are all playing into his hands, knowingly or unknowingly. Alma knew this, but had momentarily lost sight of it. 

"of their own nation and tongue." 

All down the ages men bearing the authority of the Holy Priesthood — patriarchs, prophets, apostles and others, have officiated in the name of the Lord, doing the things that he required of them; and outside the pale of their activities other good and great men, not bearing the Priesthood, but possessing profundity of thought, great wisdom, and a desire to uplift their fellows, have been sent by the Almighty into many nations, to give therm, not the fulness of the Gospel, but that portion of truth that they were able to receive and wisely use. Such men as Confucius, the Chinese philosopher; Zoroaster, the Persian sage; Guatama or Buddha, of the Hindus; Socrates and Plato, of the Greeks; these all had some of the light that is universally diffused, and concerning which we have this day heard. They were servants of the Lord in a lesser sense, and were sent to those pagan or heathen nations to give them the measure of truth that a wise Providence had allotted to them. 

OTHER AUXILIARIES 

And not only teachers— not poets and philosophers alone; but inventors, discoverers, warriors, statesmen, rulers, et al. These also have been used from the beginning to help along the Lord's work — mighty auxiliaries in. the hands of an Almighty God, carrying out his purposes, consciously or unconsciously. 

"There's a divinity that shapes our ends, Rough hew them as we will." 

The God of Israel used Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, to punish his chosen people for their sins. Jeremiah the Prophet was sent with the word of the Lord to Zedekiah, king of Judah, commanding him to submit to the Lord's "servant" — this same Nebuchadnezzar. And because Zedekiah refused to obey, a terrible fate befell him; his kingdom was overthrown, his eyes were put out, and he and his people were carried away captive into Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar was a great king; he built the "Hanging Gardens," one of the seven wonders of the world; but he arrogated to himself the glory for what God had done, and had to be humbled to the dust, and sent forth to eat grass like the ox, until "seven times" had passed over him, and he had learned the lesson "that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will." 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Babylon was overthrown by Cyrus the Persian, a great and good monarch, called by the Lord "his anointed," and named by prophecy more than a hundred years before he was born. Cyrus was instrumental in restoring the captive Jews to their own icountry, that they might rebuild Jerusalem in time for the Savior's advent. 

When the. Medo-Persian empire 'became corrupt, it was overthrown by Alexander the Great. Alexander conquered the world and "wept," it is said, "because there were no more worlds to conquer." He died a drunkard, or from! a fever caused by excess of drink. But was that all he did? Dean Farrar says of him and of the great service he unwittingly rendered to the cause of Christ: "The immense field covered by the conquests of Alexander gave to the civilized world a unity of language, without which it would have been, humanly speaking, impossible for the earliest preachers to have made known the good tidings in every land which they traversed." "Wherever he went," says the historian McCabe, "he left the Greek language, . . .all powerful in drawing the nations of the old world into a closer and more intimate contact with each other. . . . At a later period the Hebrew Scriptures, translated into Greek, were made accessible to the .whole world, and the way was thus paved for the mission of Him of whom these Scriptures testify." 

This also from Farrar: "The rise of the Roman Empire created a political unity which reflected in every direction the doctrines of the new faith. The Gospel emanated from the capital of Judea; it was preached in the tongue of Athens; it was diffused through the Empire of Rome; the feet of its earliest missionaries traversed the solid structure of undeviating roads by which the Roman legionaries — 'those massive hammers of the whole earth' — had made straight in the desert a highway for our God. Semite and Aryan had been unconscious instruments in the hands of God for the spread of a religion which, in its first beginnings, both alike detested and despised." 

AMERICA A NURSING MOTHER. 

Coming down to later times, we have but to open the Book of Mormon to see how the Spirit of the Lord rested upon a man among the Gentiles, impelling him across the great .waters to the Land of Zion, a land reserved by Providence for the triumph of truth and freedom in the last days — the place for the building of the New Jerusalem and the beginning of the work of preparation that will have to be done before the Lord comes in his glory. Columbus was inspired to discover America for this purpose, though he knew it not. After him came the Pilgrim Fathers; and then Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Hamilton, and other Patriots of the Revolution, all moved upon by the same Spirit, to create the mighty fabric of this great Republic, a free nation, guaranteeing liberty to its citizens of every creed and of no creed, and raised up by the Almighty to play the part of a nursing mother to the restored Church of Christ. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY , 35 

True, the Latter-day Saints have been persecuted under the Stars and Stripes in various States of the Union; but we must not make the mistake of supposing that it was (because of the Flag, or of the Constitution, or of the genius of the American government, that these deplorable happenings took place. No; it was not because, but in spite of them. Those persecutions were inflicted by lawless force, by mob violence, ever to be execrated and condemned by every true patriot. Let us credit our noble Nation with what it has done in the direction of filling its God-given mission. In no other land — in no other nation upon this land, would the Lord's people have been treated with the same degree of consideration. In no other country on earth would this work have been permitted to come forth. This nation was founded purposely, that the Church and Kingdom of God might be established and all nations bask in its light and share in its blessings. 

-truth's triumph inevitable. 

We must never allow ourselves to grow misanthropic or fearful concerning the outcome. The success of this work is assured. The triumph of Truth is inevitable. The clouds, may gather, the billows rage, the tempests burst in fury; but the unerring Pilot is at the helm, and the Ship steered by Him, will weather every storm. 

"Truth forever on the scaffold, 

Wrong forever on the throne. Yet that scaffold sways the future, 

And behind the dim unknown Standeth God within the shadow, 

Keeping watch above his own." 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My brethren and sisters: I stand before you on this occasion with great timidity; partly because I ami unaccustomed to speaking in this vast auditorium and before so large a gathering of people, but chiefly because I sense the tremendous responsibility that rests upon all who, at these general conferences, are called upon to address the Saints. I pray for your support and your faith now and always. 

A TESTIMONY. 

Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I am glad at all times to have the privilege of bearing my testimony to the truthfulness of this work, this system of thought, of doctrine, of practice, whicl. men denominate "Mormonismi," but which we know to be God'seternal,) unchanging and unchangeable plan of salvation for the human family. I know, my brethren and sisters, that this work is true. I know that it has come from God and that it leads men back to God along happy and joyous paths. This testimony has been fed and strengthened, throughout these two meetings, by hean'ng 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the testimonies of the Presidency and the Apostles who have spoken. I trust this testimony may always be mine. 

THE UNIFYING POWER OF THE GOSPEL. 

As 1 have looked over the congregations this morning and this afternoon, no thought has impressed me more than that here we have all classes and all manner of people, men and women of different degrees of knowledge and of varying capacities; yet these people, unlike in their God-given gifts, are finding the satisfaction of their lives, after they have once accepted the gospel, in the doctrines and the life within the Church. Whether of high or of low degree, rich or poor, learned or unlearned, of quick or of slow intelligence, from Scandinavia, Germany, England or America, these people, because of the gospel and through the gospel, see alike, apparently think alike, and very largely act alike. There is something within this gospel that unifies all who accept it and who belong to it. This is not true alone of this generation and of this dispensation. It has /been so in all ages, in all generations and in all dispensations. The Patriarch Enoch, in his holy city, Abraham on the Plains of Mamre, Moses in the wilderness, Samuel in God's temple, and all the other worthies of which history gives an account, gained strength and found the solace of their lives in the identical gospel to which we adhere and to which we give our allegiance. 

THE CHURCH MAKES NO APPEAL TO MYSTICISM. 

It has always impressed me that the universality of the appeal of "Mormonism" is especially remarkable in view of the fact that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints does not attempt to win support by specially devised appeals to the emotions of men, which is so frequently the case with other Churches. We have no elaborate system of ritual; we have no mystical doctrines to lead men on by the appeal of the unknown; we do not attempt to win converts by threatening a future hell. We are in all respects plain and simple in our worship; in fact, in this Church, which believes that "the glory of God is intelligence," it is difficult to establish doctrines of mysticism and in that way win adherents to the cause; and in a Church which declares that there is a graded salvation, within the ultimate reach of every human being, if he cares to accept of it, there can be no deep-seated fear of the hereafter, especially when we have been told that the lowest glory of this graded salvation is entirely beyond the understanding and wildest fancy of 'man. 

TFIE TEST OF TRUTH IS SIMPLICITY. 

I am not so sure, my brethren and sisters, but that one of the strongest evidences of the truthfulness of "Mormonism" lies in the fact that it has such universal appeal to men and women of all capaciELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE ' 37 

ties and of all degrees of knowledge. Truth is always simple; the test of truth is simplicity. That which is dimly understood, which confuses the mind of man, is likely to be .but partly true. The scientist in his laboratory applies this final test to his work. When, after many months or years of labor, he finds that the things he has discovered can be told simply and plainly to his fellow men, he is likely to say: "Now I have found the truth." Men and women of this Church have accepted the Gospel because they have learned to understand it, because it is clear, because it is simple, because it is not surrounded by confusion or dimness of any kind. 

To enlarge briefly upon this thought, the reason why those of great mental ability, great God-given powers, may find their full soul's satisfaction in the gospel, seems to me to be that the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ is not in the form of chunks or bits of truth, isolated truths, but in the form of great general principles or laws — principles which encompass thousands and tens of thousands of single truths — principles of truth that interpret and illustrate all the phenomena that we find as we journey through) life. To know that the sun shines upon the earth, and in that way gives the earth energy, is an important and interesting fact, but it does not interpret the universe. The great law of gravitation, the law of the indestructibility of matter, and other such fundamental laws, however, do interpret not only the relationship of the sun to the earth, but innumerable of the varied ifacts of the universe. The basic principles of the gospel are of such comprehensive nature. They may be unyielding, they may never be departed from, but they point with certainty the road that men may travel to discover all the incidental truths 'that may be desirable in life. The mightiest intellect will never exhaust these great laws. Many religions upon the face of the earth rest upon one isolated truth. Each has taken a great, glittering, .brilliant truth, and upon it has erected an elaborate system; but because it is only one truth of many belonging to a great principle — which principle is not understood in full — the system of religion is not likely to prevail forever arriiOng men. 

DANGER IN DEPARTING FROM FUNDAMENTAL TRUTHS, 

I want to bear you this testimony, my brethren and sisters, that we have in this Church the great, everlasting principles of truth, the basic laws of truth upon which we may erect the spiritual and religious structure of our lives, here and hereafter. I want to say also that it is my conviction that the greatest danger that may affect this Church at any time is to depart, ever so little, from these fundamental principles. All that we do, all that we plan to do, must be tied to the fundamental principles of the Gospel. Then we shall have no apostasy in this Church. The apostasies of past dispensations, have come ordinarily when some one has taken a glittering, desirable truth, and magnified it to the forgetfulness of the principle to which it belongs. 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Some may say that this doctrine stops all progress. If we have solid, substantial, unchanging principles which may never be departed from, then how is progress possible? Yet, my brethren and sisters, you all know that the only real progress possible in this world is that which is based upon adherence to simple, general laws) of truth. When man discovers some great law pertaining to the universe, and builds upon it, then he and science both make progress. The great principles or laws of truth may be likened to the great steel structure of one of our lofty office buildings — rigid, firm and bolted together so that it may not move or change — yet within those steel beams and girders, around them, above them, below them, are built floors and walls and doors and windows and decorations until the structure meets every want of those for whom it is intended. i 

WE MUST USE AS WELL AS POSSESS TRUTH. 

I trust my brethren and sisters, that the people of this Church may forever study and understand and adhere to these fundamental principles of doctrine and of organization which lie at the foundation of the persistence of this Church, in this time and in the time hereafter. May we also remember that to possess truth is only a part of the problem. We must use it also; and truth cannot be used properly or wisely unless we do, as has been explained here this afternoon, apply to it the authority of the Priesthood of God. The two greatgifts to this Church are the gifts of truth and authority. May we Latter-dav Saints remember them, treasure them, and not depart from them; and may they be with us always, I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I feel very humble this afternoon in standing here before this vast congregation. Yet I am made to rejoice in the testimonies which have been borne by those who have spoken, both at this session and at the opening session of this conference. T have been greatly interested, and I trust that I may 'be led by the Spirit of the Lord to say that which I ought to say in the few moments that I stand here. 

GOD IS AT THE HELM. 

God is at the helm, as Elder Whitney has said. I greatly rejoice, as I know" you rejoice, in that great fundamental truth. This is not the work of man. It was not instituted by man. but by the Lord and Savior of this world. I am as fully convinced, I believe, I was going to say, as any man, that Joseph Smith was called and appointed in the very manner in which he has borne testimony; that the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him, that he was called to usher in the dispensation in which we live, to establish the gospel in its fulness, to restore the 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 39 

Priesthood, which is power from our Father in heaven, by which we are able to officiate in all the ordinances of the gx>sriel for the salvation of the souls of men. I am firmly convinced of these truths. The Lord has not left us to wander; he has not left us alone in the world to grope in darkness, but the Church which he has founded is guided by the spirit of revelation, and the inspiration of the Lord rests upon those who stand at the head. They are not doing this work in their own name, they are not endeavoring to establish themselves, but to carry out the plan which the Lord has revealed, and to make known Unto the children of men the great desire of our Father, that all men mav be saved through obedience to the gospel and receive a place and standing in his kingdom. 

FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES DO NOT CHANGE IN THE COURSE OF PROGRESS. 

President Ivins this morning drew our attention to some things pertaining to the establishing, the ushering in, of this great and marvelous work, as it is spoken of, in these latter-days. He referred to the youth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, how he was called, how the Lord made himself known unto him; how he was appointed, not only to establish the Church, but to give unto us a great volume of scripture which volume contains the doctrines, the teachings, and the history of a great people who dwelt upon this continent. As he was speaking, and as o*rier brethren have been speaking here, regarding the principles of the gospel, my heart was made glad in reflecting on the great truth referred to this afternoon, that this work is based upon fundamental principles that do not change. They must not, they cannot change, because they are eternal. I believe in progression; we all believe in progression : and the Lord has 1 not curtailed us in any respect, but we cannot substitute the ideas of men for that which the Lord has given, or the plan which he has adopted and revealed to us, by which we may be saved. For instance, there is no name other than that of Jesus Christ by which men shall be saved. Men may formulate plans and adopt theories and introduce strange works and gather and teach many peculiar doctrines, but this teaching is fundamental and from it we cannot depart, that all things are concentrated in and around the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the Redeemer of the world. So we accept him as the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, as explained by President Penrose, the only one who has dwelt in the flesh who had a Father who was immortal. We must accept, and do accept, the great truth that because of his birthright, and of the conditions surrounding his coming into the earth, he became the Redeemer of men, and that through the shedding of his blood' we are privileged again to return into the presence of our ' Father, on conditions oi our repentance and acceptance of the great plan of redemption of which he is the author. We must believe in the resurrection of the dead, absolutely so, that every soul born upon the face of this earth shall come forth in the resurrection, either of the just or of the unjust, for 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the resurrection shall be universal, and that, too, through the great atonement which was made by the Savior of the world. 

PERFECTION W'OUttD fRESULT IF THE REVELATIONS OF THE LORD WERE 

OBSERVED. 

I look over this congregation and I see, as Brother Widtsoe has already expressed himself as seeing, people who have been gathered from the nations, who have been brought here through the preaching of the gospel, for the purpose of worshiping the Lord, with desires in their hearts of keeping his commandments and of receiving, through faithfulness, an exaltation in his kingdom. Immediately in front of this stand are a great many faithful, true Latter-day Saints, men of renown, men who are filled with the spirit of truth, who are intelligent, and on whom the Lord has conferred the Priesthood, which is his power, by which they officiate in his name for the salvation of souls. This causes me to reflect somewhat upon the organization of the Church, how the Lord has established all things in order and has given us a perfect svstem. We cannot improve upon it. Tf we would carry out that which the Lord has revealed, as he has revealed it, then all things would be perfect; for the organization is a perfect organization, the theory of it, the plan of it, is without flaw, and if we followed all the orders that have been given to us in the priesthood and otherwise, if we would put into practice the great doctrines which have been revealed in the revela+ions contained in the Holy Scriptures, it would only be a matter of a very short time until this great people would be in the same condition, absolutely, as were the people in the city of Enoch. We would be able to walk with God, we would be able to behold his face, because then faith would abound in the hearts of the people to the extent that it would be impossible for the Lord to withhold himself, and he would reveal himself unto us as he has clone in times past. Now 1 I base that largely upon the expressions in the Book of Mormon. Referring to the revelation made known to the brother of .Tared we read that so great was his faith it was impossible for the Lord to withhold himself. Not only was it possible, through his great faith, for that great prophet to see the finger of the Lord, but the Lord was under the necessity of making himself manifest and showing his entire bodv, the body of his spirit —; for it was not then a tabernacle of flesh and bones. 

ORDER AND PERFECTION IN THE ORGANIZATION OF THE CHURCH. 

How perfect is this organization. It was not all given at once, and therein is made manifest' the truth of the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that he was taught of God; for this work was not all ushered in at once, but the Lord revealed unto him as occasion required it — here a little and there a little, until the full grandeur of it was made known. The first officers in the Church were elders, two elders apELDER POSEPH FIELDING SMITH 41 

pointed by that small body who gathered on the 6th day of April, 1830, to officiate for them. But as time advanced and as the Church grew in numbers, it became necessary that other officers should be called and therefore we received high priests and bishops and patriarchs and a little later, seventies and apostles, and the whole plan was made known in its glory as we have it now in the Church. The Lord revealed, even in the beginning, the order of the various quorums, or rather the duties of the various quorums of the Priesthood. He taught us the duties of elders, the duties of teachers, the duties of deacons, and later of high priests when they were made known, and even before that the duties of apostles, and then the duty of patriarchs and of each branch of the priesthood. The duty of teachers is to visit in the homes of the people to see that there is no iniquity there, that there is no backbiting, no fault-finding, that all the members perform their duty; the duty of the priests is to go into the homes of the people to teach them the principles of the gospel, and not wait until they can attend the Sunday school or a Mutual Improvement organization or even a quorum meeting of the priesthood. All this is good, all this is necessary as a part of the plan which the Lord has given us, but the priests were to go into the homes of the people and there instruct, there reveal, there make known unto the family, the will of the Lord. Thus the Lord prepared this plan and reveaJed it to us that we might walk in a knowledge of the truth, in righteousness and in humility. If we followed it as perfectly as the Lord intends that we should there would be no iniquity in this Church, there would be no fault-finding, there would be no jealousy, there would be no envying, no strife, no bitterness in the hearts of members of this Church against other members, for all that would be done away, and we would stand with one united front, and with one desire in our hearts to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. But we are frail, we are mortals, we do not live up to all of the requirements that are made of us. We fall short sometimes in many respects. We, being imperfect, and the Lord being under the necessity of using us as his instruments, the great plan as he has given it is somewhat below the great standard which he has set, and we do not reach those heights which we should. 

OUR DUTY TO MISSIONARY WORK. 

But it is my duty, as it is your duty, my brethren and my sisters likewise — for responsibility is placed also upon you — to do the very best that is within our power, and not to shirk, but endeavor with all our soul to magnify the callings the Lord has given us, to labor diligenty for the salvation of our own house, each one of us, and for the salvation of our neighbors, the salvation of those who are abroad; and so the gospel is to be preached, as we have heard, to the nations in the world, as well as here in the stakes of Zion. But let us not lose sight of the fact — and I do not think that we do — that a soul here at home is just as precious in the sight of God as is one from abroad; and there is a great mis42 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

sion field right here among the Latter-day Saints, and we might improve in our faith, might improve our works, might improve in our fellowship and standing in this Church. There are among us a great many honest souls who have never accepted the opportunity, or have never taken the trouble to search, that they might find these glorious truths which have been made known in the revelations of the Lord. They do not think of these things, they live among us, we associate with them and we come in contact with them daily. They think we are a pretty nice sort of people, but peculiar in our religious views, and therefore they pay no attention to our faith, and therefore this great missionary work that is being carried on now in the stakes of Zion is gathering in a harvest of honest, faithful souls right here from among those who before had never taken the opportunity, I say, which has been theirs, to hear the gospel. 

Now,, my brethren and sisters, these are some of the reflections that have come to my mind this afternoon. I realize that my remarks have been somewhat disjointed, not altogether in the one line of thought, but nevertheless I want to say this in conclusion, that the Lord is with the Latter-day Saints, that his Spirit is resting upon this people, and he requires of us that we go before him in humility, forsaking our sins, our jealousies, our evil thoughts, our envyings, our strifes, if such things exist, and of course, more or less, they do exist in the hearts of the people; and he expects that we love one another. That I pray we shall do, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

ARIZONA APPROPRIATES $2,500 TO "MORMON" BATTALION MONUMENT. 

I have rejoiced in all that has been said here today and endorse most heartily the remarks of my brethren. I have a little note from Brothers J. W. Lesueur and Andrew Kimball of Arizona, the presidents of Maricopa and St. Joseph stakes. They call my attention to the fact that the Arizona legislature has appropriated $2,500 for a Mormon Battalion Monume'nt; that the majority of all the agricultural settlements in Arizona were begun by the "Mormon" people; that the State of Arizona will issue next month the Mormon Settlement book giving an account of the settlements of our people in Arizona, a book of four hundred pages, with sixty illustrations. The state of Arizona is publishing a history of that state, and this volume is a part of it. This volume alone will cost approximately $15,000. The Governor of Arizona and the Historian of the state have devoted a great deal of time, and our friend and brother, LeRoi C. Snow, has been employed in the Historian's office there. We understand that if this volume is sold at the price at which they will sell it, the state will be at a loss of fully $10,000. I have had a brief letter from Brother Snow, enclosing a full account of the contents of the book, but I have been too busy, since I returned from the coast, to read the same. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 43 

"the deseret news" commended. 

After announcing the time and place of various meetings, President Grant continued, referring to the Cantata of Prof. Evan Stephens, and to the splendid editorial in the Saturday News regarding the Cantata, and said : "You should all take the News. The Deseret News is the organ of the Church, and it is entitled to the support of all Israel. Because it is an excellent paper, and also because of the announcements which are made there by the Presidency, from time to time, and other matter it contains, the paper should be in the homes of the people. Read the editorial regarding the Cantata wheln you get home. 

reference to changes in the relief 1 society. 

There is one thing I forgot — and I regret it exceedingly. In the meeting of the Relief Society yesterday, I forgot to invite all of the honored and released members of the General Board of the Relief Society, who in years past have sat there to the right of this stand to continue to occupy seats with the new mlembers of the Board. They have our love, our confidence and our blessings, and we want them to know, as we have said to our retired mission presidents, that there is always a place reserved for them at our General Conference meetings. I have been sorry this afternoon, in looking for the familiar faces, that I forgot to make this announcement yesterday. We want our sisters here, they have our love and our confidence, and our blessing for their past labors, and our prayers for their future happiness. 

The choir sang the hymn, "The Lord Victorious." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph C. Bentley of the Juarez stake, Mexico. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m., Monday, April 4. 


