10
Overflow
03 10 1909
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 

(President of California Mission.) 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation, that sayeth unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." 

These words, spoken over two thousand years ago by the poetprophet Isaiah, came to my mind while listening to the words of testimony and encouragement spoken by Elder McMurrin. I desire very much to enjoy the spirit of truth and to be assisted by your faith and prayers that what I say may be of mutual worth and advantage. I rejoice in the Gospel; I rejoice in the work that is being done at home and abroad. 

I have the honor of laboring with some thirty men of worth and integrity, your husbands and your sons, who are preaching the Gospel to the people of California, Nevada and Arizona, or some parts of those two latter states. You know them, you who are acquainted with them. You know their worth and their integrity, and you know the sacrifices that you are making in order that they may stay in the field. How good it is to know that they are soldiers of the cross, and that the same spirit with which David went out to meet Goliath and the Philistines is on these men — some of them hardly men as yet — boys you may call them. So do they go forth in the strength of the God of Israel to declare His word, that the hour of His judgment is come, and that His kingdom has been established again in the earth. Because of the courage, and unselfishness of these men, because of their holiness and virtue, because of the words of wisdom they speak, because of your prayers, Decause they are magnified in the eyes of men, by the eternal Father, they have not feared  world, and are winning souls to Christ. 

One of the most successful years thus far that we have had in the California mission is the present one, in the work of preaching the Gospel, baptizing converts, the disposition of books, and in giving away tracts. In fact, we have been sufficiently successful to arouse the active antagonism of some of the so-called teachers of peace, who are contending for dogma and the creeds of men, but who are far removed from the mighty principles of truth, and the example, labors and life of the Master, who established His word and His work anciently, as He has established it in these days, by revelation, through the voice of prophets, and by the vision of seers. » 

A week ago, in the city of San Diego, there was gathered together a group of representatives of one of the great, so-called "Christian" churches of the day. They were in conference assembled, but I could not help marking the difference in the spirit manifested there and the Spirit we enjoy today. They met and sang, as we have done; they prayed, as we have prayed, to God, the Eternal Father, and they partook of the Holy Communion. They then asked for a statement or reckoning of the funds of the mission society. After this, one of the reverend gentlemen who has spent long years in Utah in the interest of that society, and who claims to be familiar with this people and their teachings, arose and edified the body with a dissertation along all the lines of meanness that has ever been spoken or written about our people. Then they were prepared to pass the plate, so that the missionary society can be sustained in  land. Charges were made that we are teaching the dogmas of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, and that our hearts and lives are far removed from anything that savors of Christianity, or of the principles of republicanism, that obtains in our government. 

In the northern parts of the state, they became so exercised that they formed a concerted plan of onslaught upon our people, and for some few weeks a battle with some of our brethren occurred in the newspapers, in the press of the country in that locality, and they were helped and abetted by the fulsome press of this city, and by some of the satellites- of disappointed politicians and apostate Latter-day Saints. We could not help but admire our brethren for the courage and calmness with which they answered the slanders and calumnies heaped upon our people, for they answered them, though in the spirit of kindness, with such force and philosophy that the enemy was put to rout. Then our brethren turned somewhat aggressive. They asked those ministers to state by whom they were authorized to preach; by what right they administered in the ordinances of the Gospel; by what right they preached and administered in the name of Christ for hire, instead of serving the people and preaching the word of God, conducting their work upon the lines instituted by the Master? Reminding them that the Lord said: "Freely ye have received, freely give," and declared that His Gospel was for the poor and the oppressed, for all who would come and partake of the waters of life, that His word and His Gospel were without money and without price. 

These men said they would make  answer to any such contention as this, and signed their last article and withdrew from the field. Then one of the papers, in an editorial, arraigned them most severely for the manner in which they treated us, saying their methods were characterized by no traits of gentility, let alone the Christian character, which they professed. The editor wanted to know why they did not answer the questions propounded by our brethren; and it has resulted in much good. So our hearts are filled with joy, because we have been able to get the attention and active consideration of the people. It is the indifference of the people in any missionary field that is hurtful to our feelings. If we can arouse the people sufficiently that they become interested enough even to oppose us, we then feel assured of this fact: that if we have their ears in this cause we can divest their minds of prejudice that they have imbibed and, perhaps, through the grace of God, impart unto them some of the principles of eternal life, that they may enter into the joy of the Lord. They may then taste some of the peace of the gospel of Christ; peace that does away with error and superstition, that enters into the souls of men and elevates them far beyond the trifling things of earth; that relieves them of distrust and fear and trembling that belong to the wicked. That peace of which President Smith spoke in his remarks, that lifts the Latter-day Saint above the vagaries of men, above their bickerings, strifes and jealousies; the peace that is spoken of in the olden scriptures by the Master Himself, when He speaks of the kingdom of heaven, as we read it in the 13th chapter of St. Matthew. Jesus said : "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a treasure hid in a field; the which, when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The lesson that we draw from these two parables is this : that in the possession of this pearl of great price he came into God's peace; he came to the peace of the kingdom of heaven and into the possession of joy and truth far above the riches of the kings and princes of the earth, richer than one would be with all the untold wealth of the Indies. 

Men who possess this peace rejoice. Such men, President Smith said, are lifted above the mundane things of this sphere and its petty strifes. Such men stand, as it were, above the clouds, like some great mountain capped with snow; whilst at its base there may be thunder and lightnings, floods and earthquakes, and all below is hidden from the light of the sun, and there is darkness, clouds and gloom, upon its head shines the rays of the effulgent sun. All is serene with such a man; he is in possession of peace that is above the earth. So it was with Joseph Smith when, persuaded to retrace the steps he had taken toward the peaceful abode he had foreseen for his people in the valleys of the mountains, he said to his brethren: "I go like a lamb to the slaughter, yet my conscience is void of offense towards God and all men. I am calm as a summer's morning, and it shall yet be said of me, 'He was murdered in cold blood.' " No  could have that peace and possess such equanimity of soul unless God was with him and he in God's peace; unless he was in possession of the "pearl of great price" that the nusbandman sold all his possessions for, and then felt that joy that is unsurpassable. 

So the Latter-day Saints should comfort themselves with this assurance that, whilst they are compelled to meet contumely and strife in the world, they possets the pearl of great price. They, too, stand upon Mount Zion, publishing peace and good tidings, and bringing joy to. the inhabitants of the earth. Whilst great men are condemning the creeds of men, and stating the necessity of a new gospel, and that such new gospel should be without the dogmas of men, we know that the Gospel we preach, which we have received, is from the Lord, it has His authority, it is not what men have brought down from the dead past, but that it is characterized by newness of life, revealed from God in our own day, dealing with the past, present and future. Had President Eliot and others who find fault with existing religions, investigated "Mormonism," they could not have claimed the necessity of greater light, of greater truth, of greater freedom, than that which characterizes the religion of the Latter-day Saints. Christian men and women can not find in any one of the other churches all of that which they recognize as the religion of Christ. Feeling narrowed within the confines of the creeds, they have tried to find outside of their churches the fullness of the Gospel of Jesus. They are debating such matters as this in their colleges, such a one as I read some time ago at Stanford University, Cali : "Resolved, that a new religion suited for all men and all times should be brought forth to meet the intellectual conditions of each nation, and to meet the requirements of all people, and of all kindreds of the earth." They are running to and fro for the word of God. I trust some shall find it. They recognize the fact that there is a famine in the land, "not a famine for bread nor a thirst for water," but for the truth. 

Is it not a glorious thought, my brethren and sisters, and something to be most thankful for, that we have in our possession this very thing that the learned and the wise and the mighty of the earth are seeking for? Is it not a consolation to know that this Gospel ( good news, it means) answers every call of the human mind, responds to every emotion of the human soul, and answers fully and completely every requirement of intelligence and reason? There is a philosophy and a logic in it that appeals to the minds of men that cannot be controverted or contradicted. This Gospel which we preach, when they hear it or when they read it, and especially when they live it, has that quality that gives something more than a passive belief in some code of morals, it means more than a belief in the written word of God, for the letter killeth, the spirit is necessary to give it. life. Men can see and feel that our faith is brighter, more perfect and heavenly than the churches or religions they have been acquainted with in the world. They can see, when they find it, that faith is an incentive to all intelligent action, that it is necessary for men and women to render that which is just and true to themselves, to their own families, to tht  of our commonwealth and to God. Faith has prompted every great man in the world. It, was faith in the theory that the world was round that gave courage and inspiration to Columbus, when he steered his vessels into the rays of the western sun and discovered a new world. It was faith that led Watts and Stephenson in the line of work they respectively followed, that evolved the locomotive and engine of today. It was faith that led Franklin into the field with kite and key, and it is faith that is overcoming that which seemed a few years ago to be impossible, the difficulties in aerial navigation, so that machines heavier than air are flying, as Isaiah said, "like a cloud and as doves to their windows." 

When they see and appreciate all this, they can see how logical is the principle maintained by the Latterday Saints as a part of revealed religion, of the natural and rational law of the Gospel, that faith is the great first principle of revealed truth. No wonder, my brethren and sisters, that the Prophet Joseph Smith, under the inspiration of Almighty God, said that "faith is the foundation of all revealed religion." You will remember, perhaps, that some of the leading churches contend still that faith follows repentance, and that repentance is the first awakening of religious thought or belief. We had this contention not long since with a doctor of divinity, who was speaking to the people of San Diego about us and the tenets of Mormonism. So some of these men, who seem to know all about us, have not learned this one principle yet, that faith is the foundation truth of all intelligent thought and action, and that repentance comes as a natural sc quence to it, and is true development and true education. All men have made mistakes, and all successful men have repented and turned from them; they have turned to a better theory, to a better plan. The housewife exercises faith in her household duties; for instance: in making bread, she knows that the proper ingredients will produce the proper and desired result; and if she makes a mistake in it, she repents of it, and then she sees that her bread is more carefully and more perfectly prepared. So that faith, you see, is used in the smallest as well as in the greatest things in life. If a banker, or a railroad magnate, makes a mistake, he repents of it, and sees that it does not occur again. So we might go on, and show that repentance is necessary in the development, and intelligent action, and operation of all things, and is the handmaid of faith, going hand in hand with it. 

It is most gratifying to know that we have this divine type of a message, this eternal character of a Gospel to preach. We have no apologies to make for it; we preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, His message which, if men will receive it in their hearts, they shall be thereby prepared for the advent of the Son of Man when He comes to earth to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. 

May the Father grant that this time shall not be far away, but that we shall do well our part, that the coming of the Son of Man may be hastened, and the time soon arrive when men shall study war no more, that every man shall render that which is just and true to all his fellows, come into God's peace, and be able to say, as did our Prophet and Seer, the martyred President of our 

Church, "My conscience is void of offense towards God and all men." In possession of this peace we shall be "as calm as a summer's morning." May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and give us of His Spirit, to know, to feel, and to live these Gospel truths, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
