11
Outdoor
03 10 1909
Elder Benjamin Goddaed. 

We are glad to meet you, my brothers, sisters, and friends, in this gathering, realizing that you are unable to obtain entrance to the Tabernacle or the Assembly Hall, and that you are so desirous of learning something with regard to the work in which we are all interested, that you are willing to come to this open  gathering and remain standing, until the close. 

In the official position J now occupy upon this block, every day in the year, I am asked questions with regard to Mormonism. The words of the prophets have been literally fulfilled, as indicated in the hymn that you have just sung: 

"High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled; Ye nations now look up, 

It waves to all the world. In Deseret's sweet peaceful land — On Zion's mount behold it stand!" 

I think sometimes we ought to read the words of our hymns as well as sing them, and understand how forcible they are with regard to the Latter-day work. At times we give too much attention to the music and too little to the spirit of the song, and I am therefore going to read, perhaps as an inspiration unto those who may follow, the next few lines. 

"For God remembers still 

His promise made of old, That He on Zion's hill 

Truth's standard would unfold; Her light should there attract the gaze Of all the world in latter days. 

"His house shall there be rear'd, 

His glory to display; And people shall be heard 

In distant lands to say, We'll now go up and serve the Lord, Obey His truth, and learn His word." 

The truth of the words that I read can be testified to by many who now stand before me. Many of you have come from foreign lands. Your presence here indicates the fulfillment of this prophecy; and, as I stated before, upon this block, within the vicinity in which you are now standing, thousands  people come from every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, to learn what Mormonism means. To the strangers that come amongst us, we declare that Mormonism means the salvation of the human family. Mormonism has a message to the world, that message having been introduced by the direct ministration of the Father and the Son, repeated through the ministrations of the Angel Moroni, (whose figure is upon the summit of our Temple), who revealed the sacred record, the Book of Mormon, from which we teach, together with the Bible, the word of God. And, further, we declare that Mormonism is the revealed truth of the Almighty, given through a prophet in the latter days, that prophet having been ministered unto by resurrected beings : John the Baptist having come unto him and clothed him with the power of the Aaronic Priesthood; and Peter, James, and John having appeared unto him and given unto him the authority of the Melchisedek Priesthood; and these revelations of God, (the Doctrine and Covenants) we present unto the world as another sacred volume, which we commend as worthy of consideration. We therefore have before us today, the word of God contained in the Bible (for "we believe the Bible to be the word of God"), and the Book of Mormon, which we believe also to be the word of God : ancient scriptures treating of God's dealings with His people upon the Eastern continent, and also upon the Western continent; and we declare that we have now the living orades amongst us; and revelations given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, equally binding, equally sacred, equally divine. We commend unto the world these sacred volumes. I trust that the brethren will have your attention, and that God will bless us in this open air gathering equally with those who have been privileged to meet in the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall; and may the Spirit of the Lord fill your hearts, and interpret unto you every truth that is uttered, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.
