12
Outdoor
03 10 1909
Elder John L. Herrick. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission). 

I read from Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized." 

One of the keynotes given to the great audience assembled in the Tabernacle this morning, by President Smith, was that the parents of children throughout the Church should give heed to them, should give more attention to their sons and daughters, and should see to it that they are guarded and directed aright. In the mission field we meet with so many classes of people, that the questions are involuntarily forced upon us time and time again : "What is our duty to those who are in the world?" and, "Who are we to consider our neighbor?" 

It seems to me that this revelation which was given in our day for the guidance and direction of this people meant that our children should not be properly trained simoly for our own good or for our immediate neighbor's good; but that they might be examples abroad wherever they went in whatever city or county, or state or nation. And so I say to you, my brothers and sisters, that this question of our neighbor is a very serious one for us to consider, because this work is broad. It comprehends all truth. We cannot afford to be narrow and contracted in our views, for our work and our duty extends to every one in the world who is in need of light, and who is seeking the truth pertaining to the salvation of the human family. 

Christ told His followers upon one occasion, that at the last day it would be said to certain people, "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world : For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat : I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked, and ye clothed me. * * * " And the people would wonder at this because they could not remember any particular time they had given Him such entertainment; and so they would say to Him, "When saw we Thee an hungered, and fed Thee? or thirsty, and gave Thee drink? when saw we Thee a stranger, and took Thee in? or naked, and clothed Thee?" And He would say, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, My brethren, ye have done it unto Me." 

That is the spirit of this work. It means that it must go to all the world, to every man, woman, and child; that everyone must have a chance to hear this great plan of salvation. So our duty is not to our individual neighbor, to him that lives next door to us, but we are held responsible if our children go into another city, and come in con-. tact with other people, and do not  them proper examples. I think we shall be held accountable, just as this scripture says, if we do not provide them the means and the ways, and do not set them proper examples. Condemnation will come upon us if we fail in this matter. 

[Quoting again from the Doctrine and Covenants :] "Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; and they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness." 

So, if our young men, and our young women go to the neighboring towns, to the neighboring county, or state, or wherever they go, and carry not this spirit, this inspiration of the Gospel with them, condemnation will rest upon us, their parents. 

A few months ago, I read of a sad event which happened in this city, which very much impressed me at the time. I do not think I shall forget it. A man who was very popular here, both in a business and a political way a few years ago, was led into temptation, and he became a defaulter in the bank with which he was connected. He was sentenced to a term of imprisonment, and had served quite a number of years of his time, but had a longer time to serve, when an outbreak occurred in the penitentiary. It seemed that a general jail, outbreak was planned, and that the execution of it would have been carried out had it not been for the prompt action of this man. He took it into his head to hide the keys from the jailbreakers and did so. Then he hid himself; but it was soon discovered that he was the  that had frustrated the plan of the desperadoes. So when the matter was brought before the Board of Pardons of this state, it was thought well to release him, to give him his freedom, because he had earned it. 

This man began here, among the people who knew of his disgrace, among those who knew thiat he had defaulted from his bank, among those who knew that he had worn the prison garb, to start out among neighbors and friends, to make over his life, to live it anew. A great number of difficulties and trials and tribulations came in his way, and he was about to give up, and yet he thought, "I want to succeed here, and show these people that I am a man." So he kept on in this line of thought and action. But one day, as he was passing along the street, and as he turned a corner, two men who stood there were heard to remark, one of them to the other, "There goes an exconvict: there goes;" he said 

it loud enough for the unfortunate man to hear, and he was crushed beyond endurance. He had borne many indignities that had been heaped upon him by those who were opposite to him in business; but this was the final blow. .On the way to his office he purchased a revolver; as he entered he said, "If anyone calls for me, say that I am not in." Then he stepped into another room, and in a moment the report of a gun was heard. The poor fellow had blown out his brains. He left a letter to his intimate friends, in which he said, "My competitors would not let me live. They were jealous of me because I was trying to make a name fcr myself and live down my shame. They would not let me live." 

I say to you, my friends, that that man's death is chargeable to some individual in this world. I believe also that we are chargeable, we are accountable, for what we do and say, no matter who is our neighbor. Everyone who is in trouble, who is in distress, who needs our help, is cur neighbor; not our own family, not only those whom we mingle with from day to day, but every man and woman who is in distress in this world. 

The words of one of the poets come to my mind in this connection, and I will try and repeat a few stanzas to you. 

"Some there are who seek 'twixt covers 

For their knowledge of mankind. In whatever each discovers 

May he satisfaction find; But for me no book is needed, 

As I ponder day by day On the humor and the oathos 

In the flats across the way. 

"Mornings, as the children sally, 

And a goodly score appear, Forth to school or mimic warfare, 

Boyhood's fancies reappear. Life is short, and time is fleeting, 

I repeat, as day by day, Children change to youths and maidens 

In the flats across the way. 

"From a window just above me 

Oft there leans a maiden fair, Playing with her favored canine, 

Tall is she, with golden hair. I'll admit my heart, distracted, 

Grows with envy day by day, As she clasps that brindled bull pup, 

In the flats across the way. 

"Just across the nice young couple 

Have been sent a son and heir, But the way they treat that baby 

Sets on end my every hair. My conviction, though unpleasant, 

Grows more certain day by day That they'll kill that "kid" with kindness 

In the flats across the way. "By a window sits a grandsire, 

Hopeless paralytic he, There awaiting death to free him, 

Yet he smiles right cheerfully. To give thanks for present blessings 

Is the lesson day by day Taught me by that helpless cripple, 

In the flats across the way. 

"All unbidden, most disturbing, 

Once a thought there came to me, For it straight imposed upon me 

Great responsibility; For this thought, and 'tis a true one, 

Guides my action day by day, To those opposite I'm living, 

In the flats across the way." 

And so I say to you, my brothers and sisters, we are living to those who are looking upon our acts every day, every hour, and every minute of our lives, and we should be cautious in every act, thought, and deed, no matter where we are. God grant that His blessing may be with you, that He may lead you aright in the paths of truth and righteousness, is my humble desire, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
