16
Morning
04 10 1909
Elder Reed Smoot. 

The Saints a blest people. — Saints counseled to keep their children around them. — Happy homes and how to make them. — Dr. Eliot's "new religion." — The nobility of labor. — Should establish home industries. — Duties of husbands. 

I am, indeed, thankful to my Heavenly Father for this another privilege of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in general conference. I have enjoyed the testimonies that have been borne, the words of counsel that have been given; and I trust that the same good spirit that has made itself manifest in the remarks and testimonies of the brethren who have preceded me, in this conference, may continue with us until the end. I, for one, never get tired of thanking my Heavenly Father that I was born in these valleys of the mountains. The more I visit the different parts of the world, and the oftener I come in contact with the people of the world, I feel in my heart that the Latter-day Saints, every one of them, should thank God every day of their lives, that they are permitted to live here under such favorable circumstances. 

We see prosperity on all hands, it is so universal, we take it for granteel that it is but natural, and forget that it is God's blessings showered upon us. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we live in a blessed part of this country. God has blest this inter-mountain country with so many of the material blessings of this world, that there is n" place to compare with it. I hope and trust that the brethren and sisters will realize this and that they will be contented and thankful; that they will keep their sons and their daughters around them; that they will cultivate their farms a little better, and by cultivating them better, be able to increase their productiveness, thus enabling them to divide it with their children and prevent them from leaving the state to establish new homes elsewhere. In this way we will have more homes in all of our communities and a better chance of our children having a God-fearing home. 

There has been considerable said during this conference, about home industry, the necessity o', proper home-life, the improvement of home-surroundings. I wish to emphasize all those good instructions, and I want also to call the attention of the people here to the fact that there are many successful homes that, perhaps, would not be looked upon as successful homes by many who do not know what constitutes a home of that character. Every home in Zion should be a home of order, a home of contentment, a home of hospitality, and a home of godliness; for it is said : "The beauty of a home is order; the blessing of a home is contentment; the glory of a home is hospitality; the crown of a* home is godliness." My brethren and sisters, I wonder  our homes are such. I wonder if we, as heads of homes, have built upon these truths and taught our children the same. What greater truth than that the crown of the home is godliness. My brethren and sisters, the fear that I have of Christianity today, in my beloved country, is that the spirit of prayer, of godliness, if you please, is fast vanishing from the homes of the people. In many parts of America the best of people, as they are called,  do not even ask God's blessing upon the food that they eat. They never think of praying to God, in private or as families; and it seems to me that this is a menace to Christianity, and reformation is needed in a great majority of homes in this our beloved country. 

All manner of isms are arising. There is a feeling, from one end of the country to the other, of throwing off the yoke of what people call Christianity. I care not for the cranks that may arise from time to time, for their lives are short; but it seems to me that when a man like Dr. Charles R. Eliot, of the great Harvard University, comes out and announces as a new doctrine a faith that denies the Divinity of Jesus Christ, that denies that man is made in God's image, that denies the authenticity of all biblical miracles, the efficacy of prayer, the supernatural value of the sacrament, the merit of self-sacrifice, and even denies the immortality of the soul — it strikes me, my brethren and sisters, that there is danger for Christianity among the people. He is a man who has been honored with the greatest of positions, and even, within a short time, offered a position as the American ambassador to one of. the greatest countries on this earth. While I haven't the time, this morning, to analyze these denials of his, I am going to content myself by saying, today, that such teaching has a tendency to bring into the homes of the American people a disregard for Christ and His teachings. When that is accomplished, when the spirit of anti-Christ enters the home, I want to say to the good people here assembled, and to the people of this country, there is a condition in the home that cannot be too strongly condemned, and can only be overcome by the acquisition of a knowledge of Christ and our Heavenly Father. 

I hope our homes are homes of order; I hope that our homes are homes of contentment — and when I say "home," I mean a pk-.ce where the father, the mother and every child loves one another and fears God. It is not necessarily a mansion. A successful, contented home may be one within only four simple walls; it may be of the humblest proportions and of the poorest construction; but if in that home there is the love of God; if there is love and contentment; if all the family are laboring to one end, I know that it is a home that God is pleased with. Let me impress this fact upon the people here, that the foremost of all things to bring contentment into a home is the faithful practice of prayer. Let the father pray; let the mother pray; let every child pray; let them take their turns, and let the heaithstone be the place where the desires of your hearts are poured out to your Heavenly Father. 

I think about the meanest being on this earth is a lazy man. I have met a few men, and I rhank the Lord they are few, whom I consider absolutely lazy, so lazy they al their wives to do all the work at home, and earn the living for the family, including the head of the household. I remember, on one occasion, meeting one of these men. I asked him why he didn't get work ? I knew he was always looking for it, but hoping and praying that he would not find it. I could see him upon the street all times of day 'and all seasons of the year, and I asked him how he made a living? "Well," he said, "my wife is still washing." I said to him, "If you can't find a job, why on earth don't you go and help the wifc wash?" "Why, that is beneath the dignity of a man," was his answei . I say, God pity such a being — I hardly like to call him a man. I ask the brethren and sisters here today, to begin with each one of your children, when they are young; instil into them a desire to work. I thank God that I have a trade at my fingers' ends; and that it is a great joy to me, for I know I can go and earn my living any time as a woolen goods manufacturer. I want every daughter of mine to learn how to work. I want her, when she is married, to be capable of taking care of a home. I care not whether she has to do it or not; I want her to know how to do it. I was reading, in a magazine last night, an article on Laziness, by Dr. Albert Von Bergmann, of Berlin, who is acknowledged as the one man of the world who has made the greatest study of this question; and this is what he says about laziness : 

"No one is born naturally lazy. One born indolent and inactive is already diseased by some other cause than laziness. The chronically lazy 

boy is at the start as healthy as the average child, but, as- he continues to refuse to do his work in school, his  at home, his labor in shop and field, a great physical change takes place in him. He physically becomes so that he cannot help being k.zy except under powerful, curative treatment. 

"The motor muscles and points of his feet soften as do those of tie legs and hands. The powers of perception of the brain are dull, and thought becomes sluggish and non-creative. The eye is dulled and only performs about half of the functions it should. The ear misses many sounds, and thus weakens the strength of its possessor. Although slower in its develcpment, there is as much disintegration in a lazy boy's body as in the frame of one attacked with a malignant disease. 

"Gradually this physical change passes into the soul, and the beautiful inspirations given by God to all new-born beings change under human influence into criminal instincts. Society receives then the boy aeggar, the boy thief, the boy sloth. Nothing is left to do with him but lo;k him up, or drive him from town t3 town until death releases him from his uselessness." 

I would like to see every father have a desire in his heart to see his boy become proficient in whatever line of work is mapped out for him, or the boy may choose. We talk about home manufactures — why, I gave almost twenty years of my life, to the Woolen Mills at Provo; and I want to say that one of the hardest things that I had to contend with was to get boys and girls, and even men, and women to stay long enough at a job to learn how to do the work well. My brethren and sisters, it seems to me that if the Manufacturers' Association, or the Chambers of Commerce cf our state, would like to do a splendid thing for this state, in developing home manufacturers, they would have a committee appointed from their body to go and visit some of the great manufacturing centers, as  as the smaller ones, of this country, and pick out from among the thousands of different articles manufactured east, those that could be made here, and then secure the formation of companies to make them here. Why, take little New Jersey, a state no larger than one of our counties, I never realized that any one little spot could be so interested in everything that was affected by the tariff. There was scarcely an item in all of the eight hundred paragraphs of the bill, that New Jersey was not interested in — not all large concerns, but little concerns, the manufacturing of little things. I believe that a committee could go east and look up hundreds of these little things, that would not take very much money to manufacture here, and I have no doubt, could be made successfully. Suppose there were only a hundred of them; and suppose that there were only twenty men or boys required in each one of them, there would be two thousand men or boys engaged in useful work. Every industry that can be started here, that will give your boys employment is, as has been said here, a blessing to the whole community. 

I hope that the fathers will take an interest in the work at home; I hope they will lighten the burden of mothers just as much as possible. I once heard a man speak in public, and he said that he had not kissed his wife since he was married to her. Brethren and sisters, I thought that a strange remark and a confession of wrong doing. I do not believe in that doctrine or practice. I have never left my home, when my wife was there, from the day that I had a home, up till this very morning, without kissing my wife goodbye. I never left her at noon-time, in my life, unless I kissed her goodbye. And I wish that every Latter-day Saint would follow this practice — not to kiss my wife, but his own. (Laughter). Start married life and continue it, by making the wife feel that you are interested in her labors and love her. Lift as much of the burden from her tired shoulders as it is possible to do; for you know it is said, "Man's work is from sun to sun; but woman's work is never clone." No successful home can be made by the father alone; no successful home can be made by the mother, alone; it takes a united family to make a perfect Latterday Saint home. . 

May God give us strength and a determination to make every home in Zion a perfect home and, above all, a prayerful home, a godlike home, an industrious home, a contented home, a hospitable home, and a home of order, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
