18
Afternoon
04 10 1909
Elder George Albert Smith. 

Testimonies concerning Christ and the Pronhet Joseph Smith — No break in the Priesthood. — Setting our homes in order. — Should strive after the best in life. 

I believe there is no one here today more gratful than I am for the privilege of being here. It is a joy to me to look into the faces of my brethren and sisters, whom it has been my privilege to visit in their homes. 

I realize that you are here because you believe it is our Father's will that you should be; and you have come for the eternal blessings of our Father, rather than remain at home to seek those things that perish in this life. 

I am grateful for the testimony God has given me that this is His work. I know that He lives. I know that Jesus Christ is His Son and the Redeemer of the world. I know that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of our Father, to bring again the Gospel of salvation to the children of men. The Lord has continued His priesthood in the Church, since the days of the Prophet and his presiding authority, until the present time. We are now presided over by a faithful servant of our Heavenly Father, one of His children whom He has chosen to declare unto us His mind and will. 

I hope that the words which we have heard, in this conference, will he taken home by each of us. "Have I set my house in order?" This should be the query in every heart. Not, Has my neighbor done so ? but, have I done what the Lord has required of me? 

Brethren and sisters, we may have given to us, in this life, a few things that will give us satisfaction, temporally; but the things that are eternal, the things that are "worth while," are those eternal things that we reach out for, and prepare oursevles to receive, and lay hold of by the effort that we individually make. 

This is God's work; it is the power of God unto salvation, unto every  and every woman that will receive and obey its precepts; and I bear you witness of it, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
