2
Morning
03 10 1909
President John R. Winder. 

Grateful for the blessings of the Lord. — Sixty years' experience in the Church. — Joseoh Smith a true Prophet of God. — In favor of home industries. — Endorsement of President Smith's teaching. 

I scarcely know how to express my gratitude to God, our eternal Father, for this privilege that I have of once more meeting with you, my brethren and sisters, in general conference. As I looked over this congregation this morning, I thought of the time when I first heard the Gospel in a far off land, from an elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I was convinced of the truth when I first heard it, and I knew that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I am thankful to say, this morning, that faith has grown and increased with me as the years have passed along; and every day that I live I see new evidences of the truth of this work. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I am thankful that this testimony has never left me since I first heard the Gospel, more than sixty years ago. 

I have rejoiced in listening to the words of the President, this morning, and I fully and heartily indorse every principle that he has spoken of. I hope that we will all be so impressed with the truth that we will seek to carry out these instructions in our lives; that when we go home, from this conference, we will all put forth our best efforts to improve, and live in accordance with these principles. I wish to say here, this morning, before this vast congregation, that I endorse with all my heart every sentiment expressed, and to the best of my humble ability, I will stand by the President and put forth my best efforts to aid and assist him in carrying out these principles. 

I was delighted to hear him speak of home manufactures. For many years I was engaged in the business, myself, manufacturing various articles, and I have regretted many times to see the negligence and carelessness among our people in relation to this principle. I am proud to say, my brethren and sisters, without boasting at all, that I have the honor and the pleasure of wearing a coat, this morning, made from the same piece of cloth that the President's coat was made from, (laughter), and I leave you to judge as to how I look. 

You know pretty well my age and how the Lord has blest and preserved me until the present time. I am almost eight-eight years of age; consequently, you do not expect that I am going to stand here and preach to you. I merely wish, this morning, to bear my testimony to the truth, and to tell you, from the bottom of my heart, that I propose to stand by the President and aid and assist him in every way that I can, and to carry out the principles of the Gospel. 

May the Lord bless you all and help us to be true and faithful to our covenants that we make in the house of the Lord, and everywhere else, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
