27
Afternoon
05 10 1909
Elder Heber J. Grant. 

Appeal to increase membership of M. I. Associations, and subscribe for The Era. 

I have asked permission to say a few words in the interest of the Mutual Improvement Associations. As is known, the organization of classes in the Priesthood has taken away {, om the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association regular religious study, that is, regular scriptural study, and many people have expressed the .idea that there is now little or no use for the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations. We feel the exact opposite. The General Superintendency, and all the members of the General Board, feel that there is as much necessity for improvement of our young men in other lines as in ecclesiastical study. 

We have, at the present time, 1,097 members of the Mutual Im Association on missions. Fully one-half of all the missionaries are members of our association. There are 685 wards in the Church, and 629 Young Men's Mutual Improvement associations; so there are fifty-six wards that lack these associations. I appeal to the Bishops of these wards to see that at the next report there shall be none lacking this organization. We have over 3,500 officers, and 32,225 members. There are 12,752 male members between the ages of 14 and 45, in our Church, who are not enrolled. We appeal to the presidents of stakes, the High Councilors and the Bishops to assist in decreasing this number; we did decrease it last year by 2,429. We have 1,400 teachers, and there are more than 1,200 classes. Twentyfive thousands Manuals are printed and sold each year. Many thousands of dollars are spent every year in educating the young people of the Latter-day Saints, in our Church schools, but all of the education that is given in the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations is given free of cost. There are over 32,000 members in the Young Men's associations, and there are more members in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations; so there are over 60,000 young men and ladies in these two associations. We appeal to each and every one. of you to take an interest in these associations; and now that the Improvement Era is the organ of the Priesthood, we appeal to those holding the Priesthood to support it. We have, from the beginning of the magazine, supplied it free to all of the missionaries. Over two thousand copies are going out now to the missionaries, free of cost. That 121  one of the reasons that we maintain the price at two dollars. We also appeal to the people to sustain the Young Ladies' Journal. These two magazines are doing an immense amount of good in the community; and every father and mother interested in the welfare of their children should do all that they possibly can to increase the membership of our Mutual Improvement Associations. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Goerge F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMur, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as presiding bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H.Roberts, and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., assistant Historians. 

As Members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford, and Willard Young. 

Auditing Committee : Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp. 

Tabernacle Choir : President John R. Winder, President; Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the Members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Bathsheba W. Smith, President; GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Ida Smoot Dusehberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, Secretary; Clariss?. S. Williams, Treasurer. Members of the Board : Jane S. Richards, Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L.Smith, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Annie W. Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Harriet B. Harker, Minnie H. James, Rebecca N. Nibley, Amy B. Lyman, Anna K. Hardy; Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musical Director; Edna H. Coray, Organist. 

Relief Society School of Nurses : Emma A. Empey, superintendent; Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor of .Nurse Work; Phebe Y. Beatie, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Deseret Sunday School Union Board: Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; David O. McKay, First Asst. buperintendent; Stephen L. Richards,Second Asst. Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer; Members of the Board : Joseph F. Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, John Henry Smith, Charles B. Felt, Geo. H. Wallace, Lindsay R. McGhie and Sylvester D. Bradford. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : Jos F. Smith, Superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Assistant Superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendent; Aids : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F Wells, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Leroy C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Bryant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., O. C. Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar W. Kirkham. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association — Martha H. Tingey, president; Ruth M. Fox, First Counselor; Mae T. Nystrom, Second Counselor; Ann M. Cannon, Secretary; Alice K. Smith, Treasurer; Maria Y. Dougall, Honorary Member. Aids: Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Susa Y. Gates, May B. Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Elizabeth C. McCune, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle N. Caldwell, Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy W. Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, Letitia T. Teasdale. Alice C. Tuddenham, Music Director; Mattie R. Evans, Organist; Lizzie T. Sardoni, Assistant Organist. 

General Board of Primary Association: Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; 12H 

Olive D. Christensen, Secretary; Vera I. Felt, Recording Secretary; Vilate Peart, Librarian; Isabelle S. Ross, Physical Director; Lillie T. Freeze and Josephine R. West, Honorary Members. Aids : Aurelia S. Rogers, Lula L. G. Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Edna L. Smith, Eliza S. Bennion, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice Howarth, Emma Romney, Rebecca N. Nibley, Zina Y. Card, and Maria B| Winder. 

General Board of Religion Classes : Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant Superintendent. Members of the Board : Anthon H. Lund, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smith, Henry Peterson, Horace H. Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, George H. Brimhall, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson, and J. D. Cummings, Secretary. 

Trustees of the Brigham Young University: Joseph F. Smith, President; Jesse Knight, Vice-President; Wilson H. Dusenberry, Susa Young Gates, John Henry Smith, Reed Smoot, Lafayette Holbrook, Stephen L. Chipman, Jonathan S. Page, Jr., Richard W. Young, Willard Young, and Joseph R. Murdock. 

Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah: Anthon H. Lund, President; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Secretary and Treasurer; Charles W. Penrose, Joseph Christenson, Anthony W. Ivins, D. M. McAllister and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

An appeal for God's blessings upon His Church and people. — Admonition to exercise wisdom in public speaking. 

I desire to express my thanks and gratitude to all the Latter-day Saints who have attended this conference, for the excellent and peaceful spirit that has pervaded our meetings and has given, I believe, to all who have been present a great deal of satisfaction and enjoyment. 

I have felt that, before closing the meeting, I would like to read a few words of the prayer that was. indicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the time of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, as I think the prayer and principles set forth apply to us at this time as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The prayer reads, in part, as follows : 

"Remember all thy Church, O Lord, with all their families, and all their im-t mediate connections, with all their sick and afflicted ones, with all the poor andmeek of the earth, that the kingdom which thou hast set up without hands, may become a great mountain, and fill the whole earth. 

"That thy church may come forth out of the wilderness of darkness, and shineforth fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners. 

"And be adorned as a bride for that day when thou shalt unvail the heavens, and cause the mountains to flow down at thy presence, and the valleys to be exalted, the rough places made smooth; that thy glory may fill the earth. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"That when the trump shall sound for the dead we shall be caught up in the cloud to meet thee, that we may ever be with the Lord. 

"That our garments may be pure, that we may be clothed upon with robes of righteousnes, with palms in our hands, and crowns of glory upon our heads, and reap eternal joy for all our sufferings. 

"O Lord God Almighty, hear us in these our petitions, and answer us from heaven, thy holy habitation, where thou sittest enthroned, with glory, honor, power, majesty, might, dominion, truth, justice, judgment, mercy, and an infinity of fullness, from everlasting to everlasting. 

"And also this church, to put upon it thy name; and help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing, Hosanna to God and the Lamb. 

"And let these thine anointed ones be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen.
