Afternoon
05 10 1909

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

I am reminded of one of the revelations found in the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the Lord, speaking to Oliver Cowdery, says : 

"Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought, save it was to ask me; 

"But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right." 

My father often said to this people, many years ago, "ever/ tub will have to stand upon its own bottom." He also said many times just before his death — I think it was about  last thing he did say — 'Oh! the test, the test, the test! Who will be able to stand?" He made that remark to mother, and she asked him what the test was. He -said, "I don't know; but no one will be able to stand unless he knows that Jesus is the Christ." 

At the age of fifty-six, and after a number of years of labor in the ministry* and among this people, I am able to testify in and of myself, under the influence of che Spirit of the Lord, that I believe all that God has revealed; and I believe every principle that the Lord has revealed through His servants. 

Now, I want to confess to the people that I have been thinking along certain lines, not with any knowledge or assurance that I would be called upon to speak at this conference, as I have performed very little labor among the people during the last year or more, owing to the condition of my health. When thinking about the matter, I was wondering what the chief topic of this conference would be, and I came to the conclusion that if I were called upon, I would speak upon the temporal salvation of this people. I appreciate salvation; I realize that eternal life is the greatest gift of God; but the temporal salvation of this people is also of vital importance. Some of us — I plead guilty — have sold our inheritances for a "mess of pottage;" and in doing so we are without excuse, for we were warned by the servants of the Lord to hold secure our inheritances, as we were only stewards over the same. 

I will now read something I have copied. On August 5th, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to the Rocky Mountains; many would apostatize; others would be put to death by their persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease; but, he said, "Some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and building cities and will see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." They had not been here very long before the gold fever broke out in California, and some of our people were tinctured very badly with the spirit of money getting. Now listen to what President Brigham Young said — it was his admonition to the Saints who desired to go to California : "The true use of gold is for paving streets, covering houses and making culinary dishes. When the Saints shall have preached the Gospel, raised grain and built cities enough, the Lord will open up the way for a supply of gold to the satisfaction of the people." I am very glad that the Prophet Brigham Young, emphasized the true use of gold and silver. I have heard it preached hundreds of times — the effects of speculation among this people; that it would tend to break them up and lead them from raising grain, building cities, and making preparation for the tens of thousands of people who will desire to come to these mountains for safetyWe have our own people scattered all over the world, and which of you has land to divide . among them? Are we properly supplied with grain? I call the attention of the people to a pamphlet written by Brother John Beck on a "Co-operative college" for Utah. There was a time in the history of Brother John Beck, when he had  of gold and silver. At that time his words would have resounded through all Israel , but he is now a poor man, and we don't read his pamphlet. I say to the Latter-day Saints, that we are not doing our duty in regard to temporal affairs. We are not looking after the streams of water; we are not securing titles to land. On the contrary, our sons are being educated, and probably half of them are hunting for white-shirt jobs, and they don't want to secure the land. Yet there has never been a time in the history of this Church, or in the settling of this country, when there were such opportunities. I recently talked with one of our prominent brethren, a business man, a man for whom I have the greatesc regard. He was interested in representing our products at Seattle, and on his return to Utah, he felt inspired to go down to the Virgin River, and secure some of that water for the people. 

What did it cost to settle that country — the Saint George country? It cost the lives of hundreus of people. The last time I was in St. George there were ninety widows in that one settlement. Well, this good man went to the State Engineer; he looked over the maps carefully, and ascertained the facts in the case. He returned to the Engineer's Office in the evening to file upon the water, but a stranger had been there between morning and evening, and secured over five hundred inches of the Virgin River water. So it is all over Utah; we are sleeping in our trail, and we are in a sort of Rip Van Winkle condition as to our rights, — some of us. 

My brethren, and sisters, I am a practical man, and I wish you to know that I have been a pioneer; I Ill  what it costs to make a home. I fought my battles years ago, in as hard a country as has ever been settled by our people. I know it requires ten years of hard labor, and economy, to succeed as a pioneer. I desire it to go down in history to my posterity, that, while I have made a number of failures, I did not fail as a pioneer. When I left that country, I could have bought out a dozen men who had been raised and remained in Salt Lake City; I mean young men who worked behind the counter. But I lost it all through speculation. That is what I want to talk to you about. Speculation — there is nothing more dangerous to the people and to the Church of Latter-day Saints, unless it be immorality and wickedness. I point you back to history, to Nauvoo. What did the spirit of speculation do, according to the history. It nearly destroyed the people there. 

Take Heber C. Kimball's family, as an illustration. My father died in 1868. When his administrators divided up the estate there was not a single silver dollar given to any of his children, to my knowledge, but there was some property. Our father selected land on the side hill, among the rocks— he wanted to get away from the center of the city. He owned what is known as the Capitol Hill. He left his children that real estate. There was one lot that was given to my mother's family, and I owned one third of it. I received twenty-five thousand dollars for my portion, and I have been sorry twenty-five thousand times that I ever sold it. (Laughter). I am thankful we had sense enough to keep sufficient ground to bury our posterity on. We have paid taxes on it ever since I was fifteen  old, and I still hold it.  What about the other property? There is now hardly a Kimball to be found on the Capitol Hill — unless it be those that are dead. Some of the Kimballs sold their lots at $50 each; today the same lots are worth $4,000.00. If Heber C. Kimball's family had kept their inheritance they would all be wealthy now. And what about the families of other pioneers who came here and fought this great battle? Many of their children are in very nearly the same predicament. I predict to the Latter-day Saints, as a watchman upon the towers, if you follow that foolish example you will "hew stone and draw water :" vou can write that down. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDEK KTJL0N S. WELLS. 

I trust that the Spirit of the Lord will direct me while I stand before you. I have rejoiced in the meetings of this conference and the spirit of the instructions which have been given unto us. While our brethren have been talking to us many reflections have come to my mind, regarding the great plan of life and salvation. I was particularly interested in the reference that was made to the "new religion" of Doctor Eliot, the ex-president of Harvard University; and i thought, how vain men are, who will presume to formulate a religion for the salvation of our Father's children. It lies only with God to. devise a plan whereby His children can be saved. The great trouble in the world is that we have too many man-made religions, and they do not possess the power of God unto salvation. Only that plan that was revealed from heaven, that was GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and established before the foundations of this earth were laid, possesses this power. Eternal life is the goal for which we are striving, and men may not attain to it except in the way which has been pointed out by the Savior of the world. In order for men to find out the true way, it is necessary that they shall be obedient unto the will of God, that they turn away from wickedness and sin, that the Spirit of the Lord may possess their souls and bring them to a knowledge of the truth and to a knowledge of God, for it is this knowledge of God that we understand to be eternal life, as was pointed out by Brother McKay: "This is eternal life, to know Thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent." But no man can obtain that knowledge of God through the wisdom of men. Men are unable to devise the plan by which the children of men may attain to that knowledge. We read in the holy scriptures that when our first parents were placed in the Garden of Eden, the Lord had planted a garden in the east end thereof, and in the midst of the garden there stood a tree, which was the tree of knowledge of good and evil. The Lord told our father Adam that of the fruit of this tree he should not eat, for in the day that he ate thereof he should surely die. I wish to call attention to this particular instance which occurred in the beginning of the history of man, upon this earth. After having partaken of this fruit, Adam and Eve were cast out of the Garden of Eden and Cherubim, with flaming swords, were placed at the entrance to guard the way to the tree of life, which also stood in the midst of this garden, lest they might also  of the fruit of that tree and live forever in their transgression. It is obvious, therefore, that in the great plan of the Almighty, men were not to obtain eternal life while in transgression; and a plan must be formed that would cleanse and purify men before they should be permitted to partake of that fruit which gave them eternal life. If it had been possible, or if it had been permitted that our first parents, in their transgression, could have also partaken of the fruit of this tree of life, we would not have attained to the eternal life that the Lord desires His children to obtain, because it would have been an eternal life of sin, and transgresion from the ways of the Lord, and the next world would have been no better than this one. The Lord desired that all those who should partake of the fruit of that tree and live forever, should first become purged and purified and cleansed from all sin and from all unrighteousness; therefore, He revealed from heaven a plan whereby men and women could obtain eternal life and come to the knowledge of God. Then, to know God is eternal life, and men cannot attain it only through faith and repentance from sin. Likewise, they must receive a remission of sin through baptism of the water, and Spirit, before they can know Him, for we can only know God and the things of God by the Spirit of God. Men may endeavor by their sophistry and philosophy to find Him out, but they will fail. They may undertake, by logic and reason to uncover His hiding place, but they will not succeed only as they pass through the cleansing process of the Gospel  of Jesus Christ. Cherubim with flaming swords still guard the way to the 113  of life and knowledge of God, whom to know is life eternal. It is a wonderful plan. I wish to call attention to this fact, that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and in reference to obtaining wisdom or knowledge, it must begin with the fear of God in our hearts. The Lord has given commandments and, with these commandments, this condition of fear is held up before the children of men. Sometimes there is a disposition to belittle this feeling of fear of God. Of course, it is not to be compared with the love of God, which is the greatest thing in the world; but the beginning is the fear of God. The beginning of knowledge, the beginning of wisdom ha,s its origin in the fear of God, because human nature is such that this apprehension must continually be held up before mankind. It is so in the family government; it is so in our civil government. What would we be if it were not for the fact that laws are passed and penalties attached to the transgression of the lawsr Would we be as honest, as virtuous, as true, as we are today if there were no civil laws prescribing penalties? I do not believe we would be. I believe that it is necessary, in our civil government, that there should be laws passed that whosoever sheddeth the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed; and that whosoever shall steal must pay the penalty. The sentiment of fear must be held up before us. I believe that it is necessary for every one of us to have these things before us, that we may know the consequence of transgression is that we will be punished. I rejoice that there is a code of laws in force by which society is protected, by which our children and we ourselves are protected  going the wrong way. We, too, are a covenant people, and this essential condition of fear is inscribed in the law of God; it is always held up before us. We are under holy and sacred covenants, penalties are attached to the transgression of the law of God; and, my brethren and sisters, in this fear of God I can find the beginning of wisdom and of knowledge. Men who wish to come to a knowledge of God may begin by having the fear in their hearts that they will not violate or transgress His laws, for they are wholesome and good, and we need them to keep us straight. As I advance in years, I find that I approve of every influence that has a tendency to keep me in the right path. I delight in those restrictions that are placed upon society and upon me, that prevent us from going wrong. It will hurt no good man to have good and wholesome laws; furthermore, it will lead us to the love of God, because if we are walking in this path, eschewing evil, turning away from it, each time that we govern ourselves in this way we will find we are coming nearer to obeying the will of God, and the great law of love will have an opportunity of controling us. 

I desire to read a few words from the eleventh chapter of the first book of Nephi. Those of you who are familiar with the Book of Mormon will remember the great dream that Lehi had, and how the Lord revealed to him, in that dream, wonderful things, and among other things that he saw was a tree, the fruit of which was very desirable. Afterwards Nephi received a vision, and an angel of the Lord asked him a question, as to what he desired, and he said he desired to see GENERAL CONFERENCE.  things which his father had seen in his dream : 

"And the angel said unto me (Nephi) Behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which thy father saw? 

"And I answered him saying, Yea, it is the love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things. 

"And he spake unto me saying, Yea, and the most joyous to the soul. 

"And after he had said these words, he said unto me, Look! and I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the children of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship him. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron which my father had seen, was the word of God, which led to the fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters are a representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that the tree of life was a representation of the love of God." 

The word of God was the iron rod which also led to the tree of life. That is the way to get to that tree and to partake of its fruit; and it represents the love of God. Blessed are those who shall attain to the love of God, but let them not despise the necessity of fearing God, and keeping His commandments. 

In this the dispensation of the fulness of times, as it was predicted, an angel came flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell upon the face of the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people; and this was his cry : "Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come; and worship Him that made the heavens and the earth, and the seas, and the fountains of water." Brethren and sisters, let the fear of God take hold  us, that we may obey His commandments, lest we have to pay the penalty; let us so live that we may avoid the punishment that comes to the evil-doer. If we will do so, clinging to the word of God, remembering the penalties that come from transgressing and going against it, we will eventually arrive at the tree and partake of that love of God that will fill our hearts with joy that is beyond all description. God bless us all. Amen. 

EIDER CHARLES H. HART. 

It is pleasing, and I think, indeed, fitting that this house of worship should be decorated with the Stars and Stripes, the colors and emblem of our country; for I know of no religion, except ours, that has as one of its religious beliefs or doctrines, the fact that the Constitution of the United States was divinely inspired. In Section 150 of the Doctrine and Covenants we have this language; 

"Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage, one to another, and for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

The history of constitution making shows that there is good reason for a doctrine such as this. When we view the progress that had been made in constitution making up to the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, and the great success of that instrument, we can readily believe that it was more than man's wisdom that established the balances, the divisions of government, and the harmony 115  consistency existing in that great document. If we may presume ourselves incompetent to pass an impartial judgment upon the value of that document, on account of being, ourselves, citizens and lovers of our own country, let us take the testimony of one of those distinguished statesmen mentioned this morning, a patriot and lover of the English government, the English Premier, William Gladstone, who said of our Constitution, "So far as I am able to observe, it is the greatest instrument ever stricken off at a given time, by the brain and purpose of man." I think one of the elements of distinction, in connection with that instrument, is the fact that it was a written constitution. England had made great progress in establishing the rights of freemen, during all the centuries of her history, that were so rich in the development of those principles guaranteeing the rights and liberties that Anglo-Saxons so dearly prize. But England did not have a written constitution, so-called; she had her various documents which were repositories of these great principles that the English forefathers had contended for. She had her Magna Charta, that was wrested from King John, by the Barons, upon the plains of Runnymede. She had her petition of Rights, her Bill of Rights, her Act of Settlement, the Habeas Corpus Act, and all of these great palladiums of English liberty; but none of them could compare with this remarkable document that was produced by these wise men, whom God raised up for the very purpose of making that constitution. 

The influence of the document has been contagious. It spread to Europe. Governments in Europe,  Asia, in Africa, and in the islands of the sea have patterned after it; and we may well be proud, it seems to me, of the position of our Church with reference to this great instrument, that is suitable to the needs of eighty or ninety millions of people as readily as it was suitable to some three millions; a document that is capable of being extended and expanded, and of growing in the right directions; a document which secures unto us liberty and security that we, perhaps, do not realize or stop to think of, — surrounding us and protecting us, as the very air that we breathe. 

A missionary in Turkey, some years ago, when times were as troublesome and as dangerous to life, almost, then as they were recently, told me of his experience, showing the value to him of being an American citizen. His life was in danger. Before that time he had made the friendship of the United States consul, and when the lines began to be drawn about him, so that it seemed his life was in great hazard and jeopardy, he got a communication through to that United States consul, at a distant port. He responded immediately by sending several American war vessels into the harbor where our missionary brother was located, and the Turkish government had served upon them, very vigorously, a notice which warned them that they would be held responsible for every hair on the head of that misionary that might be harmed. 

Now, while receiving protection such as makes it a great privilege to be a citizen of the United States, we owe a corresponding duty to our country; we owe the duty of perpetuation, of obedience to the first great command that was given our first parents. The question of race suicide is agitating the minds of thinking people today. According to statistics given by Professor Ross of the Wisconsin University, in the American Journal of Sociology, the birthrate of all European nations declined, during the period that the statistics covered, the last quarter of the 19th century. The decline was from 2.2% to 6.8% births to the thousand population, making England's reduction of the birthrate from 35.4 to 28 6 at about the close of the 19th century. There were evidences of the birthrate declining in all those nations, even in the vigorous young colonies of Great Britain, during that period and since. From statistics given by one of the brethren, sometime ago, the birthrate of the Mormon people, for the year 1908, I think, was 40.2 births, per annum, for the thousand population. We owe it to our government, in addition to the perpetuation of the race, to develop worthy citizens, men who have embodied in their lives those principles that have been taught during this conference, by the various speakers. We who went to the Fair, yesterday, admired the products of the soil. We paused for a moment, as we passed that group of squash weighing 1,370 pounds. We admired the mammoth horses, fat cattle, beautiful birds, and the products of the shop and field; but 1 am sure we would take greater pride in the growth and development of our sons and daughters, and in their virtue and integrity, rather than in these products of the held and of the farm. Emerson has said that the chief test of civilization is not in the census, nor the size of the cities, nor the crops — no, but far greater than these, the character of  men and women we are producing. If the doctrines and teachings of this conference shall be adhered to by the people, an improvement will be made for the future, in this most important direction of the proper care, growth, and development of our children. 

This doctrine of temporal salvation is really a spiritual doctrine, when you come to think of it. In the Doctrine and Covenants we are informed that at no time has the Lord given any temporal law, but they are all spiritual. These socalled temporal things are spiritual in a sense; and that is in harmony with the doctrine of a modern philosopher who expresses it in the form of a question: "If we continue to progress, must there not come a time when we shall cease to differentiate and call some things secular, and some things sacred?" All these things that tend to the growth, development and betterment of the people are sacred and spiritual. 

The soul of an individual is certainly very precious in the sight of our Father. The words of the Savior, according to Luke, referring to the value of a human soul, are as follows : "What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world and lose himself, or is cast away?" For many years, and perhaps still, with some people, the doctrine existed that man was made by our Father in Heaven for the purpose of giving him praise; but in the Pearl of Great Price we have the true doctrine in reference to that matter, as revealed from the Lord, "Behold, this is my work and my glory : to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Not the matter of singing praise unto Him, as the chief glory of God, as declared by some formal statements 117  creed; but the glory of God is in bringing to pass the immortality and eternal life of us, His creatures. May the Lord help us, my brethren and sisters, to accept and put into practice the important doctrines and truths we have heard during this conference, that shall help to make us better citizens of this great country of ours, and better members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I ask it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Judith Anderson Bird sang the contralto solo, "Lord hear us, we pray Thee." 

BISHOP CHAELES W. NIBLEY. 

The variety of instruction that we have had at this conference, and the kind of instruction, is certainly to be commended. I do not see how any right-minded person, of whatever creed or persuasion, or of no creed, could object or find fault with the teachings that have been given to the Latter-day Saints during the sessions of our conference. We have been taught to be good citizens, good fathers, good mothers, good children; to love our neighbors; to pay our debts; to keep out of debt; to love the Lord our God with all our heart, and many more items of instruction to which I have not time to call your attention. We have also heard of the work of the Betterment Committee, in looking after our children, and this was emphasized by President Smith in the beginning of the conference. The work of the Bureau of Information, on this block, extending courtesy to strangers, has also been called to our attention. All of these things have  talked about, and many more, and everyone of them are good. 

Nor have we been wanting in manifestation of the spirit of patriotism and love of country. The remarks of Elder Hart, the previous speaker, alluded to this matter. I thought as he was speaking, if we only knew and could sense always what this priceless boon of liberty has cost the children of men, we would appreciate it perhaps more than we do; and if we only knew and could sense, always, that beyond the liberty of our country and its God-inspired Constitution, which we have for the government of the country, we have beyond that, and higher than that, a perfect law of liberty in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. All other forms are naturally imperfect, being largely the product of man; but in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Saint Paul tells us, we have a perfect law of liberty. Indeed, we have it recorded here in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, which may be called the constitution of this Church, that no man should exercise his Priesthood, or the rights of the Priesthood in any degree of unrighteousness. The dominion, the control that is given through this organization must be on righteous principles. 

Mormonism holds a singular and unique position in the world, claiming as it does to be The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a creed founded in righteousness, established, in this perfect law of liberty, and it challenges the world to produce anything like the organization which the Lord has revealed, and through which He makes manifest His righteousness and His purposes in the earth. Without this Priesthood, we are told, the power of godliness is not GENERAL CONFERENCE.  manifest to men in the flesh. We mistake greatly if we think that in the struggle for this liberty, in the fighting which began three hundred years ago, and continued during two hundred years — we mistake greatly if we think that that contention and struggle was for the purpose of establishing any particular creed, or branch of the Church. The contention of the Protestants, who protested against the misrule of the Catholic Church, was not that they should establish any particular kind of a church, it was a contention and fight against tyranny; it was a fight for liberty — liberty that they might establish a church, if they chose to do so, or do without one if they chose; but it was for liberty and against oppression. I say all honor to Protestantism. No man shall go before me in honoring that spirit of patriotism which was manifested all through the struggle in the Netherlands, in the low countries, in fighting that terrible oppressor the Duke of Alva, sent by the Spanish government and the Pope — not in the interests of liberty but to crush out the spirit of liberty. But the little thing that the Lord had planted, this desire for liberty, grew in the hearts of the children of men, and it became the great thing in England, as well as in Holland, in Queen Elizabeth's time, with Sir Francis Drake scouring the seas and capturing the Spanish galleons, with their treasure loads of gold from Peru and Mexico. All that was not that any particular brand of church might be established; that is to say, that they wanted this chruch or the other church; the fight was — let me tell you again — that liberty should be established, so that men could wor as they pleased, how they pleased, or not worship at all, if they so pleased. The time had not yet come for the Church of Jesus Christ to be established; and all honor, I say, to the Pi otestant countries and Protestant peoples who caused liberty to become established. 

So, a little later, in our own country, the same fight, the same contention, the same struggle is on — not to establish one church or the other, but for liberty. In Washington's time, the liberty 1 , which this flag [pointing to the national emblem], now represents was fully accomplished, when there was enacted in our Constitution a full fruition of this fighting and struggling, — in these words : "Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, nor abridging the freedom of speech or of the press, nor the right of the people to peaceably assemble and petition the government for redress of grievances." That being enacted into law and becoming the law of the country, then the liberty that all these people had been fighting for was granted to our country, and became an accomplished fact. Now, when that was accomplished, God Almighty, in His own way, sends forth what? A more perfect law of liberty and righteousness, more perfect than the Constitution of the country itself, in the bringing forth of His Church in these last days, in raising up the Prophet Joseph Smith as He did and instructing him how to prepare this wonderful organization, with the Priesthood of the Son of God as its governing power. 

Our contention is that the Priesthood was taken from the earth in 119  early age of the Christian era. As soon as the Primitive Church dwindled into darkness and unbelief and the Church itself adopted rules and measures, regulations and ordinances which were subversive and destructive of the spirit of liberty, then the Priesthood was withdrawn from the earth; so that the question as to when this Priesthood was taken from the earth is answered in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants itself in these words : 

"The rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that man." 

If that is true with respect to one man, it is true with respect to one million of men or any number of men. That shows when the Priesthood was lost. That is why it needed restoring again. 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long sufferering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile." 

So I say that of all people, in all this world, the Latter-day Saints stand for liberty and righteousness, and ought to stand, and must so stand, under this doctrine and constitution of our Church. If we  the Church of Christ iri the earth, and it will be maintained, it will be upon principles of righteousness. No man will be put to death by this Church because he does not believe its doctrines — even if it were possible under the law that they could be compelled in any way. You can't maintain the rights and authority of the Priesthood n, that way. You can believe what you please, of course, this liberty exists. Anyone can establish a Church. Doctor Eliot? Yes, just as much right, under the law, as any man — just exactly — and nobody will say him nay. He hasn't any authority from God Almighty to bestow the Priesthood — that is a very different proposition; he does not claim it; neither do the other churches, except one, claim it. But Mormonism claims it; this church claims it. 

This is not a chinch established by some man, by man's wisdom — any old kind of a church, so to speak; it is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Herein is the truth, and the light, and the way — a perfect law of liberty and of righteousness. All the counsel of this whole conference has been to that end, and makes for the establishment of that aim; makes for righteousnes; makes for liberty, right-living and the well-being of the children of men upon the earth. You shall not oppress any one, nor attempt to oppress any one. Men may believe, as our Catholic brethren profess to believe, that the bread that is blest becomes into the living flesh of Christ. Of .course we do not believe that; we believe it is ridiculous, and know, in fact, that it is not true. But they have a right to believe it, if they want to; and I gloiy in the fact GENERAL CONFERENCE. , through the fighting of the three hundred years that have passed, from the 16th to the 19th centuries, I glory in the fact that I cannot be put to death because I refuse to believe it; that is where our liberty comes in. 

This is God's Church; this is The Church, — the only Church that He acknowledges in the earth, as having His Priesthood — the only one in all the world. We chailenge the attention of the world on that proposition. It is guided by Him. I know as I live, that this is the Church of God, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is His prophet, sent of God to establish the Church whose law is a perfect law of liberty to all mankind. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Appeal to increase membership of M. I. Associations, and subscribe for The Era. 

I have asked permission to say a few words in the interest of the Mutual Improvement Associations. As is known, the organization of classes in the Priesthood has taken away {, om the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association regular religious study, that is, regular scriptural study, and many people have expressed the .idea that there is now little or no use for the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations. We feel the exact opposite. The General Superintendency, and all the members of the General Board, feel that there is as much necessity for improvement of our young men in other lines as in ecclesiastical study. 

We have, at the present time, 1,097 members of the Mutual Im Association on missions. Fully one-half of all the missionaries are members of our association. There are 685 wards in the Church, and 629 Young Men's Mutual Improvement associations; so there are fifty-six wards that lack these associations. I appeal to the Bishops of these wards to see that at the next report there shall be none lacking this organization. We have over 3,500 officers, and 32,225 members. There are 12,752 male members between the ages of 14 and 45, in our Church, who are not enrolled. We appeal to the presidents of stakes, the High Councilors and the Bishops to assist in decreasing this number; we did decrease it last year by 2,429. We have 1,400 teachers, and there are more than 1,200 classes. Twentyfive thousands Manuals are printed and sold each year. Many thousands of dollars are spent every year in educating the young people of the Latter-day Saints, in our Church schools, but all of the education that is given in the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations is given free of cost. There are over 32,000 members in the Young Men's associations, and there are more members in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations; so there are over 60,000 young men and ladies in these two associations. We appeal to each and every one. of you to take an interest in these associations; and now that the Improvement Era is the organ of the Priesthood, we appeal to those holding the Priesthood to support it. We have, from the beginning of the magazine, supplied it free to all of the missionaries. Over two thousand copies are going out now to the missionaries, free of cost. That 121  one of the reasons that we maintain the price at two dollars. We also appeal to the people to sustain the Young Ladies' Journal. These two magazines are doing an immense amount of good in the community; and every father and mother interested in the welfare of their children should do all that they possibly can to increase the membership of our Mutual Improvement Associations. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Goerge F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMur, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as presiding bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H.Roberts, and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., assistant Historians. 

As Members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford, and Willard Young. 

Auditing Committee : Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp. 

Tabernacle Choir : President John R. Winder, President; Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the Members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Bathsheba W. Smith, President; GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Ida Smoot Dusehberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, Secretary; Clariss?. S. Williams, Treasurer. Members of the Board : Jane S. Richards, Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L.Smith, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Annie W. Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Harriet B. Harker, Minnie H. James, Rebecca N. Nibley, Amy B. Lyman, Anna K. Hardy; Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musical Director; Edna H. Coray, Organist. 

Relief Society School of Nurses : Emma A. Empey, superintendent; Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor of .Nurse Work; Phebe Y. Beatie, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Deseret Sunday School Union Board: Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; David O. McKay, First Asst. buperintendent; Stephen L. Richards,Second Asst. Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer; Members of the Board : Joseph F. Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, John Henry Smith, Charles B. Felt, Geo. H. Wallace, Lindsay R. McGhie and Sylvester D. Bradford. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : Jos F. Smith, Superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Assistant Superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendent; Aids : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F Wells, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Leroy C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Bryant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., O. C. Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar W. Kirkham. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association — Martha H. Tingey, president; Ruth M. Fox, First Counselor; Mae T. Nystrom, Second Counselor; Ann M. Cannon, Secretary; Alice K. Smith, Treasurer; Maria Y. Dougall, Honorary Member. Aids: Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Susa Y. Gates, May B. Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Elizabeth C. McCune, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle N. Caldwell, Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C. Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy W. Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, Letitia T. Teasdale. Alice C. Tuddenham, Music Director; Mattie R. Evans, Organist; Lizzie T. Sardoni, Assistant Organist. 

General Board of Primary Association: Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; 12H 

Olive D. Christensen, Secretary; Vera I. Felt, Recording Secretary; Vilate Peart, Librarian; Isabelle S. Ross, Physical Director; Lillie T. Freeze and Josephine R. West, Honorary Members. Aids : Aurelia S. Rogers, Lula L. G. Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Edna L. Smith, Eliza S. Bennion, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice Howarth, Emma Romney, Rebecca N. Nibley, Zina Y. Card, and Maria B| Winder. 

General Board of Religion Classes : Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant Superintendent. Members of the Board : Anthon H. Lund, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smith, Henry Peterson, Horace H. Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, George H. Brimhall, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson, and J. D. Cummings, Secretary. 

Trustees of the Brigham Young University: Joseph F. Smith, President; Jesse Knight, Vice-President; Wilson H. Dusenberry, Susa Young Gates, John Henry Smith, Reed Smoot, Lafayette Holbrook, Stephen L. Chipman, Jonathan S. Page, Jr., Richard W. Young, Willard Young, and Joseph R. Murdock. 

Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah: Anthon H. Lund, President; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Secretary and Treasurer; Charles W. Penrose, Joseph Christenson, Anthony W. Ivins, D. M. McAllister and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

An appeal for God's blessings upon His Church and people. — Admonition to exercise wisdom in public speaking. 

I desire to express my thanks and gratitude to all the Latter-day Saints who have attended this conference, for the excellent and peaceful spirit that has pervaded our meetings and has given, I believe, to all who have been present a great deal of satisfaction and enjoyment. 

I have felt that, before closing the meeting, I would like to read a few words of the prayer that was. indicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the time of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, as I think the prayer and principles set forth apply to us at this time as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The prayer reads, in part, as follows : 

"Remember all thy Church, O Lord, with all their families, and all their im-t mediate connections, with all their sick and afflicted ones, with all the poor andmeek of the earth, that the kingdom which thou hast set up without hands, may become a great mountain, and fill the whole earth. 

"That thy church may come forth out of the wilderness of darkness, and shineforth fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners. 

"And be adorned as a bride for that day when thou shalt unvail the heavens, and cause the mountains to flow down at thy presence, and the valleys to be exalted, the rough places made smooth; that thy glory may fill the earth. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"That when the trump shall sound for the dead we shall be caught up in the cloud to meet thee, that we may ever be with the Lord. 

"That our garments may be pure, that we may be clothed upon with robes of righteousnes, with palms in our hands, and crowns of glory upon our heads, and reap eternal joy for all our sufferings. 

"O Lord God Almighty, hear us in these our petitions, and answer us from heaven, thy holy habitation, where thou sittest enthroned, with glory, honor, power, majesty, might, dominion, truth, justice, judgment, mercy, and an infinity of fullness, from everlasting to everlasting. 

"And also this church, to put upon it thy name; and help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing, Hosanna to God and the Lamb. 

"And let these thine anointed ones be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen." 

We have had a variety of teaching here during our conference. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints and to the Elders that have addressed us, that, personally, I have rejoiced exceedingly in every word that has been spoken, wherein the proclamation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been made. I believe that the Elders of Israel, and the officers of the Church, should devote themselves to the proclamation of the Gospel of life everlasting, and that they should not dwell or seek to dwell upon trivial and nonsensical things, or upon personal conduct or extraneous affairs. I think they should be dignified and sincere in their spirit and utterances. I think they should be moved by the spirit of truth and of the inspiration of the Gospel, and consider that it is their mission to bear record of Jesus Chiist, of Joseph Smith, and of the divinity of the great latter-day work, the founda of which Joseph Smith was instrumental in the hand of God in establishing in the latter day. I believe if our brethren will devote their thought, their minds and efforts in this direction, that they will please the Lord, they will satisfy the saints, and they will fulfill the object of their mission better than they can possibly do by criticising themselves or others, or dwelling on the faults and failings of men. There never, perhaps, was a time in the Church when there were not foolish ones amongst us. Some have been foolish through overzeal; some have been still more foolish through lack of zeal, altogether, — some have been foolish in saying things they ought never to have said, and others have been guilty before the Lord in not saying that which they should have said. I presume that this condition will remain and continue amongst us so long as men are imperfect and do not see clearly, as the Lord sees, and are not susceptible to the inspiration and promptings of the Holy Spirit, to which they are entitled for their guidance every day of their lives, if they will but live for it. I think it is not wise or prudent for me to proclaim the short-comings of the Church if it has any, or the defects, faults, or failings of its members. I do not think it is my right or prerogative to point out the supposed defects of the Prophet Joseph Smith, or Brigham Young, or any other of the leaders of the Church. Let the Lord God Almighty judge them and speak for or against them as it may seem Him good — but not I; it is not for me, my brethren, to do this. Our enemies may have taken advantage of us, in times gone by, because of unwise things that may have been said. Some of us, 125  now, give to the world the same opportunity to speak evil against us, because of that which we say which should not be spoken at all. 

I felt that it was my duty to say this much at the conclusion of this conference. When the Lord wants to reveal something new to us, He knows the channel through which to reveal it; He knows that He can do it, and He will do it in His own way and time, and through the proper channels of the Priesthood. Don't forget that! 

When this meeting concludes, our conference will be adjourned for six months, to meet, without further consideration, at this place. 

It was announced that John J. McClellan, and assistants, will* continue to give recitals at 12 m. daily, on the great Tabernacle organ, to which the public will be admitted free, as heretofore. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee fcr every blessing 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command. 

Benediction was pronounced by President John R. Winder. 
