Overflow
03 10 1909




ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. 

(President of St. Joseph Stake.) 

I esteem it a great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be called upon to occupy this important position. It is not possible for me to attend all of these conferences. It has been something like eighteen months since I was here, and enjoyed such a privilege. It may be well in the few minutes allotted me to speak, to tell you of conditions as they exist in the southern part of Zion. 

In Arizona we have in the neigh of 10,000 Latter-day Saints, in four stakes of Zion. There are 5,000 of these in the St. Joseph stake, over which I have the honor to preside, and these are scattered over a distance of nearly 600 miles, which we have to travel to associate with them. Our stake work is different from that in most of the stakes of Zion, in that we do missionary work among those who are not of our faith, in the mining camps surrounding us, where there is a large number of Gentile people, ranging from 700 to 1,500 inhabitants. In these cities and towns we have gone out amongst the people and preached the Gospel, and assembled together the scattered Saints who have gone into those sections to seek employment. We have organized so that we have in operation all the various auxiliary organizations of the Church, and are drawing together those who, in many instances, were careless in their old home settlements. Boys and girls who did not take part in their home wards are put to work, and we are accomplishing a splendid mission in this direction. 

I want to say to you that while it is a fact that we are far separated from the body of the Church, and do not enjoy many of those great privileges that are within your reach, we are in sympathy with you, and are permitted, by the blessings of the Lord, to enjoy the spirit of the Gospel. And it comes to me as one of the strongest testimonies that this is, indeed, the work of God in which we are engaged, in that the Lord does not forget us, and that we are in touch with and are permitted to enjoy the inspiration of the Lord which characterizes His work throughout all the world. 

I believe there are about ten ot our young men here, during this conference season, preparing to go on missions. Two of them left yesterday. There are about fifty of our people who have come up to conference. When we realize that we come 1,400 miles the shortest route to attend this conference, there is an exhibition of faith, to say nothing of the expenditure of means. It costs us not less than $100 a head; so there is an expenditure of $5,000 from our stake alone, exclusive of the missionaries, and the number that may have come from other stakes in our Territory, and also from Old Mexico, where the people are under similar conditions. 

I am pleased to report associated with me some splendid, stalwart men, my counselors and the high councilors, men who are united and whose hearts are in the work of God. The presidents of the different organizations and of the Priesthood are faithful in the discharge of their duties, so far as circumstances and conditions will allow them to attend to those duties. The Lord has held in reserve certain sections of the 'country, it seems to me, for the good of His people, and 1 recognize the hand of the Lord in that He has so reserved that choice section of the country lying east of Los Angeles in Arizona, a section very much like southern California and producing very much the same kind of products. While we are yet in our youth as to home industries, our people are practically self-sustaining and independent. 

I desire to say a few words in regard to home industries, as suggested by our worthy President this morning, for nearly all my life I have advocated home industry. My father, Heber C. Kimball, was an advocate of home industries, and entered upon one of the first labors in that direction in Utah, operating mills for the making of linseed oil, the first that was ever made in the Territory. He also had a carding mill, which later developed into a woolen mill. Do you know, my brethren and sisters, until I was sixteen years of age I never wore anything but homespun, made in that factory and the workmanship of my dear mother, who made my clothing until I was a young man. And I have never departed from those teachings; I have always worn home-made goods when it was possible for me to do so; and I have patronized, and advocated, loud and long, the sustaining of home industries in our western settlements. 

My brethren and sisters, I think I have discovered one of the secrets of why we do not succeed with our home industries; I believe that it is jealousy, at least in part. Whenever one of our brethren, or a few of them, start out with a good desire in their hearts to build up a home industry, and keep at home the means of the people, and they commence to succeed, and it looks as though they were going to make a little, then some envious individuals are ready to pull them down; and they fail as a consequence of their jealousies. I do not, however, find this feeling prevailing in the section that I travel in. I am familiar with conditions in California; during the past eleven years I have had to travel back and forth, through the great state of California, and I say to you, my brethren and sisters, that California is for California. The City of Los Angeles is for Los Angeles,  the people there are always working for their own city, with the result that they have built up a great commonwealth there. They are sustaining their neighbors, and their own industries, and you da not find them buying goods made in other cities as long as they can get some of their own manufacture. So we find it elsewhere; San Francisco is for San Francisco; and it was my pleasure also to notice the spirit of patriotism that was manifested in Portland while I was there recently. In the great state of Oregon I found the same feeling of local patriotism. Everybody that says anything in that state, speaks for Oregon. I found that same spirit everywhere as I was riding up and down that state — everybody was partial to speak a good word for their own home industries, the furnishing of employment for their own people, and building up their own commonwealth. So I found it in the State of Washington, as it was my business to attend the irrigation congress at Spokane recently, and also witness the display in the fair, at Seattle of the products* of that great state. I never heard them talk about any other state. No, it was Washington, first, last and all the time — building up Washington, improving the products, developing its resources and means of home production, that they might become wealthy. So I found it in Idaho also. They had a splendid exhibition of their products in the Idaho building at the Fair. I found the same spirit, to a large extent, throughout all these western states, where it has been my privilege to travel. 

Arizona is only a babe yet, comparatively speaking; but Arizona stands second in the production of . The greatest copper fields in the world are in Arizona. Arizona, too, is for Arizona. I am pleased to say also, that there is a fraternal feeling in Arizona. Those in that Territory who are not Latter-day Saints recognize the Mormons as benefactors to their country. They respect us, from the governor down, and treat us with every consideration that the Mormon people could expect or are worthy of. I am glad to say, too, that the spirit of jealousy I have mentioned does not exist in Arizona. We are always building up Arizona, and our neighbors who are not of us recognize in the Mormon people that we have been the means of doing something that they could net do, and that is, that we have, through our co-operative system of establishing settlements in Arizona, redeemed the deserts until today they are fertile" fields. We have built up towns and cities, and are establishing conditions in Arizona, through that co-operative system, and under the counsels of the priesthood, that are conducive of great good to our Territory, and the people of Arizona recognize this. 

Sometimes ministers of other denominations from the east, who are biased and prejudiced, knowing no better (God pity them) come into Arizona to look after some little congregation; and, before they realize the folly of it, they fire a fusilade of abuse upon the Mormon people. The result is, they are dis  charged from their pastorates almost immediately, and sent back to the non-progressive part of the world they came from. Not long ago a Methodist minister came into one of our towns, a county seat, where with a few exceptions, the  is non-Mormon. There was one young man, a son of one of our people, from Thatcher, a Mormon boy, who was employed there. He was waiting on a young lady there who was not of our faith, and they attended service at this place. This devout Methodist brother, not knowing any better, I presume, began telling some of the old 'stories about the Prophet Joseph Smith, belittling the Mormon faith, and undertaking to abuse and deride out people. Now this coy from Thatcher hardly knew whether he was himself a Latter-day Saint or not. When he was in Thatcher among "Mormons" he was called a Gentile; when he was among the Gentiles they called him a Mormon. He sat there on that occasion until he could stand it no longer, and, in the rough way characteristic of many of our western boys, he called this minister a liar. The result was that this rather strong expression was sustained by the people at the meeting. At the close of the service the minister came up to the boy and challenged him to a debate. The boy did not know anything scarcely about his religion, so he came down and asked me for some information to enable him to cope with the reverend gentleman; and I believe it has made a complete "Mormon" of the boy. 

I am pleased to say, as I have referred to it before, that the governor, the federal and Territorial officials, prominent men and women throughout the Territory of Arizona, are all respectful, kind and considerate, so far as I know, to the "Mormon" people, and we are increasing in numbers, are friendly with our neighbors, and are united for the better Arizona. We are building up its resources, and I hope in the immediate future we will get statehood, that Arizona may shine forth as one of the brilliant stars in these United States. 

I am often reminded, in the indifference of our people to sustaining home industries, of a certain picture caricature. You have often seen it, I have no doubt. It is the likeness of a big cow, with her f font quarters in the west and her hind quarters in the east, and she being milked at our expense. That is what is being done with reference to our material resources, of which the east is getting the benefit, and we are sustaining its manufactures. So I say to you, my brethren and sisters, I want to stand with the president of this Church in this matter of home industries. As I have said, I have always stood for them, in Utah, in Arizona, and elsewhere. Everybody that knows me knows that I proclaimed home industries up and down this entire territory, trying to sell home products, and urging the people to patronize them. Now I belong to Arizona; my heart is in Arizona; I am for better Arizona; I want to work for that territory, to bring it into statehood, and make it shine brightly, and help to build it up, develop its resources, and locate homes for thousands of our people under the Reclamation act, that it may be a benefit to them. Such are the counsels that I give as I travel and labor for the good of Arizona and of this people. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to be loyal to the principles we have espoused and the Priesthood which He has given for our upbuilding, and instruction. May the Lord bless and preserve us, and bless and preserve our boys and , and enable us to keep them at home, keep them in of evenings and give them something to do. My confidence is that the boys and girls, if they are kept employed, and if we teach them and set them proper examples, will not go astray. Employment is one of the great potencies, if you please, for overcoming evil in young people; keep them at work. 

Pardon me for one thought which occurs to me right at this time. My father, rather than allow his boys to go unemployed, made them go and wheel rocks in a barrow, and pile them up; when they were done with that, if he had nothing more for them to do, he would get them to wheel the rocks back again. An old gentleman came to him, soon after he came over from the old country, and wanted employment. Father gave him a job wheeling rocks to a certain place and after he had got them all piled up nicely he came and reported. Father said, "Now, dear brother, wheel them back again." He said he wouldn't do that. Said he, "I was taught to try and accomplish something with my work." Father replied, "Didn't you want employment? I hadn't any, and I didn't want to give you means for nothing. You will earn your wages by what I want you to do." I say to you, according to my observation and experience throughout the stakes of Zion and my own home work, that employment is the great secret of success. Let us give our boys and girls work. It seems to me that every hat and every dress should be made by our girls. Let our boys grow up to become mechanics and good workmen. If we are going to patronize the east fo\ , we cannot accomplish this. 

May the Lord help us to accom plish our duty in all things, is m> prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission). 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this glorious privilege which I have as a missionary to return, occasionally, to the bosom of the Church and participate in these assemblies of our general conference. The providences of God are daily manifest in our welfare, as Elders traveling in the missionary field. We appreciate that we have your confidence, and your faith and prayers in our behalf; but it does our hearts good to come and see you, face to face, and to feel that we are indorsed and appreciated in the course we are pursuing in our labors abroad in the world. I am sure the letters which come from the fatheis and mothers, wives and sisters of the Elders who are laboring in the missionary field, are a great source of comfort and inspiration to them. It gives them courage to perform their labors when, as sometimes, clouds lower down before them and the way looks dark and discouraging. Often you are able, by the cheering words that you send, to lift their spirits and buoy them up, for then they feel that, no matter what their circumstances may be, at home there are hosts of friends and dear ones standing behind them, who are expecting each Elder to do his full duty; and it spurs the Elders on. I am sure that it inspires and  those who are absent from their dear ones, laboring in the great cause, for which they are sacrificing the comforts and society of home; and I hope, as you are an inspiration to us, that our labors shall prove an inspiration to you, and that we shall be able, when we return from time to time, to show forth by the improvement we have made that the time and means have been well and profitably spent, that, if we have not been able to save many souls, we have most certainly benefited ourselves. I want to say to you that we are delighted to be able to accomplish the work for which we are sent, and for your encouragement and that it may be, perhaps, a source of inspiration to you, I will give you a brief comparative report for the four months of May, June, July, and August of 1908 as compared with the same months of this year, showing the progress in the Northwestern States Mission with an average of eight more Elders than there were last year. We do not give this in a spirit of boasting but in one of gratefulness to our Heavenly Father that we have been able to accomplish the labors we have performed. 

Families Visited : 4 months, 1908, 17,397; 4 months, 1909, 39,468; Increase, 22,071. 

Families Re-Visited: 4 months, 1908, 5,742; 4 months, 1909, 21,984; Increase, 16,242. 

Tracts Distributed: 4 months, 1908, 25,092; 4 months, 1909, 79,621; Increase, 54,529. 

Hours Work. 4 months, 1908, 13,982; 4 months, 1909, 30,658; Increase, 16,676. 

Gospel Conversations : 4 months, 1908, 6,981; 4 months, 1909, 22,203; Increase, 15,222. 

Meetings Held : 4 months, 1908, 269; 4 months, 1909, 1,296; Increase; 1.027. 

Books Sold: 4 months, 1908, 628; 4 months, 1909, 2,605; Increase, 1,977. 

Of books sold, 833 were Books of Mormon, while only 412 were sold in the mission for the entire year of 1908. 

In the matter of baptisms there is an increase of 25 per cent, and from the increased seed sown there are splendid indications of an increased harvest. 

So we feel glad to be in the field, and in the fight, and each man has expressed himself as feeling eager to push the work. We are determined to keep the banners waving wherever they have been planted, and to carry them to other places, until every soul in that land shall have heard the truth, and have an opportunity to receive the same; and we shall endeavor to set examples as worthy servants of our Master. 

If there is one thing that has given us sorrow it is finding so many of our girls who have married outside of the Church and located in the northwest country. I could relate stories from their experiences that would occupy hours, telling of the disappointment and sorrow they have known through disobeying the counsel of their parents in this matter. I remember one told by a Mormon girl, a grand-daughter of one of the prominent brethren of this Church, and I give it as a testimony to support the advice of President Smith on this matter. She married outside of the Church to her sorrow as shown by her life today. 

Her husband was bitter toward the Church and laughed at the men and things she held sacred. He was not a moral man, but rather seemed to delight in the sorrow he caused his wife, as she learned of his infidelity to her. No pleading could induce him to change his manner of life, while she was compelled to endure terrible mental torture. In the midst of strangers, there was only one being whom she could trust, from whom she derived any comfort or consolation; it was her only child, a little six-year-old girl upon whom she lavished her heart's affections. A few weeks before I met her, the little girl sickened and died. It seemed then that her only comfort, her hope, her all had gone, and, under this terrible strain, she was so beside herself that she even thought seriously of taking her own life. She said to me, shaking her sorrowing head, "If Mormon girls could only profit by my experience, they would gladly accept their father's advice and their fond mother's wishes, and marry within the Church men whom they could trust, whose sympathies would be with them." 

I want to say to you, my brothers and sisters, that I sustain the advice and counsel that was given along this line by President Smith, because of the experiences that have come within my observation. While there are honorable Gentiles who marry Mormon girls, every girl who is thus married is risking her happiness here and hereafter. I believe that marriage is one of the most serious and important steps in life. Whatever we may accumulate in life, we will leave when we die, but the woman who is sealed to a man according to the law of God is his for time and all eternity,  the children that are born to them in that covenant will be theirs eternally. There is nothing else that we can gain in this world, outside of our resurrected bodies, and experiences, that will cling to us and stand with us forever. I believe that every girl should feel the importance of that step. She should realize its far reaching consequences, and satisfy herself, by a testimony through the Spirit of God, that her decision is a right one, just as thoroughly as she may know that God lives and that the  Gospel is true. If she would take this course and listen to the advice of her parents, she would be spared much trouble and sorrow. After all, they come back to the counsel of father and mother, after years of distress, with stripes and scars upon them. We are doing what we can to comfort these girls. We encourage them to raise their children in the Church, and we are teaching them to set an example to the community where they reside that shall reflect credit upon the work of the Lord, and assist to redeem them, so far as can be, from the errors into which they have fallen. God is helping us in this direction. 

I want to speak of the fair at Seattle, and of the Church exhibit in the Government building. We think this has been one of the most important events in the history of our Church, because, unsolicited by us, we were extended an invitation, by the Smithsonian Institute, to make an exhibit showing the influence of the Church in developing the west. You who were there saw the fine representation we had in the models of the tabernacle and the temple; maps showing the route of the pioneers and the Mormon Bat, and others indicating the hundreds of towns and cities which the Latter-day Saints have founded; the press upon which the Book of Mormon was printed, and the one on which the first issue of the Deseret News was printed; the odometer with which the mileage was measured and recorded as the pioneers traveled to these valleys; portraits of some thirty leaders of this great latter day movement, and other things of great interest and historical importance. These were in the Government building, the most interesting one at the fair, and most of the people visited it. There have been in attendance at the fair nearly 3,250,000 people, and it is expected by the close of the fair that 4,000,000 will have visited it; without doubt 90 per cent of those who visit the fair go into the Government building anu see our exhibits there. It has been our privilege to have some of the brethren located in that section to give information concerning the exhibits. We have by this means corrected many stories that would have been told by those who pretend to be well informed, and who would have related the old falsehoods. In this too we have enjoyed the friendship and good feelings of the crowds, and those in authority at the building, and they have told the truth with reference to our people. It has certainly done my heart gjod to see after long years of waiting, due appreciation of the Mormon pioneers, and though most of them have passed away and did not hear these words of praise, but were under constant misrepresentation by the world, to"see them come to their own, and receive the credit which is due them, I say, does my heart good. I am pleased that their children can listen to just eulogies, as they come from the thousands who now witness in its true light the work of the Latter-day Saints. One of the officials of the fair, in a reception given to the governor of this state, said that Oregon and Washington, and the other great states of the Western country, would never have been what they are today had it not been for the labors of the Mormon pioneers. I believe that is true, and I rejoice that, after all these years, recognition comes, and that it comes from our great government in the invitation proffered to our Church to present these exhibitions of facts to the people of this country. 

The choir also visited the fair, and I know that they accomplished an immense amount of good. In Portland, Tacoma, and Seattle, the houses were crowded, and I have a mind to read you two brief extracts from a leading paper in Seattle, showing how well they were received, because it remained for the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir to establish the highest mark in the matter of attracting the largest number of people in one place during the fair, and perhaps in the history of the northwest. Even the visit of the president of the United States, a few days ago, did not attract as large a crowd to the Natural Amphitheatre, by several thousands, as did the choir in that place at their Sunday evening concert. Their first concert in Seattle was given in the Auditorium building, on the fair grounds, on Thursday evening, August 16th. I have attended numerous entertainments in this building, some of them grand musical events, when the doors were thrown open to the public, and no admission charged, but in no in was the building filled, and, so far as I know, only once has it been filled to overflowing, and that was upon the occasion of the concert given by our choir. Although an admission of 75c and $1 was charged, every seat was sold, and hundreds paid to stand, while more than five hundred people were turned away. I stood on the steps, and actually saw people shed tears because they could not gain admission. 

The Post Intelligencer of Seattle said of this entertainment : 

"Three thousand people were enraptured by three hundred voices in the exposition auditorium last night when the famous Mormon Tabernacle Choir gave a concert. . The audience tired itself with encoring the numbers. Many musical treats have been offered the people attending the fair and others are to come, but there has not been, so far, any program, vocal or instrumental, that seemed to be received with the same satisfaction as that caused by the Tabernacle Choir." 

We all regret that the choir did not enter the contest, for everybody conceded that it would have taken the prize, but I believe that it was justified in declining. The prize money was furnished by the fair officials to the Welsh Association, who were to make their own arrangements for the contest. They seemed to have taken an extra dose of the "Seattle Spirit" and employed methods unheard of to charge each singer 75c admission, notwithstanding they had paid their own way from distant homes. There was no provision for seats for the singers. On eleven other occasions when the choir has sung in contests they were not charged admission, and so were not prepared for this surprise. The officials in  of this entertainment were not as civil to the singers as they should have been, and as you know, singers are sensitive, they felt that this was adding insult to injury. And who were their opponents in this contest? A local company of singers with little reputation in this line, not in the same class, not "a foe worthy of their steel;" after all to win the prize would only be an empty honor. The choir committee, however, sought the management of the association, and were prepared to pay the unjust admission fee asked, but a determination was evinced to keep them out, and further insulting and abusive language was used. The committee, therefore, decided that the choir should withdraw, feeling that the matter of this contest was only a disagreeable incident of their trip, and that they would not humiliate themselves before such intolerance. 

The shabby treatment of the choir by the Welsh association was resented by the fair officials, who immediately offered $500, and admission for two days, if they would give a sacred concert in the Natural Amphitheatre on the following Sunday evening. This was agreed to. And a great majority of the people also resented this treatment was manifest, by their large attendance at this sacred concert. The grand ovation given the choir marked the largest gathering, as I have said before, in the history of the fair. Of this event the paper before quoted had this to say : 

"Seattle's tribute to the grand concert of high class music last evening, by the Tabernacle Choir of Salt Lake City, under the direction of Evan Stephens, assisted by Ellery's band, in the Natural Amphitheatre on the Alaska- Yukon-Pacific Exposition grounds, was a crowd numbering be 20,000 and 25,000 persons. Nothing like it has ever been seen in the history of the city. Distinguished persons have come and gone, have had their hearing and been cheered by assembled thousands, but all these tributes sink into insignificance in comparison with the spectacle of last night." 

We are enjoying the most friendly relations with leading men of that section; some of them have said to us "We want you Mormons to come out into our country, we have seen what you can do. We want you to come and establish yourselves with us." I will state just one instance to show the favor with which we are received, and the lack of interest that is shown toward those who are trying to raise funds to "convert" the Mormons. One of our distinguished ministers of Salt Lake City attempted to hold a meeting in the city of Seattle on the 23rd of September. I speak with due regard for the gentleman; I wish that all ministers were as fair and honorable. He was engaged in the business of securing means with which to establish missions for the conversion of the Mormons in Utah, and was trying to interest the people in this matter. I have nothing to say regarding what he said, but only concerning the response that was given to his appeal. Several articles appeared in the papers, advertising his meeting to be held in a building that would seat at least 3,000 people, a magnificent church, one of the finest I have ever seen. Two rectors appeared with him, and tracts were distributed on all of the seats for the thousands who were expected to attend, but only fifteen persons gathered in the building to hear his address, and three of these were Utah people who came out of curiosity. As a contrast to this, a few days before we held a conference in that city, and though we have only about 150 members in Seattle, and we did not get much newspaper notice, yet at our humble gathering there were 350 present. I felt in my heart to say that God has turned the tide in favor of Zion, and we feel fired with a holy zeal to seek to establish the truth. We know we have the interest and sympathy of the Latter-day Saints, and also of thousands of honorable men and women of the earth. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints, that they may continue to live worthy lives, that more than ever we may be able to point with pride to them and their glorious achievements. We thank God for the integrity of the men and women of Zion, who abide in the faith, and for the young men and women who are determined to take the same stand that their fathers have taken. May God increase our efficiency to do the work He has placed upon our shoulders; may we be valiant for the truth; and may the Lord bless us that we may establish the standard of truth, and keep it waving until all men everywhere may learn to love it, that they may receive the reward of the righteous, which may God grant in the name of Jesus. ' Amen. 

The hymn, "Sweet is the Peace the Gospel Brings," was rendered as a solo and chorus, by Sister Edith Grant and the choir; musical composition by C. J. Thomas. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MTJKRIN. 

I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in listening to the words that have been spoken by the breth who have occupied this position this afternoon. I pray that the words that may fall from my lips may be directed by the Spirit of the Lord, that I may have the same Spirit of instruction that has impressed the brethren in the words that have already been uttered in our hearing. 

A great variety of thoughts have passed through my mind in listening to the testimonies that have been borne in this meeting, and also in listening to the musical exercises. We commenced our services by singing the hymn, "An Angel from on High, the long, long silence broke." I suppose the great majority of those who are gathered together in this holy house this afternoon believe that the words I have quoted, — relative to the coming of an angel, — have had a fulfillment; that at last, after- a long silence between the heavens and the eart:i, in the age in which we are living the silence has been broken, and an angel, clothed with power and authority from- our Father in heaven, has wended his way to earth, bringing the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, and giving a commandment that it should be preached to all who are dwelling upon the earth. That is the belief of the Latter-day Saints. Their declaration among all peoples in all the earth is, that they are operating, by virtue of this commandment of our Father in heaven. The ministry in which we are engaged is by Divine appointment, an authority such as was exercised by the holy apostles anciently, and which had been lost from among men, in fulfillment of predictions of the inspired servants of God, who, when under the inspiration of the Lord, were enabled to look into the future history of  world and discover that there would come a period when men would be without authority. 

There are a very great many people who do not believe in the restoration of the authority of which I am speaking. I could not, however, help but feel, while listening to the words that have been spoken in our hearing, that many of the very precious promises that have been made by our Father in heaven are having- an actual and remarkable fulfillment. 

I will read a few words from the revelations that have been given by the Lord in relation to His work as it was to be established among men in this great dispensation. I read from a revelation given at a very early period, in the year 1829, which was before there was any such an organization among men as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Lord says : 

"Now, behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men; therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

I consider, my brethren and sisters, that this is a very marvelous declaration. It is a declaration that was made over and over again by the Lord, through the mouth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the revelations that were given to him at the opening of this dispensation. When one stops to analyze, for a few moments, the lowly condition of Joseph Smith, the founder, by Divine appointment, of this great work of the Latter-days, and attempts to weigh and consider the unpreparedness of his condition, from a purely human point of view,  could scarcely believe — I suppose no one did believe, at the inception of the work, unless it were revealed to him by the Spirit and power of God — that there would ever be any fulfilment of the words I have read in this opening paragraph, that a marvelous work and a wonder was about to come forth among the children of men. 

My brethren and sisters, when we take time to look into the history of this people the Latter-day Saints we find abundant evidence it seems to me, to justify us in the belief we entertain, that Joseph Smith was an inspired man. I wonder, sometimes, how it is possible for those who are not of us, to fail in discovering the Divinity of the work he was instrumental in establishing among men. 

You all know there is a passage of scripture in the Old Testament wherein the Lord says : 

"When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously; thou shalt not be afraid of him." 

But, on the other hand, what are we to understand when one speaks in the name of the Lord, and the thing that is spoken comes to pass, particularly when the things that are spoken are beyond the power of man to foresee, naturally, and appear to be impossible of fulfilment? My understanding is we are then to know the man is sent of God, and we should be afraid to turn a deaf ear to his warning. 

I am of the opinion that the clause I have read from the revelation concerning the marvelous character of the work that was to be introduced by the Prophet Joseph, at the time it was given, was entirely beyond the power of man, of Joseph himself, to foresee; it appeared to be impossible of accomplishment. We have listened this afternoon to some of the evidences bearing upon the fulfillment of predictions that have been made. Are we impressed with what we have heard, and do we give praise to God, or do we become so accustomed to such testimonies that we allow them to pass without serious consideration, as a mere matter of history, and think nothing more about them? One brother, Elder Andrew Kimball, president of the St. Joseph stake, told us a story this afternoon of ten thousand Latterday Saints in Arizona, and incidentally mentioned the fact that there are other thousands over the line in the Republic of Mexico, who also are identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then another brother, President Melvin J. Ballard of the Northwestern States Mission, stood up and told of the Latter-day Saints who are in Oregon, and who are in Washington, and who are in other districts of the country in these great United States of America, where he is called to labor, all of whom have given allegiance to the work that was planted, about eighty years ago, by the boy Joseph Smith. If the whole story were told in its completeness, we would discover that in every part of the civilized world there are hosts of men and women who have been convinced of the truth of what the world has nicknamed Mormonism, and have been made to feel, in their whole beings, that it is not the delusion it is thought by some to be, but that it is the power of God unto sal. These converts to Mormonism have given every possible evidence that they have been born of the Holy Spirit, by doing all that mortal men could do in attestation of their faith, and their confidence in the great work that has been established. 

The Lord God of heaven made the announcement as a preface to this Book of Commandments, to all the inhabitants of the earth, that His work would prevail. This thing has not been done in a corner. It has not been hidden up by the works of men, but it has been like a city set upon a hill that all the world might see it. That has been the manner and the character of the establishment of the work of the Lord in the latter times. Hear what the Lord has said : 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I, the Lord have commanded them." 

That is not written like it came from the Scribes or Pharisees. The spirit of these words as one reads them, has the ring and sound of one speaking by authority. This proclamation was to all the inhabitants of the earth. The language is: 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the Book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants, of the earth. Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled." 

I believe it. My brethren and sisters, I feel the truth of this announcement, in my whole being. 

This is not like what an imposter would write. Think of Joseph Smith who then stood alone, and without any following. Joseph Smith, the youth, in his loneliness and ostracism, and in his lack of training and power of leadership, from a human point of view, telling the inhabitants of the earth to "fear and tremble." My brethren and sisters, it was not Joseph Smith it was the Lord of heaven, crying to the people to hearken to His voice, and to His proclamation. The promise of the Lord is : 

"And again, verily, I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh. * * Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." 

That was the declaration of Mormonism in the very commencement. Every soul who has honestly and prayerfully tested the promise couched in the words I have just read has been made to know that the promise is of God, and not of man. Efforts have been made in every land and clime, and among every people where the missionaries have carried these glad tidings, to stop the advancement of Mormonism, and yet we have heard from this missionary, as we will probably hear from other missionaries during this conference—for the story is the same from every land — that Mormonism is working its way among honest, thoughtful men, and they are yielding obedience to its principles, and are willing to sacrifice everything they have upon the earth, if need be, for its success. That is the story of Mormonism. It has been so from the very beginning. The word of the Lord God  been fulfilled, and this work has not halted, and it never will halt, worlds without end, for God, the Ruler and Creator, has made the promise, and He is able to fulfill it. We need have no anxiety about the onslaughts that are made against us by the ungodly. The concern of every member of the Church should be as to whether or not his full duty is being performed. Let me again read one of the paragraphs from the Book of Commandments : 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all »our heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

My brethren and sisters, if we are serving the Lord in this manner all is well. I commend this paragraph to the earnest consideration of all who are assembled here today. When we consider how the promises of God are being fulfilled, we ought to be able and willing to put our trust in Him, and follow where He leads, for when the finish comes it will be found that victory has perched upon the banners of Israel, and upon all who have been willing to keep the commandments of God. 

May the Lord help us to be with that victorious number, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus ^ Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation, that sayeth unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." 

These words, spoken over two thousand years ago by the poetprophet Isaiah, came to my mind while listening to the words of testimony and encouragement spoken by Elder McMurrin. I desire very much to enjoy the spirit of truth and to be assisted by your faith and prayers that what I say may be of mutual worth and advantage. I rejoice in the Gospel; I rejoice in the work that is being done at home and abroad. 

I have the honor of laboring with some thirty men of worth and integrity, your husbands and your sons, who are preaching the Gospel to the people of California, Nevada and Arizona, or some parts of those two latter states. You know them, you who are acquainted with them. You know their worth and their integrity, and you know the sacrifices that you are making in order that they may stay in the field. How good it is to know that they are soldiers of the cross, and that the same spirit with which David went out to meet Goliath and the Philistines is on these men — some of them hardly men as yet — boys you may call them. So do they go forth in the strength of the God of Israel to declare His word, that the hour of His judgment is come, and that His kingdom has been established again in the earth. Because of the courage, and unselfishness of these men, because of their holiness and virtue, because of the words of wisdom they speak, because of your prayers, Decause they are magnified in the eyes of men, by the eternal Father, they have not feared  world, and are winning souls to Christ. 

One of the most successful years thus far that we have had in the California mission is the present one, in the work of preaching the Gospel, baptizing converts, the disposition of books, and in giving away tracts. In fact, we have been sufficiently successful to arouse the active antagonism of some of the so-called teachers of peace, who are contending for dogma and the creeds of men, but who are far removed from the mighty principles of truth, and the example, labors and life of the Master, who established His word and His work anciently, as He has established it in these days, by revelation, through the voice of prophets, and by the vision of seers. » 

A week ago, in the city of San Diego, there was gathered together a group of representatives of one of the great, so-called "Christian" churches of the day. They were in conference assembled, but I could not help marking the difference in the spirit manifested there and the Spirit we enjoy today. They met and sang, as we have done; they prayed, as we have prayed, to God, the Eternal Father, and they partook of the Holy Communion. They then asked for a statement or reckoning of the funds of the mission society. After this, one of the reverend gentlemen who has spent long years in Utah in the interest of that society, and who claims to be familiar with this people and their teachings, arose and edified the body with a dissertation along all the lines of meanness that has ever been spoken or written about our people. Then they were prepared to pass the plate, so that the missionary society can be sustained in  land. Charges were made that we are teaching the dogmas of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, and that our hearts and lives are far removed from anything that savors of Christianity, or of the principles of republicanism, that obtains in our government. 

In the northern parts of the state, they became so exercised that they formed a concerted plan of onslaught upon our people, and for some few weeks a battle with some of our brethren occurred in the newspapers, in the press of the country in that locality, and they were helped and abetted by the fulsome press of this city, and by some of the satellites- of disappointed politicians and apostate Latter-day Saints. We could not help but admire our brethren for the courage and calmness with which they answered the slanders and calumnies heaped upon our people, for they answered them, though in the spirit of kindness, with such force and philosophy that the enemy was put to rout. Then our brethren turned somewhat aggressive. They asked those ministers to state by whom they were authorized to preach; by what right they administered in the ordinances of the Gospel; by what right they preached and administered in the name of Christ for hire, instead of serving the people and preaching the word of God, conducting their work upon the lines instituted by the Master? Reminding them that the Lord said: "Freely ye have received, freely give," and declared that His Gospel was for the poor and the oppressed, for all who would come and partake of the waters of life, that His word and His Gospel were without money and without price. 

These men said they would make  answer to any such contention as this, and signed their last article and withdrew from the field. Then one of the papers, in an editorial, arraigned them most severely for the manner in which they treated us, saying their methods were characterized by no traits of gentility, let alone the Christian character, which they professed. The editor wanted to know why they did not answer the questions propounded by our brethren; and it has resulted in much good. So our hearts are filled with joy, because we have been able to get the attention and active consideration of the people. It is the indifference of the people in any missionary field that is hurtful to our feelings. If we can arouse the people sufficiently that they become interested enough even to oppose us, we then feel assured of this fact: that if we have their ears in this cause we can divest their minds of prejudice that they have imbibed and, perhaps, through the grace of God, impart unto them some of the principles of eternal life, that they may enter into the joy of the Lord. They may then taste some of the peace of the gospel of Christ; peace that does away with error and superstition, that enters into the souls of men and elevates them far beyond the trifling things of earth; that relieves them of distrust and fear and trembling that belong to the wicked. That peace of which President Smith spoke in his remarks, that lifts the Latter-day Saint above the vagaries of men, above their bickerings, strifes and jealousies; the peace that is spoken of in the olden scriptures by the Master Himself, when He speaks of the kingdom of heaven, as we read it in the 13th chapter of St. Matthew. Jesus said : "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a treasure hid in a field; the which, when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The lesson that we draw from these two parables is this : that in the possession of this pearl of great price he came into God's peace; he came to the peace of the kingdom of heaven and into the possession of joy and truth far above the riches of the kings and princes of the earth, richer than one would be with all the untold wealth of the Indies. 

Men who possess this peace rejoice. Such men, President Smith said, are lifted above the mundane things of this sphere and its petty strifes. Such men stand, as it were, above the clouds, like some great mountain capped with snow; whilst at its base there may be thunder and lightnings, floods and earthquakes, and all below is hidden from the light of the sun, and there is darkness, clouds and gloom, upon its head shines the rays of the effulgent sun. All is serene with such a man; he is in possession of peace that is above the earth. So it was with Joseph Smith when, persuaded to retrace the steps he had taken toward the peaceful abode he had foreseen for his people in the valleys of the mountains, he said to his brethren: "I go like a lamb to the slaughter, yet my conscience is void of offense towards God and all men. I am calm as a summer's morning, and it shall yet be said of me, 'He was murdered in cold blood.' " No  could have that peace and possess such equanimity of soul unless God was with him and he in God's peace; unless he was in possession of the "pearl of great price" that the nusbandman sold all his possessions for, and then felt that joy that is unsurpassable. 

So the Latter-day Saints should comfort themselves with this assurance that, whilst they are compelled to meet contumely and strife in the world, they possets the pearl of great price. They, too, stand upon Mount Zion, publishing peace and good tidings, and bringing joy to. the inhabitants of the earth. Whilst great men are condemning the creeds of men, and stating the necessity of a new gospel, and that such new gospel should be without the dogmas of men, we know that the Gospel we preach, which we have received, is from the Lord, it has His authority, it is not what men have brought down from the dead past, but that it is characterized by newness of life, revealed from God in our own day, dealing with the past, present and future. Had President Eliot and others who find fault with existing religions, investigated "Mormonism," they could not have claimed the necessity of greater light, of greater truth, of greater freedom, than that which characterizes the religion of the Latter-day Saints. Christian men and women can not find in any one of the other churches all of that which they recognize as the religion of Christ. Feeling narrowed within the confines of the creeds, they have tried to find outside of their churches the fullness of the Gospel of Jesus. They are debating such matters as this in their colleges, such a one as I read some time ago at Stanford University, Cali : "Resolved, that a new religion suited for all men and all times should be brought forth to meet the intellectual conditions of each nation, and to meet the requirements of all people, and of all kindreds of the earth." They are running to and fro for the word of God. I trust some shall find it. They recognize the fact that there is a famine in the land, "not a famine for bread nor a thirst for water," but for the truth. 

Is it not a glorious thought, my brethren and sisters, and something to be most thankful for, that we have in our possession this very thing that the learned and the wise and the mighty of the earth are seeking for? Is it not a consolation to know that this Gospel ( good news, it means) answers every call of the human mind, responds to every emotion of the human soul, and answers fully and completely every requirement of intelligence and reason? There is a philosophy and a logic in it that appeals to the minds of men that cannot be controverted or contradicted. This Gospel which we preach, when they hear it or when they read it, and especially when they live it, has that quality that gives something more than a passive belief in some code of morals, it means more than a belief in the written word of God, for the letter killeth, the spirit is necessary to give it. life. Men can see and feel that our faith is brighter, more perfect and heavenly than the churches or religions they have been acquainted with in the world. They can see, when they find it, that faith is an incentive to all intelligent action, that it is necessary for men and women to render that which is just and true to themselves, to their own families, to tht  of our commonwealth and to God. Faith has prompted every great man in the world. It, was faith in the theory that the world was round that gave courage and inspiration to Columbus, when he steered his vessels into the rays of the western sun and discovered a new world. It was faith that led Watts and Stephenson in the line of work they respectively followed, that evolved the locomotive and engine of today. It was faith that led Franklin into the field with kite and key, and it is faith that is overcoming that which seemed a few years ago to be impossible, the difficulties in aerial navigation, so that machines heavier than air are flying, as Isaiah said, "like a cloud and as doves to their windows." 

When they see and appreciate all this, they can see how logical is the principle maintained by the Latterday Saints as a part of revealed religion, of the natural and rational law of the Gospel, that faith is the great first principle of revealed truth. No wonder, my brethren and sisters, that the Prophet Joseph Smith, under the inspiration of Almighty God, said that "faith is the foundation of all revealed religion." You will remember, perhaps, that some of the leading churches contend still that faith follows repentance, and that repentance is the first awakening of religious thought or belief. We had this contention not long since with a doctor of divinity, who was speaking to the people of San Diego about us and the tenets of Mormonism. So some of these men, who seem to know all about us, have not learned this one principle yet, that faith is the foundation truth of all intelligent thought and action, and that repentance comes as a natural sc quence to it, and is true development and true education. All men have made mistakes, and all successful men have repented and turned from them; they have turned to a better theory, to a better plan. The housewife exercises faith in her household duties; for instance: in making bread, she knows that the proper ingredients will produce the proper and desired result; and if she makes a mistake in it, she repents of it, and then she sees that her bread is more carefully and more perfectly prepared. So that faith, you see, is used in the smallest as well as in the greatest things in life. If a banker, or a railroad magnate, makes a mistake, he repents of it, and sees that it does not occur again. So we might go on, and show that repentance is necessary in the development, and intelligent action, and operation of all things, and is the handmaid of faith, going hand in hand with it. 

It is most gratifying to know that we have this divine type of a message, this eternal character of a Gospel to preach. We have no apologies to make for it; we preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, His message which, if men will receive it in their hearts, they shall be thereby prepared for the advent of the Son of Man when He comes to earth to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. 

May the Father grant that this time shall not be far away, but that we shall do well our part, that the coming of the Son of Man may be hastened, and the time soon arrive when men shall study war no more, that every man shall render that which is just and true to all his fellows, come into God's peace, and be able to say, as did our Prophet and Seer, the martyred President of our 

Church, "My conscience is void of offense towards God and all men." In possession of this peace we shall be "as calm as a summer's morning." May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and give us of His Spirit, to know, to feel, and to live these Gospel truths, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Our God Shall be Glorified." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew G. Bowman. 


