Afternoon
03 10 1909

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., in the Tabernacle. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the congregation to order, and announced the convening of overflow meetings at this hour, in the Assembly Hall, and outdoors near the Bureau of Information building. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Hosannah!" ( Stephens. ) 

Prayer was offered by Elder William H. Smart. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Gospel Restoration." 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN 

Mormonism the work of God. — Our splendid Church organizations. — General improvement 'among the Saints. — Advice to parents. — The sacredness of marriage. — Reward of a faithful and well-spent life. — Concerning children being kept employed. — Home industries. — The development of the State's resources. 

This is a very interesting occasion for the Latter-day Saints. We meet together twice a year, in general conference, to transact the general business of the Church and to receive such instructions as the Lord may have for our profit and learning. All the stakes and many of the missions of the United States are represented in this great assembly. 

The Lord has established this work; He has maintained it, and ' will do, I have no doubt, to the end. We have embraced the Gospel in our faith and in our works. Paul declared, anciently, that he was "not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, to all those who believe." No doubt, he meant, that it is the power of God unto salvat'on to all those who believe and obey it. The Latter-day Saints have been occupied with the Gospel for a great many years, and the results are seen in the great number of stakes that are established, the great number of wards, and the very perfect organizations that now exist in Zion. A great work is being accomplished in the world. Quite a little army of elders, two thousand of them, are abroad preaching the Gospel, and other elders are at home preaching the Gospel — in that eloquent discourse of example, at least. I believe that is the case with a very large majority, of all those who have received the priesthood — they are preaching by example. 

Under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, the Council of the Twelve and the First Council of Seventies are constantly employed in preaching and ir. writing, in organizing and re-organizing, setting in order and keeping in order this great army of people, in their stakes, in their wards, in their quorums, and in all their associations; and a great work is being accomplished. Very much attention is being given to the rising generation in the splendid Sunday School system, so thoroughly established and developed, the Mutual 

Improvement Associations of young men and young women, the Primary Associations, and the Religion Class organizations, besides all the quorums of the priesthood; indeed all Israel seems to be thoroughly occupied. 

I presume that sometimes we feel we are taxed in our attention to spiritual matters, church matters, more than we are able to meet; but the Lord will bring forth the fruit. We plant, we labor, we exhort and do our duty, bearing the priesthood; but it is the Lord that gives the result, that causes the convictions and brings about the conversions and the reformations. He finds the hearts of the people and controls them and endows them with faith, with the spirit of repentance and reformation. As a result of our observation, which is quite general — for we keep fairly in close touch with the missions throughout the world, with all the stakes in Zion, with all the wards, with all the associations and organizations that pertain to this splendidly organized Church — I feel to say a word in favor of our efforts. We are not perfect, but I believe that we are doing better, that we are getting more thoroughly acquainted with doctrines and principles; I believe that we are making improvement and that the Gospel of redemption and of salvation and of restoration is producing fruit that can be measured in the conditions of the people, can be measured in the conditions of individuals. I believe that every member of this Church can readily discover and determine just how far. he is redeemed and reformed, and just how far he has become established upon a good, safe foundation of faith, of repentance, and of good works. 

I believe it is highly necessary for every man to take stock of himself, every family, every quorum, every ward and every stake; to take stock of ourselves and determine just how far the Gospel has produced fruit in us, how far we are redeemed, how much reformation we have accomplished, while connected with this Church. Thus we can demonstrate or determine the power that is connected with the Gospel, the measure of the power of God; for, if we have wrought righteousness, if we are redeemed, so that we do not want to do wrong any more, so that we do not want' to be wicked, that we do not want to indulge in falsehood, intemperance, in profanity, or in any other measure of wickedness; if we are in that condition, we will know the virtue and the power of this Gospel. Let each man take stock of himself, ask himself the question, "What reformation have I made?" What reformation have we made? How well and thoroughly are we established now in the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, and how well has the power of God been demonstrated in us individually. 

As the leading and presiding councils in the Church, it falls to our lot to visit all the departments of the Church, to give attention thereto, as directed by the Presidency of the Church; so that we go to your homes, we go to your wards, to your stakes, and we visit with the priesthood. We examine , and weigh the brethren, look them over. We have occasion to do-this whenever it is necessary to regulate and set in order any organization within the Church. That keeps us fairly well occupied, for changes are occurring constantly, and we find it necessary to examine  pieces of material, the timber at our disposal, in organizing stakes and wards and quorums and the like, in all the details of Church work. I want to say that we have discovered this — starting with the brethren who are charged with caring for stakes and wards, quorums and missions, — that quite generally, almost universally, these presiding men, and the presiding brethren and sisters in all the associations and organizations of the Church, are found to be doing good work, and they are fairly faithful and exemplary. We hardly hope to be perfect just yet; but we find these leading and presiding brethren and sisters, in their several positions, making very great improvement. That is our testimony; and that good condition is spreading and increasing, though evils exist and no doubt will do to the end, for some may never fully repent and reform, I fear. But, generally, it will be found that the Latter-day Saints are becoming more faithful and better established in their faith — more reliable, more spiritually-minded, giving greater attention to 'their ministry, and having matters of the Church better in hand than heretofore. We find that a very large percentage of all the Lattelr-day Saints are prayerful. They remember the Lord; a large percentage of them remember Him in their fastings, every month, and in their offerings for the poor. The law of tithing is fairly well and generally observed. The Sabbath day is being better observed. Yet, along all these lines there is opportunity for improvement. 

Our children have been taken care of, and are being taken care of, by the associations, I believe, better than by their parents. Hence I thought the injunction of the President this morning — that we should give attention to our children — was very timely. I believe the President understands that the associations are doing their duty well; but it is your duty and my duty, our duty as fathers and mothers, to take greater pains with our children, to work with them more earnestly and consistently and wisely, to seek to have influence and weight with them; not only to teach them by word of mouth, but by our example. We should see to it that our example, our conversation, shall be proper, and that their faith shall never be weakened by our example, nor by our precepts, but that everything that we do as parents shall tend to strengthen faith in the hearts of our children. For we have an army of them, an immense army of children in this Church, thank the Lord; they are very numerous; they are bright and intelligent; they are very choice spirits, and are worthy of our care. They are entitled to the care of elders, as well as their mothers, and of seventies and high-priests, for every child properly, and well-born in this Church is entitled to be the child of a man bearing the Melchisedek Priesthood. 

The suggestion upon marriage should receive our consideration. This principle cannot be too thoroughly taught in our families at home, not leaving these instructions for public consideration altogether, or to be given in public by our presiding officers. Every father should feel and realize the importance of the proper marriage of his son, the proper marriage of his daughter, and the proper legitimacy, in the eyes of the Lord, for our grandchildren and great-grand, so that our posterity shall never have occasion to look us in the face and say that their progenitors were indifferent and careless. They are entitled to be born heirs of God, legitimate in the eyes of the Lord, and what a serious thing it would be and will be for us, my brethren and sisters, if we neglect to have the suitable and proper kind of marriage that is required in this Church : marriage for eternity, legal marriage in the eyes of the Lord, so that our children and our children's children may inherit this blessing, that they may 'be heirs of the Lord and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. If we neglect our duty in this regard, what a serious thing it will be for our posterity. They are not responsible for their birth; but they will be responsible for the birth of their own posterity. 

I would like to suggest to the Latter-day Saints that it is a reproach to parents who do not insure to their children legitimacy in the eyes of the Lord. Marriages for time are all right and proper in the world, and are satisfactory to the world, I suppose, as a rule; that is the only form they have; but it is not sufficient for Latter-day Saints. For that reason, I take it, our President enjoins upon us the importance of Latter-day Saints marrying with Latter-day Saints and not marrying with those who are not of our faith. This does not mean that the other children .of God are not just as choice as we are, if they will open their hearts to receive the truth, and are willing to be taught and receive faith, and do the works that are required of us; but as long as they remain careless and indifferent and are satisfied with forms of religion, without the power there, the power of God, then they deprive themselves of many blessings. There is but one true religion. That Paul referred to; it is the religion that he came to be partial to. At first he had a religion that was not the true religion of the Lord Jesus Christ; but when he had corrected himself, when he had embraced the truth and had undertaken to serve the Lord Jesus Christ and to be His follower, he discovered that the religion of the Pharisees was not sufficient for salvation. He had been reared in the strictest form of the religion of the Pharisees. He was a conscientious and an honest man. He felt as though he was doing his duty when he was persecuting the Saints, and he rejoiced at the stoning of Stephen, at the gate of Jerusalem; but he found out later that he was persecuting the Lord Jesus Christ. He discovered that fact, because the Lord revealed it to him. He repented, he reformed and he was baptized for the remission of his sins and received the Holy Ghost which enlightened his mind and prepared him and qualified him to make that immortal saying, "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." That was a new religion for him; he had not had that before in all his life. He had not been trained in the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ; but when he discovered it, and found it out, he became enlightened; the Holy Ghost inspired his heart and bore testimony to him of the Father and of the Son, and he discovered that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus was the power of God unto salvation. Now, we can determine this question, every one of us. We do not need to go to the bishop to find out, or to the president of the Church,  the president of the stake; but every member of this Church can determine just exactly where he stands and what measure of redemption and of restoration he has reached, where he is at the present time. Have we ceased to steal? We do not want to steal any more. Latter-day Saints do not want to steal. We do not want to lie any more, because we have reformed and repented. We have ceased to deceive., to cheat, to rob, or to do anything that is wicked. We have stood thus for many years, and expect to continue to the end; we must be faithful to the end if we want the blessing, finally, for it is not enough for us to be honest today and conscientious today and for a week or a month; our contract or compact with the Lord is that we will serve Him to the end of our mortal lives. If we do this, the Lord will receive us into His fellowship and make good His promise of forgiveness of our sins. We will attain to a remission of our sins if we serve Him faithfully to the end of our mortal lives. That is a very important place, so that when we get there, if we have kept the commandments, fought a good fight, and endured to the end, how blessed it will be for us to come into the presence of God and receive the welcome plaudit, "Well done." If we have done well, that will thrill us from the crown of our head to the soles of our feet; we will rejoice exceedingly, and there will, no doubt, be a great change in us when our sins are finally forgiven, when they are blotted out and are not remembered against us any more; then we will have no cause to be ashamed. 

Now, we have discovered that this Gospel is having its due weight among the people. When we come to examine them, and they are looked over by the bishops in the wards, or by the presidencies of the stakes, as well as these general authorities that travel among them, I believe it is the general opinion and understanding among us that the Latter-day Saints are improving, growing stronger, growing better in faith, and we are becoming more popular. Stakes are increasing, wards are increasing, and we are spreading abroad and hav'ng greater influence and accomplishing greater good in the earth. The Lord is blessing and redeeming His people. We see before us here one of the beautiful sights we see twice a year. I don't know of any other spot on earth, or any other people on earth where there is anything superior to this, or equal to it. We come together as parents. We are here today, and we will be together in great numbers again tonight in the Sunday School gathering. This house will be filled, for everybody is invited and everybody is expected to come, in the interest of the Sunday Schools. This is a work that engages much of our attention at home. 

We have strangers on our borders, who need to hear the Gospel; and there are many among us who should hear the Gospel; not only do the Latter-day Saints gather from abroad, but our friends and neighbors gather; they come here in great numbers, until they almost outnumber us here in Salt Lake City. If we could only convert them, if they would come and listen and embrace the Gospel and help us in the building up of the kingdom, we would rejoice exceedingly. We go to the extremities of the earth, to the islands of the sea and  over the continents, and expect to go to the very ends of the earth and preach the gospel to every creature. This obligation rests upon us; this responsibility has been placed in our hands. 

My testimony, my brethren and sisters, is that the Latter-day Saints are improving; they are increasing in strength, in faith, in power, and they desire to be faithful in the work of the ministry. I believe we feel that way, and that we will be successful if we just unite ourselves. You can determine the condition of the Latter-day Saints by the spirit they enjoy, for there is happiness and peace among us, and a foretaste of heaven fills the souls of the Latter-day Saints. We have no occasion to go on the outside; we have no occasion to go to any other religious denomination. They certainly ought to enjoy what they possess. We are satisfied with what we possess, for we have heard; we have seen; we have believed; we have repented; we have been baptized for the remission of our sins, by competent authority; and we have received the Holy Ghost, for it is that Spirit that has borne record to our souls. It is that Spirit that so establishes us that the world have concluded that they can't do very much with the Mormon people, at least the older people. They may catch some of the children; but if they do, we will catch some of theirs in turn, because we will be laboring to convert them while they are laboring to convert us. 

This Gospel, with which Paul was so pleased, requires us to serve the Lord all the time, so that we may have joy and happiness in our souls, and that we may be prepared to live and be prepared to go to our reward when mortality closes and  lay down these mortal tabernacles of ours, for we will lay them in the dust after a little while — just a little while. All the time there are changes. Many are being born, and many are passing away. We mourn, we sorrow for our loved ones that go — our wives, our husbands, our children, our parents; we sorrow for them; and it is well and proper that we should mourn for them and shed tears for the loss, for it is our loss; but it is their gain, for it is in the march of progress, advancement and development. It will be all right when our time comes, when we have finished our work and accomplished what the Lord requires of us. If we are prepared, we need not be afraid to go, for it will be one of the most pleasant sensations that ever comes to the soul of man, whenever he departs, if he can go with a clear conscience into the presence of the Lord and receive that welcome I have mentioned. We will be full of joy and happiness, and we will enter into a place of rest, of peace, of joy, rest from every sorrow. What a blessed thing that will be! We will never be tired any more. We will not get tired, for we will be in a condition that we can endure and enjoy our work: for we shall be occupied and employed on the other side as we are on this side; we shall have plenty to occupy our attention right along. 

Now, in closing, I want to say a word in regard to the children. I want to give you my thoughts in regard to one phase of child labor. I want to impress upon my brethren and sisters here, who have families, those who are raising families, who have children and will have children right along: I believe that there is nothing more important in  handling of children than to see that they are occupied, that they are employed, that they have something to do, that the mind is not left idle to study mischief or to do mischief. We should see that the little hands are suitably occupied; we should see that the little minds are constantly engaged. They should not be idle; boys should not be idle; girls should not be idle; they should have employment. It should be the effort of parents to provide their children with occupation. I know of nothing that is so degenerating and so dangerous as idleness, for the brain will seek out mischief. Satan is just as ready to tempt and to lead astray as the Spirit of the Lord is willing to lead us in ways of righteousness. Try to find employment for your little ones; keep them occupied. I do not want little children to do men's work; they should not do hard work; but their little hands should be occupied, for they can't be still a minute while they are awake. They cannot sit still, and they cannot lie still; if you place them upon their backs, they will kick and scramble and make a good deal of noise, too. They must be occupied. The brain is active just as well as the body, from the very beginning; they must have something to do. I believe that is one of the secrets of success : that the children should be occupied; we should make use of them in such way that they will be learning to be useful in their lives, and not be idle and waste their time, 

In regard to home industries : I thought I had the last suit myself, President. (Laughter). I thought, I had the last silk that was produced in Utah; and I thought I had the last cloth made at Provo; but I do not know how many last pieces have been made. (Laughter.) But here is the last silk ever made in Utah, (displaying a handkerchief.) In regard to home-made cloth, I have never worn anything, since I can remember, but goods made at Provo, until Provo stopped making the goods; since that time I have had to do the best I could, and I have been wearing shoddy ever since. I believe in sustaining home industry, the protection of everything that can be produced in our land. It has been said that, with some people, it is not considered very fashionable to be farmers, to cultivate the earth. As suggested, our boys want something easier, something smoother and cleaner; they don't want to get dirt on their hands, and the like. The cultivation of the earth, agriculture and horticulture, will be among the most profitable enterprises, and it will be found that the land here will be very valuable and precious; but it wants to be occupied and subdued. We want to produce good crops upon it, instead of weeds. We have been looking over the country — not only looking over the people and the organizations, but we have looked over the fields in the south, in the north, as far as we go in the north, up into Canada — the finest country I ever saw for weeds, except the south. The south is pretty good, a warm country, and produces many weeds. Now, if we would only take from the earth all that can be brought out in good profitable crops, instead of producing weeds, we would become prosperous. We should subdivide the earth, as much as we can handle, making it profitable to us, that it be made to grow flowers and fruits and. vegetables — everything that is  for the use and comfort of man. The mines, of course, will be developed; they will produce, as they should do, gold and silver, lead and copper, and iron. If I had influence with the railroads, I would have them put a railroad into the iron-fields here, and the gold-fields here, and develop industries that would employ men by the thousands. The railroads have done wonders in the state of Colorado, as well as in Utah and in the north, and in all directions. They have done wonders, but we want them to do more. I guess they will never be able to do all we want them to do. We want them to help develop the resources. The Latter-day Saints are industrious, and are increasing in numbers. There are many people, not of this faith, in Latter-day Saint communities, and we live together as friends and neighbors. We meet them in business transactions; we have the same reservoirs, the same mines, the same interests; we live together, side by side, in the same cities and towns; and we ought to live in peace and labor for the welfare of the people of our state, help each other and not tear each other to pieces. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, in all your wards and stakes. May He bless you as individuals, in your homes. God bless the Latter-day Saints, that they may keep the faith, that their children may grow up in the faith, strong and determined in keeping the commandments of the Lord, so that they will have life now and life forever more, that they may dwell in the presence and favor and fellowship of God, our eternal Father, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I don't want Brother Lyman to think he has the last silk handkerchief; (laughter) I have a number of them at home, which I intend to keep as long as I can. 

There is a very modest lady in the congregation, who is clothed in home-made silk. The mulberry leaves were grown here, and the very worms that spun the silk into threads, were bred in Utah. I wish that more of the good sisters were clad in home-made silk. 

A quartette, "The Floweret's Sleep," was rendered by Elders Siddoway, Winter, Robinson, and Peterson." 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

More care needed in the cultivation of the soil. — Beautifying of towns and villages. — Brethren advised to purchase land and to make homes in the vales of Utah. — Idleness discountenanced, Industry encouraged. — Praise for Utah and her peopleParents exhorted to safeguard their offspring. — Home Industries recommended. 

I have enjoyed very much, indeed, the remarks that have been made by all of the brethren who have spoken to us in our conference today. The instructions and advice they have given us, on the various themes that have been dwelt upon, should encourage us in the more faithful discharge of the duties that rest upon us. 

The closing suggestions presented by President Lyman, in which he called our attention to the fact that there is a considerable growth of weeds throughout the land, is a matter upon which 1 believe, as a , we require something of an awakening. It has been my privilege, in recent times, to attend quite a number of congresses that have been held in various sections of the country. There was a time, in my earlier mingling in these congresses, when Utah was most constantly and frequently quoted as an example to her sister states and territories, in the character of her productions, and the results of our irrigation system. But, I am sorry to say, that in more recent times, we are not quoted so frequently, if at all, in regard to these matters. 

Many of our neighbors have taken steps in advance of us, and much greater care is being bestowed upon the productions of the soil than has been the case with ourselves. I believe that an awakening is necessary concerning the products of our farms; that an awakening of great moment is necessary in the upbuilding of our villages and towns, in the bestowal of greater care, more thought and industry on the beautifying of them. I am sanguine that it is necessary for an upward and onward movement to take place among the Latter-day Saints, looking to the accomplishment of this matter. I note, in many of the villages where it is my privilege to go, that there is not enough evidence of attention and labor and taste in the building of the cottage homes, in the selection of their position upon the lots, in the improvement of the sidewalks in front of the homes, in the planting of shade trees, in regular form. In thousands of the orchards of this country, peach trees and apple trees are gradually growing so old and looking so dead, that the condition of the neighborhood is to be regretted. I believe it would be a most wise effort upon the part of the presidency of each stake of Zion, backed by their high councils, the bishop's of their wards, and the leading elders of their sections, to look into and seek to improve the conditions of our villages. In the erection of cottage homes, the buildings should be put a sufficient distance from the sidewalk, so that the ground in front can be improved, that flower gardens may be made to grow up around the homes. If it were possible it would be well to secure the labors, in each district, of some young man who has a taste for architecture, in the drawing up of small plans, or plans that would reach the means of the now marrying young men and women of our communities; that in the laying of their home foundations, it would be upon a basis that would afford opportunity for culture and improvement, and would awaken in the minds of the young men and women of our communities an ambition to make the spot that they purpose to occupy the most pleasing and satisfactory upon which it would be possible for them to live. 

I believe there should also be an awakening in our own minds in regard to the securing of lands that are within our reach, that are within the confines of our own states and neighborhoods. We need an awaking that will check the tendency to wander afar off, to virtually pass around the circle — leaving Salt Lake, going to the southland, into Mexico; stopping a short time, possibly, in Arizona, in New Mexico, in old Mexico, then proceeding into Colorado, thence into Wyoming, thence into Canada; remaining in Canada a few months, or a year or so, then making a break for Oregon, from Oregon into northern 

California; and eventually dropping down, possibly, into southern California; becoming dissatisfied with conditions in that section of the country, and wandering back into the vales of Utah. As I have travled in the discharge of my duty, in the preaching of the Gospel, I have found men who, with their families, had been living in almost every state and territory of the western part of the United States, as well as in Canada and Mexico; dragging their families "from pillar to post," living almost constantly in wagons. Many such have died without a home over the heads of their children. 

I recognize that there is something essential, in regard to this matter, in the development and improvement of this God-given land. No choicer locations can be found upon the globe than are found beneath the shades of these grand old mountains. No finer opportunities can be found, in which men can secure the comforts and blessings of life, than can be found within the confines of this state — this pioneer state of the western lands. It is not creditable to us that there should have existed so much of this changing and moving, this unsettled feeling that has caused some men to move about till they have lived in almost every state and territory of the western part of this republic. Some such have returned to their former homes almost naked, and, at an advanced time of their lives, been compelled, possibly, to go out upon the streets and engage in digging and toiling, when their frames are bent with age. I believe that the effort should be made, devotedly and earnestly, and with unyielding courage, to uplift and upbuild this state, that it may be main in the vanguard, and merit the honor and continued respect of our neighbors, who have looked to us in the past and recognized our worth as colonizers and builders of commonwealths. 

The suggestions and views expressed in the remarks of President Lyman, along the line of giving employment to the children, and keeping them in touch with an industrious and prudent life, should be remembered by every father and mother. They should carefully weigh these matters, and lay their plans in accordance therewith. That old saying, "An idle brain is the devil's workshop," is as true now as when it was first uttered. No man that is idle can be honest and virtuous and of use in the community. No woman that is an idler can be clean and sweet. No boy or girl left without employment "can, by any manner of means, make a mark in life or accomplish good for himself or herself. Wherever they are found in idleness, simply employing themselves briefly, for a few moments, possibly,.each day, putting on the clothes they may have, and then wandering the streets, they will, in a very brief period of time, be found with the mark of evil upon their faces. Therefore, we should make every effort that is possible for us to make in safeguarding, training and providing suitable employment for our children. Every father and every mother among us should be devoting considerable of his and her talents to the establishing of something that will keep the hands of their children fully engaged. How easily and how nicely, nearly every home within the confines of this state could be made desirable by the labor of the boys and girls at home — in the making of a flow-garden, in the cultivation of the trees, in the care of the side-walk in front of the house, in improving the fence, and in working out plans that would bring results in the general improvement of the home. The idle hours that are spent, upon every hand, would make each farm within the confines of the state of Utah a garden spot. 

There are some men whose lives of toil are continuous, but there are many whose lives are comparatively idle, and the result of that idleness goes far to overturn and destroy the effects of the industry of the prudent and thoughtful ones. The honey-bee and the bee-hive were taken to designate the character of the people who established themselves in these -mountains in that earlier day. Are the sons and the daughters of those honored pioneers worthy today of that ancestry? Are the boys as inJustrious, as prudent, as frugal, as determined, and as thorough, as a rule, as their fathers were? Are the daughters of our communities as fully alive to the accomplishment of their life mission, legitimately and properly, as many or most of their mothers were? These are questions that we must consider. In no sense of the word do I desire to reflect upon the honor and integrity, the worth, the industry and devotion of the people of communities I love, and with whom it has been my privilege to spend my life; but when, in my experiences among men from afar, whose voices are heard in commendation of the grand work of the pioneers of this people, I note their criticism of conditions today, I realize that there is need for improvement among us. Some of these men visit our communities, and upon leaving they say : "In some localities the canals are filled with weeds; the orchards are old; dead trees are seen; the fruits are wormy and unfit for use; the farms are without legitimate and proper cultivation; the evidences of lack of thrift, push, and industry are seen upon the right hand and upon the left. The prestige of the past is waning, speaking of your communities." Such remarks have been made to me by men who have passed through some sections of our country. Some sections are doing fairly well in producing fruits. Other sections are holding their own in producing potatoes; but there was a time when all Utah potatoes commanded the best prices everywhere in the land, and were looked upon as a luxury. "But now some of the neighbors of Utah are taking away from us the opportunities that were ours, in this field, advantages which were gained by those who entered in the start, and to which we had acquired a right in the estimation of many people. 

I have an especial pride in the development of this goodly land. I recognize the Bee Hive State as the best in the world; her sons and daughters are among the most industrious, the most unflinching and determined of men and women in the accomplishment of the responsibilities and duties of life. As a rule, their homes are homes of peace, and of love and comfort. Around them are the evidences of thrift and worth, in every detail; whether in the garden, or on the farm, or in the orchard; whether in the character of the stock that they possess, in the nature of their buildings, or in the care they bestow in the development and improvement of their public places, and erection of good schoolhouses and good meeting. In all these they are examples to the boys and girls in their respective districts, examples that shall lead the youth to active and determined purpose in the betterment and improvement of the community, and above all in the development of such manhood and womanhood that, wherever found in the world, the Mormon boys and girls shall be recognized for their moral virtues, their devotion, their faith, their determination to aid in the advancement and uplifting of mankind. Our young people should be so trained and taught that they may be free from that condition which affects many of our religious friends in the world, moving "from pillar to post," so far as religious faith is concerned. I trust that they will not be anxious to change and move about constantly, but that they will secure some permanent abiding place, lay a foundation and build upon it in a manner that shall be creditable to them in the fullest sense of the word. 

My brothers and sisters, the admonitions that have been given to you by the brethren are worthy of your serious consideration. Our boys and girls are among the brightest and best that can be found. Their improvement and advancement is necessary, that not one of them may stray from the paths of right and of rectitude. We preach the Gospel unto them, but too often it happens with us that our confidence in them is greater than it should be. Those of you who have been students will remember how strictly the people of the Latin races guard their homes. Their girls are never allowed that liberty that is found among people of other races; they exercise great thoughtfulness and prudence in this matter. 

I am satisfied that the degree of liberty, that is gradually increasing among us in regard to these matters is likely to give us, in due time, very great regrets. We should wisely guard our children, as far as it is possible for us to do so, that the proper development of those that are entrusted to us may not be hampered, but that they may be rightly guarded and instructed, that heartaches may not come to us and our homes, through our overconfidence and neglect, as suggested in the remarks of President Smith, this morning., 

To us has been given the grandest religious system in the world. To us has been given the greatest hopes that have ever been presented to mortals — the possibilties of eternal companionship, the association of husbands and wives, parents and children, in the eternities, based upon the laws of God, the laws of life, of morality, of temperance. Ours is a system based upon the proposition of industrious, thoughtful and prudent conduct, based upon continued and industrious effort upon our part to seek to bring those that may be entrusted to our watchcare, to an understanding of all that is good. 

I want to indorse every sentiment that has been expressed looking to improvement in the establishment of industries, in the development of resources, in the opening of every door to the utilization of every good business enterprise that comes within our reach. I look around, upon the right hand and the left, I note that our friends, not of our faith, are gradually moving along the lines of the securing of the business concerns of our country; and I ask myself the question, Are we lacking in business tact, in skill, in in, in perseverence, in the understanding of business, as compared with our neighbors, that their success and our failure should be so manifest? I ask the men who are under the sound of my voice, and our sisters as well, to look into these problems of the development of business interests, and secure to themselves a part in the coming tide of prosperity, in the development of some business that shall be a credit to themselves, and upon which their children may continue to build after them. 

May the Lord bless and prosper the honorable and the good, those who seek the uplifting and betterment of their kind, of all creeds and conditions. May that spirit spread, which was so manifest in the utterances of that grand man who, as President of the United States, stood on this stand, a few days ago, and made an appeal to his countrymen, that they cease their bickerings; that they love their country; that they seek its improvement and its advancement; that they maintain the law in honor; that they guide themselves in keeping with the principles of righteousness; that they honor the Lord their God; that they honor their country; that they honor each other's rights, and strive to uplift and make better the condition of their fellowmen. That was his spirit, and these were the sentiments that fell from his lips as he stood here, and they were, I believe, a joy to every right thinking man and woman under the sound of his voice, as he made that appeal to his fellowmen. 

That the Lord may inspire us with determination to be among the foremost in righteous works; and finally, when our missions are done, that we may be crowned. with everlasting life, in. the kingdom of our God, is my prayer, Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Employment for the young a moral necessity. — $5.00 paid for home-made goods pays $25.00 debts! — Provo mills all wool goods four-fold better than eastern shoddy. — Vicious stories formulated here by enemies becoming harmless. — Admonition to retain land. 

' I am pleased to have the opportunity of again meeting with the Latter-day Saints in general conference, and I hope that the same liberty of utterance, which has been granted to those who have already spoken, may be given to me; that I may be able to say something here today which shall be for our mutual benefit. 

I have been deeply interested in all that has been said. One of the greatest desires of my life has been to live worthy of the father and the mother I have had; and one other of the greatest desires of my life is to rear my children in the nurture and admonition of the Gospel. One of the favorite themes I have ever had in preaching to the Latter-day Saints is derived from that revelation of the Lord which tells us that it is our duty to preach to our children and teach them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, inspire them with faith in the Lord and Savior of the world, and teach them to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord. T believe this commandment has been much neglected, and I rejoiced exceedingly in the remarks of our President today, urging the Latter-day Saints to do their duty in this respect. I have endeavored to do it, but I have made a resolution to  more faithful in doing so in the future. I believe there is opportunity for improvement upon the part of all of us in this direction. 

I rejoiced to hear the remarks regarding home manufacture. I have been considered a "crank," as enthusiastic advocates are called, on this subject all my life. From a boy of sixteen I have worn homemade clothes, and continued to do so until the Provo factory closed. I have believed in home industry, not only because I have listened to the inspired words of President Brigham Young, and of all his successors, on this theme, but because,, from a practical every-day standpoint, I know that it is beneficial to any community to raise and manufacture those things which they use. I believe it is a disgrace to us, as a people, that we are importing chickens, turkeys and butter by the carload. This community ought to produce all of these things, and it is a reflection on us that we bring them from abroad. I believe that no greater benefit, or moral uplift, can come to a people than the establishment of industries whereby the young can have employment. It has been my good fortune, in connection with the brethren who originally started the first sugar factory in this community, to not only watch the progress of this industry but to find in many sections where beets are raised, a wonderful growth in industry and an improvement in morals among the young people. I can remember, very distinctly, that we had to gw down — figuratively speaking — on our knees and crawl to the farmer to get him to raise beets enough to start the first factory. I can remember that the farmers cuuld not get their boys to go out and weed and thin the beets. They would say, "I don't have to." Now the boys have learned to grasp the opportunity for them to earn a little money and they are doing it, instead of being idle, and the communities, wherever there are industries of this kind, are benefited morally, to say nothing of the financial uplift. If we would study and reflect upon the actual benefits to a community by manufacturing at home the tilings that are used, and keeping our money here, we would realize that we would benefit ourselves every way in the long run. 

I have preached many times and quoted Bishop Farrell on this subject. He remarked, here in the Assembly Hall, that one of the reasons he bought home-made goods was to keep the money in the country so he would have a chance to get hold of it again. Now, there is a great deal in that statement. Our home manufactures give us increased opportunities. Somebody has said that opportunity has a very large lock of hair on his forehead, and, as he comes along, you will have to grab him by the hair, because, if you don't do it, he will get by, and as the back of his head is bald, your hand will slip off. Brother Farrell said he had been coming to conferences here, twice a year, for the past twenty years, and that during all this time, when he paid for his railroad ticket, he had endeavored to do so with a gold piece which he marked, as he knew the railroads were owned by eastern capitalists, and he wondered if he would ever see any of this money again, and he never did. "But," he says, "I have marked many and many a five-dollar bill or gold piece that I have paid out for homemade goods, and I have got them  again, time and time again, because the money stayed in the community. Now, to give you a practical illustration," he said, "as I was leaving, on this identical trip, there was a crowd at the Smithfield depot. I saw a man who had made some shoes for my children, and I gave him five dollars in payment of those home-made shoes. He saw a man to whom he owed five dollars, and he gave him the money. This man saw somebody he was owing, and he handed him the money. This man saw another man to whom he was owing five dollars, and he gave it to him. So the five dollars went from one to another until it came to the fourth man, and he gave it back to me, saying, "I owe you six dollars, and here are five dollars on account.' That five dollar Dill cancelled twenty-five dollars of debts just as quick as it takes to tell it, and I put my 'home-made shoes/ figuratively speaking, back in my own pocket." 

Now, if we had wisdom enough to look ahead of our noses — of course, mine is so long I can't look ahead of it. (Laughter.) But, if the people would only stop and take time to think of the ultimate benefits of sustaining home institutions, they would do it. It has been said that the tenderest part of 'the human anatomy is a man's pocket; and therefore the reason a man buys shoddy goods is that he thinks he is benefiting himself and saving money; but he is doing nothing of the kind. There is an old saying, and a true one — I used to have it on my letterheads, years ago — that "the best is always the cheapest." There is truth in it: I can buy a suit of clothes considerably cheaper since they quit manufacturing cloth at Provo; but I can wear it out in just about one-quarter of the time that I did a Provo suit. I can remember wearing one suit of clothes, of Provo goods, for three years, and all I had to do was to clean them occasionally and have them pressed. Finally I gave them away and they lasted two years more. I have never struck a shoddy suit of clothes that I could wear more than a year. 

I believe, with all my heart, that there is a moral uplift in furnishing employment to our young people, and we make a mistake when we are not willing to follow the advice and counsel of those whom God has placed to guide ihis people. I give the credit for the inspiration of Almighty God to that humble, faithful, meek man, Wilford Woodruff, for the establishment of the sugar industry in Utah, which has been worth millions of dollars to our, communities. The men of means, of large wealth, did not believe that it could be established here. I know what I am talking about, because President Wilford Woodruff appointed me, in connection with others, to get means — to solicit people to invest in that factory. At first, men with large means would not put a dollar in it, but some of the same men have tens of thousands of dollars in this industry today. One of the strongest, if not the strongest, financial man in the community, in response to the request of the committee, put some money in the first factory, and as we were leaving, he asked me laughingly, if I knew where he could sell the stock for fifty cents on the dollar. The men who had the contract for building the first factory left the community, after running it a year or two, believing it would be a failure; but it did not , and I want to tell you that when the inspiration of the Lord prompts our leaders to do anything, and the people back them up, there will be no failure. 

T have just returned from a trip to the east, and I rejoiced as I mingled among the people to find the good feeling there regarding the Latter-day Saints. I was impressed with the contrast between the feeling now and what it was some twenty years ago, when it fell to my lot to travel a good deal, and to mingle with business men. The change in sentiment toward the Latter-day Saints is very marked indeed, and I thank the Lord for it. I thank the Lord that the prejudice and the hatred that there used to be in the hearts of the people, from New York to San Francisco, has disappeared, and I will thank the Lord when it disappears at home. This is about the only place today, thank the Lord, that there is any hatred toward the Latter-day Saints. It has been said that the reputation of a man is what the world thinks of him, but character is what he is. Because of the vicious stories which have been told of us, the reputation of the Latter-day Saints has been bad; but, thank the Lord, there is no Latter-day Saint who is living up to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, but what his character is absolutely above reproach. The people of the world are beginning to find this out. They are beginning to find that we are temperate, that we are industrious and virtuous, that we are honest, that we are patriotic, that we are godfearing; and when people find these things to be true of us, they are bound to respect us. I believe that we are making a very great mistake, many of us, especially those who are farmers, in  of our lands. Much of the land on the Provo bench, and in other sections of the country, adapted to fruit raising, is being sold to people who are coming in here from Colorado. The same identical class of land which they are buying here for $200 and $300 an acre, they have sold in Colorado for two, three and four thousand dollars an acre. They have sold their orchards in the East, and are coming here and buying just as good land for about ten per cent of what they got for their lands in the East. Let us keep our own lands, which are really gold mines. The great trouble with us is that we do not know their value. We do not know how much they will produce. We have not learned that, by intense cultivation, by raising fruits, and by being careful to see that we get rid of the worms, and do our full duty by the soil, we can make it worth three and four times its present value. 

Now, I rejoice, as I said, in the good feeling which I have found in the East. I rejoiced to meet with the missionaries in Chicago, and in attending meetings with them in New York. I rejoice in the Spirit of the Lord which I find among those who are laboring for the spread of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I rejoice in feeling that the Gospel satisfies every desire of the human heart, and in knowing that it is in very deed the truth. 

As I was coming home, I read a little book which I have read a number of times, and one passage impressed me more this time than at any former reading; it is as follows : 

"Which of the religions of the world is the real, the final, the absolute truth?" 

After asking that question, the author says : 

"We must make our individual choice, and live by it as best we can. Every new sect, every new cult, has in it a grain of truth at least; it is this that attracts attention and wins adherents. This mustard-seed of truth is often over-estimated, darkening the eyes of man to the untrue parts or phases of the varying religious faiths. But in exact proportion to the basic truth they contain do religions last, become permanent and growing, and satisfy and inspire the hearts of men. Mushrooms of error have a quick growth, but they exhaust their vitality and die; but truth still lives." 

I wish to say that I endorse, with all my heart, this statement, "But in exact proportion to the basic truth they contain do religions last, become permanent and growing, and satisfy and inspire the hearts of men." There is no Latter-day Saint living who is keeping the commandments of God, but what the truth of Almighty God, revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, satisfies and inspires him. It satisfies all the yearnings of his heart; there is nothing to desire in time or eternity, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ does not give. This work has grown in the face of all opposition, in the face of all that has been said against it. In my judgment we are better, and we are doing more for the building up of the kingdom of God today, and living our religion better than ever before. I rejoice in this fact, and I rejoice in the peace and the happiness that each and every one, who is keeping the commandments of God, feels on every occasion. 

"The man who makes the acquisition of wealth the goal and ultimatum of his life, seeing it as an end rather than a means to an end, is not true. Why does the world usually make wealth the criterion of success, and riches the synonym of attainment? Real success in life means the individual's conquest of himself; it means 'how he has bettered himself,' not 'how has he bettered his fortune?' The great question of life is not, 'What have I ? but 'What am I ?' " 

Every Latter-day Saint who is loyal to the principles of the Gospel, is not seeking wealth; he is not asking himself the question, "What have I," and "What can I gain?" The true Latter-day Saint is asking, "What can I do to better myself, to encourage those with whom I am associated, and to uplift the children of God?" That is the inspiration that comes to every Latter-day Saint who realizes the force of this Gospel that we have espoused. It is in very deed the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is in very deed the plan of life and salvation. God lives; Jesus is the Christ, and He is the chief corner stone of this great work — He is directing it, and He will continue to direct it. He chose His prophet, and He gave him instructions and authority to establish this work; and the power and the influence of Joseph Smith are now being felt as the angel promised. His name is known for good or for evil all over the world; but it is not known for evil except by those who malign him. Those who know him, those who know of his teachings, know that his life was pure and that his teachings were, in very deed, God's law. I rejoiced in bowing down, in the cottage erected in memory of him and in seeing the beautiful monument, and I shed tears of joy while supplicating God, in that cottage, and thanking Him that this monument had been built to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I thank God that I know he was a Prophet of God; and I pray that  Latter-day Saint who has this knowledge may live up to it; I ask that we may have the power to do so. in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Worthy is the Lamb that was Slain." 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a. m. Monday, Oct. 4th. 


