Morning
03 10 1909



PEESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

That God has spoken is an irrefutable truth. — Parents censurable for unwise indulgence of children. — Reverence for sacred things should be inculcated. — Men and women should marry those of their own faith. —  Prosperity retarded by neglect to foster home manufactures. — Ooportunities needed for manual training of boys and girls. — A knowledge of God and Truth gives rest to the soul. 

(After a few preliminary remarks, urging the brethren and sisters occupying seats to close up together and make room for as many as possible of those standing, the president continued) : 

It is always a source of regret to me to see our sisters — sometimes aged sisters — under the necessity of standing at our meetings. I do not think that I ever saw the time when it would not be far greater pleasure to me to occupy a "standing seat" if, by so doing, I could give to a sister, a mother perhaps, the chance to sit down. I suppose the time will not come — we do not look for it to come, at least — when we shall be able to build large enough to accommodate all the Latter-day Saints. 

The feeling that is in my heart, at this moment, is that of gratitude, of pleasure, and of hearty welcome to all the Latter-day Saints who have assembled here this morning to attend the opening session of our eightieth semi-annual conference. We welcome you, brethren and sisters, with all our hearts, and we sincerely pray and hope that the blessings of the Spirit of the Lord  rest upon those, individually and collectively, who have left their homes and gathered here for the purpose of attending this general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We thank you, and I know that the Lord will bless you, for the interest you manifest in coming together. We hope that our coming together in this capacity, throughout this conference, may be attended with rich blessings and with abundant our-pourings of the Spirit of the Lord upon all the people; that our faith may be strengthened; that our earnest desire to keep the faith may be increased in our souls; and that an overpowering desire may prevail, over all other thoughts and all other desires, to serve God and keep His commandments, that, by His blessing and assistance, we may be able as parents, as fathers and mothers in Israel, to bring up our children in the way they should go; instilling into their minds a knowledge of the truth, a love of the truth and for the truth, and an earnest desire, also, in their hearts to serve God and keep His commandments. We wish our children not only to believe but to acquire the -knowledge, which comes through obedience to the truth, that the Lord God Almighty has spoken from the heavens in the day in which we live and has revealed to man the true way of life everlasting. There is no mistake about it; this fact is not based upon the judgment or opinion of men; it is based upon the truth — truth that cannot be denied intelligently. Men may deny truth, through a wilful desire to do it, or through ignorance on their part, and they may reject the truth; but no man that lives can say of a truth that God has not spoken from the heavens to men in this latter day as He spoke to ancient prophets and inspired men, and revealed unto them anciently, and also in our present time, His mind and will, and His law. Men may say they do not believe it; but that does not make the truth of non-effect. Men may express their doubts about it; but the truth remains. Men may reject it; still the foundation of the truth is unshaken. Men may array themselves against it; they may fight it bitterly, as many have done from its incipiency; but still the truth remains unshaken and undisturbed — the truth that God did speak to His servant Joseph Smith, and did reveal Himself unto him; not only the Father, but the Son also. They did reveal themselves unto him, and they gave him commandments and their law, their Gospel and their plan of life eternal; salvation temporal and salvation spiritual, salvation for the present and salvation throughout the countless ages of eternity. This plan contemplated not only salvation from sin and from the effects of sin here and hereafter, but exaltation, glory, power and dominion, that will come to the children of God through their obedience to the laws and principles of the gospel, that the Lord has truly revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I want to bear my testimony to this, and I would say to this vast congregation, that as I believe in my own existence, I believe in the divinity of this latter-day work; as I know, and as I have reason to know, that I am here and that I live, so I believe and I have reason to know that God, my Father, lives, that Jesus lives and that Joseph Smith was raised up of God to lay the foundations of this work. My  hope of life, my all is staked upon this proposition, and I accept it, with all my soul. Having accepted it, I want, first of all — which is natural, and for entertaining which feeling I think you and all men will forgive me — first of all, I want those that are immediately associated with me, those who are bound to me by the ties of kindred love, to know the truth as I know it; I want them to feel it as I feel it; to love it as I love it. And I want to take that course in my life that, at last, I can be counted free from the responsibility of any of those associated with me in life going astray, falling by the way, turning from the light into the darkness, denying the truth or falling into transgression, or- wandering from the right path. I have a fervent prayer in my soul, an earnest desire, that when I shall be called to give my last account, to the Judge of the quick and the dead, I may not be chargeable for the misdeeds of my children, for their wandering away from the truth, or for the falling into transgression, if they should do so, of any of my family. I do not want to be charged with it; I want to be free from this possibility. Next to them, I want my associates in life, my friends, my fellow-members in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to so live that they may love God with all their hearts — for that is the greatest of all the commandments — and that they shall love their neighbor as they love themselves, as far as it i s possible for men, with the help of God, to overcome their selfishness, and extend their love, their forgiveness, their interest and their charity to their fellowman. I want to see the people of God obedient to the Lord, obedient to the Gospel, true to the faith, true to their covenants, true to mankind, true to one another and to the gospel of life and salvation; and in order that they may be true to these things, that they will prove it, and show forth their faith, their devotion and love for the principles of the gospel, by the manner in which they will rear their children and bring them up in the faith. 

The Lord has blest me wonderfully. Sometimes, indeed almost always, I feel that no man in all the world has been blest more than I have been. I cannot express the gratitude I feel to God my Father, the giver of every good and perfect gift, for the inestimable and boundless mercies and blessings He has vouchsafed to me, His humble servant. So far, through my journey of life, I have had the joy and satisfaction of knowing, as far as it is possible for me to know, that the Lord has put into the hearts of my children the love of God and the love of truth, as He has put it into my heart, and I thank the Lord for it with all my soul. I would to the Lord that every man, who is a f attire in Israel, could say as much for his children; and why can't they say so much? I want to tell you one reason why a few of them, at least, cannot do it, and tell the truth. It is because they love their children with a shallow and unreasonable love. They indulge them to the utmost limit, and they carry it to such an extent that, if a child of theirs should ask them, while it was incapable of protecting itself, for a razor or a deadly instrument, figuratively speaking, rather than disappoint the child or deny its request, they would put into its hand an instrument of de. That is what they do, and that is what they are doing when they weakly yield to their foolish whims, and you mark my word, my brethren and sisters. There may not be many, God forbid that there should be many of us so unwisely Indulgent, so thoughtless and so shallow in our affection for our children that we dare not check them in a wayward course, in wrong-doing and in their foolish love for the things of the world more than for the things of righteousness, for fear of offending them. I want to say this : Some people have grown to possess such unlimited confidence in their children that they do not believe it possible for them to be led astray or to do wrong. They do not believe they could do wrong, because they have such confidence in them. The result is, they turn them loose, morning, noon, and night, to attend all kinds of entertainments and amusements, often in company with those whom they know not and do not understand. Some of our children are so innocent that they do not suspect evil, and therefore, they are off their guard and are trapped into evil. I do not like, and it isn't pleasant for me, to throw chips, so to speak; for I do not know what may come to me in the future, 1 do not know what sorrows may await me, in my children or in their children. I cannot tell what the future may bring forth; but I would feel, today as though my life had been, in part, a failure if, at this moment, any one of my children had thrown off their allgiance to their father or to their mother and taken the bits in their own teeth, so to speak, to do as they pleased in the world without regard to their parents. There are things, in connection with this subject, that would not, perhaps, be proper to speak of here, before a large and mixed congregation; but I want to sound a note of warning to the Latter-day Saints. The time has come for them to look after their children. Every device possible to the understanding and ingenuity of cunning men, is being used for the purpose of diverting our children from the faith of the gospel and from the love of the truth. Every species of organization is being formed, both in our midst and abroad, having for its object the express purpose of leading astray the children of the Latter-day Saints, because they can't reach their parents. This is their argument : "We cannot convert the adult Mormon people, but we may, perhaps, convert their children; we may lead away their children; we do not hope to lead away the old people." They can't do it, except it may be, now and then, a man or woman who never did know anything particularly about the gospel. These, only, are they who can be led away from the truth; and our children can be led away from their parents and from the faith of the Gospel, only when they are in a condition that they know not the truth for themselves, not having had a proper example before them to impress it upon their minds. 

Sometimes good hearted people are in the habit of joking a good deal about sacred things, and there is scarcely anything that is held, by them, too sacred to speak lightly of in some form. They do this in the presence of their children, and their children take advantage of it; and while they go but an inch, so to speak, their children go the full length. They see that their parents  not hold sacred things which are sacred; they joke about them and speak lightly of them in the presence of their children, at the very fireside of their own home. The children grow up to feel that even their parents, when under the influence of a jocular spirit, do not hold sacred those things that they call sacred. The parents joke about these things and speak lightly of them, and the children take advantage of it. 

I may be pardoned, since it is pretty well known everywhere, I believe, that I speak my mind if I speak at all, if I say to you, Mormon, Jew, and Gentile, believer and unbeliever, present in this congregation, I would rather take one of my children to the grave than I would see him turn away from this gospel. I would rather follow their bodies to the cemetery, and see them buried in innocence, than I would see them corrupted by the ways of the world. I would rather go myself to the grave than to be associated with a wife outside of the bonds of the new and everlasting covenant. Now, I hold it just -so sacred; but some members of the Church do not so regard the matter. Some people feel that it does not make very much difference whether a girl marries a man ir. the Church, full of the faith of the gospel, or an unbeliever.- Some of our young people have married outside the Church; but very few of those who have done it have failed to come to grief. I would like to see Latter-day Saint women marry Latter-day Saint men, and Latterday Saint men marry Latter-day Saint women; and let Methodists marry Methodists, Catholics marry Catholics, and Presbyterians marry Presbyterians, and so on to the limit. Let them keep within the pale of their own faith and church, and marry and intermarry there, and let the Latter-day Saints do the same thing in their Church; then we will see who comes out best in the end. This is the way I feel about it. There is nothing that I can think of, in a religious way, that would grieve me more intensely that to see one of my boys marry an unbelieving girl, or one of my girls marry an unbelieving man. While I live, and they will listen to my voice, you can depend upon it none of them will ever do it, and I would to God that every father in Israel saw it just as I do, and would carry it out just as I intend to do. Yet, we do not know what the future may bring forth. We know the past, and the Spirit of the Lord may manifest to men, and does manifest to us, to some extent, what the future will be. We can in part judge of things that will come to pass by the things we see and understand, for we can trace the effect or result from the cause. When we see that laxity prevails in the family circle, when men do not pray at home, when they do not ask their wives nor their children to pray with them, when they treat lightly sacred things, when they joke and laugh about that which is most sacred, holy and most important to the welfare and happiness of men, when they do this before their children we may foretell what will be the result of it, eventually, with those children. You may foretell it almost as surely as you can tell that which has passed. The same causes, if pursued on the same lines, will produce the same effects in the future as in the past. We know what the past has done, and we may judge from  past what the future will bring forth. 

Some of our people living elsewhere are in the habit of letting their daughters come to this city unprotected, to get employment, and it would be pitiable indeed, to relate the consequences which sometimes result from tnat practice. 

I did not expect to occupy very much time when I rose before you. My voice is not in very good trim for speaking as I have been suffering for a short time with a cold; and I presume I am not doing myself any good, physically, by speaking as I am doing. 

The brethren who will follow, through the conference, will be led by the Spirit of the Lord, I trust, in advancing and speaking upon those principles that will be profitable to the people. We expect them to talk about morality, about obedience to the laws of God and to the laws of men. We expect them to speak about home industry, for if any people in the world should believe in the propriety and necessity of home industry, it is the Latterday Saints. On the back of that, if there is a people anywhere in the intermountain region, or anywhere else, who have failed more completely in maintaining and supporting some kinds of home industry, than we have, I do not know them. However much we may believe in it, we have not patronized it as we should; we have neglected it and let it go to the wall. President Young started up industries, home manufactures, and urged this matter upon the brethren. Factories were started under the administration of President Young in this valley and to the north of us in Weber county, and in Provo, Springville, in Washington county — this side of St. George, and in Beaver. He was earnest about it; he saw the necessity for it, but nearly every one of those enterprises, which he inaugurated, even to the manufacture of nails, in that early day, has gone to the wall. What for? Of course, eliminating the manufacture of nails, (for a factory was established for that purpose) die industry of raising cotton, of spining cotton, of manufacturing our wool products into cloth and into other things that are needful, every one of these institutions has gone by the board; because labor was a little higher here, and cloth could not be produced here quite as cheap, within a few cents per yard, as the shoddy that is produced in the east could be made and sent here. We preferred the shoddy to the real goods, and we bought the shoddy and wore it, and let home manufacture go to the wall, and yet we believe in home manufacture! I wish we could produce here everything that is essential to our wellbeing — both for food and raiment and everything else, and I hope that the spirit of it will come upon us. I do not want to boast, but I want to tell you that I have the honor of wearing part of the last piece of home-made goods produced in Utah. I look about as well as some of you in your shoddy. (Laughter). Of course, I may not be a judge of my own appearance. You can judge of my appearance, and I can judge of yours; but if I may judge of my own appearance and my apparel, I have the opinion that my coat and vest look just about as well as some that you wear, and mine are homemade. For the last 40 years I have worn home-made goods, and I have  just a little more than I could get shoddy for, I would have been glad to have done this right along, year after year, rather than to see this home industry fall to the ground for want of patronage. Here is Brother Smoot, who has been engaged in the manufacture of woolen goods; he can speak from the figures, for he is more familiar with figures than I am. 

We want to make these valleys of the mountains teem with the products of our own labor, and skill, and intelligence. I believe it to be suicidal for us to patronize those who are at a distance from us, when we should and could go to work and organize our labor and produce everything at home; we might thereby give employment to everybody at home, develop the intelligence and the skill of our children, instead of letting them hunt after these fancy occupations that r.o many young people desire above manual labor. The schools of the Latter-day Saints and some of the state schools are beginning to introduce manual labor. Some of our boys are learning how to make tables, chairs, sofas, bookcases, bureaus and all that sort of thing — all good as far as it goes; but if we want a mason to lay brick, we have got to look mostly to some man that has come from England or Germany or somewhere else to lay our brick. Why? Because our boys do not like to lay brick. If we want a good blacksmith, we must hunt up some foreigner who has learned the trade in his mother country, and who has come here with a knowledge of blacksmithing; we must find such a man before we can get blacksmithing done, because bovs do not like to be blacksmiths. They don't like even to be farmers; they would rather be lawyers or doctors than to be farmers. This is the case with too many of our boys, and it is a great mistake. I hope the time will come when the children of the Latterday Saints will learn that all labor that is necessary for the happiness of themselves and of their neighbors, or of mankind in general, is honorable; and that no man is degrading himself because he can lay brick, or carry on carpentry or blacksmithing, or any kind of mechanism, no matter what it is, but that all these things are honorable, and are necessary for the welfare of man and for the building up of the commonwealth. 

I feel that I should not trespass much longer upon your time. The Lord bless this vast congregation. May peace dwell in your hearts;, may you, indeed, find the rest in the gospel of Jesus Christ that will relieve you from the necessity of hunting for or longing to obtain something more than that which you have. The ancient prophets speak of "entering into God's rest;" what does it mean? To my mind, it means entering into the knowledge and love of God, having faith in His purposes and in His plans to such an extent that we know we are right, and that we are nor hunting for something else; we are not disturbed by every wind of doctrine, or by the cunning and craftiness of men who lay in wait to deceive. We know of the doctrine, that it is of God, and we do not ask any questions of anybody about it; they are welcome to their opinions, to their ideas and- to their vagaries. The man who has reached that degree of faith in God that all doubt and fear have been cast from him, he has entered into "God's rest," and  need not fear the vagaries of men, nor their cunning and craftiness, by which they seek to deceive him and mislead him from the truth. I pray that we may all enter into God's rest — rest from doubt, from fear, from apprehension of danger, rest from the religious turmoil of the world; from the cry that is going forth, here and there — lo, here is Christ; lo, there is Christ; lo, He is in the desert, come ye out to meet Him. The man who has found God's rest will not be disturbed by these vagaries of men, for the Lord has told him, and does tell us: "Go not out to seek them. Go not out to hunt them : for when Christ shall come, He will come with the army of heaven with Him in the clouds of glory, and all eyes shall see Him." We do not need to be hunting for Christ here, or Christ there, or prophets here and prophets there. 

There never was a time, perhaps, when there were more false prophets than there are today, when there were more visionary men or more false Christs than there are today. We get letters from them, and commands and threats from them, and admonitions and warnings and revelations from them, nearly every day. Our table is frequented by revelations from false prophets, from cranks and from crazy men — some calling themselves Christ, some calling themselves "deliverers of Israel," some calling themselves "the one mighty and strong, who is to deliver Israel out of bondage." Some sa> , "I am Christ; come unto me." We have these letters — those that we have not destroyed — stacked up a'tnost by the cord. Some of these false prophets, these men to "deliver Israel," and these foolish, un, unstable creatures, led about by every wind of doctrine have risen right in our own midst. There is no one that can get up some foolish idea, or start out proposing to organize a church of some kind, no matter what the inconsistency of his claims may be, but what he will find some one to follow him, somebody as foolish as he is, and who knows as little. To the faithful Latter-day Saint is given the right to know the truth, as God knows it; and no power beneath the celestial kingdom can lead him astray, darken his understanding, becloud his mind or dim his faith or his knowledge of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It can't be done, for the light of God shines brighter than the illumination of falsehood and error, therefore, those who possess the light of Christ, the spirit of revelation and the knowledge of God, rise above all these vagaries in the world; they know of this doctrine, that it is of God and not of man. 

The Lord bless you. Peace abide with you; and, oh, may the fathers in Israel live as they should live; treat their wives as thev should treat them; make their homes as comfortable as they possibly can; lighten the burdens upon their companions as much as possible; set a proper example before their children; teach them to meet with them in prayer, morning, and night, and whenever they sit down to partake of food, to acknowledge the mercy of God in giving them the food that they eat and the raiment that they wear, and acknowledge the hand of God in all things. This is our duty, and if we do not do it the Lord will be displeased for He has said so. He is oniy pleased with those who acknowledge His  in all things. Now, God bless you, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "O Beauty of Holiness." 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Grateful for the blessings of the Lord. — Sixty years' experience in the Church. — Joseoh Smith a true Prophet of God. — In favor of home industries. — Endorsement of President Smith's teaching. 

I scarcely know how to express my gratitude to God, our eternal Father, for this privilege that I have of once more meeting with you, my brethren and sisters, in general conference. As I looked over this congregation this morning, I thought of the time when I first heard the Gospel in a far off land, from an elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I was convinced of the truth when I first heard it, and I knew that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I am thankful to say, this morning, that faith has grown and increased with me as the years have passed along; and every day that I live I see new evidences of the truth of this work. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I am thankful that this testimony has never left me since I first heard the Gospel, more than sixty years ago. 

I have rejoiced in listening to the words of the President, this morning, and I fully and heartily indorse every principle that he has spoken of. I hope that we will all be so impressed with the truth that we will seek to carry out these instructions in our lives; that when we go home, from this conference, we will all put forth our best efforts to improve, and live in accordance with these principles. I wish to say here, this morning, before this vast congregation, that I endorse with all my heart every sentiment expressed, and to the best of my humble ability, I will stand by the President and put forth my best efforts to aid and assist him in carrying out these principles. 

I was delighted to hear him speak of home manufactures. For many years I was engaged in the business, myself, manufacturing various articles, and I have regretted many times to see the negligence and carelessness among our people in relation to this principle. I am proud to say, my brethren and sisters, without boasting at all, that I have the honor and the pleasure of wearing a coat, this morning, made from the same piece of cloth that the President's coat was made from, (laughter), and I leave you to judge as to how I look. 

You know pretty well my age and how the Lord has blest and preserved me until the present time. I am almost eight-eight years of age; consequently, you do not expect that I am going to stand here and preach to you. I merely wish, this morning, to bear my testimony to the truth, and to tell you, from the bottom of my heart, that I propose to stand by the President and aid and assist him in every way that I can, and to carry out the principles of the Gospel. 

May the Lord bless you all and help us to be true and faithful to our covenants that we make in the house of the Lord, and everywhere else, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

Children are a blessing, and a responsibility. — Every available agency for children's betterment should be utilized. — Important results from Bureau of Information. — Splendid record made by our missionaries. — "Truth will prevail;" the Church can not be destroyed. 

I feel very humble in presenting myself before this large congregation after you have heard the splendid instructions and the strong testimonies borne of the truth. I know that you, with me, feel happy in the knowledge that we are not in doubt, but have a testimony of the truth. The Lord has given us an assurance that He has established this work, and that it points out the way which leads to eternal life. I feel very thankful for this testimony. 

The subjects that have been treated upon are very timely. Our children are our most precious possession. The Psalmist says : "Children are an heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the children of youth. Happy is the man who hath his quiver full of them." Such was the way that that inspired man looked upon children. Do we look upon them in the same way? Of all the people upon the earth we ought to feel blest in the possession of children. We should regard it as a sacred duty to train them aright while they are young, for we are assured that if children are trained in the way they should go, when they grow old they will not depart therefrom. This duty, then, rests upon all the Latter-day Saints, and it is not a duty alone — we should look upon it as  privilege that God has given us to train their young minds, that they may grow up and be an honor to us and become useful members of the Church and Kingdom of God. Good children are among the greatest blessings; but we must remember that every blessing that God bestows upon us brings also responsibility, and the responsibility of raising our children aright, of guarding them against evil influences, is a great one. With the growing wealth in our community, we find als'o the growth of evil influences around us. There is much to draw our children away from the right path. Hence, Latter-day Saints we must be on our guard. Do not let us neglect our children. Let us encourage them in their attendance at the sessions of the different institutions in our midst. Let the little ones go to the Primaries. I will say here that our sisters who take such an interest in attending the Primaries will be blest of the Lord, and we feel to bless them; likewise the workers in the Religion Classes. We want our children to learn practical religion, and in these classes is where our brethren and sisters are training them in this direction. We have institutions in our midst that are hardly known, but which are doing a great work in protecting our children from the evil that surrounds them. I refer to the Betterment Committees, composed of men who have been appointed in the different wards to look after the children. They have saved many a one from going astray. I do not believe that the parents are really as much in harmony with them as they ought to be. As the President said, we have such unbounded confidence in our children that we do not think they  do anything wrong; and if one of our brethren should warn us that, perhaps, a boy or a girl of ours is in bad company, some of us are ready to repudiate such a charge; and the one who speaks to us, and who does it out of the goodness of his heart, we look upon almost as an enemy. We ought not to do this. These men are trying their best to work for the good of our young people. I would say, brethren and sisters, let us all be awake, let us all be on the watchtower; because if the adversary ever sought to destroy us and our children, he is at the present time; and what a sorrow it must be to the hearts of parents to see their children leave the faith or go astray. By taking hold of this matter in time, and by devoting more time to our children, much of this could be averted. 

The Bureau of Information, here upon this block, is doing an important missionary work. Hundreds of thousands of people come here, and when they see what tne Latterday Saints have accomplished they want to know something concerning this peculiar people — what are their motives? and what are they doing? Our brethren and sisters who labor so unselfishly here, from day to day, are doing a splendid work in enlightening men and women concerning us and our religion. Our missionaries abroad are feeling the result of this work. They go into the houses of strangers, and commence to talk to them about the Gospel, and often they tell the elders that they have been in Salt Lake, and add : "We have been treated kindly by your people; can we do anything for you ?" Many missionaries have been told, "Come and stay with us; make our homes your homes, while you are laboring in this district." This has been brought about by these people learning the truth concerning us, while in our midst; and so I say, Blessed be our workers on the block here, who labor in the service of the Bureau of Information. They are simply telling the truth to those who come here; and the travelers who visit us, feel that our people are telling what they feel and know, themselves, to be true in regard to their religion. We do not know how much good a word may do. It may open up the way for missionary work in districts of our country where we have not before been able to gain access. It may likewise open the way into foreign lands, for foreigners come here also. When I was at Stockholm this summer, I met one of our missionaries. This young man was once traveling to Denver. On the train he met with, a gentleman who had visited Salt Lake, and when he found out that the young man was a Mormon, he wanted to learn all he could about our people. When he left he gave his address and wanted the young man to correspond with him. The young man was called to go on a mission to Germany. He corresponded with this man, and found out that he was a baron from Finland, and before the missionary went hcne, this man invited him to take a sail with him in his yacht, around Scandinavia; but the brother did not have time to do this. I mention this to show you what influence a few words had on a man, even of such standing. He loved the young man, and when he bade him farewell, he was moved to tears. "Now," said he, "send missionaries over to our country, and they will be protect there." We have tried to send missionaries to Finland, bat on account of the strict rule of Russia, our elders have not been able to stay there long at a time. However, we have had excel 1 ent men and women join the Church there, who have come up here to live with us. This man was moved by what he had heard. He thought there was freedom enough in Finland for men and women to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, but he did not know how much the Elders had been persecuted there. 

I want to say to our brethren and sisters, that during my visit to the different missions of Europe, this summer, I have rejoiced in seeing our missionaries, and the work they are doing. They are rilled with holy zeal for the spread of the truth. They are men of whom you can be proud, men that are gaining the love and esteem of all good men with whom they come in contact. As the people of the world see their pure lives and upright conduct, their love for men and their unselfishness in devoting themselves, their time and means, to convert souls unto Christ, they realize that our missionaiies could not do this, except they were sincere and had a firm conviction of the truth of the Gospel they proclaim. 

The work is progressing, and I hope the time will soon come when those countries where there is no freedom to worship God, as men feel to do, may be given such liberty. I am astonished that an enlightened nation like Germany should still banish men who have done no wrong, who have only tried to show others the way that they know for themselves leads to God. 

Not many days ago, a young man studying in Berlin — not a missionary — went into our meeting. He was a splendid singer, and sung the songs of Zion to encourage his brethren and sisters; and for this offense he was banished. I think that when this is put in the right light before the government, this policy may be changed, for I cannot believe that judges and men of understanding can look upon it as a just thing. However, persecution has never stopped the work of the Lord. Banishment, arrests and imprisonment will not stop our elders from working among the people. 

This work has been established by our heavenly Father, and no opposition can stop it. When there were only six or ten members in the Church, it might have been thought that the adversary could have stopped it, but not even then. It has grown. The influence of the Gospel, as brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is making its way and is being felt throughout all nations; the truths revealed through him will yet be accepted by the world. Many there are today who believe in them, though they know not the source whence they came. Truth will prevail, and we look forward to the time when it shall cover the whole earth, and make men free in Christ. Then Christ will come and reign upon the earth; bring peace unto men; bind the influences of evil, and introduce a reign of peace. I feel thankful that this faith and hope has been given me, and I know you have it also. May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints; bless this work, that it may prosper; bless His servants with the spirit of their calling, that what they do may further the in of the Church of Christ, I ask it, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Guiding Star." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Kimball. 

Conference adjourned until 2 


