Afternoon 
07 04 1923


PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, I have rejoiced greatly in the spirit of this conference. We have listened already to some very fine instructions and some pointed testimonies which were faith-promoting. I desire that the same good spirit that has actuated the other speakers may also be with me. 

THE PRINCIPLE OF REVELATION VITAL 

No more important topic has been touched upon at this conference than the principle of revelation, which is vital to the salvation of the souls of men. It would be difficult to imagine the true Church of God being upon the earth without the principle of revelation or direct communication. Holy Writ tells us that the prophets of old spoke and wrote as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, which is the spirit of truth and the spirit of revelation. Many pages of the Bible are filled with references to this important subject. Even in the very beginning, we learn that God created man in his own image and after his likeness, and placed him in the Garden of Eden and spoke to him there. We are led to believe that God appeared to him in person, and it was only when Adam departed from the commandment of God that he was shut out from his presence, and even under those trying circumstances, the Lord sent an angel to communicate with Adam and to bear testimony to him. Surely that was an important time and an important matter. And so it was with others that followed. 

THE CASE OF ABRAHAM 

You will remember, my brethren and sisters, that Abraham, that mighty patriarch of old and friend of God. — who was a righteous man and a righteous judge — diligently sought after the blessings of the fathers and the Priesthood, and he found them; for it would appear, from what he says in respect to this important matter, that the Lord appeared to him. Abraham said : 

"And finding there was greater happiness and peace and rest for me, I sought for the blessings of the fathers, and the right whereunto I should be ordained to administer the same; having been myself a follower of righteousness, desiring also to be one who possessed great knowledge, and to be a greater follower of righteousness, and to possess a greater knowledge, and to be a father of many nations, a prince of peace, and desiring to receive instructions, and to keep the commandments of God. I became a rightful heir, a High Priest, holding the right belonging to the fathers. 

"It was conferred upon me from the fathers; it came down from the fathers, from the beginning of time, yea, even from the beginning, or before the foundations of the earth, to the present time, even the right of the firstborn, or the first man, who is Adam, our first father, through the fathers, unto me." 

And again the Lord spake unto Abraham, and he said : 

"For I am the Lord thy God; I dwell in heaven; the earth is my footstool; I stretch my hand over the sea, and it obeys my voice; I cause the wind and the fire to be my chariot; I say to the mountains — Depart hence — and behold, they are taken away by a whirlwind, in an instant, suddenly. 

"My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee. 

"And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations * * * " 

"Now, after the Lord had withdrawn from speaking to me, and withdrawn his face from me, I said in my heart: Thy servant has sought thee earnestly; now I have found thee * * * " 

And so, it appears, that God appeared to Abraham and talked with him face to face. Surely this was a great and a gloroius revela, and Abraham was put in the way of obtaining the Priesthood, — divine authority — and great and mighty blessings were conferred upon him. ' 

THE LORD ADVISES ISAAC 

And the same is true of his son Isaac. At a time when there was famine in the land, Isaac was on the verge of departing and going into Egypt, but the Lord advised him to remain in the land, for he said: "I will bless thee, and give the land unto thee," and the Lord renewed upon Isaac the promises that he had given to Abraham. This blessing came to Isaac through revelation. How wonderful! 

THE LORD SPOKE TO JACOB IN A DREAM 

And in the case of Jacob, the third member of that quorum of patriarchs, it appears that he had a wonderful dream. He saw in vision a ladder reaching from the earth unto heaven, and the angels of God descending and ascending upon the ladder; but at the head stood the Lord. He saw him with his eyes, and the Lord spoke to him and blessed him and put upon him the promises that he had made to Abraham and Isaac. And so, through the power of revelation, these blessings came to those great patriarchs. 

THE VOICE OF REVELATION TO MOSES 

You will remember, that the voice of revelation came to Moses from the burning bush. It was a wonderful manifestation, because in that voice there was instruction and a definite command given to Moses that he should go down into Egypt and deliver the people out of bondage. But, mark you. the Lord went with him. The Lord spoke by the mouth of Moses to, Pharaoh, and through the power of God, Moses wrought those ten mighty miracles in Egypt, by which the Children of Israel were delivered and brought out of bondage. 

But the Lord was near; he did not depart nor desert his people; he spoke to them in the wilderness. The voice of revelation came out from Mount Sina>, even the voice of God to the children of Israel — giving them the Ten Commandments, the decalogue. How wonderful was this great manifestation! How otherwise, my brethren and sisters, could the children of Israel have received this communication and this great law — a law that is really, you might say, sufficient for man's instruction all the days of his life. 

THE PROPHETS. SEERS, AND REVELATORS OF OLD 

So we might say of the prophets Isaiah, Ezekiel and Jere miah; they were seers and revelators, and wrote by the power of the Holy Ghost. Mighty predictions were made by these prophets, which are now in process of fulfilment. 

Amos, the prophet, said: "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets." That is a most astounding statement. It would appear that the Lord will not work among the children of men, and will do nothing except that he will reveal himself concerning these matters to his servants, the prophets. Where does that place any man or woman, or any people, who claim that the canon of scripture is full and that God no more speaks to his people? We know that a veil is drawn between the Lord and the children of men, but it is not reasonable to suppose that the Being who has given the gospel to his cnildren upon the earth, will sit behind the veil there, silent, perfectly silent, and decline to speak to his children. The idea is monstrous, it is unreasonable. 

THE CHURCH OF CHRIST BUILT UPON REVELATION 

And so, my brethren and sisters, if the Old Testament has emphasized the principle and power of revelation, it is doubly emphasized in the New Testament. You have already heard, at this conference, of an interview between the Savior and h's apostles, when he asked them this significant question: "'Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" And they said: "Some say thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets." "But," said he, "whom say ye that I am?" Now, you will remember the answer of Peter, how striking, how impressive it was. lie said: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." And Jesus answered and said: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." Some have gone so far as to say that the rock he referred to was Peter. Surely, the Lord Jesus Christ would not build his Church upon one who was lesser in power and lesser in authority than himself. No, it is evident that he had reference to revelation. It was the rock of revelation. This is the view that we take. This is the doctrine that we promulgate. We say : Yes, the Church of Jesus Christ is built upon the rock of revelation, and everything points to this fact, so far as the Latter-day work of God is concerned. 

You know Daniel, speaking of the future, said that in the days of these kings, or the latter days, the God of heaven would set up a kingdom that should never be thrown down nor given to another people, and should stand forever. How did the God of heaven proceed to set up that kingdom? By the principle and power of revelation, for it seems that the Father and the Son descended from the heavens, in answer to the prayer of a boy. They stood before him, and revealing themselves, wanted to know what he desired. Now, his question was simple and direct and beautiful. He said : I want to know which of all the sects of the day is the true church, that I may know which one to join. And the Lord said to him that, none of the sects  true, and that their creeds were an abomination to him, and that their professors were teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. They had a form of godliness but denied the power thereof. Now, mark you, a moment before the youth was confused, he knew not which way to turn, a moment later his question was answered and he knew perfectly the situation and how to act. All this came about with him through the medium of revelation. Without revelation Joseph Smith, the boy, and Joseph Smith, the Prophet, would have been perfectly helpless. 

NO GREATER COMMUNICATIONS THAN FOUND IN THE DOCTRINE AND 

COVENANTS 

So, we see this principle operating throughout our Church in its beginning. John the Baptist appeared and delivered his power and Priesthood, and Peter, James and John appeared and delivered their authority — the keys and power which they held — and put them upon Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Let me say to you, in attestation of the testimony of this people and this Church, we have a book of revelations, containing the doctrines and teachings of the Church. This book represents to us the voice of God, yea the voice of God to his servant Joseph Smith and to the people of the Latter-day Saints. I maintain that you may search the scriptures, from Genes' s to Revelation, and you will find no greater communication to the children of men than some of the things that are contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Do you not remember that mighty revelation called the "Vision of the three glories"? Do you not remember that great and mighty revelation on Priesthood? Do you not remember, that serious, valuable and most precious revelation pertaining to the eternity of the marriage covenant? Could there be any religion, — anything greater than the truths set forth in these mighty revelations ? 

POWER AND AUTHORITY OF THE LIVING ORACLES OF GOD 

And, while we have access to these things, to holy writ, to the scriptures that have been given, we also are permitted to sit under the droppings of the sanctuary and to listen to the vo'ce of the living oracles of God, to his prophets, whom he has called to preside over us, even President Grant, to whom has been committed the keys of the kindgom of heaven, to bind upon earth and it shall be bound in heaven, to loose upon eanh and it shall be loosed in heaven, "And whomsoever he blesses," God has said, "I will bless; and whomsoever he curses, I will curse." That is the power, that is the authority that go with this Priesthood and with this people, and I rejoice in it. 

I bear testimony to the truth that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was his prophet, and that the revelations of God to us will guide us and will be instrumental, through our obedience, of bringing salvation to us in the kingdom of God. This is my testimony and I bear it lin the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER URIAH G. MILLER 

(President of the Cottonwood Stake of Zion) 

Many of the brethren with whom I have had the privilege of being associated have known for a considerable time that I have never been blessed with a particularly strong physical body. They may have wondered a good many times why such was the case. I think I can satisfy that curiosity. About twenty-five years ago, ,soon after I returned from a mission, the president of the Salt Lake stake — the Salt Lake stake at that time included all of Salt Lake county, including Salt Lake City — called upon me along with one of my intimate associates, who had just returned from a mission, to report from this stand. The shock that came to me upon that occasion has stayed with me to the present, and if you read tomorrow that something more drastic than that has come to me, you may know the reason of it. 

I presume that every president of a stake feels somewhat as do I in relation to his particular work, concerned of course about the Church in general, but more directly concerned relative to the affairs within his own borders, and the responsibilities that are upon him to know whether or not he is rightly and justly feeding the sheep within that fold; whether or not that, as the president of that corporation, if you please, he is managing the affairs of that organization in such a way and in such a manner that every one of the stockholders therein, the members of the Church, are receiving a goodly dividend because of his honest and efficient efforts in the work to- which he has been called. Aside from, the fundamental principles of adoption, the truths and ordinances that have been required, that give us birth, standing, and fellowship in the Church of Christ, my mind, among my own people, often runs to the passage of scripture recorded in Matthew, the words of Christ, wherein he says : 

"Ye have heard that it hath been said: Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. 

"But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; 

"That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven." 

The Apostle Paul took up the trend of that thought in his epistle to the Ephesians and said unto them: 

"Be kind one to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you." 

We find the same thought also recorded in the writing of the Apostle Peter; he echoed the same principles in his declaration that we find recorded in the second epistle, in which he said : 

ELDER URIAH G. MILLER 71 "Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; 

"And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; 

"And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. 

"For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." 

One of the great thoughts in my ministry among the people aside from that to which I have already alluded is whether or not I am able to draw these things rightly and properly to their view; whether we proceed from day to day, so that all of us shall be cultivated the more thorough 1 / in these principles calculated to lead us more closely together here, and give for us in the world to come the best and the brightest that God has ever provided for his people. 

I am grateful and thankful for my opportunities and privileges. I am grateful and thankful that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am grateful for the faith and prayers of the people in behalf of those who preside over them. 1 am reminded now of a prayer offered in behalf of a president of. a stake, in which a good Scandinavian lady arose and said : "Oh, Lord, bless our president that he may be honest, from time to time." I pray that the blessings Df the Lord may be with one and all, and particularly with the brethren who have been chosen to lead this great, mighty, and wonderful organization in the world, which I bear my testimony to you is the Church and kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

(President of the Dcseret Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel exceedingly timid in standing before you, and desire your 'help and sympathy. I sense, I think, at least in a measure, the great responsibility that is upon me when I occupy your time. Every word that I utter should be guided and inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, and it should be pregnant with meaning and with good. I pray that it may be. 

As I have sat through the sessions of this conference, facing this stand, looking at the brethren, I have felt exceedingly happy. I have been all these years up to the present, in this Church, ana 1 am happy to say that up to the present I have never looked upon the face of any of the general authorities of the Church with any other feeling than that of reverence. I believe that this reverential feeling was handed to me by my father and mother. In days long since past, when I was a boy, having been born at Cove Fort, and my father being sent there under the direction of President Brigham Young, and kept that place as a stage station, and with all of the visitors that traveled that way on that overland route, I remember one hour in the morning and one hour, or occasion, in the evening that were sacred to my father; drawing his family away from worldly men and worldy thoughts with this one sentence : "Let us go over aside." We knew that that meant family prayer. I cannot remember hearing my father pray when he did not sustain, in his prayer before the Lord, the general authorities of the Church. I remember that it was in my father's prayer that he prayed for the President of the United States. He prayed for those who carried heavy responsibility. I remember that my father taught his children that when you sustain with uplifted hand the brethren, as prophets, seers and revelators, you sustain them with your life, your works, as well as your prayers; and I thank the Lord that up to the present that spirit has obtained with me. When one of the brethren  — Brother Ballard— was talking this morning about the responsibility of rearing a family, I thought then:Jiow grateful I am, as I sit here in this vast audience and think of those who call me father, that they are as numerous as they are in our household — fourteen such having come into our family. 

I express my thanks and gratitude to the Lord for the gospel of Jesus Christ and for the influence it has had in my father's family and in my family, and I have a prayer in my heart that that influence shall go down through the generations. It is a delight to me, in my own family, to hear innocent children call upon the Lord to bless President Grant, to bless his counselors, the Council of the Twelve, and those who bear rule in this Church of the Lord. 

My heart is in accord with all the teachings of this conference. I think that I should feel, and I do feel, almost as keenly, perhaps, as any of you, the importance of some of the statements that have been made during this conference, on account of my connection with the producer, my connection with the farmers, the tillers of the soil, as my way has led me through this state. Only the other day I stopped in a town, a railroad center, where I discovered good men whom I knew. We held meeting there and thev came to meeting. I said, "You here?" 

"Yes, I am here, Brother Plinckley." 

"Away from your family?" 

"Yes, away from my family." 

"How can that be, my brother? You have good land and good water; why are you here?" 

"Brother Hinckley, so long as it remains as it is now, and the prices of my products are as low as they are now, and the workers in the various lines of industry can draw the wage that they can draw, I must be here to make a livelihood." 

The words of President Grant entered my heart — the encouragement for us to stand and stay upon the soil, the assurance that better times are coming. I stand before you not able to say, as some who have stood here, that I do no', owe a soul anything in the world. As I sat here and listened to the words of President Grant, I wondered just what kind of a feeling that must cause a man to have;  then I thought of the thousands who could not say it. I went over my stake of Zion and I thought back to the promise made by President Grant that if we would remain faithful — I think he said his key-note speech was : Keep the commandments of God — if we would pay our tithes and observe the Word of Wisdom, the Lord would lead us out of our troubles. I am following on in faith and believing that that promise shall be fulfilled. I hope to pay my tithing and to pay it honestly; and I trust the Lord for his part in the fulfilment of the promise that he has made. I hope to observe the Word of Wisdom, that I may have strength in the navel and marrow to the bone, and be able to run and not be weary, and to walk and not faint, and to have wisdom given unto me — great treasures of knowledge — that I shall know what to do. 

Now, if I could offer anything that would help that farmer who is yet upon the soil, who is in the condition that I am in, oh, how happy I would be! I do believe this that that farmer ought not to run to extremes and plant all in one line : because only a year ago, I remember very well, we were wondering what we could do with hay, and hay was piled mountain high in many a field, with no price, no value. Hay now brings a good price. Now, we talk about running to the extreme and having planted too many potatoes. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that we have been taught a long time by our agricultural col . lege, by the extension division, by the agriculturists who represent the sugar industries and by the best farmers in the state, to diversify, to raise something of all the things we need. I believe it was Bishop William B. Preston, who used to say : "I can tell you how to succeed : Raise everything you need and a little to sell." I believe that answers the question. We ought not to have to bring on to our table that which we have to pay out money for. We ought to raise it; we ought to have it stored in the cellars and in the store-houses. It ought to be of the best quality. We ought to raise that which we have to sell, the kind the people want to buy. It ought to be the quality that would carry with it repeat orders that would come back to us. I was delighted when President Grant said what he did about the dairy industry. Only the other day I was talking to Brother James M. Kirkham, who has been back in Wisconsin, and I will add to what he said, a brief statement also from Senator C. L. Funk who had been back in Wisconsin. I said. Senator Funk, what is the condition in Wisconsin, that great dairy state?" 

"Oh," said he, "they are in clover. I never saw greater prosperity." 

James M. Kirkham was back there looking for dairy cows. He walked into a great barn and wanted to see what the man fed the cows. He was told : "Oh, the basic feed here is alfalfa." 

"Where does it come from?" 

"It comes from Colorado." He looked around and opened a sack, and said, "What is this?" 

"Dried beet pulp." 

"Where does that come from?" 

"That comes from Utah." 

Then he said : "You walk down to a cheese store and when you ask him what he has there, he has Wisconsin cheese that you buy." Cows fed on Colorado alfalfa and Utah beet pulp, made up into cheese back there, shipped out here and bought as Wisconsin cheese. 

Let me give you just one more thought, if I may, and I see that I have gone beyond my ten minutes, so I will stop shortly. One cow, if she only gives 6,000 pounds of milk, if she only makes three hundred pounds of butter fat, and if the butter-fat only brings forty cents a pound, will net you $120 for the butter-fat and leave the milk for pigs and for chickens; and that cow will only eat, if you give her all she can eat, if she eats nine months in the year out of your hay-stack, four and one-half tons of hay. Four and one-half tons of hay measured into $120 gives you $26.66 a ton for your hay. She will leave there with you several tons of fertilizer. She will keep your. boy at home. She will give him a job. She will give you the cheapest and best food that you can have, and she will help lift the mortgage. She will feed the pigs and they will help lift the mortgage. She will feed the chickens and they will help lift the mortgage. She will furnish the fertility to put on the beet ground to draw the cash, and they will help lift the mortgage. 

Now, brethren, we are invited to stay on the farm. We are invited to make it profitable while we stay on the farm. It is possible. It should be done. It can be done, Will we do it? I believe it is our duty, under the Lord, to find out how to do it and with his help do it. 

I bear you my testimony that I know that the Lord leads this people, that I know that the gospel restrains us where we should be restrained, encourages us where we .should be encouraged, and develops us in every way we should be developed. The Lord help us to be true to it in every sense, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The chorus sang, "Lovely Zion, home of beauty and of song," Myrteen Thurmond Stein, soloist. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I desire with all my heart that the Lord will bless me that the few moments I occupy may be profitable to this assembly. 

MEN SEEKING EVERYTHING BUT THE WORD OF GOD 

We are living in a time when men are running to and fro in the earth, seeking almost everything but the word of God, and surely they  finding what they seek. It would appear that the chief desire of the human family at present is to discover something new. Whether it is uplifting or not, it must be different. They are trying out experiments of every kind, and many of them 1 are reacting on their heads in a very unprofitable way. Our heavenly Father desires his children to be happy. He placed our first parents upon this earth that he had prepared for them and beautified. He told them just what they might do in order to enjoy it, and said that if they would listen to his teachings they would be happy here and would lay the foundation for eternal happiness. From time to time he has repeated and emphasized that counsel through his servants, the prophets. Ever since our first parents were placed in the Garden of Eden there has been an evil influence at work that has directed men's minds in selfish channels and inclined them to satisfy their own personal longing regardless whether or not it would prove profitable to them. The Lord gave our first parents instructions and told them that they should have faith in God and from then until now those who have had faith in him have been earning an eternal reward. They have rejoiced in the blessing of a contented mind and have enjoyed peace and happiness that they could have had in no other way. 

FAITH THE MOVING CAUSE OF ACTION 

We are informed that without faith we cannot please God. It is the moving cause of all action, and Scripture is replete with evidences of the power of faith. It was Noah's faith that enabled him to build an ark, and as a result of obed : ence to the commandments of God he and his household were saved, while those who lacked faith were buried in the great flood. It was through faith that Lot and the members of his family were preserved when fire from heaven consumed the cities of Sodom, and Gomorrah, and destroyed the inhabitants who had not faith. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE POWER OF FAITH 

When Daniel continued to pray openly to the God of Isarel, contrary to a decree which had been prepared by his enemies purposely to destroy him, he was cast into a den of lions and left there all night. He knew his heavenly Father could preserve him and his confidence was unshaken. The next morning the king went early to the pit and found Dan : el alive. His faith had rendered the wild beasts harmless and earned for him the devotion of the king. Three Hebrews, Shadrach Meshach and Abednego, who refused to worship a golden image set up by Nebuchadnezzar, were cast into a fiery furnace heated seven t'mes hot'.er than usual. They trusted in the living God and their faith was rewarded by the preservation of their lives. By faith, the Prophet Elijah called down fire fiom heaven to consume his offering, and the king and the people were convinced that the God of Israel was God and that Baal was not. It was by faith that the brother of Jared and his followers retained the language of their fathers during the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel, and were brought to this Western Hemisphere in the first submarine of which we have any record. It was a similar faith that enabled Lehi to bring his family across the sea and plant their feet on this land, choice above all other lands. It was faith that enabled the disciples of Jesus to endure the persecution that overtook them, and in spite of the opposition of the Jews to establish the gospel which the Savior had delivered to them. It was because of faith that Joseph Smith went out into the woods and knelt down to pray. Born of humble parents and reared in a real Christian home, he was imbued with the teachings of the Bible. He believed the promise recorded in (he fifth verse of the first chapter of James : ''If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." So in humility he asked which of the churches lie should join; and he was told to join none of them. 1 have no doubt he was gieatly astonished to be informed that not any of them was right. Although but a youth he was told that he would be called upon to perform an important labor if he would live a righteous life. This most remarkable experience was the result of faith, and this youth had the heavens opened to him and he beheld the Father and the Son and listened to their voices. Later he was given additional information and directions which brought about the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

RESULTS OF THE FAITH OF JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET 

The people generally were not satisfied with the teachings of their churches, but because of lack of faith were not able to find the truth. It remained for this boy, not yet fifteen years of age, living in an obscure village to test the promise of our heavenly Father, and to become the first human being in several centuries to Know through seeing them that the Father and Son have bodies like ours. Through faith Joseph Smith was able to bring forth the Book of Mormon, translating the same from an ancient language, through the gift and power of God. By faith, he was able to communicate with heavenly beings and resist the temptations of the adversary. Under the direction of our heavenly Father, he organized the Church with apostles and prophets; in fact the same form of organization as existed in the days of the Savior. He received from John the Baptist the Aaronic Priesthood, and Peter, James and John conferred upon him the Higher, or Melchizedek, Priesthood, enabling him to officiate in all the ordinances of the Church of Jesus Christ. It was through faith that those men who accepted him as their leader were able to withstand the assaults of the evil one. They were driven from place to place, persecuted and abused; but many of them remained true to the end. They knew that God lived and that his all-powerful arm would be extended for their salvation. While few in number in the midst of the communities in which they  they knew that the power of the heavens would sustain them if they performed their part; and that the power of evil would be unable to stay the onward progress of the Church that our Father had again established on the earth, in order that his children might be saved. It was often difficult to overcome the temptations that beset them, but because of faith in God and a determination to do his will, they were able to endure. In the early rise of the Chur^i faithful misionaries were sent to the nat'ons of the earth to say to all people: Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Retain all the virtues that are now yours, all the goodness you possess, but let us divide with yon the truth that has been revealed anew from heaven, that you may add to the assurance you now possess and profit by it. Since then many thousands of the servants of the Lord have traveled to and fro in the earth proclaiming the truth of the gospel of our Lord, the real gospel of peace, the only panacea for the ills of mankind if they but knew it. During the past century Israel has been gathering, people have come from all parts of the earth. Tsaiah's prediction is fulfilled, the mountain of the Lord's house has been established in the lops of the mountains, and exalted above the hills, and all nations are flowing unto it; Men, women and children, often in poverty, have been willing to leave their home land and loved ones to cross the ocean and the great plains, with (he assurance that they were in the keeping of the Master of heaven and earth. Thus, for seventy-five years they have continued to come, until today countless thousands of the favored sons and daughters of God raise their voices in thanksgiving and praise, for the faith of those from whom they have descended who dared to seek first "the kingdom of God and his righ'eousness," with the assurance that all things necessary would be added. 

OUR DUTY BECAUSE OF OUR FAITH 

We live in a wonderful age when the faith necessary to redeem mankind is lacking in most of the children of men. During this Conference it has been stated that about half of the ministers of a great church in the City of New York were not sure of the divinity of Jesus Christ. What is it they are lacking? It is the assurance that is possessed by the members of the true Church, due to serving the Lord. It is the informat; on they refuse that is offered to them without price by men divinely commissioned to teach the promised blessings of the Lord resulting from faith; how gladly we should continue our efforts to perform the duties that devolve upon us. All Latter-day Saints should bow before the Lord morning and evening and from the depth of our souls express our gratitude to our heavenly Father. I hope that those who have received this wonderful gift of faith are living to retain it. If any lack faith it is because they have not kept the commandments of God. Those who do not honor the Sabbath and keep it holy, displease him. Some people appear to think that if they have attended religious meetings, or performed some portion of the service required of them on Sunday, they are then at liberty to go to ball games, picture shows, or resorts of various kinds, and still continue to enjoy the favor of the Master. I say to you that if they persist in doing things of that kind, members of the Church will lose their faith; and the Spirit of our heavenly Father will withdraw from them. Let us teach our children the gospel of Jesus Christ, not leaving that duty entirely to the auxiliary organizations. At our own firesides, let us explain to them the harmfulness of the use of those things that our heavenly Father has forbidden; portray to them the beauties of a pure life. Let us conduct ourselves so that they will see in us the benefit derived from living the gospel of our Lord. Let our homes be assembling places of the families that God has blessed us with, and we can render home sacred to our dear ones by associating wi ll them under divine influence. 

This is our Father's work. He has always desired the salvation of all his children, and has offered to everyone the gospel of Jesus Christ, without money and without price. How thankful we ought to be, having heard the voice of the Good Shepherd! We have been able to understand the messages and have been made partakers of the blessings. 

THE PATH OF HUMILITY, THE PATH OF SAFETY 

I am grateful for the hospitality of your homes, and for kindness you extend to me and my brethren as we visit you form time to time. In my visits to the miss'on fields I have rejoiced in the development of your sons and daughters and in the increase in their faith due to obedience to the will of the Lord. It is pleasing to our heavenly Father to see us devoting ourselves to the various honorable vocations by which we earn a livelihood. Sometimes we meet with reverses and we are brought face to face with our inability to do things without divine help, 'but if we will humble ourselves and put our trust in the Lord, he will not forsake us. The path of humility is always the path of safe'y for the members of he Church. 

ADMONITION 

Husbands, be good to your wives; and wives, be kind to your husbands; parents, treasure your children and safeguard them in every way. Children, honor your fathers and your mothers, that your days may be long in the land which the Lord your God giveth unto you. Let us evidence our gratitude to our heavenly Father for the many blessing's bestowed upon us, by our living righteous lives. We will be tempted, but let us resist the insidious advances of the adversary, and avoid those customs and habits that lead us away from the right. Let us oppose evil with all our power, and renew our de'ermination to be worthy sons and daughters of God; let us pray for and sustain Ithose whom the Lord has called to preside over us; let us set the world an example of righteousness which will preach the gospel as i: has never been preached in all the years that have passed. This is  mission and it is indeed a privilege that we .should prize. We can so live that our faith can heal the sick and stay the hand of the destroyer when he invades our communities. We should continually pray for all our Father's children, that they may turn from the error of their ways. We should remember the faithful Saints that are scattered among the nations, and petition the Lord to open their way that they may be gathered out before the dreadful day when the earth will he swept by scourges. In other words, let us be real servants of the Lord, doing our duty in all things, in order that we may receive the blessings he has promised the faithful; and that we may is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER OWEN BENNION 

(President of the Duchesne Stake of Zion) 

I am reminded strongly, my brethren and sisters, of the vision of the Prophet Nephi and of the fruit which he beheld that was white and delightsome above all other fruits, and the strong yearning that runs through that vision, and the desire that he had that his posterity # and those who were associated with him should partake of that fruit. T feel that I have in my heart the same yearning that my brethren and my sisters may partake of that same fruit through keeping the commandments of the Lord, and I earnestly pray that what I say this afternoon may contribute to that end. It is not only my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that there is joy, satisfaction, progress and prosperity in keeping the commandments of the Lord, but it is my testimony, through a recollection extending over a period of fifty years, that that has been the case. I have known of no promise made by the servants of the Lord, either of reward or of punishment, in that period of time, but what has inevitably followed. Whatever the servants of the Lord have told us to do, that we have done, and the promised reward has come. If we have clone the opposite, the promised punishment has come. 

As I listened to the statistics that were given yesterday, I thought of a definition that President Penrose, I think, gave us one time, of the difference between being sure and being certain. He said : ''I am sure that the sun will rise tomorrow morning. I am certain that it rose this morning." From the same standpoint, brethren and sisters, I can testify that the promises that are made to the Latter-day Saints, if they keep the commandments of the Lord, are certain to follow. 

I noted yesterday morning, if T heard aright, in the figures given by Pres'dent Grant, that this past year we had about six thousand converts, and there were baptized into the Church something over fourteen thousand children, all, or in the main, children of the Lat80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ter-day Saints; and I wondered if, as parents of Zion, we had so trained and educated those children that they understood what they were doing when they went into the waters of baptism; and I wondered if our example in life has been such and will continue to be such that the best result can come to those children from our examples. It would seem to me that we have a very great responsibility. I would, my brethren and sisters, that every mother could say to her son, "Consider well the ways of your father," and not say to her son: "You keep the commandments of the Lord," or, "Your father is going to keep the commandments of the Lord, and the results will be good," but could say to her son : "Consider well the ways of your father, who has kept the commandments of the Lord. Consider his character, his kindness and his love for his family, his devotion to his Church, and his capability and value as a citizen in the community wherein he lives; and this, in a great measure, is the result of keeping the commandments of the Lord." And I would that every father among us could say to his daughters : "Consider well the ways of your mother. Consider her kindness, her influence, her unselfishness, her devotion to you and to me, and to the work of the Lord, the exemplary life that she leads, the happiness of her disposition and the value of her life that has resulted therefrom. Follow you in her footsteps." How many of us. brethren and sisters, can do that? If we cannot do it, the Lord will hold us responsible, and we will suffer therefor. But that is not all of it; those children of ours will suffer therefor, and a considerable portion of the best part of their lives will be lost through our fault. When we are tempted to find fault with our neighbors, with our brethren and sisters and with the servants of the Lord, let us consider what effect it will have on our children; remembering that, in due course of time, knowing that the gospel is true, we may come back into the fold and may work and labor diligently, but we cannot undo the damage that we have done to our children while we were off the track. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with us as parents, that we may realize our responsibility, that we may set examples worthy of imitation before our children, that we can say to them not only, "If you keep the commandments of the Lord, you shall be blessed," but we can say to them and we can show to them the effect, — that through keeping the commandments of the Lord we have been blessed. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the, Ensign Stake of Zion and of the Western States 

Mission) 

Remembering what President Clawson had to say about my voice six months ago, I don't know whether I dare speak into this amplifier  not. He said that the rafters of the building shook. They may now fall upon you. 

I rejoice in the privilege I have of meeting with the Latter-day Saints and bearing testimony to the truth. I have listened with a great deal of interest to the testimonies that have been borne. They bear the stamp of the genuine; they ring true. I don't know of any body of people in the world who can affirm, as do the Latter-day Saints, their faith in God, and in the divine mission of his Son Jesus Christ. Joseph Smith, the prophet, was the pioneer in leading the world away from the worship of idols. The wonderful vision given unto him, in the early spring of 1820, was a greater vision, from a loftier Sinai, than that given to Moses when the commandments written by the finger of God were given to ancient Israel; because, coupled with that revelation was the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He gave to the world a knowledge that God is a personal being, and that Jesus Christ is his Son; that they were like each other, and that he was the Redeemer of the world in very deed. 

President Roberts referred to the fact that there are many who deny this important truth in the Eastern States mission. Dr. Grant to whom he referred, together with Dr. Fosdic and others are quoted very frequently by the people of the Western States mission. Not only this gentleman, but Mr. Hastings Rashdahl, Dr. H. D. A. Major, and others who have presented views along the same line, are being quoted, in the Western States at least, as leaders, pioneers if you please, in the thought that is being given to the world with relation to Jesus Christ, that he was in every sense a man, with human skill and intellect, and in no sense was he divine. I am thankful that the Latter-day Saints have the witness of the Holy Spirit that this .statement is not true, but that the mission of Christ was and is divine. 

I have been interested, as I say, in the positive declarations of our brethren and sisters, many times, with relation to these things, particularly those of our brethren during the sessions of this conference. Positive assertion invariably accompanies either deliberate falsehood, profound ignorance, or else the individual has a definite and positive knowledge of that which he speaks. I believe the statistics which have been read in your hearing are a refutation of the statement that the Latterday Saints are an ignorant people. Surely none of them desire to perpetuate a falsehood, to speak falsely concerning that which is true, but they have a definite and positive knowledge that God lives, that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him, and that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God. I call to mind the words of the Apostle Paul in speaking to Timothy. He exhorted him to preach the word, to be instant in season and out of season, to reprove and rebuke with all long'-suffering', "for," declared he, "the time will come when men will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away from the truth." The story that has been told you with reference to the creation, with reference to the faith of Daniel, of the Hebrew children, and of the prophets of old, are considered by many of our leading theologians as fables. The statement that Jesus Christ's mission was divine, and that he atoned for the sins of the world is declared to be "bunk." 1 thank the Lord that in the day and age in which we live a mighty prophet was raised up to implant in the hearts of the children of men faith in God and in his Son. faith in the holy scriptures, in the word of God. faith in the new volume of scripture, the Book of Mormon, faith in the covenant that God has made with Israel in the day in which we live, for he has made a new covenant with the people of this dispensation, and he has written in our hearts a testimony of its divine truth. 

I rejoice in the privilege that is mine to labor in the ministry, both at home and abroad, and to declare the gospel of repentance. We are fortified as no other people in the world are fortified, because we have not only the word of God as it is contained in the scriptures, the Holy Bible, but we have these other volumes of scripture, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, and we are enabled to present to the world evidence of their divinity, the one bearing witness of the other. It is necessary now, when you come in contact with the great majority of people, to prove to them that the word of God is true, that it is reliable, that it is authentic, that it is worth while investigating. The Latter-day Saints, as I say, are lortified with evidence that these things are true. 

I see that the time I should occupy is gone. I bear you my witness, my brethren and sisters and my frie-ids, that I do know that this is God's work, and that it is the power of God unto salvation, that the Lord did raise up the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the dispensation in which we live, to reestablish his work in the earth, and I bear witness that it will continue onward to the fulfilment of its destiny, and all the powers of earth and hell combined can never stay its progress. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

( Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California 

Mission) 

It is certainly a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be permitted to take part in a great conference gathering such as this is. I sincerely hope that during the few moments that have been allotted to me I may he prompted by that good Spirit that has been so manifest in the remarks of the brethren who have been called to occupy this position. 

I am very glad to say that the work of the Lord is prospering in the California mission. You have already heard, from the opening remarks made by President Grant, and the presiding authorities re thought it advisable to establish a stake of Zion with headquarters in Los Angeles, to be known as the Los Angeles stake of Zion. Elder George W. McCune, former president of the Eastern States mission, has been called to preside as the president of the stake, and is assisted by Elders J. Muir and George F. Harding, who are his counselors, and a company of stalwart men who have been called to assist them as members of the high council. A number of bishops, all splendid men, have been selected and ordained and have chosen their counselors; while in other branches the bishops have not as yet been selected. The people hail with very great delight the action that has been taken by the presiding authorities, in the organization of the stake; and of course we cannot but believe that with the increased number of men who will feel the responsibilites that have been placed upon them, there will be a greater movement forward with the work of the Lord in that section of the country than at any time in the past. The bre'Lren who have been selected to fill places of responsibility, all seem to sense the nature of that responsibility that has been placed upon them and to be anxious to discharge their duties to the best of their power. 

So far as the missionary work is concerned, I am happy to say, my brethren and sis'ers, that the Spirit of the Lord is with the young men and women who have been assigned to the California mission. The only thing that v/e regret is that we do not have larger numbers of men and women sent to labor in that mission; and yet I realize that vt^e have no ground to complain, or to feel that we have not been considered as favorably as any other mission in the sending of men and women to operate in the crying of repentance and in expounding the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It has been and is a very great delight to me to have the companionship of the young elders and the young sisters who have been sent into that feld. It is a source of never ending wonder to note the development that takes place on the part of these missionaries, for it is not an uncommon thing to find these young people sorely depressed in their feelings when they first attempt to stand up before the people, and they have but very little to say, and a good many of them do not feel that they can stand up and bear record that they know that they have been called to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and that thev know the doctrines thev have been sent to teach are the power of Gqd unto salvation. It is a very great delight, nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, to note on the part of all of these young people that there is no disposition to be in any way hypocritical or untruthful or in any way to pretend that they are possessed of knowledge that has not been given to them. 

I would like to say to the fathers and mothers who may have sons and daughters in California, that while some of them may have come into the mission field with but little understanding of the gospel, they have come with a wonderful spirit of obedience, ready and willing to go and come as they may be directed by proper authority, and ready and anxious to do, to the very best of their power, the duties that rest upon them as preachers of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. While they may manifest in the beginning a considerable degree of timidity in their missionary labors, it has always been a source of great joy to me to discover that after they have striven to the best of their power to magnify the callings whereunto they have been called, they have been touched with the mysterious power that reveals truths, that has been spoken of in these conference meetings — the power of the Holy Ghost. If there has been doubt in their minds when they came Into the mission field, it is soon banished away, and in a brief time they are not only willing to bear record to the truth of the gospel but they are very anxious to have that opportunity; and I want to say that they bear that witness under the power and inspiration of the Spirit of the living God. They bear witness in such a manner that their teachings reach the hearts of the people and bring honest hearted souls to an investigation of the message that has been committed into their hands. 

I regret that sometimes there seems to be too great anxiety on the part of fathers and mothers to have their missionary sons and daughters return from the mission field earlier than is desirable. The declaration has been made again and again by the presiding authorities that there is no appointed time for a missionary to> be in the mission field. President Heber J. Grant, in one of our conferences in 1921, set forth in very strong language the necessity of fathers and mothers giving their sons and daughters an opportunity to fill a well rounded out mission; and I would like to plead with fathers and mothers that they give their sons and daughters those opportunities. I am not unmindful of the fact that we have been passing through a time of serious financial distress and that many fathers and mothers have had great difficulty in obtaining the means necessary to meet the expenses of their missionary representatives in the mission field. Let me also ,say, my brethren and sisters, that it is a very rare thing for a missionary ever to have the opportunity of going the second time into the mission field to lift up his voice in proclamation of the truth that has been restored, and when he is baptized with the spirit of testimony and with the spinr of understanding; when his heart is in the work and when he is anxious to cry repentance among the people, it is greatly to be regretted that ofttimes fathers and mothers, even when 1 fear there is no very great necessity for such action, send word to their sons and daughters that the burden is more than they can bear and that because two years, forsooth, have passed away, they should now return from the mission field. I am happy to ,say that these missionaries, both men and women, have no desire to return. I have seen them shed tears of sorrow when the announcement has been made that they have been honorably released to return to their homes. Their hearts are in the work of God. They are anxious to magnify their callings; and I think no father or mother can spend money to any better advan than to give their sons and daughters, when they are in the field, full ' opportunity to labor and to deliver the message that has been committed into their hands, and to become better and better established in the things of God. 

I rejoice in their companionship. I thank God for the opportunity of being with them. I rejoice in the gospel that I am seeking, with them, to promulgate in the California mission, and I know it is the power of God unto salvation; and bear witness thereto, with joy and gladness in my soul, and with understanding and knowledge that I speak the truth, in the name of Jesus Christ.. Amen. 

President Grant read a telegram from President Wallace Calder of the Uintah stake of Zion asking to be excused from presence at the Conference owing to the impassability of the roads. 

The choir sang, "The Lord is great, who shall not fear him?" 

The choir and congregation sang the "Doxology." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder George Bowles, a recently returned missionary from the Hawaiian Islands. 

The Conference adjourned until 10 a. m. Sunday. 

THIRD DAY 


