Afternoon 
06 04 1923



PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I thoroughly enjoyed the meeting this morning. I hope I shali enjoy the meeting this afternoon, and particularly, that while I speak to you I may be led by the Spirit which was here this, morning and prompted the remarks that were made, and which the Lord has blessed me with many times, at home and abroad, when it has become my duty to stand up before a congregation. 

I am suffering from some disabilites which are very unpleasant to me personally. They are of physical character but I am not sick abed. I am thankful indeed that I am able to be present this afternoon and look upon this vast congregation. I wish I could see you clearly, as I used to do in times that are, past, but my eyes are about worn out, I think, and I do not have any faith that I shall recover the keen eyesight which I enjoyed for so many years; but I am thankful to God this afternoon to be present. 

THROUGH THE SPIRIT WE ARE FED THE BREAD OF LIFE 

I was grateful this morning, with all my soul, in listening to the remarks that were made by our brethern who spoke by the Spirit and from their hearts. I think we are able to tell when a man talks from the heart or merely from the brain. Some men who are accustomed to public speaking can roll out a very fine discourse or oration or lecture that comes from human thought, and it is subject to human errors, very often, and we can detect them; but when a man speaks under the influenec of the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, the light that comes from God to the soul of man, there is something about what he says that goes to our hearts, not only to our ears but it goes down into our inward being, and we are fed with the bread of life and we are nourished thereby and we carry away with us, when we go home, or wherever we' go, the influence of it. It clings to us. It not only rings in our ears when we hear good sentences, but the spirit of it goes down into our inward being and we are refreshed and revived and fitted for the duties that devolve upon us as servants of the most high God. 

THE CHURCH THE MOST WONDERFUL ORGANIZATION 

One of the speakers said that this was one of the most wonderful organizations on the earth, all of which is true, but a word more might be added, — that it is the most wonderful. It is so, because it is different from anything else organized on earth in the shape of religion. There are many differences between our views, doctrines, and principles, and our way of doing things, and the various religions in the Christian and the heathen world, but there is this great difference; everything in this Church is as directed by divine revelation. One of the brethren alluded to the manifestation of God, the Father and the Son, to the Prophet Joseph in his boyhood, something which he relates himself and we can read in the book called the Pearl of Great Price, which contains a great many things that we all ought to give heed to and understand. There are revelations in that little book that came direct from the Father through Jesus Christ his Son, to Moses, long before he gave the law on mount Sinai, which were revealed to him, in vision; and the same visions that he gave to Moses were given to the Prophet Joseph, I think about June, 1830. They are of great moment and they contain great and glorious principles and promises. 

WHAT GOD REVEALES, ORDAINS AND COMMANDS IS HIS RELIGION 

One thing clearly revealed in that which God gave to Moses before he gave him the Mosaic law, as we call it, was the point that what God calls men to and ordains them, to and reveals unto them is his word and that it shall abide, and that it is different from that which comes from man only. He does not accept just what man may choose to offer him, either by way of sacrifice or by any other way. That which he ordains, that which he reveals, that which he commands is God's religion that comes to us, and that we should observe and obey. It is all right for all the inhabitants of earth, according to their own notions, to breathe out their desires to the Lord and to offer to him what they think is good for them to offer, but the Lord instituted sacrifices in the early times, and when our> parents were driven out of the Garden of Eden, Adam was told to build an altar and offer a sacrifice to the Lord, which was to be from the firstlings of his flock. Adam was a tiller of the soil, as well as keeper of flocks, but that which the Lord commanded him he did without question. When he was asked by the angel of God, so we read in that vision to Moses, why he did that, he said he did not know but he did know that God had commanded it. That was enough for him. Then the angel explained to him that this sacrifice that God commanded him to offer was in the similitude of the great sacrifice to be offered by the Only Begotten Son, Jesus the Christ. That was the name given to him by the Father, we are told. So Adam did that understandingly; so did his son Abel; so did Seth, and so did others of his posterity, away down to the time of Enoch, Abraham, Isaac, Noah, Jacob and Moses. This was offered in the way that God ordained, and therefore it was acceptable in his sight. 

COD HAS SPOKEN IN THE TIME IN WHICH WE LIVE 

Now in these times in which we live, God has spoken again from heaven. For a long time there had been no direct intercourse between the Father and the Son and the inhabitants of the earth, by way of commandment and revelation. They were left, to a large extent, after they departed from the Gospel that his Son revealed, to their own devices; and so confusion came into the world and "darkness covered the earth and gross darkness the people." In the midst of this, many of them thought they had great light, but tha't which they had came from their own reflections, to a large degree, and communication was not kept up between Deity and humanity. Now, when the Lord revealed himself, as he most certainly did, as testified to this morning by the brethren, — and I add my testimony that the Father and the Son did manifest themselves to the boy Toseph in the grove near his father's house, where he went to offer for the first time a vocal prayer to God — and when he called upon the Father and asked him which of all the different religious sects he should join, the Father turning and pointing to his Son, said; "Joseph, th's is my beloved Son. Hear him." That was the word of God the Father to Joseph the boy. That is the word of God to the whole earth today. It has come to us and we should remember it. It is what his Son Jesus Christ reveals, as the representative of the Father, that we are to receive. And so, all the revelations that have come to us, as referred to this morning by President Grant, contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, which is a collection of revelations from the Lord, came through Jesus Christ, "Hearken to the voice of Jesus Christ, the great I Am, whose arm of mercy hath atoned for your sins," is the opening phrase in many of those revelations. 

CELESTIAL OR ETERNAL MARRIAGE 

The Lord has disclosed to us in section 132 of the Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation concerning his ways and concerning things of time and things of eternity. Among them is the law of celestial or eternal marriage. That is only one of the principles revealed there. Here is what the Lord says in verses 8 to 11 of that section in the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. 

"Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name ? 

"Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? 

"And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as I and my Father ordained unto you, before the world was?' 

Just think that over. That is an eternal principle. God reveals what he wants done and his people are to abide by it and carry it out in their lives. 

The revelation goes on to say : 

"I am the Lord thy God, and I give unto you this commandment — That no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord. 

"And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, bythrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God. 

"For whatsoever things remain are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me shall be shaken and destroyed." 

Based upon this principle, the Lord continues : 

"Therefore, if a man marry a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me, nor by my word, and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world, and she with him, their covenant and marriage arc not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world. Therefore, they are not bound by any law when they are out of the world." 

Further than this the Lord goes on to say : 

"And again, verily I say unto you. if a man marry a wife and make a covenant with her for time and all eternity, if that covenant is not by me or by my word, which is my law, and is not sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, through him whom T have anointed and appointed unto this power, then it is not valid, neither of force when they are out of the world, because they are not joined by me,neither by my word." 

So, therefore, the Lord institutes his order of eternal marriage and he warns his people that unless they abide by that law their union cannot be continued, they cannot increase in the world to come, and their marriage does not last any longer than the time that they live in the flesh. After death comes that is the end of it. 

SHOW THE CHILDREN WHAT THE LORD ORDAINS AND WHY 

Now why should the Lord accept of all those different religions that men have made? Why should the Lord accept of offerings that men offer which he has not commanded, and neglected to do that which he has commanded? There is no reason in my irr'nd why he should. Therefore, says the Lord, if men do this and they do not abide by his law, it does not continue. So, here is something we should understand and teach to our children. Mothers and fathers in Israel, make it plain to your children, not in an offensive way, as some have done, but show them what the Lord ordains and why he ordains it, so that they may, if they will, enter into the new and everlasting covenant of marriage as God has ordained, do that which will continue in and after the resurrection from the dead and abide eternally; wherein they will find everlasting increase and power and dominion worlds without end. 

LEARN WHAT THE LORD HAS COMMANDED AND OBEY IT 

In the sectarian world there are a number of religious organizations. All of them, perhaps most of them at any rate, have some good in them. That which is good and true is all right; but there is not one of them according to that revelation, that has been set up and ordained by direct commandment of the Lord. This Church is sui generis. It is of itself. There is no other organization on the face of the earth that has been organized under direct revelation and commandment of the Most High, and organized personally under the direction of Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh. Hear him, O ye nations! Hear him, O ye Latter-day Saints! Find out what the Lord has commanded and obey it and there shall be peace in your souls and you shall have contentment, not only the remission of your past sins, but you shall have the abiding witness in your souls that gave so much comfort to our brethren who spoke this morning, and we can all have it, as one of them testified. 

Now then, that is the principle upon which that commandment is founded, by which our people are told to enter into the sacred order of celestial, that is, eternal marriage. If a man marry a wife in the new and everlasting covenant and it is sealed upon their heads that that marriage shall endure, and they live according to it, they shall come forth in the first resurrection, and they will continue in it forever and ever and there is no end to their increase and their glory and their dominion and their power. It leads to infinitude, which we cannot fully comprehend now but which we will when we receive that Spirit in its fulness and receive our resurrected bodies, quickened after the power of endless life; we enter into an infinitude of knowledge which will come to us as the ages and ages go on and there is no end to it. 

THE LORD HAS SET UP HIS CHURCH AND KINGDOM 

Now, I know this is true. I know it just as I know that I live, that the Lord, in these last days, has commenced the work referred to by all the holy prophets since the world began, to set up his Church and kingdom. This is "the kingdom of God." This is the kingdom of heaven into which no one can enter except in the way that the Lord has provided. Christ says : "I am the way, the truth and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me," and "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." And he has declared that we cannot enter into the kigndom except by the door, not only for the remission of sins but to enter into that Church and kingdom of God. That is what he taught to Nicodemus. He told Nicodemus, first, he "could not see the kingdom unless he was born again;" and the Apostles taught, in their letters to the churches of their time, that they had to be "born of the word of God" that comes through Christ, which opens the eyes, which enables people to see the truth. "Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God," says Paul. But, how can they hear without a preacher, and how can he preach except he be sent? (Rom. 13 :17.) That is the idea. God sends men to speak his word by the power of the Holy Ghost, and the Spirit resting down upon the hearers who are willing to recive it, kindles faith in their souls by the testimony that is born and they see the light right here. And then very often, in our public gatherings, in the streets and in our meeting places, and by seeing that which is right, faith is kindled in their hearts, which is the beginning of the gospel of Christ, the beginning of true religion. Faith in the true God is the beginning of true religion, and that leads to repentance. This is what Oliver Cowdery could not understand when he had that dispute with the Prophet Joseph, in the rise of the Church. The revelation says that all who have "received the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins shall be received by baptism into the Church." (Doc. and Cov. sec. 20:37.) Oliver could not understand that, and he had the hardihood or assumption to call upon the Prophet Joseph, in the name of God, to erase that from the revelation, but of course the Prophet did not erase it. He had received it from the Lord and it is the eternal truth. What the people of the world need is something to lead them up to repentance, and then to be baptized for the remission of sins, and this is the operation, the first operation of the Spirit of Christ in the soul of man. Seeing the kingdom and entering into it are different operations. When he hears the word and believes it, faith is kindled in his heart and it leads to repentance, and repentance to baptism, wherein . is the remission of sins, and he comes in by the door into the Church or Kingdom of Christ, and is then confirmed by the laying on of the hands that he may receive the gift of the Holy Ghost; that is the Holy Ghost as a gift, an abiding witness, a continual testimony, .something that stays in the soul, not given like a flash of light for a time and taken away again, not like the temporary light that lights every man that comes into the world, although it is from the same source; but the abiding witness as a gift from God, as Peter taught on the day of Pentecost, when the Jews began to see that they had been in the dark and that their nation had rejected the Messiah. They cried: "Men and brethren, what shall we do ?" Then said Peter : "Repent and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call;" all that receive the word, if they believe and repent and are baptized they shall receive the Holy Ghost. They are first born of the word, next born of the water and of the Spirit. ( Read I Peter 1:23; Jas. 1:18.) ONLY ONE GOD'S RELIGION 

Now, my brethren, in the different sections in the world they have their religions and a great many of our people are being led off here and there, particularly out in the world, to attend their services. There is no harm about that, but they should come to the understanding that there is but one God's religion and that is what God reveals. There is only one gospel and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ, about which President Grant read this morning from that glorious vision that Joseph Smith, the prophet, received, with Sidney Rigdon. He saw it. Sidneysaw it, and it is one of the biggest testimonies that although he had to lie cut off this Church for his transgressions, yet he never denied his testimony; and so with the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon. They say what they testified of, and their testimony remains and abides and what they said is true. Now then, we want to teach our children that they may understand that there may be good things in the religions of the world and in the educations of the world; that which is good is all right, that which is really scientific is all right, but a great deal of what is called scientific is nothing but philosophical, and some of it is vain philosophy. The Lord is our God and he created or organized the world on which we stand, as he organized many other worlds, as shown to Moses, and he gives his word to the people to obey, and that which he reveals should be obeyed. 

THE LORD'S PLAN FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF HIS CHURCH 

In the discipline of his Church, he has created a splendid establishment, or organization. We understand it and we should get to understand it fully. I recommend, my brethren, and measurably my sisters, to become fully acquainted with Section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the organization of this Church is embodied and set forth in great plainness. There is the Lord's plan for the government of his Church. Now, when his servants whom he has called and set apart and ordahied to certain offices and work in the Church, bring forth something for the obedience and edification and order of the Church of Christ by the power of the Holy Ghost in them, by the authority that he has revealed, — the Holy Priesthood referred to this morning 1 — it is of the Lord. He says so. He has ordained and set up his Church in that form, and that which he has given to us will abide. It will never be taken from the earth. Some of the people want to know what we will do if the First Presidency is dissolved by death and the Twelve Apostles are all gone. What then? That is an if you need not bother yourselves about. There will always be somebody on the earth in this Church that can set in order the things of the kingdom; but if they do it, it will be done by the commandment of God, by revelation from the Most High, the Eternal Father, through Jesus Christ his Son, who is at the head of the Church. This is his Church, — the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, — and we  be ready and willing to obey every commandment that he reveals; and the order established therein is of God and it will continue and abide and spread forth and prevail. Hear it, O Israel! Be obedient to the Lord your God, as revealed from, the heavens through Jesus Christ, and it will be done to the Church in the order and manner that he has prescribed and set up, for his house is a house of order and not a house of confusion. When people have the presumption to go off on the side, on the right or left, or in any direction they please, and officiate in the Lord's name in things that do not belong to them, it is void and of non-effect; and so with the ordinances and administrations of men not authorized of God and not clothed upon with the authority of the Holy Priesthood that comes through Jesus Christ, the Son of God, to the Ghurch. 

PERSONAL TESTIMONY 

I do not want to enlarge on this any further, because I would he taking up too much time. I have occupied a little more than my time this afternoon. But, brethren and sisters, I feel well in mind, in spirit, in all my being. The Lord has been with me through my ministrations in many lands, for many years. I have preached this gospel in many of the states of the Union, throughout the British Isles, through the continent of Europe, in the Scandinavian countries,and on some of the isles of the sea; and I am ready to do anything I am told to do that the Lord may require at my hands, I am pleased and proud lo be associated with the present President and leader of the Church. Like one of the brethren who spoke this morning, I have been personally acquainted with them all from the days of Brigham Young right down to the present time, and I can testify that they are men of God and that they occupied those places they held by the word and will and commandment of God and in the authority of that Holy Priesthood which has been restored to earth. 

I know this Church and organization is different from anything else in the world. It is of God and not of man. That which is of man, so far as it is of man, is from men who are ordained and appointed to represent the Lord, to act in his holy name, under the direction of his authority and priesthood, and I testify to you that it shall continue to abide though many of us will pass away. 

I rejoice today in the truth. I rejoice in the testimony of Jesus. I rejoice in the knowledge that Christ did give me my freedom, I am free. How? Free from the sins that were remitted at the waters of baptism, free from the vanities and vain conceptions of men, free from folly in doctrine and principle, free from the influence that men would exercise to bind my soul. I am free to carry out the will and commandments of the Lord, which I hope to be during the remainder of my existence on the earth. I have devoted my life and time and what ability I have had, for many years to the service of the Church. I rejoice in that. The Church doesn't owe me anything. I owe everything that there is to me to the Church, and I love it and I love the truth. I love my brethren and I love the good work in which I am engaged, and I love you, my brethren and sisters in the gospel of peace, and I desire your welfare and that of your posterity, for in that will be a great deal of your joy in the worlds to come, — in your children and children's children. 

THE SPEAKER'S BENEDICTION UPON THE PEOPLE 

God bless you, as he blessed Ephraim, and in your seed many of the nations of the earth will be blessed. Through them God will work out his mighty plans, many of which are not yet disclosed; and the kingdom of God will roll on and the truth will be triumphant and darkness will be banished and the reign of evil will cease. Satan will be bound and his hosts with him, and the wicked will not continue to flourish. The righteous will prevail and the kingdom and government of God which he has set up will cover the earth until the very earth itself, having filled the law of its being, will be resurrected and clothed upon with the glory of God, and Christ will be its king. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters. May his peace abide with you and be in your homes, surround your homes with everything that is good, bright, lovely and comfortable. Teach your children in kindness to come up in the way that God Almighty has established and that is going to prevail. It is going to be the kingdom. The kingdoms of this world will become the kingdom of our God and his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever. May we all be found worthy to reign with him in glory, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Two little girls, Florence and Blanche Critchlow of Ogden. sang a duet, the old, familiar hymn, "O My Father." 

Their voices were clear and distinct and every word could be heard throughout the whole, great congregation. 

President Grant, at the close of their singing, stated that these children should teach some of our professionals how to' sing so that we could understand the words. He announced also that amplifiers had been placed in the Tabernacle, to aid the congregation in hearing the speakers, and that if there were any who were standing who could not hear, they would be able to hear what was being said in the Assembly Hall and have a good seat. 

ELDER EDWARD W. CROFT 

{President of the Bighorn Stake of Zion) 

I have been coming to the general conferences of the Church, my brethren and sisters, for over thirty years. I feel today that I am honored, and that it is a privilege granted me this day to look into the faces of so many of my brethren and sisters. I am thankful above all other things in the world that this day, my brethren and , I find my soul in tune with this great and marvelous work that has been established by our heavenly Father. I was impressed with the statement of President Grant this morning that there were only a very few of the general authorities now left who were present at the dedication of the wonderful temple. I remembered that I had been listening to a great many of the brethren, and I was thankful in my heart that I could say truthfully that in all I have ever heard or ever read from them, I have been able to find myself in harmony with them. I am glad this day that I have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that I retain it as delivered to me from my mother and father who received the gospel in England many years ago. I am proud of the fact that I can, in humility, be counted worthy to assist, in my humble, feeble way, in the great and wonderful work of the Lord. I am laboring in the Big Horn stake of Zion. You remember that some twenty-two^ years ago, the people were called to colonize that country, and I am certain that there are brethren and sisters here who will be glad to know of the success of the work of God in that country, because of the fact that we were called there, a great many of us. With some of the other brethren who spoke this morning, I can say that we are somewhat in bondage, in debt, because we failed to follow the counsels of the authorities of this great organization; and while our lands, some of them, are mortgaged and boggy, I would like to bring to the Church the message from our stake that we have very few people who have mortgages on their faith in God, and their confidence in the leaders of this Church, and in the Priesthood of Almighty God. Two weeks ago last Sunday we held a little district conference over in a district of our stake, and the bishop and ward clerk announced that there were one hundred percent of the Latter-day Saints present in that meeting, within a radius of ten miles of the meetinghouse. It has been a pleasure to me, my brethren and sisters, to labor in that stake of Zion. 

I am also thankful, today, that from the little study I have made of the science in which I am practicing, that of a practicing physician, I have not found anything in the healing arts that begins to compare with the healing power of the Priesthood, and the prayer of faith, following the anointing with oil. I would like to testify to you this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, that with all the ability that I have been able to acquire in the diagnosis of disease, I have found, in the wonderful faith of our people, that the promised blessings do follow the believer! in Jesus Christ, in the wonderful things that he said would follow the believer; and that notwithstanding the fact that I spend a good many more hours in the practice of medicine than I spend in the preaching of the gospel, and in my labors in the Big Horn stake of Zion, I find that all of the diseases, irrespective of the fact that they are produced by germs, many of them specifically, give way before the prayer of faith, and that in pneumonia and heart trouble, in fractured bones and in all these things that the human body is heir to, I  2 have found the prayer of faith accomplishing all and more, yes a thousand times more, than we have heen able to accomplish, in many respects, as a profession. 

My brethren and sisters, 1 know that this is the work of God. I know that my acquaintance with all of the leaders since President Brigham Young has taught me that they have been men of God. I have been personally acquainted, slightly, with each of them, and I can testify to you this day that I have not been able to see anything else than success following all of our people who believe and follow the instructions of the authorities of this Church. Once more I say that I am more than thankful this day that in all the journeys I have made to the general conferences, 1 have been able to' find myself in harmony with everything that has heen taught and advocated by the brethren, and where I have put it into practice, success has followed my efforts. I testify to you that God lives. I know that he is my Father; I know that he is the Father of our spirits, I know that Jesus Christ is his Son, his Only Begotten Son in the flesh, and I thank God this day that I do know that lie is my Redeemer. 1 testify to you that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, chosen and selected to do a marvelous work and a wonder, and I am thankful, that I can find myself in touch and in tune with the teachings that he gave the hatterday Saints. It is our privilege to follow his direction, and the direction of those whom God has chosen to succeed him, even unto the present day, and thereby be saved in the celestial kingdom of God. 1 thank my Father for this privilege- for this blessing of meeting in this conference. I am very thankful that my part of it is over with; but it is an honor to any man to face a congregation of Latter-day Saints such as this. 1 love the people of God. My professional work has taken me into their homes. 1 can testify to all the world that the Latter-day Saint home, guided and directed by the Spirit of God, is the most wonderful place in all the world. It makes men and women good, pure, and holy, and prepares them to do the wonderful work that God has revealed through his servants. May the Spirit of (Sod be with us, and bless us and strengthen us, that we might receive it with open hearts and with thanksgiving unto him, and with gratitude for all the blessings that this conference may be the greatest conference we ever attended, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER C. AUSTIN 

{President of the Bingham Stake of Zion) 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, very weak, in attempting to occupy this position for just a few moments. 1 assure you I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that 1 may be led to say something that will be in harmony with the spirit of this conference. I have been delighted with the instructions and the testimonies given to us, and borne to us, by our brethren who have spoken. I was delighted with  remarks of President Grant this morning wherein he gave the statistics of the Church. We observed there the wonderful things that this Church is accomplishing, the wonderful things that it has accomplished, not only in spiritual matters, but in temporal matters. I have never been one of those who have felt to find fault with the temporal activities of the Church. I believe that it is very hard to draw the line where the spiritual things should cease and the temporal things begin. I realize that this Church and the activities of the Church have not only been the spiritual salvation of its members, but have been their temporal salvation, and if we would listen to the counsel and instructions that are given to us, from time to time, by our brethren here, we would not find ourselves in the troubles that we sometimes do. The fact of disobedience is always followed by serious consequences. 

Like my brethren who have spoken to you in the sessions of this conference, both this morning and this afternoon, I rejoice in the fact that I have been permitted to associate with these splendid men who constitute the general authorities of this Church. I find myself in perfect harmony with them. I sustain them with all my soul; and the people whom I represent, whom I have the honor to preside over in the Bingham stake of Zion, in the Snake River valley of Idaho, sustain the authorities of the Church. We never hear of any murmuring, we never hear of any complaints; and we are endeavoring and seeking to live our religion. We are not always obedient to the counsel and advice given to us. If we were our condition would not be what it is today. I remember very well the brethren repeatedly, in their visits to our quarterly conferences, have advised our people to get out of debt and keep out of debt, and had we listened to that counsel it would have been a great bles-sing to us. 

I find myself, however, like one of the brethren who spoke this morning, that I have endeavored to obey that counsel. I am not in debt, and I suppose if I were I would not be able to pay. But let that be as it may. I know that the brethren are inspired by the Lord to advise and counsel the Latter-day Saints, and I know that in obeying their counsel there is safety. You have heard many hard-luck stories" about our people. I think probably we have been represented really worse than we are. In my visits to Salt Lake, from time to time, my friends come up and condole with me in the very serious condition that prevails in our section of country. Well, in a measure it is serious, but it is not so bad as you think it is. The great majority of our people are sound financially. We have some small percent. I suppose, that will eventually find themselves in bankruptcy, but the great majority, a good percentage of our people, are sound financially. If we exercise a little patience, a little helpful influence, a little encouragement because we have in that section of country the best, yes I think the best agricultural district in the intermountain country, we shall pull through. I don't know Of a section of country, anywhere, where you can produce more to the acre than you can in the Snake River valley, amply supplied with an abundance of water, a splendid climate and a good soil. We have, probably, during' the time of our prosperity, during the time of easy money, gotten away from the habit of industry to some extent. We may have thought that we could afford to retire and employ someone else to do our work, and we shall have to return to first principles. We ourselves, have to learn, and also teach our families, to be industrious, and when we do that we shall find ourselves on the road to recovery. 

I rejoice in the gospel. Like many of the other brethren who have spoken, I was born of splendid, good parents who made all sorts of sacrifices, if you could call it sacrifice, to embrace tbe gospel. They passed through the trials and tribulations, many of them, of the early history of this Church, and they implanted in the hearts of their children a testimony of the gospel. Like my brother who has spoken before me, I know that the gospel is true. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, and I know that these brethren who have stood at the head of this Church from that time till now have been called and sustained of the Lord. May the Lord bless us and help us, 1 pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES DUCKWORTH 

{President of the Blackfoot Stake of Zion) 

Those who have had the privilege of occupying this position can appreciate the feelings of one who is unaccustomed to it as I am, and I realize unless I am assisted by the Spirit of the Lord in my remarks that I shall not edify the Latter-day Saints. I have no thought in my heart at this time other than to say what shall be pleasing to the Lord, and tend to strengthen and to edify and to build up his people. I rejoice in the latter-day work, and for the privilege of being a member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It has always been a pleasure to me to bear testimony of the divinity of this work, and of the divine mission of the Redeemer of the world and of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as all of his successors in the presidency of the Church. One thing I have appreciated very much in my labors, in the Blackfoot stake, and that has been this: During the years that have passed since I was appointed to preside over that stake, I have had the privilege of entertaining nearly all of the general authorities of the Church, at times, and I want to bear testimony to the character of the men who have presided, and those who now preside over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Savior said: "By their fruits ye shall know them," and I know from my experience with these brethren, coming in contact with them, I know in my heart that they are men of God, and that they have brought into my home the Spirit and blessing of the Almighty. I have regarded their visits to my home as a privilege to be highly esteemed, both by myself and by my . I have learned, or ought to have learned, rather, that the only safety for the Latter-day Saints lies in keeping the counsel of those who preside over this Church. Like many of my brethren, I have not always done that which I have been asked to do, but I have never known them to give counsel except that which was right and which would bring the blessings of God the eternal Father. That has been my experience, and I testify of this in regard to the counsels that have been given by these brethren. Every principle which they have advocated, every word of counsel which they have given in the Blackfoot stake, has been good, and calculated to edify and build up the Latterday Saints there, both temporally and spiritually. I have rejoiced in my labors in the stakes. There is nothing that I like in this world better than to labor as a missionary in this Church, in an effort to bring souls to a knowledge of the truth, and I hope that as long as I shall live upon the earth, I may be true to those who preside over this Church, to the principles of life and salvation, and to God the eternal Father. I bear testimony to the divinity of this work, that it is of God, that it is not of men. It has not been organized of men, only as they were directed and inspired by the Almighty, and it has been watched over by the Father from the beginning, and I have faith that it will continue to be the case to the end, that this is God's work, and that he will take care of it; that no matter what we may hear about the leaders of the Church from time to time, we may have an abiding assurance that the Lord is with them, that he is guiding them and the destiny of this work. May the Lord help us to be true to him and to his work, to do all that may be asked of us, by those who shall preside over us, that we may spend our time in usefulness and therefore in happiness while we labor here in mortality, for there is no happiness aside from doing that which is right and just in the sight of God. Wickedness never was happiness. Righteousness always was, and it always will be. May the Lord give us strength to be true to the end of our days, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM L. ADAMSON 

(President of the Blain Stake of Zion) 

I am indeed grateful to my heavenly Father, on this occasion, my brethren and sisters, that in my weakness I can bear my testimony unto you that I know God lives, that I know Jesus is the Christ, and that in this dispensation a prophet of God has been raised up to make known unto the world the wonderful truths that God would have revealed unto his people, Israel. I thought this morning, as we saw our beloved President stand before us, of the words of the ancient prophet, wherein he said : "Where there is no vision the people perish." And it seems to me that this scripture has been fulfilled in behalf of the Latter-day Saints to the utmost, because from the moment that the Father and Son appeared unto the boy Prophet, and that glorious vision burst upon his soul, the wonderful power of vision and heavenly manifestation has been constantly before this people. The wonderful power of vision that the Prophet had in directing and establishing this work and in leading his people from place to place under such trying ordeals, surely must demonstrate to the world beyond all question of doubt as well as to this people, that he was indeed a mighty prophet. The wonderful vision of that mighty prophet Brigham Young as he started on his journey westward over a thousand miles of trackless waste, — the faith that was instilled within his soul was not of the present, but of the future, and as he saw this people established in their strength and in their might in the midst of these Rocky mountains, what was the thing that urged him on? That vision of the future which he beheld, that he knew he was being led, with his people, by Almighty God. When he stood overlooking this valley and saw this waste of wilderness, and he said: "This is the place," surely it was the vision of the future which he beheld that inspired him on, to bring that little band of pilgrims into this wonderful intermountain country; and each of our leaders in turn, each with his own mission and his own particular work to perform, all have beheld and made known to the people the wonderful visions of the future, which they have seen. I wish to testify that I know that our leaders are men of God, that their time and their energy and their lives are dedicated to the work and to the welfare and well-being of the Latter-day Saints. May God give us strength to appreciate their worth to us as a people, and their ability to lead us and to direct us as God would have us led and directed. May we have faith to follow where they lead, that we may all be led safely back to our Father and our God, I pray in his name. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

{President of the Mexican Mission) 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege this afternoon of bearing my testimony to you relative to the truthfulness of the gospel as it has been restored in this day and age in which we live. When the Savior of the world questioned his disciples as to whom men .said that he was, we find, after various answers given by different ones, that Peter answered distinctly: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." He was informed by the Master that flesh and blood had not revealed this unto him, but that his Father in heaven had revealed to him this great truth. The Savior speaking to Peter said : "Upon this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." I am reminded that ninety-three years ago today, the Church of Jesus Christ was organized and established, and from that beginning has been built upon the rock of revelation. It is marvelous to contemplate the structure. It is marvelous when we  how it seems that the very gates of hell have been arrayed against this work from the day of its inception, that in no way or degree have they prevailed against it. My mind has reverted back over the history of the Church today, and it seems to me that in the marvelous structure that has been built upon the rock of revelation not one single stone has been misplaced, neither has one had to be taken down or set aside; and the structure stands today as a testimony that it is built upon the rock of revelation. More than ever before in my life there has been borne in upon my soul the truth of this fact that Joseph Smith was in very deed a Prophet of God. I bear yon my witness, brethren and sisters, that I know that God spoke to him. He appeared to him in person, and our Father in beaven introduced to him in this age in which we live, the Savior of the world, his Son, wbo died upon the cross, who had in himself, as the Father has, life; and he took up his life, even after he was crucified, becoming the first fruits of the resurrection. I testify to you that by revelation from that God to Joseph Smith the Church has been established, and that it stands, and I bear my testimony likewise that those who have succeeded in the presidency of the Church, from then until now, are prophets of the Lord, inspired by him. My heart and my soul thrill with this truth. 

I wish to bear to you my testimony also concerning that great volume of scripture which I am sometimes led to believe we do not appreciate, namely the Book of Mormon, which is a record, brethren and sisters, that was written by prophets inspired of the Lord, and it came forth in this day and age in which we live by the inspiration of the Lord. It contains the truth of the everlasting gospel. Not one single thing recorded in that geat volume has ever been controverted by any discovery of any nature whatsoever that has been made since it was brought out in the world. It has been my good fortune to travel somewhat in fields rich in archaeology, in this country, and I bear you my testimony that not one spade of earth has been overturned that has revealed a single thing except what is corroborative of the Book of Mormon and its being a divine record. 

It is my faith and prayer that this work will go on to triumph. I know that it will. I sense and realize, my brethren and sisters, because of the work, perhaps, that I have been engaged in for some years, that there is a very great responsibility resting upon the people of this Church to bear this testimony before the world. We sometimes imagine that we have warned the nations of the world, but still those of us intimately engaged in the missionary work know that there are thousands and millions of people who have not yet intelligently come in contact with these great truths, and the responsibility is upon us of carrying the gospel message to the nations of the earth, for the Savior of the world has decreed that this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness, and then shall the end come : and I say it shall not come until this shall have been an accomplished fact. 

Brethren and sisters, this responsibility rests upon us. In our homes let tis breathe the missionary spirit, that our sons and daughters may grow up with a realization of the great work that devolves upon them. Let there be some little thought toward the preparation necessary, for it is a fact that a great deal of preparation for usefulness is made after missionaries come into the missionary field, preparation that might well have been made in our homes, at our firesides, by the teachings of the fathers and the mothers to their children, seconded, of course, by the work of the great auxiliary organizations which are in the Church. I hope that in the future as we grow in faith, in testimony and in the knowledge of these things, we will grow in usefulness and in preparation, that we may be pillars of strength wherever the Lord calls us to labor, and that we will bear off triumphantly, so far as we are concerned, this greatest of all great works in the world. May the Lord bless us and help us to this end is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER S. NORMAN LEE 

(President of the Box Elder Stake of Zion) 

These conference proceedings, up to this time, have been rather exciting for some of us. That has been the case with me ever since I discovered that the President was calling on .speakers in the alphabetical order of the names of their stakes. 

Brother Duckworth said that those who occupied this position knew what the feeling was. I might add that only those who have occupied this position know what the feeling is, surrounded as we are by men whom we have learned to revere, men in whose presence I have always felt very humble, men whom I have learned to love, as I have come to know them better. And then to be faced with such a vast audience! I am thankful indeed that the faces within the radius of my sight are all friendly faces. That is very comforting. I have faced audiences much smaller than this, but more formidable, in a sense, in that many of them were unfriendly, and I think I may depend upon you, my brethren and sisters, to offer up a prayer in my behalf that I may get through this experience satisfactorily. 

It is difficult, when one sits down to consider the various principles of the gospel, to determine which of them should be stressed, because of the importance of so many of the principles of the gospel. There are circumstances, however, that bring into relief some of the principles of the gospel more than others, and just at this time I am concerned very much with the financial condition of our people. I am lending money as an agent, and it falls to my lot very often to urge people to pay up their interest. T have quit urging them to pay on the principal, because that does not happen nowadays, except in very isolated cases; but I do urge them to pay up their interest, and keep their loans in good standing, and some of the tales that are brought to me are really heart-breaking. One of the brethren, Brother Austin I , said that the condition of the people in Idaho had been represented to be worse than it actually is. That may have been done by people who came in contact with borrowers who were not able to pay up, and they have judged the entire community by the condition of those few. Now, jn our community, which, by the way, I think is in every way the equal of the Snake River valley in the products of the soil, or in other ways, we have a great many people who are not able to pay their debts. They did not hearken to the counsel of the servants of the Lord, and there is one thing that stands out very prominently I think, and I consider that item almost unconsciously whenever I have occasion to deal with such a case. I am referring to the matter of the payment of tithes. I think that tithing is the economic law of salvation, or is the law of economic salvation to our people. I don't believe that Latter-day Saints can expect to prosper constantly and continuously if they ignore that very important law. It is a combination of material things and spiritual thing; that the Latter-day Saints cannot do without. 

A few days ago I received an order from a loan company to prepare a supplemental abstract, dated from the time that a certain mortgage was filed in our county, down to the present time. I knew just what that order meant, because I have had a number of them. It meant that they were preparing foreclosure proceedings. I got in touch with the man before I executed this order and had a long talk with him, and he told me of his troubles, misfortune in business, sickness in his family, and a lot of troubles of that nature. Now, it happens that I audit the books of some of the wards of our stake every year, and in auditing the tithing books of the ward where this man lived I discovered that while he had paid tithing pretty well for a number of years, he had neglected that very important law about two or three years ago. In other words in 1919 he had appeared on the tithing books for the last time; and when I asked him how much he was in arrears with his interest to this loan company he said : "A little over two years." "Well, now," I said, "you don't seem to be making very good progress do you? What do you think the future holds for you?" "Well, I don't know," he'-'said, "I am at a loss to determine whether I shall let the loan company take this farm of mine or whether I shall attempt to pay anything more on it." I spoke to him then and said : "Why did you quit paying tithing two or three years ago ? You see, I know your record." "Well," he said, "I did not have the money to pay it with." I asked him if he had not had any money at all, if he had not ever received any money. "Oh yes," he said, "I have received money, but I have had to use part of it for the maintenance of my family, and there have been a dozen people hounding me all the time for all that I could spare out of it." "Well," I said, "why didn't you pay the Lord his one-tenth of that first?" "Well, because the other people were right there dunning me for it, and the Lord wasn't." "Well now," I said to him, "My brother, there is only one way for you to get out of this trouble, and I feel safe in promising you that if you will begin at this time and pay your tithing, absolutely honestly, as you go along, and every time that means or substance come into your hands, you will be rejuvenated, you will see your way out, and ultimately you will triumph." He said, "I think I will try it." 

My brethren and sisters, I feel entirely safe in making him that sort of promise I know that if he is honest with the Lord and pays his tithing absolutely honestly, and observes to keep the other laws of the gospel as far as he understands them, the Lord will come to his help, because "man's extremity is the Lord's opportunity." 

I was talking to a man in this fashion not so long ago and he said : "Well it does not look very good for a strong man to repent after he has got in debt so far he can't wiggle. It does not look very good for him to repent when he is compelled to do it." I said to him : "I think it is a whole lot better to repent under pressure than not to repent at all." Somebody in England asked me regarding the Manifesto : "Why was it that President Woodruff would not receive a revelation concerning the matter of polygamy and issue that manifesto until the laws of the land were bringing such pressure to bear that there was scarcely any way out of it?" I answered him in this way: "I don't know of any time when a revlation is more needed than just when you do not know what to do." And that is the way I feel about these things. Brethren, if you have neglected your duty up to this time, and you see the light now, and you are inclined to repent and to observe this law, I think that I can promise you that the Lord will come to your rescue and that you will be delivered from the hands of your enemies as yon now regard them — those who are trying to collect money from you. I feel a little freer in talking about this matter in the presence of my brethren here on the stand than I should do if I were out entirely on my own responsibility, because if I make some statement here that is not wise, or is in error, I can be corrected before my words have clone any harm. 

May the Lord bless his people that they may see the necessity of rendering more zealous devotion, that they may see that they cannot prosper without observing and keeping the laws of the land as made known to them. It is a blessing, a privilege, and it is a pleasure to receive commandments. One of the things the Lord promised the people was that if they would be obedient he would give them commandments not a few, and I think that we cannot receive them and disregard them and hope to prosper. May the Lord bless us all together, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A letter was read by President Grant from President Heber Q. Hale, of the Boise stake of Zion, announcing his regrets at his inability to be present at the meeting today 

ELDER DAVID R. LANGLOIS 

(President of the Burley Stake of Zion) 

It is a pleasure to be present at this conference. I have enjoyed immensely its spirit. I love to work in the Church. I don't remember a time in my life when I did not enjoy laboring in the work of the Lord. I don't remember a time in my life when I did not have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even as a boy, I felt as strong in my testimony, with the knowledge that I had, as I do with the added knowledge that I have since been able to gain, and I can testify to you today that I know that President Grant, and all the brethren associated with him, are righteous men, men whom God has called to preside over his Church here on the earth, and men whom he is pleased to recognize as the directors of his kingdom here on earth. When counsel, advice or instruction comes from them, it is for us to receive it and act upon it, for it is as if it came from the Lord himself. 

I was much impressed at our conference a year ago by the remarks of President Grant in advising our people to raise sugar beets. We were so much impressed on that occasion that we went home from that conference and did all in our power to get our people to follow the advice of the brethren, so that we were successful to quite an extent in increasing our acreage of sugar beets, not nearly to the extent that we -should have been, but those who heeded the counsel were blessed. I was very much impressed by the remarks of one man who is not a member of the Church, but when the instructions were given by President Grant he said: "I believe that your leaders are looking to the interest of your people, and I think that 1 will follow President Grant's advice." He planted twenty acres of sugar beets, though he had not intended to plant any. I would to God that all of our Saints could have that same faith in our leaders. Brethren and sisters, we will never go wrong when we follow their advice. 

I had occasion to go to the president of my stake, while living in Utah, for advice, on one occasion, and when he gave me the advice it was just the opposite from what I wanted, and I want to tell you it was a test of my faith to follow his advice. It was when I moved to Idaho, and he said : "Go. and the Lord bless you. We have bishops of wards and presidents of stakes all over that country. Now you go and be one of them." I never dreamed at that time that I would be one of them, but through the inspiration that came to him as an officer in this Church, he saw the future, and it was not long after that until I had an occasion to give advice myself. I was but a boy, young in experience in the Church. I was called to preside over a little branch of just a few souls in the locality in which I had settled, and a man came to me and said: "Brother Langlois, I have come to you for advice." And when he said that, it frightened me, to think that I would have to give him advice. I feared because he came to me in my official capacity. I offered a prayer to the Lord, while he was GENERAL CONFERENCE  his circumstances, and the vision of that man's future passed before my eyes. I saw just what he should do and what would be the result if he did as I told him, and I related to him what he should do and promised him what the result would be. I also saw what the result would be if he disregarded that counsel. I told him that if he did the opposite, he would lose all he had in the world. He went home and chose to do the very thing that I told him not to do. It was not three months until he had lost everything he had in a worldly way, and because of that loss his wife became dissatisfied and, taking her children, left him also, so that he had lost everything that he had but the clothes he stood in. It was one of the greatest lessons of my life. I realized more fully than I had ever realized before, that when we go to any of the officers of this Church for advice that it is as if God had given it. We should not go unless we expect to follow that advice. 

I remember when Elder Ilyrum G. Smith, our Presiding Patriarch, visited our stake. I think it was Elder Smith. lie told our people, though they had lost out, to remain where they were, not to move to any other place, that conditions were just as good there as any other place, but to get a new footing and stay where they were. One brother came to me a day or two after and said: "President Langlois, our visitor has upset all my plans. I expected to leave Burley in a very short time. I have lost my place, I have nothing here to stay for." He said: "What shall I do? Shall I follow his advice and stay here," I said : "There is only one answer that I could give, and that is to follow the advice that has been given, and the Lord will bless you if you do." He said : "I will take his advice." He went home, and about three or four months later he came back to me and told me how things had opened up. He had secured another place on very favorable terms, and he was much better off than he had been before the financial crisis came. The place he had secured was better than the one he had lost, and he did not owe half as much on it as he did on the other place when he purchased it. It was another testimony to me that if we will follow the advice and counsel of the authorities we will never go wrong. May the peace and blessing of the Lord be with us and help us always to follow the advice and counsel that are given to us from our brethren, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

My attention has been called to the fact that seventy years ago today the corner stone of the Salt Lake Temple was laid, and that the Nauvoo legion was called out under the direction of my father as Major-General. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Do what is right." Elder Edward H. Anderson, clerk of the Conference, pronounced the benediction. 


