16
Overflow 
06 10 1901
Elder Abraham O. Woodruff, 

of the quorum of the Twelve: My beloved brethren and sisters: During the few moments that I will occupy this responsible position, I pray that I may enjoy the light and inspiration of our Maker, that I may address you under the same spirit that has actuated the other speakers of our conference. 

I rejoice in contemplating the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, with its blessings and privileges. The works of God are eternal. That which was true a thousand years ago is just as true today. There is no necessity for the Elders of this Church to call a convention of the Presidents of Stakes and other leading men in the different departments of the Church, to revise their creed or to counsel together for days or for weeks to ascertain whether or not God is a material being, or whether He is without body, parts or passions. 

There is no need of this people being called together to change the Articles of their Faith, or their creed, for that which they have received is not of man, but from God. It must be very humiliating indeed to a religionist when he thinks upon the fact that his religious sect is forced to call its representatives together from time to time for the purpose of revising its creed, for the reason that the age has outgrown it; that scientific and other discoveries have brought to light cer truths that prove the creeds of fifty or a hundred years ago to be Incorrect. 

I thank God that this is not the case with Mormonism, and that there has never been, nor will there ever be, any change in the creed or principles of the system upon which the faith of this people is founded. And this is a grand difference between the work of man and the work of God. That which is of man must be modified and changed to meet the demands of various ages in which mankind live, but that which is of God will endure, as the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith has endured the scrutiny of critics, the discoveries and the light of science in our day and time. 

If this work had not come from God, it would be necessary for the Book of Mormon to be revised in order to keep pace with the times; because the remarkable discoveries which have been made would have proven the record entirely false, had it been originated by man. But it has stood the test of time, of science, of investigation and discovery and stands today a monument of revealed truth. It must be very humiliating, indeed, for people who have pinned their faith to a creed that requires constant modification and change to keep the foundation stones replaced with better ones they deem more safe, secure and substantial. With this people and their faith, there has never been one stone removed or replaced in the foundation of the Gospel of Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. This can not be said of any other religion upon the face of the earth. Some of the greatest among them have many times changed and revised their creeds to suit the times and the conditions of the people. Every time they now change their creeds they incorporate some truth revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. This is because the gospel has gone forth, the people are becoming enlightened, the honest see the beauties of the truth and are no longer satisfied with mere theories of men. 

We have great reason to rejoice in these things and in this record of the Nephite prophets, which has been handed down to us. Notwithstanding the remarkable discoveries that have been made through researches of scientific men upon this continent, nothing has been brought to light that conflicts with the testimony and belief in that record, and all other great truths of the everlasting Gospel revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in our day and time. Thank the Lord for these things. Thank Him for the unchangeable Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which, if it had been of man, would have been altered many times. 

Any Latter-day Saint who neglects his duty, finds fault with the authorities of this Church and speaks evil of them will, if he does not repent, apostatize, for we must be true to God. We cannot endure if we be half-hearted. We must receive the Gospel and make it the foundation of our lives here, or some day we will not have faith sufficient to carry us through this life. But when we attend conferences and partake of the light and inspiration there administered, we think it would be impossible for anyone to be so foolish a s to become beclouded and turn away f rom the truth of the Gospel. But we are liable to go away from this gathering return to our homes and forget that which we have been taught. Doubt may creep in on the part of those who do not keep the commandments of the Lord, and they will be left by the wayside, while those who adhere steadfastly to the Gospel truths will have faith sufficient to carry them out, and will gain life eternal. 

We are willing that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we have received it, should be put to the test which Jesus laid down. He said we should know the tree by the fruit that it bears. One of the prominent principles of our faith is our form of marriage to which I wish to direct your attention. He who receives a wife in this Church receives her, if faithful, for time and for all eternity; and through the blessing of God and through their faithfulness there will be no end to their posterity and to the kingdom over which they will be permitted some day to preside. 

On the contrary, the sectarian belief, according to the marital contract they  into, is simply binding upon them until death does them part. That principle which produces light, life and knowledge must be of God, while that which destroys life, which takes away or prevents life is of the opposite power. For everything good, is from the Lord, and that which is evil, comes from Satan. 

In the Eastern and New England States, in old New England families, from which many of us have sprung, on the old homesteads of our fathers and grandfathers many of the names of those who did not accept the Gospel have become almost extinct. This is because it is customary now not to have large families; therefore children in many places in the East are rare. But this is not the case with the Latter-day Saints. It is contrary to their principles and practice. For instance. President Edward H. Snow, of the St. George Stake, recently called upon his uncle at the close of his mission in the East, and he found him respected and loved by those who knew him in his neighborhood. He was, however, without posterity, while his brother, who had embraced the Gospel, when he passed away left about a score of children, grand children and great grandchildren upon the earth to bear his name. 

My own father, who embraced the Gospel, and his brother, who did not, furnish another example. Father's brother left but one or two lineal representatives when he passed away, while my father left something like twenty-three children, eighty-five grandchildren and fourteen to fifteen great grandchildren. I could call examples of this kind to your attention by the score to show what the Gospel has done for this people in teaching them to build for eternity and not for time alone. This people do not believe i» the evil of destruction of life, which is eating at the root and sapping the vitality of this nation today and which is believed in by so many of the world outside of those who have accepted the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This people believe in promoting and sustaining life. This is what the Gospel tree produces. And we leave it to the judgment of all honorable men and  upon the earth, to he their own judges as to whether this fruit is good or not. 

"We should thank God for the light of the Gospel restored through the Prophet Joseph. It is of God, the Eternal Father. He did not speak of Himself; he only spoke as he was inspired and commanded of God. Every prophecy he ever uttered will he fulfilled; for he was a prophet of the true and living God, ordained from before the foundation of the world, to come forth in this day and time and be the Instrument in ushering in the greatest and last dispensation. 

May the Lord help us to be true to this Gospel which we have espoused, that we may be led by its light, dictated by its principles and influenced by its power, that we may gain eternal life. I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
