2
Morning
04 10 1901
Elder Reed Smoot. 

The future of Zion— The spirits of good; <nd evil — Importance of implicit obedience— Results of conforming to the law of tithing— The principles and conditions of the world. 

I am truly thankful for the privilege of speaking here this morning to so many Latter-day Saints, convened in this semi-annual conference of the Church; and while I realize my weakness I also realize that I can claim the blessings of our Heavenly Father, through the divine Spirit that may be present at this conference. I ask that you invoke the blessings of our Father upon me for the few moments that I stand before you; also that the same blessing may be given to all the speakers during this conference. I ask, too, that you offer a silent prayer to our Father this morning in behalf of our beloved President, who is ill, that he may be blessed and restored, and that he may have the strength to come here and speak to the people. 

I have been thinking this morning what subject to speak upon that would be of benefit to the people who have gathered here to receive the word of the Lord. What subject could I touch upon that would make us better Latter-day Saints, better fathers and mothers, and better citizens of this great government? My mind reverted to a revelation that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as found in section 64 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, a portion of which I will read : "Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and the obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days; 

"And the rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion, and shall be sent away, and shall not inherit the land: 

"For, verily, I say that the rebellious are not of the blood of Ephraim, wherefore they shall be plucked out. 

"Behold, I, the Lord, have made my Church in these last days like unto a judge sitting on a hill, or in a high place, to judge the nations; 

"For it shall come to pass that the inhabitants of Zion shall judge all things pertaining to Zion; 

"And liars and hypocrites shall be proved by them, and they who are not Apostles and Prophets shall be known. 

"And even the bishop, who is a judge, and his counselors, if they are not faithful in their stewardships, shall be condemned, and others shall be planted in their stead; 

"For, behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish, and the glory' of the Lord shall be upon her, 

"And she shall be an ensign unto the people, and there sha'l come unto her out of every nation under heaven. 

"And the day shall come when the nations of the earth shall tremble because of her terrible ones. The Lord hath spoken it. Amen.
