21
Afternoon 
06 10 1901
President Brigham Young. 

Future labors of the Twelve in the nations— The w jrkers at hornu— Prim ed revelations should be studied. 

I am glad that I have the privilege of speaking here, brethren and sisters, before the close of this conference. I thank God for the words that have been spoken, for the testimony of the Spirit that we have witnessed in the speakers, and for the good feeling that has pervaded all the congregations. Those who have been present are witnesses that the Lord has been with the speakers and with the hearers. I am pleased, indeed, that President Snow is able to visit us, and thankful to the Lord to hear his voice. I pray God that his voice may be heard in the congregations of the Saints for many years to come, that he may be preserved to give us counsel and to guide us by the inspiration which rests upon him so powerfully in his declining years; for God has blessed him, and President Lorenzo Snow has been a blessing to this people. I acknowledge that he has been to me. God has sustained him, and long may he be sustained, that we may hear his counsels and behold his face, that he may flourish in the home of the Saints, and that lie may be spared to give counsel to us who are younger, and who feel inadequate to walk alone, like children in swaddling clothes. If it were not for God, how could we sustain this vast work that is resting upon the shoulders, in many instances, of comparatively inexperienced men? But God is with the brethren, as He is with President Snow,  He has been with all our leaders. Thank God, it is His work, not ours; but it is our privilege to labor in it. 

The remarks of President Snow shadowed forth a feeling which is found in the breasts of the Twelve Apostles — a desire to go forth to the nations of the earth, to open the Gospel door to those who sit in darkness. The eyes of the Twelve have been roaming over the habitable globe, and they have looked upon Turkey, Austria, Russia, and especially South America. Our minds have been led to the Spanishspeaking people of the Southern republics, and especiallv to the remnants of the land that are so numerous in South America. We have felt and do now feel that it is our duty to act under the guidance of the Spirit of God, and to go forth, as that Spirit may dictate and in accordance with the President's views, to the nations of the earth to proclaim the Gospel. As Brother Heber J. Grant has gone, so others will go when the Spirit indicates the place and the time, which we hope will be in the near future. The President's remarks, followed by Brother John Henry Smith's, in relation to the Presidents of Stakes, High Councils, and Bishops of Wards, were to the point. Here is a field of labor for the High Priests, for the home missionaries, for the presiding officers in the Stakes, and for all whose labor is at home. The Twelve are relegated to the various parts of the earth, to establish the Gospel among the people. For there was one significant remark dropped by the President

Amen.
