3
Morning
04 10 1901
Elder Rudger Clawson. 

A marvelous work of the Lord — Its wonderful growth — Greatness of the responsibility resting upon the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, it is very impressive to look down upon this vast congregation of people, and I realize that if my voice shall be heard by you it will be necessary for me to speak straight ahead, without turning to the right or to the left, because of the immensity of this Tabernacle. We have present with us this morning authorities of the Church and Saints from all parts of Zion — from Canada, from Mexico, from the adjoining states and territories, and from some of the missions. We have come together to wait upon the Lord, to receive a blessing at His hands, and to see what He has in store  us. I believe that the Lord will meet with us during the conference. I believe that His Spirit will be upon the Presidency of the Church, and upon the Elders who may be called upon to speak from this stand. I believe that we shall be fed upon the bread of life and I greatly rejoice in this belief. 

I have wondered sometimes, while traveling in the midst of this people, whether we really understand what the Lord is doing, whether we comprehend His great purposes, and can recognize His hand. I am sure of one thing — that there are many who are numbered with the Church, particularly among the young, who are passing through life without a serious thought. I have seen it in families, in wards and in stakes, that their minds seemed to rest more particularly upon the pleasures of life and the things of the world. And yet the Lord said in the very beginning of this dispensation that He was about to commence a marvelous work and a wonder; that it should be comething out of the ordinary; that it should be of such a character as to attract attention in the world, so much so that men would be led to exclaim "Truly it is a marvelous work." I am reminded now of a revelation that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith upon the very day that the Church was organized — the 6th day of April, 1830— at Fayette, New York, and I will read the words of the Lord to Joseph Smith upon that occasion: 

"Behold there shall be a record kept among you, and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ, 

Being inspired of - the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to build it up unto the most holy faith, 

Which church was organized and established in the year of your Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month, which is called April. 

Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt ffive heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; 

For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith; 

For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory. 

For thus saith the Lord God, him have I inspired to move the cause of Zion in mighty power for good, and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard. 

Yea his weeping for Zion I have seen and I will cause that he shall mourn for her no longer, for his days of rejoicing are come unto the remission of his sins, and *he manifestations of my blessings upon his works. 

For, behold, I will bless all those who labor in my. vinevard with a mighty blessing, and th<j/ shall believe on h's words, which are given him through me by the Comforter, which manifesteth that Jesus was crucified by sinful men for the sins of the world, yea, for the remission of sins unto the contrite heart. 

Wherefore it behoveth me that he should be ordained by you. Oliver Cowdery, mine apostle; 

This being an ordinance unto you, that you are an elder under his hand, he being the first unto you, that you might be an elder unto this church of Christ, bearing my name, j 

And the first preacher of this churcn unto the church, and before the world. | yea, before the Gentiles; yea, and thus saith the Lord God, lo, lo! to the Jews also. Amen.
