Morning
04 10 1901


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Evils to be corrected— Desecration of the Sabbath — dee of profane and other improper language —Tobacco and strong drink habit— Disregard of the Priesthood— In relation to colonization. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, we greet you this morning, at the opening of this Seventy-second Semi-Annual 

Conference, with a hearty welcome. We are glad to see so many present, and we sincerely hope that we all may have a season of rejoicing and of awakening and strengthening of our faith and good determinations. 

I regret to have to say that President Snow is suffering with a severe cold, and on account of the inclement weather this morning he deems it prudent not to venture out; but when the weather is more pleasant— possibly this afternoon—we will all rejoice to see him present with us. There is nothing serious the matter with him so far as we know; but we all desire that he shall be careful of himself, to preserve hits life as long as it is possible and pleasing in the sight of the Lord for him to remain with us. 

There are many subjects of importance which may be dwelt upon during our conference, and we hope that the Spirit of the Lord will lead the Apostles and others who may speak .to us., that f hey may speak words that shall be meat in due season, and that wt may all receive such instruction, en couragement, counsel and admonition as will be proper and necessary. 

We notice that there are some evils which seem to be increasing somewhat in the land, and we desire to make an effort, as far as it lies in our power with the assistance of the Lord, against the existence and the increase of evils among the Latter-day Saints. One of these evils is a growing tendency, especially on the part of our youth, to pay but little attention to, if not to ignore, the observance of the Sabbath day. The Sabbath is a day of rest and of worship, designated and set apart by special commandment of the Lord to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and we should honor and keep it holy. We should also teach our children this principle. 

Another evil we hear of too frequently is the tendency, not only among the youth of Zion, but also among those of more mature years, to use the name of the Lord in vain and to indulge in profane expressions and epithets that are contrary to the law of God, and that are wholly inconsistent and incompatible with the profession of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Behold, the Lord's name is holy, and God will not hold him guiltless who taketh His name in vain. We should stamp out profanity and vulgarity, and everything of that character that exists among us; for all such things are incompatible with the Gospel and inconsistent in the people of God. 

The use of tobacco in its various forms and of strong drink to some extent is also to be lamented and deplored, especially among the youth, and this evil should be stamped out. 

The people of God should set their faces like flint against these practices, and they should see to it that their children are taught better, and that a better example is set before them by the parents, in order that the children may grow up without sin in these things. 

There is also a tendency among the youth, and, I am sorry to say, among some of the older ones, to show but little regard for the sacredness of the Holy Priesthood. What I mean by the Holy Priesthood is that authority which God has delegated to man, by which he may speak the will of God as though the angels were here to speak it themselves; by which men are empowered to bind on earth and it shall be bound in heaven, and to loose on earth and it shall be loosed in heaven; by which the words of men, spoken in the exercise of that power, become the word of the Lord, the law of God unto the people, scripture, and divine commands. It is therefore not good that the Latter-day Saints and the children of the Latter-day Saints should treat lightly this sacred prin of authority which has been revealed from the heavens in the dispensation in which we live. It is the authority by which the Lord Almighty governs His people, and by which, in time to come, He will govern the nations of the world. It is sacred, and it must be held sacred by the people. It should be honored and respected by them, in whomsoever it is held, and upon whomsoever responsibility is placed in the Church. The young men and young women and the people generally should honor this principle and recognize it as something that is sacred, and that cannot be trifled with nor spoken lightly of with impunity. Disregard of this authority leads to darkness and to apostasy, and severance from all the rights and privileges of the house of God; for it is by virtue of this authority that the ordinances of the Gospel are performed throughout the world and in every sacred place^ and without it they cannot be performed. Those also who hold this authority should honor it in themselves. They should live so as to be worthy of the authority vested in them, and worthy of the gifts that have been bestowed upon them. 

Again, we do not desire to encourage the scattering of our people to distant places, separating and drawing themselves apart from the Saints and from the organizations of the Church. w e notice a tendency on the part of some, who are restless and discontented, to sell out their homes to anybody who will purchase them and to move off into California or into some distant country, where they will perhaps buy a ranch or locate upon public lands, and thus cut themselves off from all the benefits of the organizations of the Church — from the Sabbath meetings, the Sunday schools, the quorum meetings, the Improvement associations, the Primary associations, etc. When people become dissatisfied with their homes and desire to move, we would suggest' that they counsel and advise with some of the authorities of the Church. Let the leading brethren help the young people who are seeking new homes, and direct their course so that they may be located as much as pos in wards or branches where they can enjoy the benefits and blessings of the Gospel, and that their children may not grow up aliens thereto and be estranged from the cause of Zion. We are in a position where we can see beyond, in some respects, and are able to advise and counsel our brethren for their best good. We do not want the feeling to prevail among our people that every man is independent and free to move and go when and where he pleases, without consultation, because that would be calculated to disintegrate, to pull asunder, to destroy membership, and to scatter abroad. The Gospel that we have received teaches gathering. This is a gathering dispensation, and we are not here to scatter abroad, only so far as God may direct through His servants. When the Lord moves upon us to found a colony or to establish a settlement in some distant place, then it will be right for such of the people as can do so to gather there, under the counsel and direction of the Priesthood, and form settlements or colonies, strictly in accordance with the plan revealed in this dispensation for the establishment of Zion and for the spread of this work in the land. We do not design to make any general call upon the people to move here or there, or to break up their communities; but rather that they should concentrate together and strengthen one another's hands, that we may become strong in the land. As we pull asunder and scatter abroad we weaken ourselves, we destroy our influence, and we become like the rest of the world. This will not do. It is contrary to the principle of gathering that the Lord has revealed through His servant Joseph, the Prophet. Yet I see clearly manifest the nana of God in the formation of our colonies to the south and to the north, in the east and in the west. Wherever this colonization has been directed and counseled by the authority of the Hol> Priesthood, it has been strictly in accordance with the mind and will of the Loru and in fulfillment of the predictions of the Prophets. If we emigrate to some distant part of the country we should do so with proper discipline, un direction, with concert of action, and with a perfect understanding among ourselves — not every man become a law unto himself. 

Brethren and sisters, I do not desire to prolong my remarks, but these are a few matters that may be dwelt upon by the brethren of the Priesthood during the conference, if they are led by the Spirit of the Lord to do so. These, together with the continuance of faithfulness in observing the Word of Wisdom, in obeying the law of tithing, the law of chastity, promoting purity of life, and every other good thing that pertains to our progress, development and permanency in the land, are subjects that are worthy to be dwelt upon by those who hold the authority of the Piiesthood and are called upon to speak to the people who come to attend this conference. God bless the speakers, and all the people; and let peace abide in your souls, and the Spirit of God accompany you in all the labors of your lives, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The future of Zion— The spirits of good; <nd evil — Importance of implicit obedience— Results of conforming to the law of tithing— The principles and conditions of the world. 

I am truly thankful for the privilege of speaking here this morning to so many Latter-day Saints, convened in this semi-annual conference of the Church; and while I realize my weakness I also realize that I can claim the blessings of our Heavenly Father, through the divine Spirit that may be present at this conference. I ask that you invoke the blessings of our Father upon me for the few moments that I stand before you; also that the same blessing may be given to all the speakers during this conference. I ask, too, that you offer a silent prayer to our Father this morning in behalf of our beloved President, who is ill, that he may be blessed and restored, and that he may have the strength to come here and speak to the people. 

I have been thinking this morning what subject to speak upon that would be of benefit to the people who have gathered here to receive the word of the Lord. What subject could I touch upon that would make us better Latter-day Saints, better fathers and mothers, and better citizens of this great government? My mind reverted to a revelation that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as found in section 64 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, a portion of which I will read : "Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and the obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days; 

"And the rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion, and shall be sent away, and shall not inherit the land: 

"For, verily, I say that the rebellious are not of the blood of Ephraim, wherefore they shall be plucked out. 

"Behold, I, the Lord, have made my Church in these last days like unto a judge sitting on a hill, or in a high place, to judge the nations; 

"For it shall come to pass that the inhabitants of Zion shall judge all things pertaining to Zion; 

"And liars and hypocrites shall be proved by them, and they who are not Apostles and Prophets shall be known. 

"And even the bishop, who is a judge, and his counselors, if they are not faithful in their stewardships, shall be condemned, and others shall be planted in their stead; 

"For, behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish, and the glory' of the Lord shall be upon her, 

"And she shall be an ensign unto the people, and there sha'l come unto her out of every nation under heaven. 

"And the day shall come when the nations of the earth shall tremble because of her terrible ones. The Lord hath spoken it. Amen." 

We learn from the "Pearl of Great Price" that when the subject was discussed in the Heavens of forming this earth, there was even then light and darkness, good and evil, obedience and disobedience, a willing heart and a selfish nature. These conditions and principles are in the hearts of the people of the world today. The mission that was given to Jesus Christ, to come upon "the earth, was given on account of His obedience to the will and plan laid down by our Father. On the other hand, Satan desired to become a law jnto himself, and whatever sacrifice he made, he wished it to be credited unto himself, and not unto the Father. Lucifer desired to introduce a plan contrary to the will of the Father, and  wanted His honor and said, "I r, rill sa ,T e every suul of man, wherefore give me thine honor." He wanted to go contrary to the will of his Father, and sought to deprive man of his free agency, and thus make him a mere machine. The offer of Jesus to act as media! or ami redeemer, according to the plan decided upon in the council of tha Gods, was accepted, and the plans and services of Lucifer were rejected, in his anger Lucifer rebelled against God and Jesus, using the very agency cf which he had just attempted to rob &H of God's children. When this earth vvas formed and our first parents had children thai: sarro spirit of obedience and disobedience, of good and evil, of a willing heart and a selfish nature.was manifested n their sons Abel and Cain. In reading the history of God's people in all dispensations I can see that that great law of obedience to the requirements of the Father has been one of the foundation stones of the Church. It always will be so. One of the greatest examples of obedience for us to study is that of father Abraham. The Lord had promised him that through him and his seed all the earth should bblessed, and yet He desired to know if Abraham was willing to give Him his lieart, and be true to him even unto death and fulfill all His com-c-iandments, even if it looked to be an utter impossibilit} for him to carry out the command and at the same time receive the promise of the Lord. The Lord told him that he was to offer up his only son Isaac as a sacrifice. Did he hesitate, or stop to enquire of the Lord how He could fulfill the promise made him if Isaac, were sacrificed? Not so. Abraham, in his obedience to the Father, prepared the sticks, placed them upon the back of the boy, started for the hill Moriah to carry out the .command of God; and while upon the way the boy said unto his Father, "Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?" Abraham replied, "My son, God will provide Himself a lamb for a burnt offering." They built the altar, and Isaac was placed upon it; and as Abraham drew forth his hand to execute the command of God,  angel of the Lord stayed him. Then his answer to his son was verified, for God provided a ram for the offering. In this Abraham proved to God that his heart was right before Him, and he was willing to do whatever was required of him. 

All blessings that are promised by the Master are predicated upon obedience to the laws. It is right that it should be so; it is nothing but what an honest soul should expect. If we live to the principle of charity, we can expect the benefits that are derived from so living. If we live to the law of consecration, we can claim of the Lord the blessings attached to this great principle. If we live to the law of tithing, we have a right to claim the blessings that were promised through Malachi to those who would observe it. I do not feel that it is necessary to speak long upon the subject of tithing, and perhaps some who do not practice the same may hope that we will not mention it; but the man or the woman who practices this principle never gets tired of hearing testimonies of the Elders in regard to this law. In passing I want to leave my testimony that God has given us the law of tithing, and He blesses the person that lives strictly in accordance with it. The blessings of the Lord are upon those who pay their tithing, no matter what the amount may be. I testify to you that people who live to this law have more comfort and peace in their homes, are more contented in their souls, have more faith that the Lord will answer their prayers, have more pleasure in fulfilling the requirements of the Church, and more confidence in the promises of God, than those who do mot live this law. It is but natural that this should be so. I thank the Lord that my parents believed in the law of tithing. I thank the Lord that the first means which God ever placed into my hands, I had a mother who watched over me so carefully that she taught and guided me to pay my tithing on the same. I received this principle from my parents not only by precept, but by example as well, for they lived the law, because they had implicit faith in the God they worshiped. 

We hear the Apostles, the Patriarchs, the High Priests, the Seventies and Elders pray time and time again for the Lord to hasten the day for the redemption of Zion, when we can build a temple to the Most High God in that land, from whence the law of the Lord shall go forth, and where we shall be privileged to live according to the revealed will of God in very deed. I want to promise the people her t that that day never will come until we have at least learned to keep the lesser law, of tithing; and I believe that before Jackson county shall be given to us as a Zion, those at least who shall be called to establish the same will have to learn obedience to that great principle which was revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith; also the principle of consecration. Are we doing anything, my brethren and sisters, to fit us to fulfill these prayers which are offered to God? Are we qualifying ourselves, that when the time comes for it we will be prepared to go and obey that command? The law of consecration was revealed to this Church, but in its practice the people were found wanting, and God in His mercy had compassion on us when He saw we could not live it, and revealed the law of tithing to take its place temporarily. I hope to live to see the day when the law of consecration will be the law of this Church, and when men who hold the Priesthood will think more of the principle, and enter into it when called by the mounthpiece of God, than they do of all their earthly possessions. We have got to improve. President Joseph F. Smith this morning called our attention to the fact that some of the people are using tobacco, profaning the name of the Lord, and showing disrespect to the Priesthood of God, as well as other evils that are creeping in i-'mong us. Cannot you see, my brethren and sisters, that so long as these evils exist to any great extent among the members of our Church it will be 'mpossible to keep the higher law of the Lord? My prayer always is, "O Father, fit and prepare me and Thy people to live not only the law of tithes and offerings, but the law of consecration, also when it shall come. May the selfishness that is in my nature be removed, so that when this great law shall come I will be prepared to say, Thy will, O God, not mine, be done." The Lord has not left us without an example of this great law. In the early history of this world Enoch and his people became perfect by living the law of consecration and sanctification. They were wiling to give their hearts to God, and through obedience to Him fulfilled that law. "We are told that the people were .so perfect that the city of Knoch was taken from this earth. I know as well as I know that I live, that this great principle which God has revealed is the only one whereby the poor of this earth can be redeemed as a Avhole from their present condition. If you will take the Doctrine and Covenants and read carefully the revelations that were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, you will notice that one of the great principles taught in them is the redemption of the poor and the bringing of mankind on an equality, temporally and spiritually. There are millions of people today groaning under oppression and tyranny, many of them unjustly, through the lack of a proper distribution of the blessings of God. He ha^ not oeen unmindful of his children. We see on all sides an abundance, plenty for all, but the world has lost sight of the teachings of the Master. 

This condition has excited the best thought of philosophers. Many philanthropic men have tried, through very liberal donations, to establish plans for the temporal betterment of the class of people in whom they were interested; but it was simply like throwing a stone in the brook — you see the ripple for a few moments, and then all is gone. No man-made laws will ever accomplish the object sought. God has revealed this great law of consecration and sanctification to us, that there may be no poor among us; for under it every man and woman will have a stewardship and be provided for. I never expect to see the day when we shall all have just the same— the same number of horses and carriages, or the same kind of a house: but I do expect to see the time  when this great law will equalize those who believe and practice it, until there shall be as near a perfect people upon this earth as it is possible to make us with our selfish natures. If ever this law becomes universal I look for a reign of peace upon the earth. If this law had been lived up to by this people in the beginning, I think the redemption of Zion would have been accomplished by this time, or at least a great deal nearer than it is today. When this law is an accomplished fact in the world, the means spent by nations today in wars will not have to be employed that way, and then the time will be at hand when the swords shall be turned into plowshares and spears into pruning-hooks. 

I truf=t t*r* the Spirit of the Lord will be with the people, so that they will know that by obedience to the commandments of the Lord the blessings He has promised will come to them, and that they will have faith, even as our father Abraham had faith, and also the Apostles and Prophets of old. We have the examples of our fathers and mothers, the example of the Prophet Joseph, and those who have presided over this Church from his time to the present, and we should try to follow in their footsteps. I know that there are many people in this Church who today are willing to sacrifice even their lives for trie Gospel's sake. There are many who have such implicit faith and confidence in God that if they were required to sacrifice all they had upon earth, and life itsell, they would willingly do it. They have the faith that Father Abraham had. I hope that the people as a whole will listen to the pleadings that have been made by the Prophet of the Lord, and at least live to the law of tithing, that by doing so we may learn to place ourselves in a position to accept the higher law when it is given again. I believe that the "Mormon" people, as a whcle, look after their poor better than any other people upon the earth; and yet we are far from living to the requirements that are made of us as a people. But I 'also want to say that there are many Latter-day Saints, ana they are numbered by the thousands,  are living- strictly to the law and paying an honest tithing unto the Lord. 

1 thought of the song that is recorded in the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and I felt that when we as a people are willing, and not only willing but anxious, to live the law of consecration, this new song will be a good thing for every soul to sing. It says: 

"The Lord hath brought again Zion. The Lord hath redeemed His people, Israel. 

According to the election of grace, Which was brought to pass by the faith 

And covenant of their fathers. 

The Lord hath redeemed His people, And Satan is bound, and time is no longer 

The Lord hath gathered all things in 

one; 

The Lord hath brought down Zion from above, 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

The earth hath travailed and brought 

forth her strength; And truth is established in her bowels; And the heavens have smiled upon her; And she is clothed with the glory of 

her God; 

For He stands in the midst of His people. 

Glory, and honor, and power, and might, 

Be ascribed to our God? for He is full 

of mercy, Justice, grace and truth, and peace, For ever and ever. Amen." t 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

A marvelous work of the Lord — Its wonderful growth — Greatness of the responsibility resting upon the Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, it is very impressive to look down upon this vast congregation of people, and I realize that if my voice shall be heard by you it will be necessary for me to speak straight ahead, without turning to the right or to the left, because of the immensity of this Tabernacle. We have present with us this morning authorities of the Church and Saints from all parts of Zion — from Canada, from Mexico, from the adjoining states and territories, and from some of the missions. We have come together to wait upon the Lord, to receive a blessing at His hands, and to see what He has in store  us. I believe that the Lord will meet with us during the conference. I believe that His Spirit will be upon the Presidency of the Church, and upon the Elders who may be called upon to speak from this stand. I believe that we shall be fed upon the bread of life and I greatly rejoice in this belief. 

I have wondered sometimes, while traveling in the midst of this people, whether we really understand what the Lord is doing, whether we comprehend His great purposes, and can recognize His hand. I am sure of one thing — that there are many who are numbered with the Church, particularly among the young, who are passing through life without a serious thought. I have seen it in families, in wards and in stakes, that their minds seemed to rest more particularly upon the pleasures of life and the things of the world. And yet the Lord said in the very beginning of this dispensation that He was about to commence a marvelous work and a wonder; that it should be comething out of the ordinary; that it should be of such a character as to attract attention in the world, so much so that men would be led to exclaim "Truly it is a marvelous work." I am reminded now of a revelation that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith upon the very day that the Church was organized — the 6th day of April, 1830— at Fayette, New York, and I will read the words of the Lord to Joseph Smith upon that occasion: 

"Behold there shall be a record kept among you, and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ, 

Being inspired of - the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to build it up unto the most holy faith, 

Which church was organized and established in the year of your Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month, which is called April. 

Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt ffive heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; 

For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith; 

For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory. 

For thus saith the Lord God, him have I inspired to move the cause of Zion in mighty power for good, and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard. 

Yea his weeping for Zion I have seen and I will cause that he shall mourn for her no longer, for his days of rejoicing are come unto the remission of his sins, and *he manifestations of my blessings upon his works. 

For, behold, I will bless all those who labor in my. vinevard with a mighty blessing, and th<j/ shall believe on h's words, which are given him through me by the Comforter, which manifesteth that Jesus was crucified by sinful men for the sins of the world, yea, for the remission of sins unto the contrite heart. 

Wherefore it behoveth me that he should be ordained by you. Oliver Cowdery, mine apostle; 

This being an ordinance unto you, that you are an elder under his hand, he being the first unto you, that you might be an elder unto this church of Christ, bearing my name, j 

And the first preacher of this churcn unto the church, and before the world. | yea, before the Gentiles; yea, and thus saith the Lord God, lo, lo! to the Jews also. Amen." 

These words, brethren and sisters and g friends, were the words of Jehovah, ' delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith upon the day that the Church was organized. The Church was very weak in numbers then, but strong in spirit. In this revelation the Lord intimates that He was about to move the cause of Zion in mighty power, and talked to the Prophet as if it were an accomplished fact. He desired, it seems, that His people, though few in number, should be impressed with the fact that a Prophet, Seer, and Revelator stood at the head; for He instructed that a record to this effect should be kept. He also desired to impress the people with the great truth that this Church should be built up, not by the power of man, but by the power of the Holy Ghost; that no man, though he might be a Prophet or an Apostle, should take the honor unto himself of building up the Church of Christ, but that the honor and the glory must be given to God. Did not the Lord say to the Prophet 

Daniel that in the latter days the God of heaven would set up His kingdom, and it should be as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands, which should roll until it filled the whole earth. The God of heaven was to do this, but He would use men as His instruments. 

After the Church was organized it spread in all the regions, round about and finally the Gospel was taken over into Great Britain. Satan was angered, and persecution raged. He moved the very powers of earth and air (for the scriptures declare that he is the prince and power of the air) in his determination to overthrow this work. But the Church grew and multiplied in numbers, and was greatly strengthened by the accessions that came from Great Britain. It increased in power and influence, and cities of the Saints were established in the land. The city of Kirtland was built, the city of Nauvoo was founded. The Saints spread over the land. They Went into Missouri and located the city of Zion,  of which we heard this morning, where the great temple of the Lord is to be built in this generation. However, persecution stiil raged. The Saints were driven from one place to another until we behold a very remarkable thing — that which has not occurred in the history of the world, =o far as I am aware, since the days when Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt. In these latter times, we behold a whole people migrating to the West, leaving their homes and their substance, and everything that God had prospered them with, and launching forth into the wilderness. The mighty plains were dotted with wagons and with people moving to the West. After a time they disappeared from view, as if the earth had opened up and swallowed them, and their fate excited but little interest in the country where they had lately resided. It was hoped by many of their enemies that "Mcrmcnism" had ceased to be a factor in the world, and that the Church pf Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had disapptared forever. 

If it be proper to draw a comparison, let us suppose that one of the enemies of this people at that time had been  to look upon this great westward movement. "We will take, for instance, Governor Boggs, of Missouri, w ho was one of the chief persecutors of the Church, who was bitter against the truth, who was determined to overthrow this people, and who used the authority of his high office to persecute and vex the Latter-day Saints. Let us suppose that he had been standing there when the exiles disappeared from view in 1847; then as by a miracle a deep sleep had come upon him, and he had continued, like Rip Van Winkle, in that condition for fifty- four years. Let him be awakened suddenly, and what would meet his gaze? His astonished eyes would behold a great and mighty people established in the Rocky Mountains, and doubtless he would be led to ask, "What great commonwealth is this?" After having been asleep fifty-four years, he might well ask such a question. Who are these that have established themselves so firmly in the chambers of the mountains? If he should look a little closer, he would find that this great people had sprung from that band of pilgrims who were driven out from the nation, partly by his influence. From the small beginning of six members at its organization in 1830, he would find that the Church had increased until there were fifty Stakes — one in Canada, one in Oregon, three in Wyoming, eight in Idaho, one in Colorado, four in Arizona, one in Mexico, and thirty-one in Utah. Then if he turned his eyes from the mountains and looked abroad, he would discover fourteen great missions of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — one in the Eastern States, one in the Northern States, one in the Southern States, one in the Northwestern States, one in the Southwestern States, one in Colorado, one in California, one in Australia, one in New Zealand, one in the Hawaiian Islands, one in the Samoan Islands, one in the Society Islands, and one great mission in Europe, comprehending several missions and a mission just now opened up in Japan. Then, if he had any desire to know the numerical strength of the people whom he had sought to destroy, (and in saying this I do not  or misrepresent, for it is so recorded in the annals of the nation) he would find that the membership of the Church amounted to 260,000 souls in the Stakes of Zion, and 50,000 souls in the Missions, making in all 310,000 souls. These figures that I am giving you come well within the facts. They were taken from last year's statistical reports. Of course, by this time there would necessarily be some changes, but nevertheless they are conservative and probably do not reach the actual number at the present time. Included in the total of three hundred and ten thousand there are eighty-five thousand children under eight years of age— a mighty host that will soon become members of the Church of Christ. Then, if he desired to know the strength of that great body of men alluded to by President Smith this morning— the Priesthoodhe would find that there are two of the First Presidency, 12 Apostles, 200 Patriarchs, 6,800 High Priests, 9,730 Seventies, 20,000 Elders, making a total of those who bear the higher Priesthood, 36,744; 4,800 Priests, 4,900 Teachers, 16,000 Deacons, making 25,700 as constituting the lesser Priesthood, and a grand total of 62,444 bearing the Priesthood of God. He would find also, connected with the auxiliary associations of the Church, 30,150 members of the Relief Society; 10,000 officers and teachers and 115,000 members of the Sunday schools; 28,000 members of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association; 25,0000 members of the Young Ladies' Mutual Mutual Improvement Association; 4,066 officers and 31,988 members of the Primary association; and about 20,000 belonging to the Religion Classes— making a grand total of 264,204 belonging to these auxiliary associations. Then if he cared to go any farther, he would find that there were about 20,000 farms owned by the Latter-day Saints, and that 18,000 of these farms are actually free from all incumbrance. Still further, he would find that ninety per cent of the Latter-day Saints own and occupy their own homes, while # the average throughout the United States is something like 5 per cent. Then he would find, if he cared to know, that in the year 1897, when the Presbyterians, Methodists and Congregationalists numbered four millions in the United States, and their total increase for one year was fifty thousand souls, the Latter-day Saints numbered in the same years a little over a quarter of a million, and their increase for the year was twenty thousand souls. Twenty thousand increase with a total of a quarter of a million as against fifty thousand increase for four millious! 

After obtaining all this information, would not he be compelled to acknowledge that surely this is a marvelous work and a wonder? The Lord said to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, on one ocasion that "there is no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper; and if any man lift his voice against you, he shall be confounded in mine own due time." I fancy that this man, if he had received a change of heart, would be led to exclaim, Surely the prediction of God has been fulfilled at least in reference to myself. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let me call your attention to the fact that whereas the Lord placed a Prophet, Seer, and Revelator at the head of His Church when it was organized in 1830, with six souls. He still has a Prophet, Seer and Revelator standing at the head of His people at the present time, who is endowed with the keys of power and authority to bind on earth and it is bound in heaven, to loose on earth and it is loosed in heaven. That wonderful power and authority is in the Church today, and those impressive words that were delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith, which I will read again, are binding upon the Church today: 

"Wherefore, (meaning the Church), thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; 

"For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." 

Oh! how great the responsibility that comes to us with these words. How great is the responsibility resting down upon the presidents of these fifty Stakes  Zion, for they have been called with a solemn calling and a great appointment to preside over all the general interests of the Saints. What manner of men ought they to be? Quick to manifest the spirit of obedience that was so beautifully alluded to by Apostle Smoot. They should be humble, prayerful men, quick to hear the word of counsel, and to impart that word to their people. And Oh, how great is the responsibility upon the Bishops in the wards of Zion! There are 562 wards in the Church, and each ward is presided over by a Bishop and two counselors. Five hundred and sixty-two Bishops, with counselors, who have been called to look after the precious souls in their wards, to watch over them, to give counsel, to direct their labors, and to be interested in everything that interests the people; that no evil shall grow up in these wards, but the Bishop shall be first to see it and shall be swift against the wrongdoer, albeit in the spirit of the Gospel, that evil may be rooted out from among the Saints; that not one of these 562 Bishops shall be asleep at his post for a moment, but that all shall be watchful day and night, that they may know what is transpiring in their wards. Then, think of the great army of laborers in the Priesthood throughout the Church— 62,000; and 264,000 belonging to these auxiliary associations, to be on hand to assist in laboring for the salvation of souls! 

I will conclude, brethren and sisters, by saying that we heard this morning the voice of the Presidency of the Church — that voice which the Lord says we must listen to as though it proceeded from Jehovah Himself. We have received counsel. Certain evils> exist among us. As presidents of Stakes, as Bishops of wards, as counselors, as High Councilors, as men of the Priesthood, we must give our attention to these evils. That is the word of the Lord to us. We know our duty; we know that the evils referred to must be reached and must be corrected and driven from among the Latter-day Saints, else God will be angry with us. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Our God, we raise to Thee, Thanks for Thy blessings free, We here enjoy. 

Benediction by Elder William H. Smart. 


