Afternoon
05 10 1901



ELDER J. G. KIMBALL. 

One course of safety for the young — A great missionary fip)d at home — Prophetic declarations — Subordinalion of auxiliary organizations. 

Inasmuch, my brethren and sisters, as I have been called upon to occupy a short time, I do so trusting that the Lord will bless me richly with His 

Spirit; for I have only one object in view in standing before you, and that is to perform the duty that now devolves upon me. 

I realize that there is a very great work for us to perform, not only among the nations of the earth preaching the Gospel to every kindred, tongue and people, but also among the young people of this Church. Only the other day, as I was walking down the street, I came to an old gentleman, who was tottering toward the grave, and, after I had shaken hands with him, he said, "Brother Kimball, I wish you would send a missionary to my home; I have three sons and several daughters that need to be labored with." A day or two after that, an aged gentleman came and introduced himself to me, and said he was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ. He paid his tithing, he said, and tried to do his duty. He had four sons and several daughters, and I believe he said there was not one of them that had very much faith in the Church, and he wanted me to explain to him why it was. I rather evaded answering him, as I was not acquainted with him, with his environments, or with his home circle. In associating with the young people I discover that this is not general; but there are many of our young people, for some reason, bewildered and dazzled with the things of the world that are being introduced so rapidly among us. I can see only one course of safety for the young people of this Church, and that is, to teach them until they have an abiding faith in God the Father, in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. After this brother talked to me, I thought of your sons that are sent out to the nations of the earth. Some of them mere beardless boys, and yet when the call came for them to go to the nations of the earth, mother may have had some doubts, but they were soon removed, and the boys came to the city, were set apart and received a blessing; the stenographer took the blessing and sent it to their home address; they received perhaps twenty minutes' instruction and were then sent forth to the world. I have seen  few of such boys go to Australia lately; and if my memory serves me, there have been over five hundred of your sons ordained Seventies since the last October conference. We do not fear nor tremble for these boys. We tell them to be careful about some things; we advise them to see everything that is good in the world, and try to understand it; but to avoid wine and women as they would the gates of hell. It is very seldom that any of them fall by the wayside. Only once in a great while do we hear of an Elder going astray. I a m more familiar with the Southern States Mission than any other, and though hundreds and hundreds of the Elders have labored in the south, very few have fallen, that I know of. 

Why cannot we get our young people to have that same spirit at home? Even though the things of the world are introduced among us, why is it that we cannot stand on the same ground that our Elders do in the nations of the earth? If we have faith and the Spirit of the Lord, the things of the world do not dazzle or tempt us. Of course, some things have transpired which have brought trouble and difficulty upon us. Whenever we transgress the laws of God we have to suffer the penalty. I remember very accurately what my father told this people in the old Bowery. Said he, "You men and you women that lift up your voices against that holy principle that has been introduced among this people, the time will come when your daughters will run these streets as common harlots, and you can't help yourselves." I think some have been guilty of lifting up their voices, and if there is any one thing that some people are glad and happy it is done away with, it is that principle. I remember hearing another statement my father made: "When you stand on the street corners of this great city and you cannot tell a Mormon from a Gentile, then look out for trouble." Well, it has come. The trouble has not come to us in the way of tornadoes, or cyclones; but it has come to us and to our sons and daughters in the way of temptations. Thert is a very grtat missionary work to be done right here, and I am in favor, while we sre not abroad, of doing a missionary work at home. The General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement association have introduced a local missionary work. All the officers in the Ave hundred and odd associations in the Church are to be local missionaries and it every officer will start out with the spirit of his office and calling thfre will be over three thousand officers o* tht association acting as missionaries among the young people of this Chuich. A wonderful work can be perfciiued in this way. 

I believe in prophecy, but I do not believe in piophets that prophesy after a thing haiJ happened. The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy, and I have that testimony. I believe in the spirit of prophecy, and I do know, as I know this is the Church of Jesus Christ, that we have apostles and prophets, and have had ever since the Church was organized. There are prophets, sitting behind me. I call to mind one Apostle who prophesied in Canada, when the people were somewhat dissatisfied about building up a new settlement. He said that in less than two years there would be a railroad right through that settlement, and the prediction was fulfilled before the two years expired. I think of the Southern people, and I want to prophesy that the time will come in the great South when thousands of those people would be as glad to see a Mormon Elder walk up their streets as an angel from heaven. The Lord has been kind to the Southern people. I realize why He has blessed them. It is because they have fed five hundred of our Elders every year for a number of years, and He has kept from the South the tornadoes, the cyclones, and the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, to any great extent. They have had some little of it, but the end is not yet! I tell you that the people of the South, and also of the nations of the earth, will yet learn, though we are a despised people, that after the testimony of the Elders come the judgments of God. I realize that I sometimes look on the dark side of the picture, but I tell the Latter-day Saints, in the name of the Lord, if re does not set in among this people, and there is a great awakening among the Priesthood of God, the judgments of God will commence at the house of Israel. We are not trifling with the things of man; we are not trifling with the systems organized by man. This is the Churcn of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, that you may go to your homes and breathe the spirit of this conference into the hearts of the children of men with whom you associate, that there may be an awakening among the Priesthood of God. I desire to say to this great congregation that the Lord never intended His organized Priesthood to fall in behind the auxiliary organizations of the Church. There should be a greater effort on the part of those who look after the Priesthood quorums to see that they stand foremost and ahead of all the auxiliary organizations of the Church. I comprehend the great work that is being done by the Sunday school, by the Improvement association, and by other associations, and I regret that it has to be said that some of our Priesthood quorums are not doing their duty. I do not wish to occupy more of your time, but I desire to say to you that a spirit has found its way into the hearts of this people that they are afraid men may prophesy, and they commence to crawl off their seats as soon as a man opens his mouth and begins to say anything that is not along the same old lines. I pray the Lord to move upon us to prophesy, and if we will prophesy, the Lord will fulfill it. One day I met a little fellow on the train who was working for the "Era" in one of the Stakes,, and he asked me if I thought he would get the full quota of the "Eras." I said, "Of course, you will." He went to this settlement and said, "Brother Kimball prophesied that we would get the full number of "Eras;" now we want you to fulfil it" — and they did. If you had a little of that spirit, that when a man prophesied you would 'ry to fulfil it, after a while you would not be so afraid of prophecy. I am a little afraid of you myself. May the Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H." ROBERTS. 

A Book of Mormon prophecy— Its striking fulfilment — Periods of rest from persecution advantageous — Future opposition predicted — People should be fed with the bread of life. 

Brethren and sisters, I have opened the Book of Mormon, with the intention of reading- to you a prophecy contained in that book, which the statement of the numerical strength of the Church brought to my recollection. The Prophet Nephi, having been blessed with a vision as to what should transpire in the earth when this record of the Nephites should come forth, said: 

"And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken [having reference to this Nephite record] shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed." 

It occurred to me, since one of the features of this conference has been a contemplation of our growth as shown b»y our numerical strength, that it might be well to call the attention of the Saints, and especially of our young people, to the fact that these figures that now may be quoted as showing the largeness of this people who believed the Book of Mormon — constitute a fact which proves the inspiration of the prophecy that is contained upon the pages of this Book of Mormon. Even if the theory of the world concerning the origin of the Book of Mormon be allowed for a moment — viz, that it had its origin either with Joseph Smith or with Sidney Rigdon here, at least, is a prediction made and recorded and in existence when the Prophet Joseph Smith stood practically alone, hunted and persecuted, compelled to leave his father's house and go almost among strangers, where he might in a little peace prosecute the work of translating the Book of Mormon — alone and unfriended, he dared record this prediction that many would yet believe the words of this book. The fact that in the missions of the Church, and in the Stakes of Zion we can say there are now 310,000 persons living who believe  record, is a fulfillment of that prophecy that must be exceedingly perplexing to those who refuse to accept the Book of Mormon as a divine record, and have to account for the fulfillment of this prediction on other grounds. 

But this number of 310,000 does not begin to tell the story. You must add to this number now living all the faithful who have died. I know not how many that may be, but certainly tens of thousands have died in absolute faith of the divinity of the Book of Mormon and the work of God that has grown out of it. You must add, too, the number of those who have accepted it and have turned away from the Church; and to them you must add those who believe the Book of Mormon, but who, in consequence of a fear that they would lose their good name and standing among men did they receive the message it bears, have not had the courage to voice the belief that is in them of the divinity of the Book of Mormon. And now, if to the present membership of the Church, ,r ou add the number of those that are dead; and those that have walked with us for a season and then turned back to the beggarly elements of the world; and those who believe the work, but are afraid of men and would not make the sacrifice necessary to become members of the Church; if you add all these together truly this prophecy that "many" would believe this record, the Book of Mormon, is abundantly fulfilled before you this day. But it is scarcely proper to say that all those who have at different times turned away from the Church have become absolutely apostate in their spirits. You must make some allowance for the weakness of men. All men are not able to endure to the end, and yet belief in the divinity of this work has not altogether left them. I remember certain facts which came under my own observation that led me to feel somewhat charitable towards those who were not always strong enough to endure the particular trials that came to them. Some years ago we emigrated a great many people from the Southern States. We brought them out of those warm climates and lowlands, and put them into an exceeding high valley, where everything was contrary to their customs, and where they were unable to adapt themselves to the conditions into which they were plunged. Their faith was not quite equal to the task of enduring the change of climate and of industrial methods, and the result of it was that many of them returned to the South; but all who thus fell by the wayside, because they were not able to endure those conditions, still kept something of the spark of faith in their hearts, and by a little care, and nourishing, and patience, in some instances we were able to lead them back again into the fold of Christ. And as it was in their case so, I take it, it has been in other cases. When the Saints were expelled from Jackson county, Missouri, some of them did not go with the body of the Saints, but scattered out among the people. They were not equal to that trial. "When the exodus from the state of Missouri was enforced upon the Church, all were not equal to the sacrifices then required, and they lingered behind. When the exodus from Nauvoo took place, there were some hundreds, perhaps thousands, that were not able to face the wilderness march and take their chances with the people of God. They were weak in the faith — you have to say that of them; and doubtless they will not be numbered among those who will be accounted valiant for the testimony of Jesus. But the spirit of wicked apostasy did not enter into the hearts of all those who thus, in these various trials, lacked the strength to keep up with the vanguard of the Church in all its movements. Prom time to time weakness has taken hold of those who have put their hand to the plow, and some have looked back; but I think it hardly accurate to count all those who have thus fallen by the wayside as apostates to the Church of God; because you will find some of the light of the Spirit of God still burning in their hearts, some love for the work, and we should have a word of kindness and encouragement for those who may be in these circumstances. 

There is another idea that came to my mind while listening to the brethren that I thought I would express if called upon in this conference to make any  at all, and that is this: The Lord gives unto His people periods of rest from outside pressure. I believe that these periods of rest from persecution, while they are full of danger,, may also be made very profitable unto the people. It gives us an opportunity to drive the roots of our faith still deeper into the soil of the soul, so that when the storms shall again assail us we shall be more firmly rooted and less liable to be shaken than before our faith took its deeper rooting. And the outside storms will come. We have not passed through all the winds that will beat upon our house, nor through all the floods that will assail us. Pretexts will be found by our enemies for assaulting the Church of Christ. The Church, though having grown to the proportions named in this conference, is still the Church militant, and not yet the Church triumphant. Nor can we expect it to be altogether triumphant until our King shall come and the Kingdom of our God shall be established in the earth, and He reigns whose right it is to reign. Not until the law shall go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, can we hope to have that rest which is promised unto the people of God. So, however peaceful things are with us now, I take you to witness this day that there will be renewal of storms, and the adversary of this work will not lack pretexts for assailing the people of God. But just now we are at rest, and have an abounding prosperity. Let us, therefore, take advantage of this period of rest, and see to it that we strengthen the faith of the youth growing up in our midst; so that when the storms that they must meet shall come, they will be rooted and grounded in the faith and be able to follow in the footsteps of their faithful fathers and mothers in Israel. That is what I desire to see done. I thought perhaps a word might be said to some advantage to the home ministry — to the Eiders in Israel who are called upon to address the Saints and teach them from sabbath to Sabbath. And I will say a word to the Seventies, at least,, who, in many of the Stakes of Zion, are called upon by the Presidency of the .-lake to do very much of the home  labor. To the Seventies then, who are thus called to labor il. the Church, and to whom I think in connection with my fellow Presidents, I have a special right to direct a word of counsel and advice — to them I say Call to mind the admonition that the Lord Jesus Christ gave unto His seivant Peter. "When about to leave the Twelve, and having rolled the responsibility upon their shoulders, of extending a knowledge of the Gospel to the .lations of the earth, He said to Peter: 

"Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord: thou knovrest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed ray lambs. 

"He saith unto him again . the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto Him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love Thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 

"He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grievc-d because He said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love Thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep." 

So say I unto the Seventies engaged as home missionaries. If you love the work, if you love the Lord Jesus Christ, then feed those to whom you are called to minister. Feed them the bread of life. I rather rejoice in the thought of being somewhat in close touch with the young people of the Church, and I want to tell you one of the complaints that they make against us — one of the things they find fault with when they are urged to attend Sabbath meetings — they plead the dryness, the huskiness, the unfruitfulness, the lack of spiritual or intellectual food that they receive when they go to the house of the Lord. And if It is necessary to admonish the people to attend upon the service of the Lord, it is also necessary to admonish the ministry of the Church that when the people do come together they should be fed with the bread of life. It is a good thing to take a little time from worldly affairs and consider the things of God, and have food in His house when His people shall assemble together. 

Now, having said so much to the Seventies, and not taking it upon myself to address that council to anybody , let me give a word of advice also to the people of God; for there are two sides to this subject. No matter how dull or dry the speaking from the pulpit may be, there are still purposes to be subserved in the assembling of the people together that should call the faithful Latter-day Saints to worship. It is true we attend divine service to receive admonition; it is true that we go to receive instruction, and to be built up by the word that shall be preached; but we go also for other and even higher purposes than these. It should be remembered in our hearts that we go to the house of the Lord for the purpose, primarily, of honoring and worshiping the Lord, whether men can preach intellectual sermons or deliver soul-stirring admonitions or not. We go to worship the Lord, to honor Him, and to obtain spiritual life by partaking of the emblems of the body and blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then if admonition and instruction come, so much the better. But even if there should be an entire absence of appropriate instruction, (which, of course, there it not,) it should nevertheless be regarded as our part to assemble together and honor the Lord. Remember this, too, that all preachers have something good; and if it should chance to be that some now and then lack sense, then God takes a text and preaches patience to you. And now if there can be a drawing together here; if on the one hand the ministry can be more fruitful, can furnish the people a richer supply of spiritual food; and on the other hand if the Saints will remember that the primary purpose of going to the house of the Lord is pure and holy worship— there will be as a result more satisfaction in our public religious meetings. The Lord bless you. Amera The choir sang: 

Hail to the Brightness of Zion's glad morning; 

Joy to the lands that in darkness have lain. 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

How Church membership is obtained — The Gospel to the dead — Ohu ch organization — Restoration of the Gospel — About profanity-- -Redemption the result of keeping God's commandments. 

I am deeply grateful to have theprivilege of attending this conference and enjoyed the spirit of it. I think we are to be congratulated that we have the privilege of being members of the Church of Christ. Our standing depends a great deal upon ourselves. It i» impossible for us to go to the house ot the Lord, legitimately, unless we have a certificate from the Bishop that we are members of his ward in full fellowship, to present to those who officiate in that sacred house. That constitutes our passport to the Temple of God. We are supposed to be among those who love righteousness and hate iniquity, and that our conduct, in tht ward where we live, will justify the Bishop in giving unto us a recommend to show that we are worthy of the blessings of the house of the Lord. 

The principles that we have subscribed to are eternal. We cannot do without them. The world cannot do without them; and whenever they turn their attention to the necessity of redemption, they will have to yield to the same conditions that we have, because they are the only way by which redemption can be obtained. The Gospel of Christ is composed of eternal principles, and all have to subscribe to the same conditions in order to become members of His Church, to be born again, and to be adopted into His royal family. These principles are without beginning of days or end 01 years. They were taught in the beginning, they were taught by the Lord Jesus Christ in the meridian of time, and they are taught today; for when the Lord restored to the earth the Apostleship. and the powers and keys of endless lives, it made it possible for all mankind who would subscribe to tht doctrine of the Father as taught b> the Son to obtain redemption from sin and a membership in the Church of Christ. Then their standing in tht Church would depend upon their faith fulness in keeping the commandments of God and seeking to establish His Zion on earth. In the days of Noah this Gospel was preached to the inhabitants of the earth, but they rejected it. Consequently they were overtaken by a flood, and made their bed in a place where there was no necessity for them to have gone if they had obeyed the message of God t . Then, to show that it is impossible to obtain redemption without subscribing to the conditions required, we are told that the Savior went into the spirit world and preached to that people the same principles that had been taught by Noah. "For this cause was the Gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit," so the scriptures inform' us. 

It has pleased our Father in heaven to reveal a great deal in these last days, for the consideration and education of His Church. 

"Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. 

And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues." — I Cor. 12: 27, 28. 

"Wherefore he saith, when he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. 

And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers." — Eph. 4: 8, 11. 

What for? 

"For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: 

Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulnpss of Christ."— Eph. 4: 12. 13. 

This organization has been restored, and the principles of the Gospel come to us all individually, because we are all the children of God, and He hath given unto us His doctrine as taught by His Son. We are taught the straight and narrow way that leads to eternal life. This marvelous work and a wonder, that has been alluded to, is individual effort. We all have our distinct missions. I would like, in this connection, to refer to the writings of Moses as revealed to Joseph the Seer in December, 1830, and published in the Pearl of Great Price in relation to the eternal conditions of the Gospel: 

"And He [our Father in heaven] called upon our father Adam by His own voice, saying, I am God: I made the world, and men before they were in the flesh. And he also said unto him, If thou wilt turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, and believe, and repent of all thy transgressions, and be baptized, even in water, in the name of mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth, which is Jesus Christ, the only name which shall be given under heaven, whereby salvation shall come unto the children of men, ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, asking all things in his name, and whatsoever ye shall ask, it shall be given you. 

"And our father Adam spake unto the Lord, and said, Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water? And the Lord said unto Adam, Behold I have forgiven thee thy transgression in the Garden of Eden. Hence came the saying abroad among the people, That the Son of God hath atoned for original guilt, wherein the sins of the parents cannot be answered upon the heads of the children, for they are whole from the foundation of the world. 

"And the Lord spake upon Adam, saying, Inasmuch as thy children are conceived in sin, even so when they begin to grow up, sin conceivelh in their hearts, and they taste the bitter, that they may know to prize the good. And it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore they are agents unto themselves, and I have given unto you another law and commandment. "Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name; and the name of his Only Begotten is, the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge who shall come in the meridian of time." 

When the Lord Jesus Christ was upon the earth He taught these same principles. He told Nicodemus, who came to him by night: 

"Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot 

see the kingdom of God." — John iii, 3. 

Again: 

"Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." — John iii, 5. 

These eternal principles have been restored to the earth, together with the Priesthood, the authority to proclaim these principles upon the earth and to call men to repentance. Two men — Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery —  this wonderful work. They were ordained to the Holy Priesthood by the authority of God, to preach His Gospel. And the Gospel is being preached. This immense assembly, gathered in solemn conference, is a result of the restoration of the everlasting Gospel. We have been favored so much that our eyes have been opened to see the grandeur and the necessity of these eternal principles. 

Now. there have been some complaints made concerning profanity; not, however, against the Church of Christ, because it is impossible for the Church to profane. A man that profanes under the bondage of sin, his standing in the Church is only nominal, and he has need to repent. It is not possible for him to be in full fellowship ana good standing in the Church, for he does not keep the commandments; and as members of the Church in good standing we are required to keep the commandments and to seek to establish the Zion of God upon the earth. Who can say that there is no need foi me to obey these principles? Whoever told you so must have been somebody that was under the influence of him who said, "In the day that thou eatest, thou shalt not surely die." Thertare two influences in the world, and we receive our impressions from them. The people generally are under the influence and dominion of the adversary, the prince and power of the air; for if they had the spirit of truth they would know most assuredly that these principlea are the only means of salvation, because they were taught by the Father and by the Son. The Son declared that His doctrine was not His, but the Father's, who had sent Him. We declare that' our doctrine is not ours, but His who has sent us. The glad tidinsrs of great joy are for all mankind; for we are all the children of God, whether rich or poor. The Gospel is preached to the poor and the illiterate, and they have the promise that if they will repent and obey it, they shall know that it is true. 

I thought this afternoon, while looking upon this immense assembly, that it would require a great deal of moral courage to stand here and advocate any doctrine. But our trust is in the Lord, to bring to our remembrance such things as should be said on this occasion. I have been very much impressed lately with the necessity of being a member of the Church of Christ In good standing. That is an individual work. No matter what position we may hold in the Church, we live in a ward, and we are under the dominion of the Bishop of that ward, and subject to the Teachers of that ward. It is the duty of the Teachers to find out what our standing is — whether we are in harmony with the eternal principles that lead to everlasting life; whether we are honest and chaste, and whether we practise holiness before the Lord — so that we may be properly represented. It is impossible for those who commit wickedness to be members of the Church in full fellowship. They must cease to do evil and learn to do well. There is a doctrine taught in the world that there is no need for us to do anything; we are justified by faith, and saved by grace. If I were to ask the question, Who told you so? I would very likely be referred to Paul's epistle to the Romans, wherein he declared that men were justified by faith and saved by grace. Then I would ask, To whom did he say that? I see that it was Paul's epistle "To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be Saints." Now, please tell me how they came to be Saints. Why, by subscribing to these very conditions of faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. Consequently, they had manifested their faith by their works, and they were saved by the grace of God and justified by faith, because they loved Him and kept His commandments. It is very easy to understand the principles of eternal life if we want to know them, because the Lord has said, "Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you; seek, and ye shall find." Who are these men on my right? They are Presidents Of Stakes and their counselors. On my left, they are Bishops and their counselors. Have they received this testimony and witness? Yes. How did they attain to the positions which they hold? They were members of the Church in good standing, in full fellowship, and the Lord called them  these presiding positions in His Church, to fill the requirement of preaching the Gospel and edifying the body of Christ. And they have the spirit and power of their mission. They watch over the heritage of God in their districts. It is all in the work of the ministry. It is the organization of the members that compose the Church of Christ into wards and stakes, presided over by Presidents of Stakes and Bishops. 

I know that these principles are true. I know that the Lord has restored to the earth the powers and keys of endless lives, the new and everlasting covenant, and that He has given all mankind, who desire it, the opportunity of a membership in the Church of Christ, to take upon them the name of Chri?t, to love Him and to keep His commandments, and thus manifest Him in their lives. We cannot, however, manifest Him if we are profane. He was a gentleman — the only true gentleman that ever lived. His enemies will admit that. And we are exhorted to have that mind in us which was in Christ Jesus. "Learn of me, for I am meek and lowly," was His declaration. Before this Church was organized the Lord gave instructions concerning those who should assist in this work, and what should qualify them for the work. Said He, "And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God," qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence." We have understood the necessity of all these things from the beginning. We have been patient in affliction. When we have been smitten and driven, we have not retaliated; but we have prayed for our enemies, and have taken the Gospel to them, simply because we have learned to love God and our neighbor, according to His commandment. 

Let me say to my brethren and sisters, consider this proposition in your own mind, what constitutes a member of the Church of Christ in good standing? Then let us each ask ourselves, Have I that character? We can do that better than anyone else. Our neighbor has to work out his own sal, as we have. "Save yourselves from this untoward generation." So far as I understand salvation, it is to be in harmony with the eternal principles of the everlasting Gospel, to endeavor to be kind to ourselves, and to make our calling and election sure, regardless of what others do. We are making individual records. We should teach our children Hhe value of the record of a well spent life. In the restoration of the Priesthood, it has become possible for all mankind to obtain eternal life. If they reject it, they are very unkind to themselves, because  is the pearl of great price. There is nothing that is more to be desired than the fellowship of the Holy Ghost. I pray God our Eternal Father that we may go from this conference determined that, by His help, we will live so as to be members of His Church in full fellowship, in good standing, to the glory of the Father 1 , through Jesus Christ. Amen. The choir and congregation sang: 

Praise God from whom all blessings flow. 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith.