Morning 
06 10 1901




ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

Comfort for the sick and afflicted — The Gospel to the nations — Temptation should be avoided — Bright future prospect? for the Saints. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I feel very much honored this morning in having the privilege of standing before you I pray that the spirit which has actuated the brethren in speaking to you during this conference may rest upon me, and that you, through your faith and prayers may continue to draw out from the speakers those very words and sentiments which shall bless and comfort you and increase your faith in the service of the Lord. From the beginning of this conference I have been impressed with the spirit that has characterized the labors of the brethren throughout the Stakes of Zion in preparing for this great gathering; for their labors have tended to prepare the minds of the people for greater light, greater intelligence, and greater manifestations of the power of the Lord in blessing His children. 

I remember a little incident that occurred last Sunday in a fast meeting that I attended. Some very sick children and people were prayed for in that meeting, and the Lord manifested His power in blessing many of them, and as a rule they began to amend from that very hour. We know, brethren and sisters, that the issue -of life and death and the welfare of the human family are in the hands of our Great Creator; and that it should be so we realize as fully as any people that live upon the earth. The wisdom of the Almighty we begin to comprehend to such a degree that we feel to leave all things in His hands after we have done our whole duty, after we have prayed and fasted and worked for the restoration of the sick. We feel that the Father is over all, and that by His power are the sick raised from their beds of affliction; and without His good pleasure we cannot realize the blessings that we in our finite wisdom think we ought to possess. It is proper that our Heavenly Father should hold within His grasp the welfare of His children in life and death; and He commands us, in cases of sickness, to call upon the Elders of His Church, that they may anoint with oil, and by the prayer of faith draw down His blessings. We receive the blessings always, whether in life or death; for He knows what is best for His children, and so we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in humility before Him and acknowledge His hand in all things. 

I make these remarks this morning because my heart is filled with joy and satisfaction, where I see the power of the Lord manifested in raising up the sick. And when the power of the destroyer, by permission of the Lord., takes away a sick one, then my heart goes out in sympathy for tne afflicted family, and I mourn with them in their deep sorrow. Nevertheless I know that the Lord has His hand over His pe*ople in mercy, and He will heal the broken-hearted and comfort those who mourn. Those who are raised up by His power, if they honor the blessing' they receive, will live to do a mighty work, while those who die will pass into the presence of the Father, there to meet with Him and with those they have loved in life, and they will not lose any blessing that they would have gained had they lived longer upon the earth. 

I rejoice in the principles of the Gospel, because they are saving in their nature. I am rejoiced at the condition of the Stakes and wards of Zion and the organizations of the Holy Priesthood. I am rejoiced above measure at the glad response given to the words of our Prophet Lorenzo Snow in relation to the law of tithing; still, there is yet room for improvement. I rejoice at the numerous missions that have been opened, where the Elders are permitted to go forth and proclaim the word of the Lord and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I rejoice that a new mission ia being opened in Japan, and I feel assured that there will be no failure in it. Whatever trials these brethren may have to meet will only tend to make them live nearer to the Lord and to feel after Him for their own sustenance. They will prosper in that mission, and the door will be opened wide for the Elders to proclaim the Gospel among those teeming millions of brown men. So will it be in other lands. President George Q. Cannon, in the conference prior to his death, said that the doors of the Gospel must be opened to other lands; and in saying that he 6 -jhoed the very sentiments of President Snow and President Smith. 

This mission to Japan is the beginning of this great opening to nations where yet the Gospel has not been preached by the Elders. I rejoice also in the condition of the Stakes of Zion. I observe in the hearts of the people a desire to improve, a desire to advance, a desire to live nearer to the Lord, to keep His holy commandments, and to be worthy of the blessings that He has in store for the faithful. 

There are some things, however, that I regret. I am sorry that this favored city of ours is so full of temptations for the youth of Zion. I regret the introduction of fads and fashions into the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I regret the number of whisky saloons that are in the streets of Salt Lake City. But I do not know of any means of preventing these temptations from coming to our boys and girls — and we are all boys and girls when it comes to temptation. Probably these things must be, or the Lord would not permit them. We must be a tried people; we must overcome temptation, and prove to the Lord whether through evil and through good report we will be faithful to His cause. We must be taught to shun the very appearance of evil, and we must teach our children to do the same. Our words and our actions must tend to the welfare of our fellow men, to the redemption of Zion, to the spread of the Gospel and the upbuilding of His kingdom in the earth, that a rule and reign of righteousness and purity may come to the earth — not through the absence of temptation, but through the power of His children to overcome and trample under foot all temptation. 

I testify to you of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was divinely inspired. He was filled with the power of his mission to such an ex-  tent that he came as near being a perfect man as ever stood upon the earth, excepting our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In the fulfilment of his mission upon the earth, he exemplified the teachings and actions of his Master. So have the brethren who have followed in his footsteps as propnets, seers and revelators to Israel. President Young, President Kimball, and others of the Apostles saw with prophetic eye the temptations and allurements that  be spread 'neath the feet of the Latter-day Saints in the future, and they lifted up their voices and warned the people of those trials that were to come — not those trials wnich would make them more shining in the faith, their armor brighter and their lances keener in defense of the truth, but the trials of temptation and sin that would creep right into the very homes of the Saints, especially in the cities, and bring- ruin and sadness to the family circle. The Apostles and Prophets have warned us always to shun temptation; to expect that allurements would come into our midst, but to so shape our lives that we could overcome them. For this purpose we have our Improvement associations, our Sunday schools, our Primaries, and all the other auxiliary associations belonging to the Church. They were instituted for the education of the youth of Zion. But I consider that the training of the parents is the stepping-tone to the training of the boys and girls. I am in full accord with that master mind who, when asked how soon the training of children should begin, replied, "Two hundred years before they are born." The training of the parents under the influence of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is going to produce a wonderful result in the character of coming generations. I see the physical benefits that will come through the observance of the Word of Wisdom. I see the mental and spiritual blessings that will come through the observance of the laws of chastity and purity of life. The study of the revelations of the Lord will educate the parents, and the result upon the children will be very great. If we can keep in the line of right and truth, and so train our children after us, the harvest will be wonderful. The kingdom of God must come upon the earth. Peace must reign supreme. But before the kingdom of God can come, before peace can prevail, the people must be trained to love peace and union, to love the Lord, to love each other. They must love their neighbors as themselves, and their God above all. They must keep His laws, in order that this spirit of peace and brotherly love may be disseminated abroad from the rivers to  ends of the earth, and the way be prepared for Jesus to come and reign as Kings of kings and Lord of lords. The Gospel must be preached to every creature, for a witness, before the end of unrighteousness can come. 

I rejoice over the prospects which are before you as a people. I rejoice in the spirit of truth that has brought you together today. I pray with all my heart that the Spirit of the Lord may fill President Snow, that his body may be renovated, that he may be freed from cold, and be able to mingle with us before the conference closes. I pray that the spirit of peace, joy and health may enter his heart and his whole body, from this very moment, and I hope that my brethren will pray with me to this end. I trust that the spirit of this conference may increase in power and goodness for the benefit of the Saints everywhere — that it may go out into every land and clime, especially where there is a Latter-day Saint Elder humbly toiling for the spread of the truth, and rest upon him, as well as upon all the families of the Saints that have been able to gather here, that all may rejoice together because of this glorious conference. And the honor and the glory be to God our Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

Churoh built on rock of revelation— Souroe of divine testimony — True prophets known by their works — They bear the Impress of divinity. 

I feel very keenly my dependence upon the Lord in standing before you this morning, and humbly I crave an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may have the Spirit of the Lord todirect me in what I shall say; for I feel a heavy responsibility resting upon me when I behold the many thousands who are assembled here to receive the word of God. Never in my life has it been my privilege to stand before so vast a congregation to instruct them in the principles of life and salvation, and I rejoice in having this great privilege. I sincerely hope that the Lord will direct me in all that shall be said, that I may not be the cause of misleading any who are here. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the instructions that we have received during this conference. The statistical information and the items of history in connection with the colonization of this people have been intensely interesting to me, and the beautiful lessons that have been drawn from them have increased my testimony, and I doubt not that my brethren and sisters have been strengthened in their faith and have felt to rejoice to know that they are identified with this 'wonderful work that our heavenly Father has set His hand to do in the age in which we live. I am proud to be identified with the people of God, and to have a standing in His holy Church. I feel to rejoice for the testimony that the Lord has blessed me with; for I do know that this is in very deed His work. 

The Church of Christ has been builded upon the rock of revelation; and those who have received a ^stimony that this is the work of the Lord — and we often hear it proclaimed from this stand — and that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired of God in ushering in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, have received it through the inspiration of the Almighty. "We ought to be grateful that ->ur Heavenly Father has blessed us with a knowledge of the truth, and that we are not compelled to rely upon others, but that we know it for ourselves, because we have received it through revelation from our Father. We can read in the scriptures that wonderful conversation that took place between the Savior and His Apostles, when He asked them whom men said that He was. 

"Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 

And they said. Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some. Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the Prophets. 

He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? 

And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed are thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. 

And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 

From this we learn concerning the solid foundation of the Church of Christ, of which we are members. It has been built upon the broad principle of revelation, by which we can know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living. God. I rejoice to know that there is a means of coming to a knowledge of God. Without revelation it would be impossible to obtain a perfect testimony. It is true, there are many external evidences of the divinity of this work and of the mission of Joseph Smith. I have sometimes been asked the question, How do you know that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired? and my first answer has always been that the Lord had manifested it to me through His Holy Spirit; but in addition to that there are many outward evidences that have appealed strongly to me. During the meetings of this conference we have heard some of these evidences. The question might be asked, How do you know that Moses was a prophet of God? We who have not had the privilege of associating with that great prophet, and have not felt the impress of the Spirit in listening to his voice, can we judge by the work he acomplished. We find that he was given a mission by the Lord to deliver the children of Israel from bondage in Egypt. Looking back at the marvelous work accomplished through his instrumentality — how the children of Israel were in very deed delivered from bondage, how they were planted in the land of promise, and how they grew to be a mighty people — it seems to bear the very impress of divinity, and we know from such evidence that he was a prophet sent of God. The Lord has never accomplished any great purpose in the earth, except he has raised up a prophet and given him a mission to perform. Neither has the Lord ever given revelations to man that did not have some importance attached to them. The Lord has not been engaged as many so-called miracle-workers are in this day and age of the world, in manifesting Himself unto His children unless there has been something worthy of the dignity of the Supreme Being connected with that revelation. When the great work of atonement had to be accomplished, He raised up 

His only Begotten Son, who performed a work the effects of which are felt today throughout the whole world. Particularly do we find the result of His work and that of His Apostles among the so-called civilized nations of the earth. The impress of divinity is upon the work of Christ. He was the greatest Prophet that ever trod the earth. Judging from the same standpoint, whenever the Lord has raised up any prophet the impress of divinity has been upon the work that he was called to accomplish. It has always been something important, and it has had for its primary object the salvation and betterment of the children of God. When the Lord raised up the Prophet Joseph, he ushered in this .great gathering dispensation. It was not an idle purpose; it was not merely for the amusement of mankind; but there was something grand to be accomplished namely, the gathering of the house of Israel from all the nations of the earth, in fulfilment of those wonderful predictions uttered by many prophets who lived hundreds and even thousands of years ago. Today those who are familiar with the development of this work; those who have visited the various. Stakes of Zion, from one end of this intermountain region to the other, and have seen people from all nations with their feet planted in these fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, have not failed to see that there was a vital force that seemed to possess the people — something beyond the power of man — that was accomplishing a wonderful work in the earth. I recollect a certain valley here in the southern part of Idaho. A number of people not of our faith first went and settled in that valley, and called the place Gentile Valley, and they made the boast that never should "Mormons" come into that valley and take possession of it. A short time ago I had the privilege of visiting the Bannock Stake conference. It was held in Gentile Valley, and there I saw a congregation of Latter-day Saints, who had gathered there from the nations of the earth, in fulfillment of these mighty predictions. They were planted in that valley, tilling the soil, and their cattle were grazing upon the hills; and I was informed that you  count the Gentiles, as they termed themselves, upon the fingers of one hand. Even that is an object lesson to me illustrating that this is the land of Zion, appointed and dedicated for the gathering of Israel in the latter days. The impress of divinity is upon this work, the Lord is with His people, and we see it manifest on every hand. 

I bear testimony to the fact that I know Joseph Smith is a prophet sent of God. The Lord has manifested it to me as an individual. I have felt the impress of the Spirit of the Lord. When I have been in the missionary field and have borne this testimony, I have felt tingling in all my being, the Spirit of the Lord, bearing witness within me that the words which I spoke were true. My young brethren and sisters, who have not yet had experience in the missionary field, let me tell you that this is the work of God, that the Lord is at our helm and will bear us on triumphantly, and that the thing called Mormonism, despised though it be in the world, is the greatest thing on the earth. It is the Church of God established upon the earth, never again to be thrown down. It is the little stone that was hewn out of the mountains without hands, and it has begun to roll, and will continue to roll until it shall fill the whole earth. Through its operations "in and iniquity will be banished from the face of the earth, and righteousness shall predominate and cover the earth, even as the waters cover the mighty deep. This is my testimony, and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

A God of miracles— Saints should not scatter abroad — Priesthood should be consulted — Work of auxiliary organizations. 

While Elder Seymour B. Young has been speaking to us this morning many thoughts on the topics to which he has referred have passed through my mind. He first spoke of the Lord answering the prayers of His people in behalf of the sick, and I believe that at the present time the Lord is very markedly doing this. I have heard some of my brethren and sisters speak as though there was a time in the Church when these manifestations of God's power were more frequent than they are today. In this I do not agree. My experience tells me that there never was a time in the history of the Church when God was more willing to answer the prayers of His people than He is now. A discussion has been going on recently among our friends, on the question of the healing of the sick through faith and prayer, and whether God is a God of miracles today or not. From my standpoint, this discussion is absurd, almost grotesque; for my testimony is that God continues to hear the prayers of His people, and that we are living ill a period of daily miracles amongst this people. It is simply those who will not see who are blind to these circumstances. The Prophet Mormon has told us in his record that God : s ways are one eternal round; that He is the same yesterday, today and forever; that He was, He is, and He evei will be a God of miracles, or He would cease to be God. The God who answers prayer today as He did anciently; the God who listens to the pleadings of His children and loves them with the same all-powerful love as He did those of former dispensations, is the God in whom I believe, and whom I worship. I believe in Him among other things by reason of the manifestations of His power that I know are taking place in the midst of the Saints, not only in the healing of Ihe sick, but in their enjoyment of the gifts of the Spirit which He has promised to the believers; and I have good reason to worship Him. 

There is another thing that has impressed me in the remarks of the brethren before this conference. I refer to the warning they have given to some of our restless brethren, and possibly sisters, who seem to be always inclined to 2:0 further and further from the headquarters of the Church and take up their residence in far-off lands. I have lately had the privilege of visiting some of the more remote settlements of the Saints. Within the last few weeks I have been to Alberta, to Grande Ronde valley in Oregon, and to the Big Horn Basin in Wyoming; and I have been full of gratitude to God to see the vast extent of good country — almost measureless— that still remains for  Saints to occupy, with soil as good and rivers as large as any yet settled upon and brought out by our people. Yet there are some people who would go still further afield. ' We are told that there are some of our brethren who have wandered off to the north of Alberta, far on the Edmonton road, which lies 300 miles to the northward of our settlements. Others have wandered off in different directions, apparently to get from under the influence, direction and counsel of the servants of God. To do this is a suicidal policy on the part of those who attempt it. In the kingdom of God the path of obedience is not only the path of safety, but it is the path of salvation. All our strength, all our power with God, comes from our union with the Priesthood, with the living oracles, who have the right and the authority from God to direct us in things both great and small, if we may use that expression, for all things are but relatively large or small; but everything that it pleases God to reveal to us is important, because on it hinges our salvation. It is by neglect of the small things that we too often wreck our faith. As the scriptures tell us, it is the little foxes that spoil the vines. I have greatly marveled and been pleased 'with the prospects of our people in their new settlements and colonies; and I can perceive that there is vast room for Israel to grow, and grow legitimately, without spreading beyond the borders that the servants of God recognize as proper places for homes for Latter-day Saints. 

As one interested in the youth of Israel, I have felt great satisfaction in. the remarks of the brethren. Many of you know me more as a Sunday school man than in any other position in the Church, and the instructions which have been given at this conference with regard to the training of our youth find an echo in my heart. I know the necessity of this training and development in righteousness, and in fighting that which God has said is not good for us. Surely it is inconsistent in the highest degree for those who claim tobe Latter-day Saints to take the nameof God in vain, to disregard the teachings of the Church with regard to the Sabbath, and to treat with disrespect  whom God has called to be His servants. We need encouragement to do right, warning to avoid wrong. We need a reformation in some of these matters, that we may live nearer unto God. I feel that our Sunday schools, our Improvement associations and other auxiliary organizations have a great work before them, to lead the youth of Israel in the path in which they should walk, first by us who claim to be teachers setting the example, and then by good instruction persuading our children to follow in our footsteps. May God bless you, and bless this conference. I ask it through Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER J. W. McMURRIN. 

Manifestations of divine favor — Educational foundation laid by the Saints — Disposition to build up and beautify the land— Excellence of public school system — Paramount importance of Church schools— Tribute to those who";have aided their establishment. 

I certainly feel, my brethren and sisters, that to stand up in the presence of this vast congregation of people is a very serious responsibility, and I could appreciate the words whispered to me a few moments ago by Brother Golden Kimball. I suppose he felt that I would be called upon to occupy a portion of the time of this meeting, and he whispered in my ear, "Brother Joseph, brace up; you have my sympathy." I feel that I need the sympathy, the faith and the prayers of this vast multitude, If I am to say anything that will be of advantage to you who have assembled together in this conference to worship the Lord. 

There is a responsive feeling in my soul fo the words that have been uttered by the brethren who have occupied this position during the conference. My heart has been made glad, and I "have felt that my spirit was in harmony with the Spirit that actuated the brethren in the instructions they were led to impart; and I hope that, through the kindness of my Father in heaven, I may be prompted by the same Spirit. 

In connection with the brethren, I marvel at the wonderful development of the work of the Lord and the manifestations of our Father's divine favor on every hand in the remarkable advancement being made by the Church of 

Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. While sitting here today I have wondered what the feelings must be of strangers in our midst, who have been told all manner of falsehoods concerning the Latter-day Saints. I have had some experience as a missionary in the world, and among those who had not investigated the doctrines of the Gospel I found almost universally the feeling that the Latter-day Saints were a priest-ridden people, held in a condition of ignorance and of bondage, and that they had to be kept in such a state, lest they might break away from the priestly rule that dominated them. I have often wondered what the feelings of the people could be who visited us in our mountain home and discovered that this chief city of the Saints is a city of peaceful and happy homes, and splendid schools. 

Beautiful buildings have been erected here for the education of the rising generation; and while it is true that they have been built by the united effort of all the citizens of this city, "Mormon" and non-"Mormon," it is nevertheless a fact that the desire to give education to the youth of the Latter-day Saints has always been a prominent feature in the building up of Zion. The foundation of "the education now so richly given in this state of Utah was laid by the Latter-day Saint pioneers. The great University that stands upon the brow of the hill, overlooking this city, was founded by our people in the days of their poverty; and in establishing it they looked forward with the eye of faith to the future educational necessities of the children and the development of the country. Traveling through the various Stakes of Zion, we find in almost every settlement costly and beautiful buildings that have been erected for educational purposes. When we think of what has been accompb'sned in this direction, we should be exceedingly glad in our hearts. If we are judged by our works, it will be very difficult for honest, observing men and women to go away from this community with the feeling that the Latter-day Saints are opposed to education. 

I had the privilege recently of taking a visit with Apostle Cowley through some of the outlying Stakes of Zion — the Stakes in Arizona and Mexico — and I was greatly impressed with the eforts being made by our people in those Stakes in favor of education. In St. John, Ariz., where it has been almost impossible for the people to live, because of the lack of water, the mineral in the soil, and the difficulty of controlling what little water they had, we found in spite of such obstacles, and other discouraging features, a Stake academy that would ornament any street in this city, erected principally by the free will offerings of the people, notwithstanding their poverty and their distressed condition. Similar conditions prevail in other Stakes. An Academy building is nearing completion in the Snowflake Stake, which is a credit to the people of the Stake, an excellent and commodious building has been erected in Juarez and an Academy in St. Joseph Stake, at Thatcher, which is said to be the largest school in the Teritory of Arizona. An acquaintance with the condition that prevails in Colonia Juarez relative to education led me to think that it was not an unmixed evil. .They are not blessed with the assistance of public taxation for the support of the schools, such as we have in the United States, but the people there have imposed upon themselves an income tax of six per cent., that they might have in their midst a school for the education of their children. I may say here that we were very much gratified to learn that in the Juarez Stake there is an almost entire absence of profanity among the jV»ung men, and that ninety per cent of all the people of the Stake observe the Word of Wisdom. We were there in the interest of the Mutual Improvement Associations; and during oui visit of several days in the town of Juarez I do not think we discovered one young man with a cigarette in his mouth, and we never heard one word of profanity. I feel that this may be attributed, at least in part, to the fact that, because they support their own educational interests, they are privileged to have God in the schools, and the teachers, being filled with the Spirit of the Gospel, are as anxious concerning the moral and spiritual development of the students as they are for  mental development. It is a blessing to any community to have the privilege of inviting into the schoolroom the servants and handmaidens of the Almighty, to impress upon thechildren the truths of the Gospel. I felt in my heart to bless the brethren who were engaged in this goodly work, and who had so great an interest in the proper education of their children that they were willing to impose a heavy tax upon themselves for that worthy purpose. 

I have sometimes thought that we have given greater attention to the mental development of our children than to their moral and spiritual development. Advancement is the spirit of the age. In the State Fair now being held in this city we can witness the improvements that have been made in our stock. There seems to be a strong desire on the part of our farmers and stockraisers to have the best kind of stock, which is very commendable. There is a growing tendency, also on the part of the people generally, to improve the architecture of the public buildings and houses of worship. Then in all the towns and villages of the Saints there is a disposition manifested on every hand to build beautiful homes. Away down in Mexico we found elegant homes that would adorn the most beautiful residence part of Salt Lake City. This feeling to advance and to improve is abroad in the land. NoW, ought we not in our educational matters to try and keep pace with this general improvement? We have great schools here. I would not desire to say aught that would detract from the importance of the public school system of Salt Lake City. We ought to be proud of it.and every citizen should rejoice that he has been privileged to have a part in bringing the school system of this city to its present standard. I am thankful that the Latter-day Saints have always been willing to vote Tes on every reasonable proposition of taxation for the benefit of the schools. I am thankful that the Deseret News, the Church organ, published in this city, has always advocated the advancement of the schools and encouraged the people to vote in favor of everything that was the improvement of the system. 

There is one thing in connection with education that I desire to draw your attention to, and that is that we have , in our midst a Church school system, where the children of the Latter-day Saints are brought under the influence of men and women who have the love of the everlasting Gospel in their hearts and the spirit of the missionary in their educational labors; men and women who feel that mental advancement is not all that should be looked after in the education of the young, but that it is highly important, if not the most important feature of education, that young people should be impressed with the fact that there is a living and true God, and that He has established Upon the earth His Churon, in fulfillment of the prophecies that have been delivered by the ancient servants of God concerning the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

I think there should be a greater interest on the part of the Latter-day Saints in regard to the Church schools. We have found in some Stakes that the Stake academies are struggling for an existence, and that there has been a coldness manifested by some in regard to their support, perhaps for the reason That they could send their children to the public schools free of cost, or perchance because the academy was not located in the place where they desired it. I feel, in connection with the improvement of our public buildings, our homes, our farms, and our stock, that above all these things should be the spiiitual as well as mental improvement of the precious "sons and daughters that our Father has committed to our care. It is written in the revelations that our Father will hold us responsible for the education that we give to our children; and He has given us a commandment that we should not only i seek wisdom from good books, but also by faith. We must have faith in the requiring of information. But faith to a very large extent has been shut out from the public school system. The organization of the earth, the creation of the inhabitants thereof, and all such things are accounted for by science so.called independent of God; and the re has been in many instances that young people have graduated from seminaries of learning without any faith in God and entertaining infidelic ideas. Brother Kimball told us yesterday of fathers who felt there was great need for missionary work in families. I would like to suggest to the fathers and mothers of Israel, if they desire missionary work in their families, no better work of this character can be accomplished than by placing their sons and daughters in the institutions that have been established for the education of the children of the Latter-day Saints. It will be a very rare thing for a son or a daughter to go to a Church school for two, three or four years, and come away from it without faith in God. Such a thing, I believe, is almost un heard of in our Church schools. Young men and young women of a skeptical turn of mind have oft times been sent to these schools, and faith has been es tablished in their hearts. There is no experience that I know of that equals the education given in our Church schools for establishing faith in the hearts of the rising generation,save only the experience that is gained abroad by the missionaries in preaching the everlasting Gospel. When I am brought in contact with a class of young men in one of these Church schools, I always feel as though I was in the company of a number of missionaries in some conference abroad. There is the sam c spirit in these instituions that accompanies the missionary. That spirit can be felt when we come in contact with the professors who are engaged in teaching. Therefore, I say, if we love our children we will give them opportunities in these educational institutions that have been established for the express purpose of planting faith in the hearts of the young. It is not sufficient that our children should go to thb Sabbath school for an hour or two once a week; it is not sufficient that they should go to the Improvement association or to the Primary association for an hour or two once a week, and all the rest of the week be brought in contact with influences that are opposed to the work of the Lord. They will be strong boys and girls and blessed indeed if they can devote eight or nine hours every day to the study of things wherein God is not mentioned, and one hour a week to the study of theology, and yet have their feet firmly established in the right path. "We should be anxious for them to have all the opportunities for gaining a knowledge of the Gospel that surround us; such advantages abound throughout Zion. There never should have to be a report made by any Stake Presidency that the Church Academy in their Stake is in a languishing condition. The story all the time should be, give us more room; the students are filling our halls, and we do not have sufficient accommodation. "With every Church academy it should be the story that they have the largest attendance of any school in the Stake. There should be greater interest in these Church schools, because better results flow from this education than from any other that is given in the land. It ought to be this way, because God is in the movement, and the Spirit of the Lord rests upon the teachers. 

Across the road from here is an elegant building that has been erected as a part of the Latter-day . Saints' University by the freewill offerings of a number of men in the community whom the Lord has blessed with means. I think I heard a report made when the building was dedicated, that the Presidency of this Stake and a number of other brethren met together and appointed a committee to solicit subscriptions for the erection of the building, the land having been donated by President Lorenzo Snow as the trusteein-trust, and in a few days $30,000 was given for that purpose. I look upon that building as a monument to the men who contributed the means, and I would like to see a tablet placed in the Latter-day Saints' Business College with their names engraved upon it. The money that erected that building is a contribution to the youth of Zion— to my sons and daughters and to your sons and daughters, that they may have a place to go where they can be educated, not only in the learning of the world, but also in the learning of . I feel grateful to the men who donated the means for the erection of that building, and their names will live in the history of this people. Recently there died in this city a young man, Brother Samuel Barratt, who had had it in his heart to assist this same institution, but he was cut off before he accomplished what he desired, and the heart of his mother went out to the son and to the educational interests of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, with the result that she contributed something like $25,000 to erect a building to be known as Barratt hall, for the benefit and blessing of the youth of Israel, and in doing so she has reared a monument to her son and has made it possible for his name and her name to live for generations in the hearts of the people, though the perpetuation of anyi name is but a small thing in comparison with the blessing that will come to thousands of the youth of our community by reason of this liberality. Brother Ezra T. Clark, of Davis County, has also contributed $1,000 of his means toward the establishment of a library of Natural Science in the Latter-day Saints' University. Other members of the Church have given freely for the support and encouragement of our church school system. Their names will also be held in honorable remembrance among the people, and I believe they and their children after them will be blessed because of this liberality. 

I would like to say to all the rich men among the Latter-day Saints: If you desire to live in the hearts of the people, if you desire to have men and women stand up in the future and bless your names and your memories, let a portion of your substance which God has given you be consecrated to the blessing of the youth of Israel, that their feet may be established in the straight way. 

There are many examples of this character among those who are not of us. In the southeastern part of this city, is a magnificent structure — the Kearns' St. Ann's Orphanage — for the blessing and comfort of the orphans of the Catholic Church (and, for aught I know, the orphans of any church), to erect which Mrs. Kearns contributed 

ELDER J. W. 

$50,000; and the name' of Kearns will, by reason of that, live in the future history of Utah. Although the citizens of this State have honored Hon. Thomas Kearns with the greatest political gift they had to give, and have sent him to represent them in the Senate of the United States, the name of Kearns will be remembered in connection with this orphanage long after the fact that he was Senator of the United States shall have been for gotten. "We hear of other men in this community who have contributed $10,000 each toward the erection of the Catholic cathedral now being reared in this city; and I say that their examplt is worthy of imitation. 

We ought to be willing and anxious, if God has blessed us with an abundance of this world's goods, to give of that substance for the benefit and blessing of the people. President Young set the example. His name will live forever with every instructor and every student in the Church schools. Can they ever forget Brigham Young, the man who established the Brigham Young College and the Brigham Youn& Academy; the man who left a valuable block of land as a site for a Latter-da> Saint University, the proceeds from the sale of which are to be used to erect the Brigham Young Memorial Hall on ,the ground of the Latter-day Saints' University? Men talk about his opposition to education. Why, in giving his means so generously he demonstrated that he stood foremost in the midst of the people in favor of education. The Latter-day Saints have nothing to fear from proper education. God Almight} has commanded us to seek for wisdom by faith and by study. If we desire to honor God and keep His commandments, the more education we obtain, the greater will be the glory that we will bring to our Father in heaven. We ought to be an educated people. It is the decree of God that we shall be. There should be houses of learning, wherein the principles of the Gospel can be taught, springing up in every part of the land. This educational work wab commenced by the Prophet Joseph Smith. He got learned professors to teach the early Elders of the Church, that they might have understanding 

McMURRIN, 49 

concerning science, history, and languages. This Church is and always will be opposed to ignorance. The uplifting of our sons and daughters should be above all else. I desire to impress upon you, my brethren and sisters, this fact, your children who attend Church schools can be advanced in every line of education. In science, art, literature, and in every other desirable branch of book learning. In addition to rhi° the^ are trained in a knowledge of God. To know the Lord, and to have faith in His work, is of the utmost importance. Let the children receive a part of their edu cation in institutions where these precious things are taught. 

I thank God for this conference and for the glorious instructions that have been imparted. I thank the Lord with all my heart for a testimony concern ing the truth of this work, and that I can join with these my beloved brethren in bearing record of its divinity, that Joseph Smith is a mighty Prophet of the Lord, that the authority of the Holy Priesthood has been restored to men upon the earth, and that it is the decree of our Father that we shall continue to spread out, to colonize, to build up and to increase in strength and power in this promised land, under a government which has been established by the inspiration of the Spirit of God ana by His commandment, that all men might have liberty, and that His work might be accomplished. God help us to be true, faithful and steadfast to the covenants that we have made, and in our allegiance to our Father in heaven, and also in our allegiance to and support of His Priesthood and servants who lead us in this dispensation, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, Light and Truth. 

Benediction by Elder Charles O. Card. 
