8
Afternoon
04 04 1937
Elder Joseph Quinney, Jr. 
181
42-44

None

None

Brethren and sisters, I am grateful beyond my power to express for the privilege that is mine in standing before you to bear my testimony to the divinity of this great and mighty work. I appreciate the things that have been said to us by the Presidency of our Church and those who have spoken to us during this Conference. There is absolutely no question as to the truth that has been presented to us here this day. 

I believe with all my soul that if you and I can follow the instructions that have been given to us, we will come nearer to our Heavenly, Father. 

I believe also that if we pray more earnestly day by day, we will receive the spirit of light, and of wisdom, and also that sustaining power to uphold and support those who have been placed in authority to lead and direct the affairs of the Church in this day and time. 

I believe with all my soul in that quality of prayer that brings us in close contact with our Heavenly Father. May I say there is a believing faith; there is also a knowing faith. Perhaps we should differentiate between the two. This knowing faith comes to, us through our devotion to God our Eternal Father as we approach him, not only in our family prayers, but in the silent hours of life when we come to him alone, when we unfold what is in our hearts and invite him into our confidence, and have him know and understand that we love his work and those who have been called to preside over us. 

The quality of prayer that is most useful to any of us is that quality that develops the finest there is in human life, that brings us into fellowship with God and our fellowman, that develops within us that absolute faith that is so necessary in order to retain and obtain the light of truth, which of course is a testimony of the Gospel. 

Any one who is earnest and sincere in his or her prayers cannot in any way mistake the meaning of what was said to us by our beloved President this morning, when he impressed us with the thought that if we observe and keep these commandments that God has given us by the revelations through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, we will retain our fellowship and our knowing faith, that faith that gives us the absolute assurance that this is indeed God's work. President Grant, not so long ago, made this impressive statement: "Let us gather faith as a people. Let us so order our lives that we are entitled to an increase of that faith. I am thankful that I know of no man or woman who has joined this Church and attended his or her sacrament meetings, partaking of the sacrament in remembrance of the suffering of our Savior and his death, who was honest in the payment of his or her tithing, who divided with the Lord as perfectly as he would ask the Lord to divide with them if they were making up an account, who has kept the Word of Wisdom — I have never known of such a person to lose his or her faith." This is indeed a marvelous measuring tape. 

There are many things, I am sure, that have come into your minds and into my mind this day, as we have been confronted, not only with the great things that have been said, but the realities of these things and the sincerity in which they have been called to our attention. Indeed we have been made to feel the divine and powerful leadership of our President and of the Authorities of the Church. It seems to me therefore, my dear brethren and sisters, that the obligation resting upon you and me, as Latter-day Saints, should carry the spirit of humility to seek our Heavenly Father for his sustaining power, that we might be able to retain this testimony concerning the divinity of this work, and uphold and sustain those who are placed in authority over us. They are men of God. 

I desire to bear my testimony concerning the divinity of this work. I know, as I know that I breathe the breath of life, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was the instrumentality through which God operated in bringing to pass the restoration of the saving graces of the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

I am grateful beyond words for the great blessings that have come to me in the various calls that I have had, from time to time, in lifting my voice in the defense of this great work in many lands and in many climes. I am grateful now for the privilege I have in presiding over one of the temples of God, in witnessing the faith of the many people who come to officiate for their kindred dead, who feel the relationship that belongs to the Gospel of our Father in Heaven, to know of a surety that this is a reality, that our dead can be saved through our faithfulness in the discharge of that obligation by officiating for them. 

May God bless us with the spirit of appreciation. May we be humble and prayerful. May we find ourselves always in full fellowship and harmony, exercising that consideration, that kindness, the spirit of the Gospel toward all with whom we associate and come in contact, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen.
