21
Afternoon
05 04 1937
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
80-84

None

None

I rejoice greatly, my brethren and sisters, in meeting with you and enjoying the sessions of this Conference. I am fully in accord with everything that has been said to us during all these meetings. I feel that the instructions that have been given are of great value, and that, as Latter-day Saints, we should remember that which has been said, and, undertake to follow it out to the best of our ability for our own welfare. 

CORRECT PRINCIPLES SELF-GOVERNMENT 

I am reminded of a story that is told — I think most of you have heard it — of the time when the Prophet Joseph was in Nauvoo. Nauvoo had become a very flourishing and wonderful city, — the outstanding city of Illinois, — one of the most remarkable cities in the country at that time. It was situated on the frontier and of course did not enjoy the facilities that we have today. Visitors came from all parts of the country. Among them was a prominent minister who was quite interested in community welfare. He said to the Prophet Joseph: "How do you govern this people so remarkably well? There is order and harmony, and splendid results are being accomplished in this city." The Prophet Joseph gave that historic answer: "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." I think that is the keynote for us as Latter-day Saints in all the walks of life. 

LOVE OF MONEY THE ROOT OF EVIL 

President Clawson has referred to the fact that it is hard to distinguish between the temporal and the spiritual. We are concerned with temporal things as well as spiritual things. We need to act properly in temporal things and we need to grow spiritually. We should not allow the temporal things to over-balance spiritual things; because while we have to earn our own livelihood, we ought to keep in mind all the time that we are here for a time only, that this life is only part of our existence, and that eternal treasures are the things for which to strive. We are told by the Apostle Paul that the love of money is the root of all evil. Certainly the love of money may lead to some very serious conditions. Any man or woman whose whole heart is set upon the acquiring of wealth to the exclusion of things that are spiritual and in accordance with the principles, the Savior laid down is failing to appreciate some of the greatest things in life. Anyone whose efforts are so set upon the things of this world, that he does not show fair dealings and mutual helpfulness to his fellowmen, though he may accumulate wealth, is a failure. 

PRESENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

I have been trying to analyze in my own mind during this Conference something of the present economic conditions of the Latter-day Saints. I realize that there has been great improvement in a general way in economic conditions throughout the nation, and in our own localities. I would like to present a few figures to you to indicate something of the recovery that has taken place with, of course, the help of a great amount of Federal funds throughout the nation. These figures refer to the nation as a whole. 

COMPARATIVE BUSINESS INDICATORS 

In 1929 farm income was at a figure of 105, 100 being the normal. In 1936 it was 85. In department store sales in 1929 the index was 108. In 1936, 93. In business, activity in 1928 and 1929 it was 110. In 1936, 108. In the matter of employment in the durable goods industries, — the heavy industries which reflect and indicate in large measure the prosperity of the country, — the index in 1929 was 95. In 1936, 88. In demand bank deposits throughout the country, the total in 1929 was $13,500,000,000. In 1936, $19,000,000,000. 

In our own locality we find that building permits, for instance, in this city in 1929 were $5,670,000. In 1936, $3,373,000, or 60%. In some department store sales in this city, taking the volume in 1929 at 100%, the volume in 1936 was 75.2%. In wholesale groceries, with 100% in 1929, the percentage was 81.6% in 1936. In wholesale hardware, with an index of 100 in 1929, the index in 1936 was 122. In the matter of unemployment, the decrease during the past two or three years has been very substantial. In fact, it appears that ordinarily, at present, of those who are qualified in the trades, there is, practically no unemployment. In my judgment, one of the best gauges of economic welfare in this intermountain territory is the measure of tithes paid. On a unit basis, this would indicate that in the year 1936 economic conditions among the people were about 83% of what they were in 1929. In respect of building construction, I think we have recovered probably less than in almost any other phase of industry; but I believe that with the progress we are making in economic conditions, there will be a large increase in this activity in the future; which should take up a large part of the unemployment that prevails throughout this nation. 

IMPROVEMENT IN EMPLOYMENT 

I find in traveling among the stakes of Zion in many places there is relatively little unemployment and that people are feeling much better about conditions. Yet there is and always will be unemployment, and at the present time, particularly in the more densely populated sections, there is still considerable unemployment. It has been found true that a large proportion of the unemployed are those who have not particularly qualified for any line of industry. They have never become skilled in vocations or trades. I think that is one of the things that we ought to stimulate, to encourage and to assist in every part of the Church. All girls and boys among us should learn trades or vocations that will fit them best for life as far as practicable, in the localities in which they live. It appears that in this year, 1937, there will be constantly increasing opportunities for employment in the mining industry, in agriculture, in construction work and in generally increased business activity. 

DEVELOPMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 

In like manner, we should develop all our natural resources under proper state control, and develop industries suitable to local conditions. In Utah, for instance, in the matter of water supply we are not so fortunate as some of the surrounding states. Idaho is much better situated in water resources. To some extent Arizona also has this advantage, as well as California, Wyoming, and Colorado. Water is the very lifeblood of our communities. For lack of sufficient water some of our people have found it difficult, particularly in these drouth years that we have had, to mature proper crops and maintain the population we have, and that we ought to have, with the extent of fertile land in various localities. 

CONSERVATION OF WATER SUPPLY 

I say water is the lifeblood of this intermountain section. The State Engineer of Utah has been making a survey of small reservoir sites throughout the State. Utah has had proportionately less reclamation than any of the surrounding States. Yet all possible water supply ought to be conserved for irrigation of available lands. A large proportion of the people of the Church have been trained in agriculture and are living near to the soil. There ought to be every opportunity given to them, as far as possible, to maintain themselves in the communities in which they live. The results of the survey above mentioned indicate that there are about fifty-four small reservoir sites in addition to some other possibilities of additional water supply. If they can be developed, many communities throughout this State will be helped. I would like to encourage the Stake Presidencies and Ward Bishoprics in those communities where such possibilities prevail to cooperate in every way in an endeavor to get reservoirs developed to provide supplemental water for the maturing of later crops in localities where our people have already established themselves. The water supply should be controlled and regulated in such a way that the people at large will have the benefit. In like manner it is important that all natural resources should be developed and protected for the welfare of all the people. 

CLASS AND FREAK LEGISLATION 

It seems to me at the present time there is an unusual tendency in our legislation not to consider the welfare of the whole people, but for various groups to seek to obtain legislation that pertains to their particular interests. Now, if there is any particular group that wants any legislation that is not for the welfare of the people as a whole, it is dangerous legislation. As citizens and leaders in these various communities, it should be realized that those who are elected or appointed to act in political office should cultivate the determination to deal fairly with all citizens and avoid anything in the nature of class legislation, for such things are bound to react in promoting strife and disunion. 

AVOID CLASS FEELING AND STRIFE 

There is a tendency among some politicians to stir up class feeling and to pit one group or class against another. That is a dangerous thing. The Lord's heart is open and his blessings come to all mankind; he is no respecter of persons, and in all lands and in all places those who serve him and keep his commandments are accepted of him. I think that ought to be the spirit of the Latter-day Saints everywhere. We should strive against anything in the nature of class feeling or class legislation. We have heard during this conference about the strikes that are prevailing at the present time. We are all familiar with these conditions. We must all come to understand that when such conditions develop, it is high time that both employers and employes shall be made legally responsible under the law in their dealings with one another. Also, it must be remembered that, in many such disagreements, the public at large suffers the consequences. Is it, therefore, not possible to work out some plan whereby friction may be avoided and whereby strikes may be promptly settled to avoid loss of wages to employes, deficits to the employers, and suffering to the public? There must be plans worked out, and proper legislation enacted, that will bring both sides of such controversies together under equitable conditions; otherwise, if they increase they will become a serious menace to the welfare and progress of this nation. 

WISE COUNSEL OF PRESIDENT GRANT 

There have been a number of legislative matters that have been enacted and policies promulgated against which warning has been given by the President of the Church; and I want to say to you, and I believe you will realize it if you will think back upon these things, that in every instance he was right in his counsel. If this advice had been followed we should all have better conditions. Now, we do not believe in blind obedience, but we do believe in discerning obedience. Every one of us is entitled to enjoy discernment. What is discernment? It is recognizing the difference between right and wrong, or developing clearness of judgment or insight. If we are living the Gospel we are entitled to enjoy the light of the Holy Spirit to guide and bless us, to enable us to judge rightly. We do not have to accept the judgment or counsel of the man who stands at the head of the Church here upon the earth; but we will know that the things he advises are right, if we will divorce ourselves from personal or political desires or ideas. We should strive to enjoy the spirit of discernment. The Apostle Paul tells us that one of the gifts of the Holy Ghost is the discernment of spirits. In like manner one of the gifts is discernment of right and wrong. What a wonderful thing it will be when we shall all learn correct principles, and have the discernment to govern ourselves in righteousness. Then we shall grow in justice and fair dealing, we shall avoid strife and contention, we shall enact and administer equitable laws, and improve in temporal and spiritual things. The Lord will prosper this people temporally as well as spirtually if we control our selfish feelings and strive to carry out his purposes. 

FOLLOW ADVICE OF LEADERS 

I rejoice in the truth of the Gospel. I realize the fact that the Lord has been very kind to me; my brethren have been very kind to me, they have borne with me. I sustain these men who preside because I know they are men who have been selected of the Lord by the inspiration and power of his Spirit. And I want to say to you that I realize the Presidency of this Church are in a position to counsel us in righteousness. If we will forget personal feelings or selfish desires and will conform to such advice we will gain the blessings. The people as a whole will be prospered and blessed; and the people of the world will be greatly benefited if they will observe the instructions that are given to us here and that have been given to us all the years past. I know of a verity that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord Jesus Christ, that he was an instrument in the hands of the Lord in restoring the Gospel of which we are the beneficiaries, and that all those who have succeeded him as presidents of the Church have been empowered with the same power and spirit. They have enjoyed the spirit of their calling in rich measure. May the Lord continue to sustain President Grant, and bless all the officers throughout this Church, that they may be watchmen upon the towers, that they may listen to the instructions given by those in authority and carry the same to the people! May every one of the members of the Church cultivate the spirit of discernment and of righteousness, that all may learn proper principles and control ourselves for our own benefit and for the progress of the work of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
