20
Afternoon
05 04 1937
Elder Wilford W. Richards 
180
78-80

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the clarity and the strength with which the principles of the Gospel have been taught to us in this Conference. It is indeed good to be here. 

We, in the North Central States Mission, believe that the present time is a very choice period in which to do missionary work. We are constantly being asked such vital questions as: What is behind all these things that are happening on Temple Block in Salt Lake City? What is it that stimulates and maintains your great missionary system? Why do you build these temples? How is your Security work organized and conducted? The answers to these questions carry much that is fundamental to our doctrine, our activity and our lives. People have always been interested in results. We as missionaries are delighted to point to some of these things as evidence of our activity and ability to meet the problems of the day. 

It would seem that the theme of this conference may easily be summarized in that passage from the 87th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and be not moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold it cometh quickly, saith the Lord. 

Our inspired leaders have in these sessions clearly marked the path, and not only indicated the holy places, but have indicated the safety associated with them. It is a sacred privilege to be permitted to stand therein. 

Our missionaries stand in holy places. As evidence of this, I suggest a recent experience in our Mission. It appeared necessary to leave one of our cities temporarily without missionaries, due to the release of one of our number. This plan brought from a non-member friend a fervent appeal that missionaries be returned to them. She spoke for her friends and neighbors and called our attention to the fact that they were being taught the sacred principles of the Gospel and needed sorely the help and leadership of the missionaries. 

In due time, I personally accompanied an elder as he returned to this city. Across the aisle in the train was a young man in the custody of a sheriff. The officer was returning his companion to face serious charges of infraction of the law. I witnessed the uneasiness of the young man. 

I heard him discuss the possibility of meeting his accusers, of facing a court and a jury with the possible loss of his freedom for months or years. He traveled at the expense of the state. When the time to eat arrived, he was taken into the diner. At night, he was led into the sleeping apartment of the train. Yet, with all of this, he was unhappy. He was uncertain of himself. It was quite evident he didn't stand in "holy places." 

In the same car traveled the missionary who was also being returned. He was not wanted by an accuser or the arm of the law. He was returning to an unselfish and a sacred service. He willingly paid his own transportation. For food he ate a sandwich and an apple. At night he secured what sleep was possible by dozing in his seat. He was radiating the spirit of calm and cheer as he conversed with fellow passengers. There was no disturbing conscience. He was at peace with himself and with others. He stood in "holy places." This situation, in contrast with the one just mentioned, clearly illustrates the value of the Gospel and the application of its truths. It thoroughly demonstrates the fact that the safe, sane and happy life is the one that is well-ordered and disciplined. It is not difficult to see and understand that the measure of one's achievement, progress and joy is viewed in terms of the degree to which he gives himself wholly and sincerely to the living of the fundamental and potent truths of the Gospel. 

In the North Central States Mission we have many choice and worthy people. One of these I desire to refer to as a man of faith, as the following incident will indicate. I speak of Brother Arnold Wadsworth of Chinook, Montana. A few years ago this brother had the misfortune to lose the sight of one eye. About a year ago, while working on his farm, the lever on a planting machine was accidentally released, striking him in the other eye, which resulted in the loss of sight there also. While receiving treatment in a hospital at Great Falls, Montana, following this accident, he was visited by President Edward J. Wood, of the Alberta Temple, who gave him a blessing with a promise that vision would be restored to the sufferer. For several months there was darkness, but always an abiding faith and a manly courage. Last December, Brother Wadsworth felt impressed to visit the Mayo Brothers at their noted clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, also in our Mission. Here the best of care and attention was given him. Several operations were performed, but each time accompanied by disappointment and apparent failure. After several weeks, an interview was called at which time he was told that nothing could be done for him. The operations had failed and there was nothing left for him to do but to return to his home and adjust himself to such life and activities as could be accomplished without sight. 

This man of faith replied that such could not be. He had been promised by a servant of the Lord that he would see and that he had come to this noted institution for the scientific skill required. Failure could not be accepted. Followed by a brief but intense silence, this answer came from the skilled physicians: "If that is your faith, your purpose and hope, we will try again." Another operation was arranged. A more healthful condition was found than had hitherto been discovered. Followed by other operations and special treatment sight came back into the eye. This experience is recognized as an outstanding event in the clinic. The scientists were deeply touched by it. This grateful man recently returned to his home able to see his loved ones, his associates, and to engage in his activities which had been impossible for many months. He speaks of this experience with a deep and sincere gratitude and a sacred recognition of the kindness of the Lord to him. He, too, stood in "holy places." 

May we, also, be able to stand in such places and be not moved. It is a privilege to drink deeply of the spirit and inspiration of this Conference as it flows through these, our presiding brethren. Such is our blessing, our guide and our refuge. May we all be strengthened by an appreciation of its full significance I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
