13
Morning
05 04 1937
Elder Don B. Colton
115
56-58

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, something has been said during this meeting regarding the respect shown to the Authorities of the Church, and the love and esteem in which they are held by those who are working with them. I share in that esteem. Fortunately for me, I have known many of them for many years. 

The thing, however, that impresses me most in this respect is the fact that our missionaries, young men and young women, called from remote sections of the Church, have the same testimony, and support these Authorities with the same enthusiasm and zeal with which they are supported by those who know them best. 

It has been my great privilege to labor among these missionaries. I love them. This great missionary work has become dear to me. One  the finest things about it is the attitude, my brethren and sisters, of your sons and daughters with respect to God and the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I have seen them, in a few short months, transformed from hesitating and doubting boys and girls to mature, earnest men and women. The thing that pleases me most is to hear them bear their testimony. They speak the truth. They are not seeking to deceive. 

The words of the Apostle Paul, in writing to Timothy, come to me: 

I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry * * * 

And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 

This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief. 

We have had a great experience during the last six months in the Eastern States Mission. We have been blessed with a great deal of publicity. Newspapers have treated us kindly. They have spoken well of the great movements of the Church and of the people. Now I am wondering, and the challenge that seems to come to me is: How can we somehow make the people of the world realize that the people, in and of themselves, are no greater than other people, but that something has come into their lives to make them worthy of the things that are said of them and the things that they are doing? How can we put over the message that water does not rise above its source; that "men do not gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles;" that there is something in this message, of itself, inherently, that makes this people do what they are doing? 

If we can do that, if we can make them know that we believe that the greatest character who has ever crossed the pages of history is the Lord Jesus Christ, and that we serve him best when we keep most perfectly his commandments, and that we are what we are because of him, then we have done well. If we have faith in this world only, in the Savior, then well might the Apostle Paul say: "We are of all men most miserable." If we can somehow get the people to understand that whatever there is great among the Mormon people it is because there has been translated into their lives the principles and teachings of our Savior, and unto him we give the honor, the praise and the glory: If we can let them know, in the language of the Book of Mormon, where Mosiah said: "Moreover, I say unto you, that there shall be no other name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord omnipotent;" and that because we get these truths into the lives of people we succeed in getting them to accomplish the things for which we are commended. It is the Gospel of Christ that has made the Mormon people what they are. 

To me, our great mission and work in the field is to preach Christ and him crucified. I rejoice also that in gaining a testimony of the Savior our missionaries are impressed with the fact that as they study Mormonism, so-called, they see that it is but the pathway, the guide to life eternal, through the course mapped out by our Savior. They sustain these men as prophets of God, because God gives them a testimony of the Gospel, not because they know them personally. Those of us who know them personally can bear testimony to their integrity, but I rejoice that the young people, particularly the missionaries, throughout the world say that they are prophets of God, because they know the Gospel is true. They have learned that by finding out that Christ is the way to salvation and life, and that in this Gospel are found the teachings of that Lord and Master; that the same principles which he advocated are advocated now; that the same powers, the same saving graces, the same gifts and blessings that were given to his people anciently are given now, if we are obedient unto that Gospel. 

They discover that these men, these principles, these things that are making us known, are but the results of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ being translated into life. 

Oh, I pray that we shall appreciate sincerely that the good things that are being said of us shall be said of us because we are worthy; that we shall indeed translate into our lives these glorious principles of the Gospel; that in all things Christ, the Redeemer and Savior of the world, shall be magnified and his name glorified in all the earth. 

In humility I bear witness, too, that I know that he lives, and that he is the Redeemer of the world. As has been said by Brother Stephen L. Richards, this testimony is peculiarly sacred to me, but I feel, nevertheless, constrained to bear this witness unto you, and to say that the most glorious privilege of my life has been preaching our Lord and his work in the earth. 

I close with a voice of prayer, in the language of one of our poets: 

Oh, Thou by whom we come to God, 
The Life, the Truth, the Way! 
The path of prayer Thyself hath trod; 
Lord, teach us how to pray. 

May the Lord teach us to be obedient, to love and keep his commandments, and translate into our lives the things that are worth while in the Gospel, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen.
