14
Morning
05 04 1937
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 
37
58-62

None

None

I feel my weakness this morning, and seek your faith and prayers. I have been happy in listening to the testimonies of my brethren, and especially the words of counsel and warning which have been given unto us by those who have spoken thus far. 

PEACE TAKEN FROM THE EARTH 

We are living in perilous times. The world is in commotion. One hundred years ago — to be exact, in November of 1831 — the Lord gave his Preface to his Commandments. You know the Doctrine and Covenants is different from any other book. It was not written by Joseph Smith. It is the work of God, and as its author he had the right, of course, to write his preface, which he did, and he said this: 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. 

One year after the organization of the Church, peace could not have been taken from the earth, in justice, but the Lord said the time would speedily come. That time has come. Peace has departed from the world. The devil has power today over his own dominion. This is made manifest in the actions of men, in the distress among the nations, in the troubles that we see in all lands, including this land which was dedicated to liberty. 

There is no peace. Men's hearts are failing them. Greed has the uppermost place in the hearts of men. Evil is made manifest on every side, and people are combining for their own selfish interests. Because of this I was glad to hear the warning voice raised by our beloved President and by his counselors, yesterday, and by others of the brethren who have spoken; for I think this should be a time of warning, not only to the Latter-day Saints, but to all the world. We owe it to the world, to raise a voice of warning, and especially to the members of the Church. 

A TRUE CHURCH 

I would, with all my heart, that we, the members of this Church, were living in unity and peace and the love of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; which is perhaps more than we can expect under mortal conditions, for the Savior, in one of his parables, stated that the kingdom of heaven was like a net that was cast into the sea; it gathered of all kinds, some good, some bad, some neither good nor bad, and they had to be sorted. 

The Lord also said in this preface, that this is the only church upon the face of the earth with which he is pleased. Let me give his exact words: 

And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually. 

I say if the Lord had to make such a statement as that in 1831, how much more necessary would it be today? He would have to say that this Church is the only church upon the face of the earth with which he is pleased (because it is his Church; he organized it; but he would also have to say he is speaking collectively and not individually, simply because there are so many professing membership in this Church, who are not abiding in the laws and the ordinances of the Gospel, nor are they true to the covenants and the obligations that they have taken upon themselves, to keep his commandments. 

I want to read to you another passage of scripture. This was given in the year 1833, after trouble had come upon our people, and they had been driven from their homes, because they had failed to keep the commandments: 

ZION TO REJOICE 

Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion, the pure in heart; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn. 

For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly, as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it? 

The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come. 

Therefore I can say there shall be no peace come to this world until Christ comes to bring it. 

For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works. 

Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. 

But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with the sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire. 

Nevertheless, let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more none of these things shall come upon her. 

JUDGMENTS COMING UPON THE WORLD 

As I observe conditions among the people I cannot see how we are going to escape when the judgments are to pass over the nations, which are promised in this revelation and in others which I cannot take time to read. Because of our disobedience and our failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, the righteous, as in times past, may be called upon to suffer with the unrighteous among us. 

So I rejoiced in having the voice of warning raised. Are we keeping the Sabbath day holy, as Latter-day Saints, when the picture shows are filled every afternoon and evening, and that, too, in communities of Latter-day Saints; when the pleasure resorts are crowded on the Sabbath day; when we turn our attention to pleasure rather than to the worship of God? Do we have a claim upon his blessings, and are we entitled to have the angels of destruction pass us by, according to the promise that is given here, if we will keep the commandments of God? Are we doing it? 

FAULT-FINDING 

Are we guilty of finding fault with those who preside over us? Are we willing to listen to the counsels that they give to us, and receive the voice of God as it comes through the one who stands to represent him as his mouthpiece upon the face of the earth? How many of us are willing to do that? We stood upon our feet here this morning and sang: "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," and yet there are some among us who criticise him, who find fault with him. When he speaks by the power of the inspiration of Almighty God, we are ready to condemn him, as we have done in times past. 

Do you think, under these conditions, that we are prepared to escape from these penalties here enumerated in this revelation, given on the 2nd day of August in the year 1833, a month after our people had been driven from their homes for violating the commandments which they solemnly had promised they would keep? 

I want to raise the warning voice, and I am doing it among the stakes of Zion, as you happen to know. I want to cry repentance. Are we keeping ourselves clean and pure and unspotted from the sins of the world, and are we entitled to receive the blessings? 

PREDICTIONS BEING FULFILLED 

I want to tell you the judgments have gone forth and they are going forth. All these strikes that are taking place, this commotion, this unrest, this dissatisfaction, this desire on the part of people to overthrow governments — and that is going to come, for hasn't the Lord said that he will make an end of all nations? Is it not so recorded in these revelations? And so it must be. The angels of destruction have gone forth upon their mission. 

WARNING OF PRESIDENT WOODRUFF 

Permit me to read a few words from President Wilford Woodruff. This seemed to be the burden of his message from the time of the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple until his death, for he repeated it time and time again, and I heard him: 

What are the signs of the times? Do the Latter-day Saints comprehend them? This is a fast age. The Lord is going to cut his work short in righteousness. Read these revelations, for they contain the history of what is coming to pass in the earth. 

That is, these revelations out of which I have been reading. 

The Lord said to Joseph Smith in the beginning of this church — 

Then President Woodruff read from Section 86 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 5 to 7, in regard to the wheat and the tares. You know in that revelation the angels cried to the Lord that they might go forth and reap down the earth. After reading that passage President Woodruff said: 

What is the matter with this world today? What has created this change that we see coming over the world? Why these terrible judgments? What is the meaning of all these mighty events that are taking place? The meaning is, these angels that have been held for many years in the temple of our God have got their liberty to go out and commence their mission and their work in the earth, and they are here today in the earth. 

I feel in saying this to the Latter-day Saints there is a meaning in these judgments. The word of the Lord cannot fall unfulfilled. If you want to know what is coming to pass, read the revelation of St. John. Read the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. These things are at our doors. What is the matter with this nation, — thousands of men striking, mobs raising up and destroying property; tribulation prevailing! 

I want to say that you will all find, before you are many years older, that Utah is a pretty good place to live in. 

Now, I can't take time to read more of it, but he raised this warning voice, and I believe Utah will be a pretty good place to live in, and other stakes of Zion, for I don't believe President Woodruff intended to confine this to the borders of Utah, but to the stakes of Zion. But the judgments of the Almighty are being poured out, and they shall continue, for the Prophet of God has said it. We shall not escape, unless we repent, turn to the Lord, honor our Priesthood and our membership in this Church, and be true and faithful to our covenants, which I pray we may be, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
