12
Morning
05 04 1937
Elder J. Golden Kimball 
14
55-56

None

None

I feel greatly honored to be permitted to stand before you brethren and sisters and take part in this great Conference. 

Brethren, and all who are members of the Church, I have discovered that I am still alive, and I am very pleased to be living and to be in your midst. 

I have nothing in the world before me that has any great value, other than faith and hope and love of God and his commandments. I can think of nothing before me that has any greater value than the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I have tried to impress the people that I was sincere, frank, and honest in my beliefs. I think I have had a pretty hard time in the last year, a sort of a crucial test as to just how I will finish my work. I have been with you people in conference assembled pretty nearly a half a century, and at no time during my life have I been treated more kindly, more courteously and more helpfully than during the past year. 

I have spoken at several Priesthood and Seventies' meetings during the past year . A little over a year ago I attended a young peoples' meeting in Forest Dale. I was in my usual physical condition. I undertook to speak to the young people. In about five minutes I went silent. I sat down. They dismissed their meeting. I went home. I felt then: "I am through; I have finished," but it hasn't come true, because I am still alive and trying to fulfil my mission. 

I have great joy and pleasure. God knows that I still want to fill a mission and be honorably released and return from whence I came. 

When I was sixteen, my father, Heber C. Kimball, was sixty-seven years old, as strong, powerful, masterful a man as ever lived; with a great family — twenty-five sons and ten daughters. He was injured by accident and later was paralyzed — I can remember the very day when he was stricken — and he never spoke afterwards, although he was conscious of his surroundings. 

Well, I have been favored in the past year. About one year ago I went to California. Mrs. Kimball was very sick, unable to walk. I am not telling you a hard luck story. While I was there I was stricken blind for eleven or twelve days. I have overcome that partly, and I am able to see. 

Now, I don't know of anybody here present that has a greater reason to be thankful than I have. I may be ungrateful at times, and I may be unthankful, but I honor God, the eternal Father, and His Son Jesus Christ. I believe with all of my soul that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; that Brigham Young was a prophet of God; that Heber C. Kimball and all those other great men were inspired of the Lord. As far as I am concerned, if these things are not true, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ is not true, I wouldn't give you twenty-five cents for what you leave behind you. But it is true. It is my testimony to you that it is true. 

Before I conclude I want to say to you brethren that I have been personally acquainted with the First Council of Seventy since the days of President Seymour B. Young. The Council that we have now — I happen to be senior President but am not able to do very much — this Council has sustained me. They have been so kind and considerate that I honor them. I am testifying to you good people — and we have ample proof of it — at no time in the history of the Seventies has the First Council been more faithful as witnesses for God to the nations of the earth, and preachers of righteousness, than these men are; the Twelve Apostles the same; and the First Council is under their direction. They have been greatly blessed by the Lord, and they are, through the Seventies, doing a wonderful work, fulfilling a great mission among the stakes of Zion, and at no time have they accomplished a greater work. They have the spirit of their office and calling. I sustain them. I want to leave my testimony with them. If it isn't true, as I said before, there is nothing true. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. I pray God the Eternal Father to bless President Grant. It isn't the man. We don't worship men. I don't. I have never believed you get on higher ground by worshiping a man. I am a good deal like my father. Before he died he was praying. He called together this great patriarchal family of his, and he got to praying. When he prayed, he just talked to the Lord. He wasn't talking to men; he was talking to the Lord. So father finally burst out in a laugh and he said: "Oh, Lord, forgive me. When I pray for some men I have to laugh." He had to apologize to the Lord, because it amused him to pray for some men. 

I honor President Grant. I have every reason for it. I have known him all during my ministry; and it isn't the man; it is the prophet. God bless the prophet whom God raised up to guide and direct his people, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
