9
Morning
05 04 1937
Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 
154
44-46

None

None

My brethren and sisters: It can never become a commonplace to speak in this historic tabernacle, nor in this presence. We are living a long way from home. We miss the mountains, the people and the tabernacle. The generation of men who laid out this city, erected this temple, and builded this house, built far better than they knew. I do not think there is another place in this broad land that people look to with more interest than they do this Temple Block. Whether they belong to our faith or not there is something that radiates from here that interests and satisfies them. 

On November 28, last, President Grant arrived in Chicago to organize the 118th Stake of Zion. He was received with great respect. The organization of the Stake was effected on Sunday, November 29. This was an additional confirmation of the fact that the Church is moving forward on many fronts. It visions a world-wide establishment. Its benefits and blessings are not limited to any people or to any location. It can serve the people of Chicago and California, of New York and Hawaii, just as efficiently as it can serve the people of Utah. It can help those that dwell upon the Islands just as effectively and well as those who live upon the continents of the earth. Mormonism is just as strong to save the people east of the Rocky Mountains as it is those west of the Rocky Mountains. No matter how far flung its Stakes, how wide the territory which it covers, how numerically great and strong it may become, it has the divine genius of reaching the individual, of lifting him up; of filling his heart with hope, and inspiring him to great endeavor. The humblest Saint living in the remotest corner of the land may know that the Gospel is true, with the same assurance that the Saint who lives under the shadows of the Temple may know it. 

Men frequently comment upon the marvelous organization of which we are a part. They not only comment upon it, but they have tried to copy it, but they cannot make it work. It is not a man-made institution. It is of divine origin. The Almighty accomplishes his purposes through men. They are his agents. He clothes them with the holy Priesthood which is the strength of the Church, the source of authority. Referring to this Priesthood — I was deeply impressed with what the President said yesterday. All my life I have read or listened to the other people read the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The President said that this great revelation was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith while he was a prisoner in Liberty Jail, Missouri. No mortal man ever gave to the world a better plan for the government of men than is contained in this revelation. It declares, "The powers of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of Heaven." Think of it — as powerful as this Priesthood is, as mighty as it is to save, it can only be exercised upon the principles of righteousness. No matter who the man is who bears this Priesthood nor the circumstances under which it is exercised — to be effective it must be exercised in harmony with the powers of Heaven. 

Yes, the Church is moving forward on many fronts and no one need be alarmed over its growth nor apprehensive about its motives, for all its purposes are beneficent and its objectives are righteous. It is more than an intelligent plan for the betterment of the world, it is an institution inspired of the Almighty through which he will work out his purposes. 

Every missionary bears this testimony and I want to testify that the Almighty has set his hand for the last time to establish his work upon the earth and that it shall never be thrown down and given to another people, that it shall roll forth until it fills the whole earth — He has so declared it. His power permeates this great work and in his own due time and in his own appointed way he will make it victorious in the earth. Every man clothed with divine authority should walk in humility before his Maker. 

A missionary's voice in this world is a very small voice. The discourses which he delivers are not so convincing as the life which he lives. God be praised for this great system of building character in men and boys. May he help those who have been commissioned to bear his message to the world, I pray in the name of Jesus, Amen.
