34
Afternoon
06 04 1937
Elder Albert E. Bowen 
225
118-119

I hope none of you was more shocked at the proceedings of this day so far as they concern myself than was I. I have never regarded myself as a person of particular consequence, and why I should have been asked to assume this responsible position, I do not know. 

In my lifetime I have dreamed many dreams, I have nursed many ambitions, but this was never one of them. I have never coveted, never sought, and never desired any preferment in the Church. I have been happy all the days of my life to work in it, and would have been content to remain in places where I would not be forced to occupy public position. But since the call has come, I do what I have always been taught to do, namely, respond, and pledge you that I will give it all my strength. 

The only thing in the world that counts is people. When the creation of the world was finished, as the last and crowning act God made man to dwell in it, and he gave to him for his use everything that was created, and told him that he might exercise dominion over the earth. In all of his ministry Jesus was concerned only with people; nothing else mattered. 

Whatever our position may be, in whatever sphere we labor, we are all dedicated to the business of ministering to the welfare of people, trying to make mankind rise to the stature of his destiny. That is the province of the teacher, and every man in this Church is a teacher. 

I have thought during this day of the occasion when Jesus was led to the top of a high mountain, and the tempter told him to look out over the world, and promised him that he would give him the world, if he would but bow down and serve Satan. There is a beautiful lesson in that circumstance, I think, for all of us who would essay the business of teaching others. We need the power to lead men up to high eminences from which they may see the world, their own positions in it, and the destinies that await them if they order their lives aright. If anything is needed more than anything else now it is a voice issuing as from the top of a high mountain, lifting men's visions to the high level whence it comes, and revealing to them what there is in the world and what they may do in the exercise of their prerogatives and rights in accomplishing the world's work. And if we be what we have pretended so long we are, then we have that kind of voice. It behooves us only to learn to hear and understand it, and govern our walk and conduct by its teachings. 

May God bless us with power to do so, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen.
