33
Afternoon
06 04 1937
Elder Rufus K. Hardy 
185
116-118

NONE

None

One hundred and seven years ago today this marvelous and great Church was born. Last night as I sat in this building and looked into the faces of the congregation which had assembled here for Priesthood meeting, I could not help but think perhaps some of those six souls who joined the Church on that sixth day of April in 1830 would hardly understand and know what was transpiring if they were permitted to be here in our midst today and behold the thousands assembled in one service at one place. 

I am astounded constantly at the magnitude of this great work of ours. I cannot help but think to what ends of the earth it has not gone and to what corners it has not penetrated. Realizing all this there yet comes into my heart and my soul this conviction: That perhaps never again will I look upon a scene as impressive as the one I beheld last night — eight thousand or more men in this building attending the Priesthood meeting, and all dedicated and set apart for God's work. 

I do not speak of this splendid body of leaders now before me who for three days have been here attending this Conference, for you are the leaders of the Church, but I am thinking of what this Church means to this great world of ours. I am thinking of the missionaries who have reported — the presidents of missions — the advancement of our work, and the gladness with which certain members of society whom they come in contact with accept their words and express joy at hearing of this great Gospel again restored. Oh yes! It has reached its arms around the earth. 

And yet, I would like to bring to your attention one thing that is close to us at home — one thing that we ourselves within the Stakes of Zion now, thank God, have to contend with. 

Less than a year ago the Presidency of the Church and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, under the inspiration of the Almighty, gave to the First Council of the Seventy the task of organizing missions within the stakes of Zion. Brethren and sisters, there are 118 stakes of Zion, which run from the Pacific ocean (Honolulu, Hawaii) to the Eastern borders of this great country of ours, and from Mexico northward into Canada. 

What has prompted this? Isaiah tells us that certain things would occur which God had decreed. They do occur because of what the Lord has said and done. This is one of them: 

Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his own work. 

And, so, within the ranks of this Church I feel that there has been inspiration of God upon those who have brought forth this great work. 

Of the 118 stakes of Zion, for your benefit let me say, 112 have either been organized into stake missions or are in the process of organization. Within our own communities there have been brought into the fold of Christ already more than 300 souls who knew not the truth before. In addition to this, through this valiant missionary service, upwards of 600 souls who have known the truth of this Gospel, but who have more or less become indifferent (and I want to say that none of us, I fear, are free from that) more than 600 of the indifferent ones, have been brought again into the Church to renew their activities through the endeavors of the missionaries who proclaim this Gospel in the stakes of Zion. And the work is hardly started yet. 

How minutely, how delicately, every part ordained of our Heavenly Father fits into this great latter-day institution which he has established — these various arms and helps in government, which we behold and taste of today. Surely this Church is not too small to reach to every corner of the earth, and of a surety the earth is not too big to listen to and feel the thrill of conviction from the teachings of the restoration of the Gospel which can and will emanate from the voices of our missionary brethren and sisters throughout all the earth, as well as in the stakes of Zion at home. 

The zeal and the pride with which the presidents of stakes and the bishops of wards have taken hold of this work stirs the hearts of those who are engaged in it, and we feel to thank God for such worthy men. 

May this work go on until it shall accomplish its purpose and may we as missionaries in the service of God remain humble and do that which God would have us do, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
