26
Morning
06 04 1937
Elder Harold W. Pratt 
173
99-101

None

None

My very dear brethren and sisters, I deeply and sincerely appreciate the opportunity of mingling with you in this great Conference. I believe that perhaps I appreciate it more greatly due to the fact that after having been here continuously for three years or two years and a half, I was unable to attend the last Conference, and thus I come this morning to this Conference with a renewed interest, having realized what it means to be absent. 

I sincerely and humbly pray, this morning, for an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be guided in what few words I say and what little time I occupy, to say something that will be of benefit to all of you, and that will help us, as members of this great Church, to more fully discharge our responsibilities to the world. 

Sister Pratt and I are greatly enjoying our labors in Mexico, for since the division of the mission in July of last year we have moved our headquarters to Mexico City, and we are greatly enjoying our labors there. There is just one point of regret, and that is that this move prohibits us from enjoying the association of the great number of the youth of Zion who came and labored with us in the border states, among the Mexican people; for in Mexico we are not permitted to bring missionaries from the stakes of Zion, and our few missionaries are made up of young people from the Juarez Stake and from the membership of the mission itself. We feel thus that we are deprived of a great pleasure in association with a cross section of the youth of Zion coming from the different stakes. 

We have been told during this Conference, my brethren and sisters, of the picture that seems to be forecast as to conditions in the world and what is about to happen. This is a rather gloomy picture. Perhaps we who are in foreign missions — I might say especially in Mexico, where the connection with Spain at the present time brings the battlefield so very close — see and realize the possibilities of the development of this gloomy chaotic picture that has been painted for us. We realize that it can, with very great difficulty, be averted. The world seems bound headlong for a chaotic, dark state of night, where darkness and confusion indeed will, as they in fact do today, cover the nations of the earth. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that we, the Latter-day Saints, have a great responsibility in this time of darkness and confusion, a responsibility that was given to us in a direct charge by our Master two thousand years ago, in which he said:  

Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? * * * 

Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. 

Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. 

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. 

It has been pointed out to us during this Conference that we have, indeed, that which will guide the world in the solution of its problems today, and as you cast about over the world you will find nowhere else this light that can lead the world in the solution of its problems. Only through our living in accordance with the principles of the Gospel, and letting our light so shine that men see our good works, can we be a light to the world and help them through this hour of darkness. 

I should like each of you to imagine a great chandelier with hundreds of thousands of small globes, with a rather intricate, yet, when understood, simple design, through which each of those globes is connected with the main wire which brings the current from the powerhouse, to supply the power for the lighting of those globes. Compare this, in your minds, to the organization of the Church. Our Father in heaven, the power house, is supplying the power coming to us through the medium of his Son Jesus Christ, transmitting it to their representative here upon the earth, our prophet, seer and revelator; through him disseminated to the General Authorities; from them to our stake presidents; from the stake presidents to our bishops, or in the missions to the mission presidents and to the branch presidents; through them to the different auxiliary heads in the wards and to the block teachers. Thus each of us, every member of this Church, if we are in harmony with this organization, may connect our lamp to the source of power, and gain that strength and that current which will make our light so shine that men, seeing our good works, will come to glorify our Father which is in heaven. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that we are indeed connected with the source of divine power, that will guide us in these days of confusion; and that if we do keep ourselves connected to this organization we will each be a light that will shine in our own corner, and will guide men in their struggle during these troublous times. 

But if any of us fail to uphold our immediate superiors, if we criticise our local officers, if we become out of harmony with them, then we shall be cut off from the source of power, and will not shine; in fact, we will be left in darkness. 

It has been my sad experience, during the past year, since I last met with you here, to see a group of Saints sever their connection with the source of divine power, and to see their lights go out and to see them left in darkness; and others, who were depending upon them for the light, to lose their way and wander in the wilderness of confusion and ignorance. These men did not criticise President Grant. They maintained that they accepted and upheld the General Authorities of the Church. But they did not like their district president, and they criticised their mission president, and they continued on until they refused to accept and uphold and sustain those who were placed over them in that locality, and today, as I say, they are left in darkness, to wander in the wilderness of apostasy. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we, as members of the Church, will sustain and uphold, support and magnify each and every officer in the Church — the General Authorities, beginning with President Grant, his counselors, the quorum of the Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric, the general boards of the auxiliary organizations, our stake organizations, our ward organizations — that each of us may indeed keep himself connected to that source of divine power that will permit our light so to shine that men, seeing our good works, will come to glorify our Father which is in heaven, and will find the solution, through us, of the problems that face the world today. 

I pray the blessings of our heavenly Father to be with you, to be with all of us in the discharge of our respective responsibilities in this great plan, and I do so in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
