36
Afternoon
06 04 1937
President David O. McKay 
18
121-122

None

None

If at this moment each one present were asked to state in one sentence or phrase the most distinguishing feature of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, what would be your answer? It occurs to me now that my answer would be this: 

Divine authority by direct revelation. 

A DISTINGUISHING FEATURE 

There are those who claim authority through historical descent, others from the scriptures, but this Church stands out as making the distinctive claim that the authority of the Priesthood has come directly from God the Father and the Son, by revelation to Joseph Smith. 

Founded upon that principle, accepting it as absolute Gospel, we have clearly defined in our minds some fundamental principles: 

First, that God is a personal being; that he has a spirit-personality. When we visualize him in that form, we look at him through the clearest lens through which the human mind is capable of perceiving Deity. As someone has said, "He may be infinitely more, but he cannot be less." 

The acceptance of divine authority by direct revelation also reveals to us the fact that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son in the flesh, for the Father in appearing to Joseph Smith stated in definite words, "This is my beloved Son, hear Him." 

Correlated with that revelation is another fundamental fact, that the Lord is interested in his people, that the whole human family are related as his children, and he loves them, and that he has authorized men to officiate among the children of the world, to bring them back into his presence. 

My brethren and sisters, the paramount thought in my mind at this moment is this: That the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith and restored authority to establish the Kingdom of God on earth, and this is my testimony to you. 

TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENTS GRANT AND CLARK 

I will also testify that divine authority rests in, rich abundance upon him whom the Lord has chosen to stand at the head of this work at the present time. I am deeply grateful for the opportunity I have had to sit in council with President Grant and President Clark. I wish every person in this Church might have had the same opportunity to look into President Grant's noble spirit as I have; to know him as I have had the privilege to know him; to glimpse his unbounded generosity, his love for mankind, and particularly for those who are true and loyal to the Church; to realize how fearlessly he stands for right. If you realized these virtues more fully, I am sure that when you kneel down to pray there would be a note of thanksgiving in your heart and in your words which perhaps there has not been heretofore. 

I would like to pay a tribute to President Clark, a man of sterling integrity, who loves this work above everything else in this world. He is loyal and true, sound and clear in judgment, a valiant servant of the Lord. 

UNITY IN THE LEADING COUNCILS 

I would like you to know that there is a spirit of unity and oneness in the council of the First Presidency, the spirit for which Christ prayed just before he went into the garden of Gethsemane: "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us." And as he prayed on that occasion so I pray now that that spirit of oneness may characterize the leading councils of the Church; nay, may I say, continue to characterize the leading councils of the Church. For I believe that there has not been a time in the history of our Church when there was more unity among these councils than at the present time. I pray that that spirit of oneness may spread throughout all the Church, that it may be characteristic of Presidencies of Stakes and High Councils, Bishoprics, Ward Teachers, and particularly of the quorums and auxiliaries of the Church, that they may all be one, to quote the Savior, as he and his Father are one. God help us to achieve this principle, that our faith in God and in his work may be unwavering, and our loyalty never doubted, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
