27
Morning
06 04 1937
Elder Reuben M. Wiberg 
224
101-104

None

None

If it were possible to get a group such as this one together in the Tongan Islands, one could say that he was speaking to nearly fifty per cent, of the population. From that you will readily understand that Tonga is only a mere spot in the South Seas. One writer, having visited that place, put it in words something like this: 

Have you heard of Tonga, 
That lone Pacific realm 
Where a queen rules in splendor, 
By Great Britain's saving grace, 
Where parliament meets biennially only, 
And then just meets to eat? 

It is quite a lengthy little poem, if you would call it that. He pictures some of the things that were nevertheless true, but are not true at the present time. 

Though it is a very small and perhaps insignificant kingdom, even in the legislative set-up and the government, there are many virtues that I feel are worthy of mention. 

We are inaugurating a Church Security Program here in our Church, and we have already heard in this Conference of comment that has come from people outside of the United States, and from prominent men of our country, who are not of our faith, who feel that it is a wonderful thing. 

In a smaller sense, perhaps, there is something very remarkable about the kingdom of Tonga and its government. All of the land is owned by the government. When a young man becomes of the age of sixteen he may register at the Minister of Lands office and receive a portion of land sufficient for his maintenance, even if he has a large family, and most of them do. 

Whether or not a person registers for land at that age, he becomes taxable, and every person is taxed alike. He may accept that offer of a portion of land sufficient for his keep, or he may not. Fortunate for the one who accepts it, because if he is in any mood at all to be aggressive he can take care of that and much more, and also go into other activities as much as he will. 

I am very happy and pleased with this opportunity, my brethren and sisters. I didn't think the call would come a second time. It has been a year, nearly, since I returned, and I was not in attendance when my name was called in the October Conference. 

I would like to say this to the brethren and sisters here assembled, respecting the people of Tonga — perhaps on your maps you will more readily find this little kingdom under the name of the Friendly Islands — when our boys, your sons, go to that field to labor they are among a class of the most friendly people, I believe, that I have ever met. I think to a great extent the people there are friendly, having overcome their prejudice of years past when the work was in its beginning. One would be impressed, almost immediately, with the friendliness of that people. The missionaries are taken in, even by those who are not of the Faith, and even by those who are under restraint by their religious leaders and advised not to accept literature or to tolerate the visit of a Mormon Elder, but invariably they make the Elders feel welcome. 

During my brief mission there, presiding over that kingdom, as far as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is concerned, I made a request and the response was almost immediate, and equipment was sent there for a visual means of teaching the Gospel, although we don't have much electricity in that country, other than that which can be obtained from a car battery or some other kind of battery. We rigged up and managed to produce little films to show those people some of the things that they may never have the opportunity of seeing here at home, and also many things that go to prove the divinity of the Book of Mormon. Although that book is not in print and has not been published in that language, they are very familiar with it, because it seems even with that handicap the Elders avail themselves of every opportunity to teach the contents of that wonderful book. They hope some time, though they are very few in number and the cost would be great to publish that book, that they may be enabled to assist in bringing it forth in printed form. 

It was also my privilege to labor in that mission at a time when missionaries were very scarce, in fact, so scarce at one time that I was the only Elder upon the mainland, and there was one Elder in one district of that mission 260 miles away. We communicated by mail, which is anything but speedy in that part of the world. 

During that period it became necessary, as you will understand, to call local people into responsible positions to carry on and officiate in the work of the Lord. During that period we had twenty-two branch presidents, all of them local men. We had three district presidents, all of them local men. We had officers and teachers in all of the auxiliary organizations, who were local men and women. 

During that period I believe that a keener sense of responsibility was felt among the Priesthood of that mission than ever before. In fact, when I went into the mission there were a number of branch presidents who thought their only responsibility was to conduct the meetings. They couldn't tell you how many members they had in the branch where they were, or very much about them. They did report that they had held a sacramental meeting at such and such a time, regularly every Sunday, and that was about all. 

Many of those men developed a sense of responsibility in a short time, where they felt that they were actually the father of that little branch, and they paid regular visits to their members especially those who were delinquent, and the work developed and prospered under their leadership. 

President Dunn, who has succeeded me, was a former companion upon my first mission in that nation. I almost knew that he would be my successor, when I went into the field, and he felt the same, according to our correspondence while we were separated, he on this side and I on the other side. It was one of the most pleasant days of my life to meet Brother Dunn and welcome him into the Tongan Mission, for I know his worth and his ability as a leader among that class of people, whom he loves and whom I love. I believe that every missionary who goes there, unless something is wrong with the missionary, learns to love those people. 

A great deal could be said about that fine mission, even though it is the smallest we have, but I feel, my brethren and sisters, that perhaps for the one minute that I have left I would like to speak primarily of the feeling of the Latter-day Saints there toward the people at home, the families of the missionaries, and the General Authorities of the Church. 

It is not an infrequent thing, in our little district conferences and in our mission conferences, especially when an elder is leaving, that many of the officers of the branches, the Relief Society sisters and others, will come to the missionary and ask him to convey their heartfelt appreciation to the Presidency of the Church, to the Twelve Apostles, and to the presidents of the organizations, for through the organizations and through correspondence and advice that come from the General Authorities, conveyed to them through the mission president and agencies there, they feel that they are just as close, I believe, as the people in the Western States Mission or in any other mission of the Church here at home. 

They are eager to know all of the advances and all of the plans that are made by the Church. They have always been found to be willing to work in harmony, sustaining the General Authorities of the Church and their desires. 

I pray that the Lord may be and abide continuously with those people in the South Seas, and that the work may grow and progress. It is a comparatively new mission, having been organized in 1917, and a few years after its organization, by legislative act, a law was passed forbidding Mormon Elders to enter that kingdom — not only Mormon Elders, but any Mormons — and under that handicap, for a period of two years we labored without missionaries coming into the field. 

At the time of my departure from that mission in 1925, there were only the Mission President and his wife left, with one district president and one missionary to preside over each of the other two districts. Fortunately, en route to American Samoa, Pago Pago, I met the first incoming missionary. 

In 1924, almost by means that were uncanny, that legislative act was repealed, and Mormons again were granted the liberty to come in. They are glad now to have the Elders come in, I assure you, and they give us every opportunity that we request. Of course there is that element that inasmuch as the Queen herself is the head of the Church, there is somewhat of a feeling of restraint from that source, but it is very little heeded by the general population of the country. 

My time has expired. I pray God to bless us, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
