32
Afternoon
06 04 1937
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
112-116

None

None

In the days of ancient Athens, when her citizens took pride in the culture and art of her greatness, the youth who entered the army were required to take an oath before the gods. It read: 

We shall never bring disgrace upon this our city, by any act of dishonesty or cowardice, nor ever desert our suffering comrades in the ranks. We will fight for the ideals and sacred things of the city, both alone and with many. We will revere and obey the city's laws, and do our best, to incite a like respect and reverence in those above us, who are prone to annul and set them at naught. We will strive unceasingly to quicken the public sense of civic duty. Thus in all these ways, we will transmit this city not only not less, but greater, better, and more beautiful than it was transmitted to us. 

A hundred and fifty years ago, the founders of our Republic announced the sublime truth that men are free and equal. A century and a half have rolled away since then, and the history of the world has no chapter to compare with the accomplishments of America in that time. Standing on Saxon foundations, and inspired by Latin example, we have done what no race or nation or age has ever accomplished. The American people have founded a Republic on the unlimited suffrage of the millions of souls that inhabit this land. They have worked out the problem that a man, as God created him, may be entrusted with self-government. 

Our forebears had a virgin continent to conquer. The fundamental problems they met with hard work and a faith in themselves. They had inherited from their fathers, the ideals of home-life, freedom of religion, the free state, the public school, and the lands of the vast continent to till, on which they built their homes. 

No nation has ever had a freer people, and no other nation of history has given its citizens the powers of happiness as our Government has done. Great wealth has been produced, but that wealth has been used to build industries and institutions of learning; it has been the power in the hands of men to build humble homes and beautiful churches, and with it all, the ideals of the founders of the Republic have been preserved, and America has worshipped at the shrine of its great men. 

Our Government was "conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal." America has upheld this ideal before the world, and has opened its gates to all peoples of the world. Religion has been a forceful factor in our growth, and today some two hundred or more Christian sects are attempting to keep alive the divine message of the Savior of the world. The light on the hills of Judea became our light, and we have had faith in the vision of a prophet of ancient Israel: 

The secret things belong unto the Lord our God: but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law. 

Our Government started out blessed with the rich inheritance of the ages. Its future lay before it, and that justice should rule the hearts of all its people, the Constitution of the United States was written. The influence of our Government has been felt time and time again among the nations of Europe, for they have looked to America for the solution of their problems. 

A few years ago, at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, a great event took place. In that simple and dignified room, where the Declaration of Independence was written and the Constitution of our country was adopted, no fewer than twelve nations, through their representatives, assembled to make their own solemn declaration of common aims. In that sacred room, those nations made public confession of a faith which linked them in friendship with this nation. What a solemn occasion! The nations of Europe lighting their national fires at the altar of American liberty. 

The peoples of the world have entered our gates, and have found here a new life and happiness. Never had they been so well cared for; never had they the chance to live and to look up to their God in hallowed feeling as they were given in this land. No nation of history has given homes to its people as has this our Country. Never has the wealth of land been so equitably distributed; never in all time, have so many people owned their own homes. With individual opportunity, there has gone quite naturally inequality. Inequality is a law of all social life, and to try to do away with inequality among men is to substitute tyranny for liberty. 

The quality of democracy in America is that it seeks to protect and preserve that sovereign right of all people to come to a knowledge of their own better selves, and to live their own natural lives. Democracy teaches us that it is not wealth that makes happiness, but the wealth of the spirit, brought about by the opportunity to work on land and in factory, and to enjoy the blessings of church and school. Men may exploit honest labor, but such a thing is foreign to American principles. It is the wealth of America in the hands of men of vision that has built industries, and made it possible for all people to have honest labor, and to live honestly before their God. The schools of America, the churches, the institutions of higher learning have been closed to no one, and the statement of a noted writer on economics that the glory of America is that every head of a family is given an opportunity to own his home, is true. The peasants of Europe, who lived on bread and wine, have found asylum in this land, and the comforts of the humble fire-side. 

This is an age of change. Innovation is the idol of the times. "In this age of novelty, many things are made better, and many things are made worse. Old errors are discarded, and new errors are embraced." Governments feel the same effects in this craze for change. "But the experience of all ages," said Daniel Webster on one occasion, "will bear us out in saying that alterations of political systems are always attended with great danger, for if the Constitution is to be changed, an alteration in one part will work an alteration in another." 

Nor are great and striking alterations alone to be shunned. A succession of small changes, a perpetual tampering with minute parts, steal away the breath, though they leave the body; for it is true that a Government may lose all its real character: its genius and its temper: without losing its appearance. So if we are not careful — very careful — we may find our government changed to a despotism, and yet called a Republic. It may have all the essential modes of freedom, and yet nothing of the essence, the vitality of freedom in it. The form may be left, but the spirit and the life will be gone.

To perpetuate our government, we must cherish and love it. We must preserve a correct and energetic tone of morals. After all, liberty consists more in the habits of the people, than in anything else. There are always men wicked enough to go any length in the pursuit of power, if they can find people enough to support them. Ambition of men to become dictators must be restrained by the public morality. When such men arise, they must find themselves standing alone. 

America will have to suffer the hate and envy of the unappreciative. It is a law of life that we only appreciate that which we are ourselves. Millions of citizens have never risen to the appreciation of the glory of our nation, and therefore they become the fighters and destroyers of right. Wrong rules the day, and in time a wrong is felt to be right. It all means that education is the only way to reach the ideal in our souls of what our Government really means. Did the fathers reach it? They did, but it was through the faith they had in Almighty God. Such faith is the great help to true education. 

We are the trustees of a sacred trust. We have been given by Providence this Government with all its potentiality, with all its accomplishment, with allots promise. The question should be to every American: How am I discharging this trusteeship? What am I doing to preserve, protect, and perpetuate the ideals of the government in which we have such implicit faith? We have a solemn obligation before us. 

Every American should read the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States, Lincoln's Address at Gettysburg, and see for himself whether the American policy; has been a selfish program. It has been a program to serve humanity. 

Only the application of the standards of moral excellence can save our fundamental ideals. As we look into the future, will it be progress or decline? Let us pray God that it may be progress. But progress will never be unless we sacredly preserve our Constitution and hold it as the surest vision for liberty and freedom. 

A few days ago, the Christian world celebrated the Easter Day. Churches were filled with worshipers, and for the moment, as on the Christmas day, men's thoughts were turned to God. The unfortunate thing is that the spirit of the day is soon forgotten, and other hopes and feelings take grip on the soul. People are not happy, for they miss the very things that make for the joy of living. The youth have an aversion for hard work; the mad thirst for pleasure has replaced our sacred home life, and the hate of man for man has brought the nations of the earth to the verge of war. 

Yet there are forces and truths in the world that may yet be taken to awaken a finer conscientiousness in the hearts of mankind, and a more sacred belief in the righteousness and justice of the dreams and ideals which the Christian world knelt in honor of last Easter Day. We are told by St. Mark, the Evangelist, in words of exquisite beauty that: 

When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had brought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him.

And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. 

And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 

And when they looked they saw that the stone was rolled away; for it was very great. 

And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted. 

And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted; Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here. 

For all the ills of government; for all the ills of humanity, in these words of St. Mark, there is fundamentally the panacea and the hope for humanity. How many millions of the Christian world have rolled away the stone from the sepulchre of Jesus Christ, our Lord, and know that he has risen as the true and living Christ, whose teachings can rejuvenate mankind? The power that rolls away the stone from the sepulchre and allows the risen Christ to come forth is contained in the words of the Master: 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength: and thy neighbor as thyself. 

This is the way of mutuality and co-operation in human society. It is the Master's way of doing away with hate and fear. It is only by the Christian world allowing the Christ to come forth to eternal life, that the civilization of the world can be saved. 

If in our thoughts of the resurrection of the Savior of the world we could realize more perfectly that he mastered the teaching of the Psalmist, "that the statutes of God give wisdom unto the simple, and the highest conceivable wisdom to the humblest minds," people's hearts would be awakened to a spiritual response, which is so much needed at the present time. It was his life that liberated people from the domination of deceits, and bestowed upon the race the increasing consciousness of the immortality of spiritual values. Every human soul must push away the stone from the sepulchre, and know for himself that Christ is risen unto life eternal, and in this thought, the new day will be a dawn of renewed faith in mankind and in the directive providences of God. 
