35
Afternoon
06 04 1937
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
6
119-121

None

None 

There is nothing certain in this world. Usually Brother McKay and myself sit here for two and a half days, more or less, on tenter hooks. Then comes our turn, and the Conference is over. This time we have been pluming ourselves ever since the first day that we were through. Now we find ourselves, near the last moment, asked to say something again to you, or at least to try to say something. 

CONFERENCE ADDRESSES INSPIRED OF THE LORD 

My brethren and sisters, I have enjoyed this Conference. I have enjoyed the messages that have come to us during this Conference. When I was not a member of this group — the presiding group— I used to think that perhaps they all got together beforehand, and decided what each should say, what each should talk about, because all the speeches of the Conference fit in together as a mosaic, making a beautiful picture of instruction, counsel, and advice. It was a great surprise to me to find, when I came into the group, that there were no discussions about Conference talks or a Conference program; that every man was left free to follow his own desires in what he should say . No plan or course was marked out. Then there came to me, as I am sure there has come to you, a more poignant realization that the Lord was in charge of these Conferences. The old expression about the keynote speech of the Conference took on, to me, a different meaning entirely. It was not a speech consciously predicting or forecasting what should be said at the Conference, but it was the Lord speaking through his chosen and anointed one, giving a thought and direction to the things that should be said . Therein lies the responsibility, my brethren and sisters, of those whom you have called to fill these high and sacred places of authority.  

RESPONSIBILITY OF SAINTS TOWARDS THOSE WHO SPEAK 

It is our responsibility so to live that when the Lord shall indicate through the one whom he has chosen to direct his affairs upon this earth the line and direction which should be taken, that we shall be able to follow on, we who hold positions of lesser trust and responsibility in the Church. 

I often say, and thoroughly believe, that whenever an Elder of the Church stands up to speak to the people, the responsibility as to whether or not he shall say that which the Lord would have him say is not wholly his. No member of the Church who sits before him but has the obligation to exert his power in prayer that those things may be said which shall benefit those to whom the Elder speaks. Furthermore, that responsibility carries back beyond the mere coming to the meeting, or the mere attitude in the meeting; it carries back to the character of life which every Latter-day Saint lives, because it is his duty so to live that if, when, and as he comes into church his faith and his prayers may be exercised to the end that they who speak shall be able to declare the will of the Lord. 

I do not say nor do I suggest that there may not be occasions when the Lord speaks in spite of the people. Those times sometimes do come, but I do feel that when the people of the Lord come to these Conferences such is not the occasion in which they find themselves, and therefore it is their duty, coming to the Conference, to come in a spirit of reverence, in a spirit of worship, in a spirit of sanctification. First, that they themselves may be fed, and in order next that they who speak may also be fed, to the end that all the people of the Church, and all the people of the world may be instructed, directed, and built up by those things which may be said at these Conferences. 

SPIRITUAL SIGNIFICANCE OF CONFERENCES 

These are unique gatherings, unique in the whole world, unique because they are gatherings that are directed by the man whom the Lord has chosen to guide and direct his work on this earth. No other people have any such position as this; no other man has any such position as that which I have described, and therefore what we do and say here from Conference to Conference, has a deep, abiding spiritual significance, and that significance cannot reach its full measure, we cannot send out our messages in their full strength unless those who gather here, who participate in these Conferences, are attuned to the Spirit of the Lord. 

May he in the future as in the past bring together in these Conferences faithful Latter-day Saints. May he bring together continually such great gatherings of the Priesthood as we had last night. As has been said here today nobody can stand before that great audience and not be solemnly impressed with the strength and the power which reside in them. 

So I repeat we should come here prepared to help to open up the avenues to the heavens, that from the heavens may come the inspiration which God expects us to possess. That you may be participants, that we may be participants, that we shall give to the world those things which the world needs, and that the Lord may bless us always, I ask in the name of Jesus, Amen.
