24
Morning
06 04 1937
Elder Abel S. Rich 
208
94-96

None

None

It is indeed a pleasure to join the Latter-day Saints in this great Conference again. I have been inspired by the beautiful music and by the clarity with which the principles of the Gospel have been presented to us by our President, and by the General Authorities of the Church. 

I am happy to see the feeling of friendship and social fraternity that exists among our Latter-day Saints. I think its equal cannot be found in any other group in the world. It is based on what Jesus called a mark of a true disciple, when in speaking to his Apostles he said: 

By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. 

You faithful Latter-day Saints in the stakes of Zion are preaching the Gospel beautifully to the world. The broadcasts from this historic building and organ, the fine sermonettes that come from Brother Evans, your work on the Social Security Program, have reached people in Eastern Canada and touched their hearts, who have never heretofore found interest in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

This letter came to me this morning. It was directed to the Temple grounds here, and forwarded to me by Brother Peery. It suggests what some of these things are doing in the world. The letter is from a young college student, who takes her Bachelor's degree this spring from the Farmington Normal State School of Maine, and says, in part: 

I saw the March of Time the other night, telling how you have been meeting the economic difficulties there. I was fascinated with it. Living here in the east, I have never contacted real historical information concerning the Mormons, and now I would like very much to know something of their history. 

On my recent tour of the mission, when I reached St. John, New Brunswick, a city where we had been unable to make many contacts or get much favorable newspaper work done, a reporter called and asked me if I had anything that would interest the people of St. John, after he has asked me what my mission was. I told him that I felt that I did have something that would interest the people of St. John, and would be glad to give it to him if he would come to my room. He came and I gave him some of the facts about the Social Security Program, something of the way it had worked out. Then he said: "That sounds like a fairy." When I assured him that it was the truth he said: "It is wonderful. I have not heard anything like it. But," he said, "how do you get your people to do those things?" I was pleased to tell him that the secret of the response lay in the fact that the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints look upon their President as a prophet of God, who speaks the will of God to his people. 

The same spirit of friendliness and love so manifest in the gathering of the Latter-day Saints here is found in the branches of the Church in the world, which indicates that the secret lies, not in people or in their place of residence, but in the principles of the restored Gospel. This knowledge gives zest to missionary work: to realize fully that the message of the Gospel gives purpose to life, and enthusiasm for living, an interest in the welfare of other people, resulting in the growth and happiness of the individual, gives courage to the missionary to carry on even under many discouragements. 

The missionaries throughout our mission are well, and are a happy group, thoroughly enjoying their work. They are fine examples of what the Gospel does for people. Their buoyant happiness, their courage and kindly interest in the welfare of the people teach well the fruits of Mormonism. You parents are to be congratulated on the home training of these fine young men and women. 

It is my opinion that none of our fine institutions can take the place of the home in training young people in the formation of ideals and correct attitudes. If missionaries come into the field with the right attitude and ideals, and if they have been taught the value of unselfish service, and have grown up in a home where reverence has been shown for the Gospel, and where its principles have been practiced, they have that which makes them successful missionaries. 

If they can have added to these fine essentials some definite knowledge of the Gospel principles, they are so much better equipped for their work. Many come to us knowing but little of the Gospel, and little of the art of meeting people. I have sometimes wondered if in our homes, as Latter-day Saints, we could not do more by way of teaching the Gospel to these young people, that they might come to this important work just a little better prepared. 

Missionaries who have some definite training in music, public speaking and reading, have opportunities to meet clubs and social groups, that help very materially in getting our message before people in such fashion that they will listen. 

On reaching the mission field the missionary is thrown largely on his own resourcefulness and initiative. This causes him to study with a definite purpose, and creates in him a humility and a dependence upon God, that accounts largely for the marvelous growth that he makes during the mission period. 

These lines from Ella Wheeler Wilcox well characterize, I think, the life of the missionary, wherein she says: 

Lean on thyself until thy strength is tried, 
Then ask God's help, it will not be denied. 
Use thine own sight to see the way to go; 
When darkness falls ask God the path to show. 
Think for thyself and reason out thy plan; 
God has his work, and thou hast thine. 
Exert thy will and use self-control 
God gave thee jurisdiction of thy soul. 
All thy immortal powers bring into play; 
Think, act, strive, look up and pray. 

No matter what our station in life, the blessings of the Gospel are dependent upon our individual response to it. Its blessings and promises and requirements have remained much the same throughout the ages, and the joy and happiness based on its principles have been enjoyed only by those who have made the Gospel a living, active part of their daily lives. 

Speaking through the writer of the book of Revelation, the Master commended the Saints for much of their fine living, and then he made these promises to the seven churches, and I believe they have eternal values: 

To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God, and . . . He shall not be hurt of the second death. 

And he that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations, and he shall rule them. . . . 

He that overcometh the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. . . . . .

Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, 

and then finally he concludes by saying: 

I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed . . . and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see. 

The present condition of the world indicates that the Latter-day Saints should see the necessity of the possession of this gold that has been tried in the fire, and of this salve with which to anoint our eyes. Within the Gospel principles is found the gold that has been tried in the fire, and in the inspiration of our leadership and the authority of the Priesthood and the blessings of the Holy Ghost is this salve with which to anoint our eyes, that we may see, and seeing, find the way to peace, security and happiness. 

I am happy in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. My testimony and love for it grow as, I see its influence on people. 

May the Lord bless our leaders and us, that each of us may do fully our part of this great work, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
