Afternoon 
10 03 1930

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I hope and pray that I may have the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord in what I shall say this afternoon. 

Very timely counsel and instruction were given in the meeting this morning. I was pleased that our attention was called to the duties of parents and teachers and their responsibility in looking after the interests of our children and the youth of Israel and in imparting proper instruction while they are young so that they may not depart from it. 

I believe fully that we are living in the last days; that we are approaching very rapidly the advent of the Son of God on the earth. President Grant made reference to this in his remarks this morning. 

AN EXAMPLE IN RIGHTEOUSNESS 

This afternoon I would like, if I may be led to do so, to say a few words to the Latter-day Saints by way of counsel and perhaps admonition. We have been informed that the world is full of lawlessness, and especially is this the case in our own country which is dedicated as a land of liberty. The Latter-day Saints are as a city set on a hill that cannot be hid, and like the candle that gives light to all who are in the house. It is our duty to let our light shine as an example in righteousness, not only to the people among whom we live, but to the peoples of the whole earth. It is our duty to be law-abiding. We are commanded by the Lord to keep his commandments and also to be obedient to the laws of the land. Having the light of the Gospel as it has been revealed, we are under obligation to set examples in righteousness before all men. We have been endowed with power from on high. We have been blessed with direct revelation through our prophets. We know the Authorities of the Church are entitled to inspiration, and that they receive it. We know that we have been guided by revelation and commandment from the Lord. With this light and knowledge before us, there is no place in the Church for the disobedient and the rebellious, the violator of the law. There is no place for those who do not have in their hearts a love of the truth and who remain unrepentant. When I say this I do not mean to convey the thought that we have no sympathy for the lawbreaker and no love for the unrepentant. It is our commission to go into all the world and cry repentance and endeavor to save the sinner; but if men will not repent who are in the Church, and if they will not be obedient to the teachings of the Church, then they are not entitled to membership. It is the duty of every member to be repentant, to be humble, to be willing to receive counsel, and to walk in the light as it has been revealed to us. 

LAW-ABIDING CITIZENS 

Today many of the laws on our statutes are ridiculed. Some of the people stand in opposition to them because they have been misled in believing that mistakes have been made. Others are standing in opposition to the law because they have malicious and evil hearts. The Latter-day Saints are quite generally law-abiding citizens, both of the nation and of the kingdom of God. We should be such, for we are under covenant to walk in the light of the truth, to be obedient to the statutes and the judgments which have been given us for our guidance both civilly and spiritually as members of the Church. 

IN A DAY OF WICKEDNESS 

We are living in a day of wickedness. I do not believe, as some seem to think, that the world is growing better. I cannot make that thought appear consistent with the word of the Lord, for he has emphatically said otherwise. If the world is becoming more righteous, then the coming of the Lord will of necessity have to be postponed, because he is going to come in the day of wickedness, in the day of judgment, and when vengeance against the ungodly is in his heart. At that time he will cleanse the earth of its unrighteousness, and we are told there will be "few men left." 

Let me read one or two passages of scripture which bear upon this point. These sayings have been given us for our guidance and for the guidance of the whole world if they will receive them. The Lord says in a revelation given shortly after the organization of the Church : 

"And ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine elect; for mine elect hear my voice and harden not their hearts; 

"Wherefore the decree hath gone forth from the Father that they shall be gathered in unto one place upon the face of this land, to prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked. 

"For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth; 

"For the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass; 

"For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." 

Again in another revelation the Lord said : 

"Behold, I, the Lord, utter my voice, and it shall be obeyed. 

"Wherefore, verily I say, let the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious fear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold their lips, for the day of wrath shall come upon them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall know that I am God. 

"And he that seeketh signs shall see signs, but not unto salvation." 

So the Lord is going to come when the cup of iniquity is full. He has said : 

"Mine indignation is soon to be poured out without measure upon the nations; and this will I do when the cup of their iniquity is full." 

Here is the testimony of the Lord to Enoch as it is given in the Pearl of Great Price: 

"And the Lord said unto Enoch: As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance, to fulfil the oath which I have made unto you concerning the children of Noah. 

"And the day shall come that the earth shall rest, but before that day the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth; and great tribulations shall be among the children of men, but my people will I preserve." 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE WATCHMEN UPON THE TOWERS 

Brother B. H. Roberts, this morning, called our attention to the fact that we are watchmen upon the towers of Israel. It is our duty to warn, to admonish, to teach, in righteousness, the Latter-day Saints and all peoples. I think we are under responsibility to warn the world and call the attention of the people to these predictions and cry among them repentance, and ask them to repent, that they too may receive the Gospel and thus escape from these calamities and tribulations which even now are being poured out upon the nations of the earth. The Lord has promised us that Zion may escape from this destruction and trouble if she will hearken to his commandments and walk in his statutes. But Zion will not escape unless she is willing to walk in humility and obedience. If we refuse to hearken to counsel, if we refuse to observe the laws of the Gospel and to live in humility, faith and love, then we will be visited "with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire." Therefore, I feel it my duty to cry repentance and to warn the people. 

OUR DUTY ON THE SABBATH DAY 

I pray that these things may pass us by, but I fear they will not unless there is sincere repentance in Israel. As I travel up and down through the stakes of Zion, I discover that there are those among the Latter-day Saints who are violators of the Sabbath day. Now. the breaking of this great law is not confined to those who are not of us; but in our own communities the Sabbath day is set aside as a day of pleasure rather than a day for worshiping the Lord and for reflection and study concerning the things which pertain to eternal life. I think it is deplorable and the Lord will not hold us guiltless. 

Latter-day Saints have no business, with the Gospel before us, and the direct commandments we have received from the Lord, to go to the picture shows on Sunday. Sunday is our Sabbath. The Lord has set it apart as such and has commanded us to observe it faithfully. We have no right to go to pleasure resorts on that day. We have no business at the baseball games, and other places of amusement on this, the Lord's day; but should be found inside our church buildings which have been dedicated for the worship of the Lord our God. We should go to the house of the Lord, and there confess our sins, partake of the sacrament and receive instruction in praise and thanksgiving, rejoicing in the truth. This is our duty on the Sabbath day, and we should be engaged in no other thing, for this is a day appointed unto us in which to rest from our labors and to pay our devotions to the Most High. 

NEED OF REPENTANCE 

We have been warned many times, and I say, my brethren and sisters, there is room for repentance among the Latter-day Saints. We had better repent or many of us will find ourselves caught in the snares and in the net. The Lord has said that when he comes those who will not hearken to the voice of his servants, and more especially to the voice of Jesus Christ, our Lord, shall be cut off from among the people. There will be many among those in Zion and who belong to the Church, who shall be called upon to mourn and to lament, as did the Nephites of old, unless we turn with full purpose, to the worship of the Lord and the keeping of his commandments. That we may tum unto the Lord and remember the covenants we have made with him and thus be worthy in the day of his coming, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the same spirit that has actuated the speakers at the morning session, and so far this 'afternoon, may be given to me. My only desire is to bear witness to the truth, to assist in its establishment in the world, and to forward the work of the Church, and the preaching of the Gospel among the nations of the earth. My desire is to see righteousness established among men and selfishness and wickedness done away. 

I realize very greatly how dependent I am, as an individual, upon the Lord to assist me and to keep me in the path of duty and from  off either to the right or to the left, because of the perplexing conditions that exist and the controversies that there are among men. And, if it be hard to live individually in keeping with the truth, so is it hard also to be sure always that a person is teaching the truth. 

When Jesus Christ stood before Pilate he was asked whether he be a king, and he said : 

"My kingdom is not of this world : if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered unto the Jews; but now is my kingdom not from hence. 

"Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king, then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. 

"Pilate saith unto him, What is truth?" 

As I come in contact with men and things in the world today, it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that many men are wondering, "What is truth?" The Savior said that he came into the world, and for this purpose was he born, to bear witness of the truth in the world; and I find joy and consolation and comfort in looking to him for a witness of truth concerning things that perplex me, and I think the world might well do likewise.! 

Among people who profess to believe in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world and the great Teacher that they in their churches, and according to their creeds, follow, there are controversies over points of doctrine and in regard to the very existence of God and his personality. Still they do not look to him for an answer to that query, "What is truth?" concerning all of these things. The personality of God is a question that is being discussed in a spirit of controversy and has been for many years. Many men deny the existence of God as a personality, as a being, other than a diffused Spirit throughout the immensity of space. 

Jesus Christ said that he came to bear witness of the truth, and of that truth he has borne witness unto us. Philip asked him upon one occasion to manifest the Father unto him and his associates, and the Savior seemed a little surprised that such a query should be made after he had been with them, the Twelve, so long and had taught them. He very pointedly said to Philip: "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." 

My brethren and sisters, there is your manifestation and your witness of truth concerning God. It is given by him whose mission it was to bear witness to the truth in the world. Every teaching, then, of the Savior, if it be his mission to bear witness of the truth, is truth, taught to our Father's children for their salvation here upon the earth. "The Gospel of Jesus Christ," Paul says, "is the power of God unto salvation," and this is true. It is the witness of Jesus Christ in the world, of the truth. 

The question that is perplexing now, brethren and sisters, is where is the truth in the world today ? We who- go out in the world to preach the Gospel come in contact with men who contend tenaciously that they are teaching the truth, that the church they represent is the true church of God; that their concept of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost is a true concept; and still we find them differing among themselves, and we differ from all of them, practically speaking, in most of these vital points. So where is the truth today? Since the minds of men have been confused, and men, seemingly, have gone astray from the truth, or at least are confused as to where it is located, has there been a remanifestation of it? 

I maintain, my brethren and sisters, that Joseph Smith, as a prophet raised up of God, not equal of course to Jesus Christ in any sense of the word, but in the same spirit, came into the world to bear witness of the truth today, through a restoration of it, just the same as Jesus Christ came into the world to bear witness of the truth when he came; and in all essential points his witness concurs with the witness of Jesus Christ. . 

What was the witness of Joseph Smith, when a mere boy, concerning the personality of God? We all know that there was great confusion in the world at that particular time, and when Joseph Smith went into the woods to pray I doubt that he had a well defined idea or concept of Deity, or at least a concept as well defined as he had after he had so prayed and received a manifestation of the Father. He came from out that forest and boldly declared, to the day of his death, that there came into his presence a being after whose image and in whose likeness he was formed, — in other words, a man, an exalted man, who proclaimed himself to be the Father of another being there also in his presence, they two being in the same likeness; and he gave command to Joseph Smith to listen to the voice of his Son. 

That is the witness of Joseph Smith concerning our Father in heaven — that he is a being with body, parts, and passions, in whose image and likeness mankind is formed. He bears witness that the Son is like him, and he bore witness to the end of his days that such was the truth. From the very moment that he announced these things he was confronted with persecution that was bitter. He no doubt realized that by retracting, and I think was told that should he retract, this persecution would cease. But he bore testimony that he felt like Paul of old must have felt when he saw a vision, when a light enveloped him, when he heard and *saw the Redeemer of the world. Joseph said : 

"I know that I have seen a light, and that in that light I saw two personages, and they are God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ; and who am I, that I should deny God, for I know that I know these things, and I know likewise that God knows that I know them." 

If we will carefully analyze the teachings of Joseph Smith, not only in this particular but in regard to every principle of the Gospel that through him has been established, we will find that they concur with the witness of truth manifested and established by Jesus Christ when he was among the children of men. So I think that we can well look to this as the means and as the key whereby we may know. 

I bear you my witness, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives. I know that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. I know that the Gospel, as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation, and it will, in its unfolding, answer every query and every problem that confronts the world. I have absolute and abiding faith in these things, and am willing to trust to the Lord. Perhaps a witness has not yet been borne to every truth. There may be marvelous truths yet to be revealed to the children of men, and the Lord, in his own way and through his Spirit, will make these things known to his children as they may be useful unto them. I think that we should search for truth; we should strive to know it; we should strive to learn it. Only truth can free the world from the errors that are in it today. Only truth can bring about a better condition in the world, and less hatred and strife and bitterness and misery among the children of men. I mean truth if it goes into the hearts of men and men live by the truth. The Savior says: "If you will follow after my words, and believe in them, you shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." I maintain that if the truth is planted in the heart of man, and he lives in accordance with the truth as it comes to him through the inspiration of the Lord, that he is willing to pour out on all those who seek him, it will relieve mankind and the human race of all the ills that beset them. 

May the Lord help us to appreciate the truth; and to become free by knowing it and by living in harmony with it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Our twelfth Article of Faith says, "We believe * * * in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." There are those who, looking upon this as a religious statement, will ridicule it. But are there any who will ridicule the words of Lincoln? "Bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible; still, while they continue in force, they should be religiously observed." 

REVOLT NATURAL TO AMERICANS 

My purpose, this afternoon, is to appeal to you to live in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, to obey the laws of our country. 

The American people have a natural inclination to break the law. Our nation was cradled in revolt. Our Declaration of Independence and the oft-repeated speeches of the Revolutionary period keep fanned into a flame that old revolutionary spirit — the spirit of defiance. Our Civil War is perhaps the greatest example of the belief of Americans in the right of revolt. 

In early days, when our numbers were few and when these few lived on sparsely settled areas, to have laws and to obey them was not a matter of supreme importance. 

REVOLT NOW DISASTROUS 

But in this mechanical age, with our great cities, our densely populated manufacturing centers, with hitherto undreamed-of wealth — wealth unequally distributed — if there were no laws, or if the laws are disobeyed by a large portion of the community, disaster will necessarily follow. 

Listen again to Lincoln : 

"Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well-wisher of posterity, swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. * * * Let reverence for the law be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges." 

AIDING THE CAUSE OF ANARCHY 

If the day has come when a majority of the citizens of the United States will ridicule Lincoln and his ideas, when a majority will disobey our laws and disregard our Constitution, the republic is doomed, its destruction sure. 

The American Bar Association said recently by resolution that when lawyers, bankers, manufacturers, merchants, and social leaders disobey and scoff at the prohibition law, they are aiding the cause of anarchy, they are promoting mob violence, they are encouraging robbery. 

Many are intentionally breaking the prohibition law. By so doing they are aiding the cause of anarchy, promoting mob violence, and encouraging robbery. 

SWORN DUTY OF OFFICERS 

It is the sworn duty of officials to obey and defend the Constitution and to discharge their duties with fidelity. Lincoln not only asks that every "American swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate the laws of the country," but he appeals to every American "never to tolerate their violation by others." Must we tolerate public officials who themselves break the laws? 

I have made a solemn public pledge that I will not knowingly cast my vote for any man for any office unless I have been assured that he lives in accordance with the law. I am referring primarily to the prohibition law. 

TWELVE MILLION WOMEN! 

The Washington Post of March 9, 1929, announced that ten national affiliated women's organizations had pledged the support of twelve million women of the United States to aid the dry drive of our country. The wife of the President was pointed to as a fine example of the way in which American women can help in the enforcement of the liquor law. That way is by refusing to participate in social or other functions where the law is broken. Are these twelve million women carrying out this pledge? 

It is my intention to request those candidates for whom I may cast "my vote to answer the following: 

(a) Do you yourself live in accordance with the prohibition law? 

(b) Do you pledge yourself to refuse to -participate in any social or other function where the law is broken? 

The Constitution of the United States prohibits the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors. Our State law provides that the importing, advertising, giving away, exchanging, dispensing, or serving of liquor is "forever prohibited." It is unlawful also for any person to have intoxicating liquor in his possession. 

With such provisions in the statutes of our State and in the Constitution of our country, no public official can, in honor, violate the prohibition laws "in the least particular" nor can he "tolerate their violation by others." 

WHAT ONE HUNDRED CAN DO 

It has been said that if one hundred of the leading 'business men in Salt Lake City would live in accordance with the law and would not participate in social or other functions where the law is broken, soon much of our trouble with prohibition would be over. I propose to try to get the above-named pledge — 

(a) From at least 100 of the leading business men in Salt Lake 

City. 

(b) From at least 100 of the leading business men of the State of Utah. 

(c) From at least 100 of the leading business men, scientists, and statesmen of the United States. 

If the outstanding characters of our country can be induced not to participate in any function, social or otherwise, where the law is broken, and if our officers will do their sworn duty, then respect for the Constitution and the law will speedily be restored. 

PROHIBITION A SUCCESS 

Many assert that prohibition is a failure. I propose to present a few of the reasons why I regard it a success. 

Commander Evangeline Booth of the Salvation Army: "Sin and poverty in the slums of New York have decreased since prohibition" (Readers' Digest, December, 1928). Before prohibition there were eight licensed saloons in every block of the bowery besides many unlicensed dance halls, brothels, and dives. Before prohibition the Salvation Army would often collect twelve hundred or thirteen hundred men and women in one night who were too drunk to care for themselves (Deseret News, Sept. 29, 1930). Only seven or eight of such characters are to be found now. 

In the Salvation Army Memorial Home they have 4,800 men each week. They do not find one drunken case in a thousand. Before prohibition in Jersey City, where there were 1200 saloons, 85,000 men on Saturday nights squandered their week's wages for liquor. In the gutters were to be seen many helpless men and helpless women. These were not homeless people. They were American workers and the money they had squandered "we of the Salvation Army knew was money needed for food, clothing, and shelter." In what industrial center of America does such a condition occur today? Vice has not disappeared, but it is not so bold as it was before prohibition. Then it was not uncommon in the quarters of the Salvation Army to see a newly born baby lying in the arms of a drink-soaked mother. Such conditions do not exist now. 

DRINKING IN EUROPE 

"I wish all those who question whether any change for the better has been worked in America might observe conditions in the slums abroad. One of our London homes shelters about 200 women, three-quarters of whom are so absolutely degraded by drink as to appear beyond the hope of redemption. They are in rags and tatters, blear-eyed and indecent. Drink is responsible for their condition. No such condition can be found in America. 

"In many European industrial cities the Salvation Army is trying to work some sort of a_ regeneration in a type of women who are so degraded that one shudders to think of their condition. Such a lot of women could not be recruited in this land of prohibition where the volume of drinking is amazingly, gloriously, lessened. 

"Under prohibition the men uncharitably called 'bums' are disappearing. No longer is the Salvation Army besieged by a clamorous swarm of broken wrecks. Because of prohibition there is less misery among the poor and tens of thousands of homes have been reestablished because some Americans have stopped drinking." 

CONDITIONS IN COLLEGES 

Dr. Ruthven, president of the University of Michigan, says that during these prohibition times the students at Ann Arbor do not drink one-tenth as much liquor as they did when he was a student in the same institution before prohibition. One of the house rules of the Michigan Union at Ann Arbor reads : 

"Gambling, drinking of intoxicants, entering the building in an intoxicated condition, and bringing intoxicating liquors into the building, are each and all absolutely prohibited." 

The effect of prohibition at Yale University has been good. Professor Charles C. Clark: 

"I know whereof I speak, for I have been a member of the committee of discipline for a time dating back many years before prohibition. I know conditions intimately; I do not pretend that the students are all prohibitionists or are not drinking, but the change has been simply revolutionary. * * * In the old days we rarely troubled ourselves about a case of near intoxication if it had not resulted in some kind of public disorder, whereas now, intoxication of itself is regarded as calling for the severest penalty." 

Who, then, interested in the welfare of youth, will say that prohibition has not been a success? 

Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the Interior, and former president of Stanford University: 

"There is no doubt that there has been a marked decrease in the use of alcoholic beverages among the college students with whom I come in contact. 

Compared with the period before the present laws were put into effect, I should say that we have only one-tenth of the problem we had at that time in connection with liquor." 

WORKERS BECOME CAPITALISTS 

The savings of the country in 1926 were five times those of 1914. They increased from $6.71 per capita to $33.00 per capita. This is 390%. The laborer is saving the money he once spent for drink. 

Since prohibition we have hundreds of thousands fewer arrests and jail commitments per annum for drunkenness. Our drink-caused poverty has decreased 74% and we have reached the lowest rate of pauperism known in the United States (Wayne B. Wheeler). 

Prohibition is making capitalists out of our workers, according to John G. Cooper of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers. "When the saloon closed, the 'poor man's club' vanished. It is being replaced by comfortable homes." The laborer of today is getting much more satisfaction out of an automobile and a decent home than he ever did out of the corner saloon. Who will say under such conditions that prohibition has not succeeded? 

IDEALS OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC 

"Bad as the situation is now, it is better than the pit out of which we were digged" (Harry Emerson Fosdick). In 1912 the Retail Liquor Dealers' Association met in Ohio. Here is an excerpt from one of the speeches : 

"We must create an appetite for liquor in the growing boys. Men who drink * * * will die, and if there is no new appetite created, our counters will be empty as well as our coffers. The open field for the creation of appetite is among the boys. Nickels expended in treats for the boys, will return in dollars to your tills after the appetite has been formed." 

That tells you something of conditions which prevailed before prohibition, something of the standards of those who are engaged in the liquor business. 

SHALL WE GO BACK? 

If the present situation is unsatisfactory, let us not forget conditions back in 1884, when in old New York the Board of Aldermen was composed of "12 saloon keepers, 4 saloon-controlled politicians — 16 out of 24. That same year out of 1002 Democratic and Republican primaries and conventions held in New York City, 633 were held in saloons and 96 in places next door to saloons" (Harry Emerson Fosdick). Many of the younger generation do not comprehend what conditions were in towns like Boston where before prohibition there was a saloon license for every 310 inhabitants. Do we desire to return to those conditions? 

Go to Great Britain and see the public houses with wire cages in front of them where little children, not allowed by law to be taken inside the public houses, are huddled "to fight like dogs and cats, while their mothers are inside getting drunk." What we have in the United States, bad as it is, is better than that condition (Fosdick). LIQUOR THE BREEDER OF CRIME 

Many look upon conditions today under prohibition and complain because they see everywhere bootleggers, hijackers, and lawlessness. Remember the liquor trade in the United States has always been lawless. "It always has vomited criminality across the commonwealth. It always conspired against any government that licensed it or any laws that were supposed to control it" (Fosdick). 

As evidence of the attitude of the liquor interests the National Liquor Dealers' Journal of September 10, 1913, said: 

"To us there is the handwriting on the wall and its interpretation spells doom. The liquor business is to blame. It seems incapable of learning any lesson of achievement or motive but profit. To perpetuate itself it has formed alliances with the slums. It deliberately aids the most corrupt political powers." 

The liquor trade has been lawless always. It will be lawless forever. Bad as conditions are there is no concession to the liquor interests that can be made in the law that will not make conditions worse. Any change in that direction will but increase the quantity of liquor consumed; and increasing the amount of liquor used means increasing the amount of drunkenness, increasing the amount of crime, increasing the amount of poverty, increasing the amount of misery. 

BUSINESS DEMANDED PROHIBITION 

Prohibition did not come until the great economic interests of our country gave it their powerful support. Drink-befuddled brains cannot do America's work. From 1919 to 1925 the per capita productivity of the workers in the automobile business increased 100%. The productivity of all the workers in the rubber tire business increased 139% (Henry Ford). Throughout the United States, labor reports show "unbelievable increases" in the per capita production of American workmen. By making America more productive prohibition has succeeded. 

Over thirty years ago the United States Commissioner of Labor investigated 7,205 American business institutions employing 1,750,000 men. Three-quarters of these reported they never hired a man without investigating his drinking habits. Seven hundred reported they absolutely prohibited any drinking on the part of any employee within or outside of working hours. It was the hard-headed business men of America who furnished the driving power that brought the American people to prohibition. 

"rule g" 

Long before we had national prohibition the following "Rule G" was in operation on every first-class railroad: "The use of intoxicants by employees while on duty is prohibited; their use or the frequenting of places where they are sold is sufficient cause for dismissal." Such prohibitory laws were not written by fanatics but by American business men. 

Here is another: 

"Any employee found using intoxicating liquor — either during or after working hours — is warned that it will not be tolerated, and he is urged to discontinue its use completely. If the promise is made, then the man is given another chance; otherwise he is discharged" (Fosdick). 

The locomotive, the automobile, and the flying machine are" unanswerable arguments in favor of prohibition. And now that men and women, boys and girls, are at the wheels of automobiles everywhere, wisdom dictates not only that prohibition must be continued but also that it must be enforced. 

WHAT PROHIBITION HAS ACCOMPLISHED 

Before prohibition men under the influence of liquor were tolerated. Today no intoxicated employee dare approach the flying field, the engineer's cab, or the chauffeur's seat, without being subject to dismissal. Again, prohibition is a success. 

Before prohibition Chicago had a saloon for every 300 inhabitants. It is said that if every speak-easy, dive, or soft drink parlor dispensingliquor in that city were counted today, the number would not be half so great. In our larger cities before prohibition, drunken men and drunken women were removed from lawns, they were seen frequently staggering along the streets. Such spectacles are unknown today. Prohibition is succeeding. 

Then, dives filled with drunken men were seen everywhere. Women and children, cold, naked, and hungry, congregated on the streets of our cities looking for husbands and fathers. There are no such spectacles today. By making liquor hard to get and by increasing its price, prohibition has protected these poor families so that in these days there are few mothers and children waiting in terror in a drunkard's home for the return of a drunken husband and father. Those who are using liquor now are the so-called "smart set." Fortunately, they are the non-rearing family class. Comparatively few of the children, therefore, are reared by parents who drink. Thus prohibition protects the poor and the lowly and those fine law-abiding Americans who are rearing families. 

"government control" 

Many honest, conscientious citizens stand today for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. Most, if not all, of these favor "government control." 

Government control means that the people can get liquor without breaking the law; this will mean an increased consumption. In our automobiles haven't we drunken drivers enough already? The automobile alone is reason enough for the strict enforcement of our prohibition laws. 

"You've been drinking. With you at the wheel I will not get into this car," said a mother as she and her fourteen-year-old daughter stood at the open door of an automobile. 

"Get in, get in, he has only had a taste," said a group of people who were standing about. The car hadn't traveled three miles on a downhill grade before it reached a curve and by the drunken driver was capsized. The child, who had been selected to deliver the address for her class at commencement, was killed, while the mother and other occupants of the car were seriously injured. I say again the automobile alone is reason enough for the retention and the strict enforcement of the prohibition law. 

Prohibition means efficiency. Prohibition means prosperity. Prohibition means doing away with drink-caused poverty. Prohibition means that there will be no children in the United States who cannot get training in the public schools. Prohibition will mean that the children of the United States, even the poorest, will be well clothed, well fed, well educated. Are not these arguments strong enough to justify the retention and enforcement of prohibition? 

A word more about government control. It is in operation in Canada. During the past summer I spent some weeks there going as far north as Winnipeg. From personal observation I concluded that conditions there, under government control, are much worse than conditions here under prohibition. 

TESTIMONY OF A CANADIAN 

Fearing that the information secured during my brief stay might not have led to a correct conclusion, I asked a practicing attorney who has been a citizen of Canada for some twenty or thirty years to tell me what he thinks of government control. 

"To my personal knowledge," began my able and experienced legal friend, "drinking increased immediately in every province." Do we desire to modify our laws, if after so doing, drinking is to increase immediately in every state and in every city? 

In 1927 six Canadian provinces spent $147,000,000 for liquor. In that same year alcohol in the Dominion held the sixth highest place among the imports of the nation. Under government control it advanced to third place in 1928. During that time the value of alcohol imported increased beyond that for automobile parts, for raw sugar and for crude petroleum. Only two commodities, machinery and coal, exceeded in value that of imported alcohol. 

A FLOOD OF ALCOHOL 

Under government control, said the "Toronto Star" in 1927 : 

"A flood of alcohol continues to pour into Canada. During the fiscal year which ended in March, 1927, the Dominion imports of alcoholic beverages reached the value of $46,000,000 as compared with $19,000,000 in 1925. Including home production, the latest total would be close to $100,000,000." 

Do the citizens of the United States desire to have the amount of alcoholic liquor consumed increase at this same rapid rate? If such increase comes, imagine the peril that will exist for pedestrians with the whole country filled with drunken automobile drivers. 

During the four years following the adoption of government con, the province of Alberta, with a population of about 600,000, spent $42,000 ,000 for liquor. This amount would have paid the total expense of operating the provincial government for three years, it would have paid the total cost of all gasoline used in Alberta for three years, or it would have bought more than half the automobiles that are now in use in that Province. Are the people of the United States clamoring for a condition like this? Do the people of the United States desire to have our laboring men spend proportionately large sums for liquor, thus offering inducements to our laboring men to spend for liquor that money which is now being used to feed and clothe and educate their children and to provide comfortable homes for their wives and families ? 

This very day one of Salt Lake City's prominent citizens said he stands strongly for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment because it will do away with bootlegging. William R. Wood of Winnipeg says the brewers bootlegged 62% of all the beer they manufactured, and adds : "Illicit stills are found doing business on a gigantic scale after years of government control. Carloads of illicit liquor are still* intercepted on the railways." With the neighbor on our north involved in all these serious difficulties, are we going to follow in her footsteps and adopt government control? 

Mrs. Elizabeth Tilton says of conditions in Canada: 1. The government by putting its seal of approval upon drinking has almost annihilated the work of the church through years of teaching temperance and sobriety. 2. Bootlegging in Quebec is on the increase, and complaints of liquor law violation have almost trebled between 1922 and 1925. 3. The number of government liquor shops increased from 64 in 1922 to 90 in 1925. 4. Headlines in the Montreal Post during government control: "Montreal the Mecca for Crooks," and "A Veritable Avalanche of Outlawry, Hold-ups, and Robberies Has Descended upon the City." 5. A mayor of Winnipeg : "While conditions under prohibition were bad, the present conditions are a thousand times worse." 6. Under government control the province of Quebec consumed in 1925, 27,397 more gallons of alcohol than in 1924. 

"Toronto Globe" : 

"If by success of government control we mean increased manufacture, increased facilities for the people to secure liquor, increased sales, increased consumption, increased drunkenness — then government control is a success. 

"If we mean decreased consumption and decreased drunkenness, if we mean reduction in bootlegging, blind piggeries and law breaking, then government control is a failure." 

IS LIQUOR NECESSARY? 

Invitations have been extended to economists of known standing throughout the country to write on the economic value of the use of liquor. No economist has been found who will speak or write on that side of the question. All economists agree that America sober has achieved things of which America drunk never could have dreamed. 

Some have argued that liquor is necessary in order to produce relaxation or rest from the prosaic dullness of the average life. In modern America the motor car, the movies, and the radio produce this relaxation. These and prohibition have transformed conditions. Mass existence is no longer the narrow, rum-ridden life of a generation ago. 

The automobile driver who is quite drunk is usually not dangerous because he is so easily detected or incapacitated, but the really dangerous driver is the man who has had one or two drinks only, who still thinks he is in possession of his faculties but whose driving judgment has been impaired. A moderate drinker, who slightly swerves in the wrong direction, may collide with any one of the 23,000,000 motor vehicles that crowd the nation's highways (Prohibition Still At Its Worst — Fisher, p. 340). 

When the Pennsylvania Railroad forbids its locomotive engineers to drink a drop even when off duty, ought not the American people, through legally authorized representatives, to forbid all automobile drivers to do the same? 

He who drives an engine has a steel track to steer his course. But he who drives an automobile has to steer his own course. Every car or pedestrian he passes is at his mercy. Each cross road is a grade crossing. Engineers are trained professionals. Many automobile drivers are amateurs. If private prohibition, applied to the professional on a perfected track is justified, surely government prohibition applied to the amateur on an unprotected track is more than justified. Prohibition applied to the automobile driver in America means prohibition applied to everybody. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy and 'President of the California Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, in being present at this Conference, and feel, as no doubt you feel, that many very precious things have been presented for the consideration of the people who have assembled together. 

My mind is running upon matters pertaining to missionary work, that being my responsibility. I come up with greetings from the missionaries who labor in the California Mission, and I think I may be justified in saying that we feel considerably distressed in our feelings because of the tremendous reduction that has taken place in our numbers during the present year. It looks as though by the end of the year we will probably have a reduction of fifty per cent in the number of missionaries in the California Mission. Fifty per cent less than January, 1930. We have been in frequent correspondence with the presiding authorities of the Church about missionaries, until I have sometimes felt myself that when I would make reference to the need of the mission for an increased number of missionaries, it would not be very pleasant reading, because of it being so frequently repeated. 

I am conscious of the fact, my brethren and sisters, that financial conditions are not good. People are suffering from a lack of means, and 

I am wondering if it is possible that any of the Ward and Stake authorities who make recommendations to the presiding authorities for missionary calls, feel there ought not to be the demand made upon the strength of Israel that has been made in the past, because of the depression that prevails throughout the land. 

Personally, I think there should be some steps taken in local communities to improve the conditions from a missionary point of view. Ordinarily, when a missionary is called to go out to preach the Gospel, the responsibility pertaining to his expenses rests altogether upon the parents or other near relatives. This should be changed. I entertain the thought that if a real effort were made in the local communities, through bishops, stake presidencies, and high councilmen, to interest all the people in the expense of the missionaries who represent them in the field, a great burden might be lifted from the shoulders of the fathers and the mothers who have representatives out in the world preaching the Gospel. This responsibility properly belongs to all the people. 

I do not understand that our obligations as members in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been removed or lessened because of the financial distresses that are in the land. We have, had quoted in our hearing the Scriptures, the inspired declarations of the prophets. One of those prophets, as we heard in the morning session, represented that the Lord God of heaven had said to him that he was a watchman upon the towers of Zion, and that his duty was to give warning to the inhabitants of the land. If they hearkened they would be preserved. If they did not hearken they would be destroyed, but the watchman would have delivered his soul. Well, we need these watchmen that the people may be warned. That is my feeling. It is very strongly upon me. 

We have been laboring — I trust, with a fair amount of zeal throughout the California Mission — as watchmen. We have been trying to bring to the attention of the people the fact that we live in a marvelous age, and that as preachers of the Gospel we have been properly called by divine authority to cry repentance among the people. We have been trying to testify that we are not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, that we know it is the power of God unto salvation, and that therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith. We have been trying to impress the people with the thought that by this divine appointment we have been sent out to a perishing world, with the message of salvation; and while the people have not flocked in very great numbers to listen to our declaration, some have paid attention, and there have been many investigators. Many of them may not be investigating with very great anxiety, but they have at least had their hearts so touched by the teachings and attitude and personality and spirit of the missionaries, that they are glad, in many cases, to receive them into their homes; and some of them are inquiring for missionaries and we have none to send to them. 

In quite a number of instances, missionaries are laboring alone. That is not entirely in harmony with the counsels of the Church and with the rule that has prevailed quite largely in missionary work, but because of the reduction in our numbers, in an effort to hold the ground that has been won we have split up and divided our forces, in order that the word of the Lord, the Gospel of the Son of God, might be carried in some measure to the people who have been in the habit of coming in contact with representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I would like to humbly appeal to the men of the Church, in the communities of the Church where recommendations for missionaries originate, that after the call has been made by the presiding authorities of the Church, the whole community render financial assistance. I am quite confident when I say what I have said regarding the reduction of missionaries in the California Mission, that I represent the condition that prevails in all of the missions. 

I do not understand that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been relieved one whit from the carrying of the Gospel message to the inhabitants of the earth. Our Father in heaven declared, at the opening of this dispensation, that this message is to be taken to all the world. That is our responsibility, that we shall be found in the nations of the world, that we shall be crying repentance, that we shall be bearing witness to the restoration of the authority by which men minister in the name of the Son of God; for we are in the same condition as were the disciples of old. Jesus taught them: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and have ordained you, and have sent you forth, that you might bring forth fruit." That is the condition of the missionaries. They have been selected from their fellow men, and by divine authority they have been commissioned to carry the message of the Gospel to the peoples in the missions to which they have been assigned; and there surely is a crying demand for that service. 

I hope that proper local authority will be concerned in relation to this matter, that the hands of mission presidents may be strengthened, and that the opportunities that abound may be utilized, in the preaching of the word of God. 

I think I ought not to take more time, but I most earnestly make this plea. I am glad to say that although our numbers are smaller than they have been at any time during my presidency in the California Mission, we are nevertheless a happy company of men and women. We do believe in the Gospel that has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We do believe that the promises of the prophets of old, in regard to the latter times, are having fulfilment; and our hearts, as we endeavor to deliver this witness to the people, burn with joy within us, and you know the promise has been made by the Lord Jesus Christ that by that burning we should know concerning the truth of his work, and we have that burning in our souls and know the truth has been revealed. 

We want help, that we may deliver the message that has been committed into our hands. May there be ways and means found to give the help, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the W estern States Mission 

It is a very great pleasure to return and associate with friends and with Latter-day Saints in our Conference, and I sincerely trust that while I occupy this position the Lord will bless me as he has done my brethren. 

President McMurrin has uttered the thoughts, the hopes, and the desires of every mission president, I am sure. It has been a matter of great concern to each of us to see our missionary numbers dwindle as they have within the last eight or nine months. It has been a difficult matter to so dispose of our missionaries as to take care of the various fields of labor in which their services are required. It has been necessary and essential that we get local elders to help us, as far as we possibly can. I am aware of the fact that in securing the help of these local brethren and sisters we are merely adding to the faith and integrity of our own people, and adding to their ability to assist us at all times in the future; and perhaps in that respect the dearth of missionaries may have had a compensating effect. But there is a great need for missionaries to carry the word, to spread our literature, to bear their testimony to the people; and there are many people who seem to be willing to at least listen. 

The power of the Lord is manifest in the missions. I know that in the Western States Mission we have had many favors at his hands. There have been some manifestations of his power that have thrilled and delighted us. 

I recently mentioned, in a report to my brethren, two important happenings. I think you might enjoy hearing of them. 

Over in Lincoln, Nebraska, a young missionary sister was distributing tracts with her companion; her companion on one side of the street, she on the other. She came to the door of a woman who invited her in, with the understanding that she would listen to her only while she continued her ironing. The woman said : "I am too busy to listen to you unless you talk to me while I iron." So the sister went in, took a chair and sat down. Pretty soon the ironing stopped. The woman pulled the plug out of the electric iron, stood the iron on its end, drew up a chair, and sat down in front of our missionary sister, and said to her: "What is there about you that is different from any one I ever saw before?" This sister, of course, was unable to answer her, for she was not aware of any difference. The woman said: 'Why, you are surrounded by a halo of light. I have never seen that before in my life." So our young missionary sister tried to explain to her that sometimes the Lord's blessings were manifest, and the Holy Spirit which surrounded his servants might be seen by those who had the gift of seeing. She was so interested and so astonished that after a little while, hearing in the conversation something about our Primaries, she asked Sister Goodliffe: "What is the Primary?" Sister Goodliffe explained to her what our Primaries are. The woman said: "I am the mother of nine children. Will you hold a Primary in my home?" So today, once a week, the two sisters in Lincoln, Nebraska, go to this good woman's home, and they hold a Primary with her children and the neighbors' children that are invited in. 

We have been so short of missionaries that it became necessary to take the sister missionaries out of Council Bluffs. We had the spectacle or the experience of a pair of elders holding six Primaries every week, in place of the sisters. One would smile, perhaps, to think of that, and yet they have been quite successful in their efforts to tell stories and entertain the children after the manner of Primary teaching. We are hoping that we may soon have two sisters that we can send back in there to continue that work. They do it so much better than the elders. 

Upon another occasion, speaking of the power of the Lord and the manifestation of his goodness, two elders in northern New Mexico, while going through the country for the purpose of visiting the scattered Saints, came into a community where two or three families of Saints resided, and began to administer the ordinance of baptism for their children. One little fellow who applied for baptism was nine years of age. He had been crippled from his infancy with an affliction in his knee of such a character that whenever his knee was placed in cold water he suffered excruciating pain. His mother said : "No; no, you can't be baptized. You couldn't stand it." But the little fellow pleaded. He wanted to be baptized. The elders were asked : "Shall we baptize him?" and of course they hardly knew what to say. They naturally left the matter to the parents. Upon the earnest pleading of the boy he was permitted to enter the cold river water, for baptism, and to their astonishment there was no pain, and the little fellow came forth from the water rejoicing. Afterwards the elders laid their hands upon him, and invoked the blessings of the Lord upon him, and went their way. In three weeks time, on their way back to their quarters, they passed through this section of country, and naturally went to the home to see how the little boy was. When they arrived he was not in the house. The mother, replying to their inquiry as to his whereabouts, said : "He is out on the hill, looking for the cattle." The little fellow had been healed and was able to walk. Never before, in his life, had he been able to do so without pain or distress. 

One of these two elders, at a recent conference held in Alamosa, Colorado, stood before the congregation to address them, and there was a manifestation of the power of the Lord upon him, so that he was lifted up beyond himself, and I have never heard any one speak better than he did that night. We knew that the power of the Lord was with him, but only one person in the congregation was conscious of an unusual manifestation. At the close of the meeting a little girl, less than fourteen years of age, came to the presiding elder and said : "All the while that Elder Tenney spoke there was a beautiful personage clothed in white standing to the right of him, and this personage's  was beautiful to behold. When Elder Tenney closed his remarks, he disappeared." We were naturally delighted and happy to know that the witness of the Holy Ghost and the power of the Lord do accompany the labors of our brethren and sisters. 

I am sure that these manifestations are occurring everywhere, merely a sign of the favor of our Father to his servants. 

It is a glorious privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be within the influence of such spiritual manifestations and blessings, and I count it not only an honor, but a joy and privilege to be thus favored. I am enjoying my labors. I have pleasure in reporting to you that all the missionaries, with one exception who are laboring in the Western States Mission at the present time, are quite well, and the one who is ill is recovering. 

May the Lord bless you. May he bless you in your basket and in your store, that you will listen and heed the appeal that has been made to send us more missionaries, so that we can carry on the work of the Lord. This is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

, liberty's perfect law 

The Gospel of Christ is the Perfect Law of Liberty. So says James the Apostle. But liberty does not mean license, nor does the Gospel stand for antiquated tradition or for present-day speculation, religious or irreligious. It embraces all truth, whether in science, philosophy, art, or any other department of knowledge. God himself is its Author, its Fountainhead, and divine revelation is the channel through which it flows. 

 - PURPOSE OF THE GOSPEL 

The Gospel is a great system of laws, a code of eternal principles, whereby the omnipotent and all-wise Creator, our Father in Heaven, proposes to lift fallen mankind, his sons and daughters, and not only save them, but exalt them to his glorious presence, and so far as they prove worthy and capable, share with them the empire of the universe. 

NO TYRANNY 

Freedom is the Gospel's sign manual. Tyranny has no place therein. There is no room in all the Government of God for the exercise of unrighteous dominion. 

ETERNITY'S CONSTITUTION 

The God we worship is no respecter of persons, but He is a respecter of men's rights, and a guardian of them — a fact clearly shown in the heaven-inspired Constitution of our country, and in the Gospel itself, which might be termed the Constitution of Eternity. A FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE 

Man's free agency, his right to worship as his conscience dictates, and to act in all things willingly and without compulsion — a principle handed down from the eternal past, where Lucifer was overthrown for seeking to destroy it — is an integral part of Liberty's Perfect Law. As such it found expression, a concrete illustration, and that by direct, divine command, when this Church was organized, one hundred years ago. 

THE CONSENT OF THE GOVERNED 

"Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." So says the Declaration of American Independence, and so says, in effect, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The doctrine of common consent has been practiced in this Church from the beginning, and is shown forth in all the conferences and other important gatherings of the Lord's people. They are clearly within their rights when they vote for or against the officers nominated to preside over them, and when they approve or disapprove of any proposed measure vitally affecting their spiritual and temporal welfare. 

JOSEPH AND OLIVER 

The men who organized this Church, or who were most conspicuous in its organization, were Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Joseph had looked upon the face of God; had gazed upon the Father and .the Son; had received from them instructions concerning the then existing churches, from which he was commanded to hold himself aloof, and await the coming of the true Church, which was about to reappear, and in the establishment of which he was to be the chief human instrument. Oliver had been with Joseph in the work of translating the Book of Mormon, assisting him as copyist or scribe. He had shared with the Prophet the honor of receiving the restored priesthoods — the Aaronic and the Melchizedek; the former under the hands of John the Baptist, the latter by the subsequent personal ministration of the Apostles, Peter, James and John. The foremost of these heavenly messengers, John the Baptist, had told Joseph and Oliver that they were to be, respectively, the First and Second Elders of the Church; and had directed them to baptize each other as a preliminary to other important proceedings soon to follow. 

In the first, second and third chapters of the History of the Church, Volume One — Joseph Smith's autobiography — the Prophet tells his own story of these wonderful events; and they are also recorded in a more recently published Church History — the splendid product of the able pen of President B. H. Roberts. 

AN AMERICAN CHURCH 

Speaking of the word of the Lord that came to him and his colaborer in the farmhouse of Peter Whitmer, Sr., at Fayette, Seneca County, N. Y., a word directing them to ordain each other to the office of Elder, the Prophet says : "We were, however, commanded to defer this our ordination until such time as it should be practicable to have our brethren, who had been and who should be baptized, assembled together, when we must have their sanction to our thus proceeding to ordain each other, and have them decide by vote whether they were willing to accept us as spiritual teachers, or not." 

An American Church, truly, manifesting at the very hour of its birth the sublime democratic doctrine : "Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." And truly did Joseph Smith, God's prophet, show himself a real and true American when, at a later period, in answer to a question put to him, as to how he managed to govern a community made up of so many different nationalities, with all their varied languages, customs and traditions, he replied : "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." 

GOD AND THE PEOPLE 

Let it not be supposed, however, that this recognition of "government of the people, by the people, for the people" — as Lincoln expressed it — shuts God out of the question. It may do so in the mind of a godless politician, or a pseudo, make-believe Christian, but not in the mind of a true Latter-day Saint or a Christian of genuine stamp. The United States is a republic, in which the people are looked upon as the one source of political power. The Church of Christ is a theodemocracy, in which God speaks and the people say amen! It is the Church of God and his people, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. , 

Obedient to the divine mandate spoken to them in Father Whitmer's humble home, Joseph and Oliver took steps to ascertain whether or not their brethren would sanction their ordination as Elders of the Church and were willing to come under their spiritual tutelage. 

NOT YET QUALIFIED 

What! — exclaims one. After these men had communed with heavenly beings and received from them commandments for their guidance; after receiving divine authority to preach the Gospel, administer its ordinances, and establish once more on earth the long absent Church of Christ! After all this must they go before the people and ask their consent to organize them and preside over them as a religious body ? Yes, that was precisely the situation. Notwithstanding all those glorious manifestations, they were not yet fully qualified to hold the high positions unto which they had been divinely called. One element was lacking — the consent of the people. Until that consent was given, there could be no church with these people as its members and those men as its presiding authorities. The Great Ruler of all never did and never will foist upon any of his people, in branch, ward, stake or Church capacity, a presiding officer whom they are not willing to accept and uphold. 

Happily for all concerned, the brethren associated with Joseph and Oliver on that memorable sixth of April of the year 1830, did sanction their ordination, did "decide by vote" to accept them as their "spiritual teachers." 

GOD THE GIVER 

But suppose it had been otherwise. Suppose the brethren in question had not been willing to accept the men whom the Lord had chosen, but had lifted their hands against instead of for them. What would have been the result? Would such action have taken from Joseph and Oliver their Priesthood or their gifts and powers as seers, prophets and revelators of the Most High? No. Any more than it would have blotted out the fact that Joseph had seen God, and that he and Oliver had communed with angels sent from Heaven to ordain them. Their brethren had not given them the Priesthood, had not made them prophets and seers, and they would have remained such regardless of any adverse action on the part of their associates. The Gospel, the Priesthood, the keys of the Kingdom of Heaven are not within the gift of the membership of the Church. They are bestowed by the Head of the Church, Jesus Christ, in person or by proxy, and without his consent no power on earth or under the earth could take them away. 

WHAT MIGHT HAVE RESULTED 

But if the vote had been unfavorable, this would have resulted: The brethren and sisters who were waiting to be admitted into the Church would have closed the door in their own faces, would have cut themselves off from a most precious privilege, would have deprived themselves of the inestimable benefits flowing from the exercise of the gifts and powers possessed by the men divinely commissioned to inaugurate this great Latter-day Work; and they could have gone elsewhere, and, under divine direction, have organized the Church of Christ among any people worthy to constitute its membership and willing that these men should be their leaders. But the vote was in their favor, thank the Lord! and we who are here today are among the beneficiaries of that act of faith and humility. 

A DIVINE NECESSITY 

Never, since this Church was organized, has it been without a divinely inspired Priesthood, with seers, prophets and revelators at its head; and it never will be without them. They are a divine necessity. Wanting such guides, such pilots, inspired from above, we would be floundering in the same troubled sea of doubt and uncertainty respecting religion, its sacred obligations and its vital problems, as are the peoples of the world around us. Without the gift of the Holy Ghost, to interpret the Scriptures and make manifest the things of God, we also would be putting our own private interpretations upon the revelations of divine truth, and be lost and wandering, as others are, in a maze of superstition and error. 

LONGING FOR LIGHT 

The churches of men are built upon books and traditions, handed  from the dubious past — what God said to other peoples in other times, under circumstances vastly different from our own. And mixed with these things are other things that God is said to have said — but never did say — and they are palmed upon the world as utterances of divine authority. In many lands God's children, millions of them, are yearning and longing for the Light, hungering and thirsting for pure Gospel truth, which they find not in man-made religions and philosophies; and blind leaders of the blind, turning their backs upon New Revelation, are endeavoring to feed a spiritually starving world with the mutilated menu card of a banquet ages old. 

POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

No book, however good; no tradition, however venerable, is a sufficient guide for a progressive people on their way to the Celestial Kingdom. We have something better than books — far better than the best of them. We have divine authority, which constitutes the men holding it agents and representatives of the Almighty; and whatsoever they do by virtue of that authority, and under the inspiration of the spirit of their holy calling, is just as valid and binding and just as acceptable to God, as though he were present in person saying and doing what his servants say and do for him. That is what it means to bear the Priesthood. 

THE PURE FAITH 

We have the pure, primitive Christian Faith, and the spirit that interprets its sacred mysteries. Without that Spirit no man, whatever his intelligence, whatever his education and culture, can comprehend the Gospel or know Him whom to know is life eternal. 

god's work and glory 

This Church is not the work of man. Had it been man's creation it would have succumbed long ago to the assaults made upon it by the adversary of souls. It is not built upon the sand of ancient tradition or of modern theorization. It is founded upon the rock — Divine Revelation — God's gracious will and the glad consent of his people. Therefore is it destined to endure and to withstand every shock. The hosts of evil may hurl themselves against it, but they cannot prevail against it, nor shake the firm foundation upon which it stands as immovable and immutable as the throne of Him who sitteth in the midst of Eternity, and. who has said in words that can never die : "My work and my glory is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man!" Amen. 

The hymn, "O Ye Mountains High," was sung by the congregation. The closing prayer was offered by Elder Joseph Christenson. 


