Morning 
10 03 1930

The opening session of the Conference commenced promptly at 10 o'clock, Friday, October 3, 1930. 

The great auditorium and galleries were well filled with people from all parts of the Church. 

President Heber J. Grant called the assembly to order, and the services were commenced by the congregation singing the hymn, "Now let us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." 

Elder Claudius Hirschi, President of the Zion Park Stake, offered the invocation. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Zion Stands with Hills Surrounded." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is always a pleasure to me to meet with the Latter-day Saints in any of their public gatherings, and especially am I pleased to be present at the General Conferences of the Church, having had the privilege of attending them from my childhood until the present time. 

There are assembled I am sure in this city today fully twenty thousand people from different sections of the Church, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, who will attend these meetings. In addition there will be several hundred thousand who will attend our meetings by means of the marvelous radio. It is wonderful how many people are permitted to listen in, those who have a desire to do so, to our conference proceedings. In many of our Wards and Stakes the meetinghouses will be filled with those who will hear as plainly and partake of the spirit I believe as perfectly almost as those who are assembled in this building today. 

I rejoice in the opportunities that have come to preach the Gospel through the means of the radio. One day four letters were received from New Zealand, announcing the perfect reception of a program broadcast by KSL. 

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION PUBLICITY 

We rejoice in the marvelous Conference that was held here six months ago. When we think of this building being filled for thirty evenings by people who attended the wonderful pageant that was presented, it is another marvel to contemplate the fact that publicity was given to millions of people regarding that great pageant. I have here on exhibit and I wish to show you what is merely a collection of newspaper clippings regarding our Centennial celebration. Over three  newspapers gave us favorable notices. The great change that has come about since the days of my boyhood in the general attitude toward this people is almost beyond contemplation or expectation. 

I can remember when I was the junior member of the Council of the Twelve, forty-eight years ago this month, that during my first trips away from home, almost invariably, wherever I went I found opposition. I found ill-will toward the Latter-day Saints. I found men so full of bitterness toward us that they said if they had their way the "Mormons" would be shut up in their tabernacle and the guns of Fort Douglas be turned upon them. Today, wherever I go I find the opposite feeling; I find good-will; I find kindness; I find readiness and willingness on the part of newspapers to give us favorable public notices. Anything we wish to say they are willing to print. 

ATTITUDE OF THE PRESS 

During the time when I presided over the Japanese Mission there were some vile things published in that country about us; and when I obtained affidavits from home refuting the published statements I could not get them into the papers that had published the scurrilous articles against us. During my presidency of the European Mission, for three long years, I never succeeded in getting one single line of refutation printed in the papers in England. Some very pernicious articles were written about us, but the newspapers would not publish refutations of those articles. Today, we are getting very favorable publicity. The newspapers are open to the president of the European Mission, Elder John A. Widtsoe. We regret his absence from the meetings of this Conference. We would be delighted if he were here. 

We also regret very much the absence of Elder Stephen L. Richards on account of ill health. 

I remember calling upon one newspaper in London that had published some seven to ten columns of vile stuff about the "Mormons," and I took with me a letter of introduction from a large shipping firm in Liverpool — with which we had done business for over sixty years —  vouching not only for my integrity as president of the European Mission, but for the integrity of all of my predecessors, and yet they would not publish a single line. I told them I had letters of introduction from all of the non-"Mormon" bankers in Salt Lake City, and from bankers in New York, San Francisco, and Chicago, and from the largest wholesale dry goods house in New York, vouching for my honesty, and gave them my word of honor that what they had published was false. Yet they would not publish a thing in our favor. 

SOURCE OF GRATITUDE 

To have over three thousand newspapers; to have the Associated Press; to have the Hearst papers, and to have western papers — especially in Utah and in Idaho — the newspapers generally, give us such extended and favorable articles as this immense volume contains, is a cause of deep gratitude on my part and that of my associates of the General Authorities of the Church. These notices and editorials as well as the original articles that appeared with illustrations, are all that we could possibly have asked. "There was very seldom anything published during our Centennial Conference that was not favorable. The Associated Press and special representatives of various newspapers sent out truthful and informative notices. This is a source of profound gratitude on our part. 

FOR WHAT WE ARE 

I announced to the good sisters yesterday in their Relief Society Conference that we are becoming known for what we are, a Godfearing, honest, upright people, striving to serve the Lord and keep his commandments, carrying a message of good will to all the world. All that we have ever asked or expected is that people shall judge us by the standards laid down by the Savior of the world, "By their fruits ye shall know them." 

We have a lower divorce rate, we have a higher marriage rate, we have a higher birth rate, we have a lower death rate, we have a lower criminal rate, than other people. 

I know of nothing for which I am more grateful than to realize that we are coming into our own, that we are being accepted for exactly what we are, a God-fearing and splendid people. 

IN FULFILMENT OF PROPHECY 

The accomplishments of the Latter-day Saints are in absolute and full accord with the prophecy delivered on the west bank of the Mississippi river by the Prophet Joseph Smith, as recorded in the prophet's journal under date of August 6, 1842 : 

"I prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains. Many would apostatize, others would be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities, and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." 

This has been fulfilled to the very letter and we have over one thousand wards and branches from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south. The Church has expended during the last three years between three and four million dollars in assisting to erect local meetinghouses. The people have contributed a like amount. As you know we have builded here a four-million-dollar temple, and we have built temples in St. George, Manti, Logan, Canada, Arizona and the Hawaiian Islands, costing in all many millions of money. We have in very deed fulfilled that prophecy notwithstanding the fact that this western country was considered worthless. When you think of this arid region, when you think that it was considered of no value, and then realize what has been accomplished, it is beyond question that we have fulfilled that prediction. 

At the very time this prophecy was uttered, Daniel Webster, one of the foremost statesmen in the United States at that time, said: 

"What do we want with this vast worthless area, this region of savages and wild beasts, of deserts, of shifting sands, and whirlwinds of dust, of cactus and prairie dogs? To what use could we ever hope to put those great deserts or those endless mountain ranges, impenetrable and covered to their very bases with eternal snow? What can we ever hope to do with the western coast of three thousand miles, rock-bound, cheerless, uninviting and not a harbor on it? Mr. President, T will never vote one cent from the public treasury to place the Pacific Coast one inch nearer Boston than it now is." 

MARVELOUS RESOURCES 

When I think of the magnificent harbor at Seattle, and the wonderful Golden Gate harbor as well as others on the Pacific Coast, I am aware that Daniel Webster was not very well posted. When we think of this "worthless" country — Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and California — having furnished more wealth so far as the precious metals are concerned than any other part or all of the balance, I think, of the United States; when we realize that we have one mine here, a copper mine, the copper being mined in a most unusual and wonderful way, having paid as I recall over one hundred and fifty million dollars in dividends, working successfully ore that does not run one per cent — less than twenty pounds of copper to a ton — handling upon one occasion more than eighty thousand tons in a day, or double as much as was handled in a day in the construction of the Panama canal; when we think of the millions upon millions of dollars' worth of gold produced in California; when we think of the rich copper mines in Arizona, to say nothing of silver, lead and gold in all these sections, and Colorado's immense wealth, we realize that Daniel Webster did not know very much about this country. 

But the only point I wish to make is that we as Latter-day Saints realize and know that Joseph Smith was and is the representative of God and a prophet of God, and that his sayings have been fulfilled to the very letter. 

SIGNS OF THE TIMES 

I am very happy in contemplating the prosperity that prevails today, and my heart goes out in gratitude for the change that has taken place at home and abroad. While the world is in a state of commotion and there is perplexity among the nations, the Latter-day Saints have no fears for the future. The signs of the times indicate the near approach of the coming of the Lord, and the work that we are engaged in is a preparatory one for that great event. 

NEVER WHILE THE WORLD STANDS 

In speaking here last month, Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon referred to a statement made by a minister to the effect that unless the "Mormon" Church can withstand the criticism of intelligent people, the test of modern science, etc., it must, in the next one hundred years, be counted in the category of declining religions and that it would then be necessary for us to shift our faith from Joseph Smith and his reputed revelations. 

Never while the world stands will it be necessary for us to shift our faith. God lives, Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God. He has appeared to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and Sidney Rigdon, and we proclaim to all the world that we know that he lives and that God has given to us individually a testimony regarding the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith. We have the truth, and as the great lawyer said to those who were fighting Christianity, we can repeat today : 

"Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 

"And said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. * * * 

"Refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this work be of men, it will come to naught: 

' But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found to fight against God." 

DURING ONE HUNDRED YEARS 

This work is of God and it has been proclaimed now for over a hundred years. We are here today assembled celebrating the one hundred and first semi-annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. During all of these one hundred years the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, has been proclaimed all over the world wherever there has been religious liberty. In every land and in every clime wherever it has been proclaimed honest men and honest women have received the message, have accepted the Gospel, have gone down into the waters of baptism, have pledged their lives and their fortunes for the advancement of this work. From every religious denomination under heaven we have gathered converts. I have never investigated beyond my own experience in life, but I know of no single missionary who has gone out into the world, not one, who has been converted to any other religion and come home to announce that this Gospel of Jesus Christ is not true. But by the hundreds and thousands, during my life, I have heard the testimonies of the young men and the young women who have gone out to proclaim this Gospel returning from their missionary work and bearing witness that they had an increased knowledge of the divinity of this work, that their testimonies had been strengthened. Think of it! What a wonderful miracle it is that with this "false" prophet and these "purported" revelations our young inexperienced members of the Church go out and come in contact with all the education, all the learning, and all the faiths of the world, and yet the churches have not been able to convert any of them and show them that straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal. 

WITNESS TO THE WORLD 

I bear my witness to you today — and I am talking now not only to the people who are here assembled but to the people who may be  in by means of the radio, at home or abroad, in the United States or in foreign countries — I bear my witness that God lives, that he is the Father of our spirits; that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God; that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and the living God, and that his words contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are the inspired words of a prophet of God. I desire all men to know that the revelation or vision given to Joseph Smith, as contained in the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants is absolutely true. I have repeated two passages from that section time and time again, and I shall repeat them again now, in this day of doubt. 

Some years ago many ministers of the gospel, even several hundred of them, were asked the following questions : 

"Do you believe in God, the Father; God a person * * * in whose image you were made? 

"Do you believe that Christ was the Son of the living God, sent by him to save the world * * * that he is God's very Son, with a divinely appointed and definite mission, dying on the cross and raised from the dead? 

"Do you believe that when you die you will live again as a conscious intelligence, knowing who you are and who other people are?" 

These questions were put to ministers in the New England States, and not a single one gave an unequivocal answer, Yes, notwithstanding they had been asked to answer them Yes or No. 

THE FAITH OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

All three of those questions can be answered by every Latterday Saint. We believe that God appeared to Joseph Smith, and that he proclaimed Jesus Christ as his "Well Beloved Son." 

And now, I quote from the vision given to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon : 

"And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us : 

"That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness. 

"Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him." 

"And now, after the many testimonies that have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : that he lives! 

"''For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice declaring that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

So there is no dubiety in our minds. One man said to me, "The only religious people I ever met in my life who have a perfect faith in and an absolute assurance of their final destiny are the Mormons." And it is true. 

IN DEEP GRATITUDE 

I feel that I have occupied enough time. I rejoice in the advancement of the work of God. My heart goes out in deep gratitude to the members of the committee who furnished that magnificent pageant. I thank the men who secured this wonderful publicity for us. It is marvelous. 

May the Lord bless each and every one who has a testimony of the divinity of this work to so live the Gospel that his life will proclaim its message to the people of the world. The promise is made that those who will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether it be of man. Having fulfilled the law and having received the knowledge that we are engaged in the work of the Lord, we pray that he may help us to live it. May he help us to be absolutely honest in the payment of our tithes, in observing the Word of Wisdom and setting an example that will cause men and women to investigate the message that we have to bear. It is my humble prayer that the Lord will bless every honest-hearted soul upon the face of the earth, and I ask it in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a source of deep satisfaction to have the privilege of meeting the officers of Stakes and Wards and members of the Church in general in this great Conference. I am greatly surprised, however, to be called upon to address you at this session. I pray earnestly for the inspiration and guidance of God's Holy Spirit and for your sympathy and prayers. 

I am not sure that I can give to you in the brief time allotted, in a manner that I should like to give it, the message that I have in my heart. 

THE CITIZEN'S RESPONSIBILITY 

Many many years ago a wise man said, and it has echoed through the ages : 

"Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it." 

I wish to add as a corollary: 

"Punish a man when he is old, and he will not likely depart from the habits of a lifetime." 

I am constrained to refer to the great concern in the minds of the leaders of our nation and of thinking men generally regarding the lawless condition now prevalent, particularly here in the United States. Recently a committee of the American Bar Association appointed to study existing conditions, reported that the criminal situation in the United States is undoubtedly worse than in any other civilized country. I think it is time that the people arouse themselves to a realization of their responsibility in regard to this condition. We are prone to dismiss all social responsibility by blaming the law and depending upon the  to bring about a reform. But I think the citizen carries much of the responsibility for this condition. 

PREVENTION RATHER THAN CURE 

If we look at the statistics as they are published from time to time we are shocked to learn that our prisons are filled. We are astounded when we read of the vast sums of money expended in punishing lawless men and women and wayward boys and girls, who are considered enemies to society. It is difficult to ascertain definitely how much this sum is, about two and one half million dollars a day. One man estimates that we are spending ten billion dollars a year in the punishment of criminals; yet each year crime is eating deeper into the vitals of our civilization. 

I suggest that we expend some of that vast sum of money to better advantage by putting forth more effort to stop the source of crime by giving a little more attention to the young. For, mind you, the average age of the criminal in the United States today is under twenty one years. That is something which challenges our attention. Wie are not spending proportionately the amount in preventing lawlessness among our youth that we are spending in punishing those who become entangled in the meshes of the law. Men and women who are thus arrested and punished are not all bad. Some are misled, others are merely unfortunate. 

THE POWER AND INFLUENCE OF MONEY 

To understand more clearly conditions as they exist, I think it is well to consider the dominant influences of society today. If we go back through history we find that at one time the world was governed by the spirit of might, physical force was the aristocracy of the age. And naturally men chose to be strong in physical achievements. Later that period gave way to another aristocracy, or ruling power. The sons of these mighty physical men became the rulers, and so there developed an aristocracy of birth. 

You and I are witnessing and have witnessed the decay of this aristocracy. Thrones are crumbling, their power is diminished. Titles can be purchased by money. Supplanting the aristocracy of birth has come the aristocracy of wealth. Money, it is said, can buy anything. Unquestionably one of the great factors that enter into the lawlessness following efforts to prohibit the sale and manufacture of liquor, is the great amount of profit that men find in that illicit traffic. If we can prevent the bootlegger from filling his purse we can better enforce the law against this liquor evil. And in passing let me urge every Latter-day Saint throughout the world to uphold the law against the sale, manufacture and transportation of intoxicants. 

Well, we are in this financial age. We need to realize this when we examine and study the conditions that are influencing the youth of today. Many of them are seeking to be wealthy. They are thinking that success lies only in the obtaining of the dollar, and with that unwise ideal they will sacrifice that which is higher and better than any material possession. 

Do not misunderstand me, ,1 would not underrate the value of wealth. I am cognizant of the fact that the second great commandment was to replenish and subdue the earth. I realize that one great purpose of life is to subdue matter, and I rejoice when I see the great reservoirs filled with water from which flows that element which will change the sagebrush flat into a waving wheat field, and that is wealth. I do not take second place to anyone in the realization of the good which this can do. I am merely emphasizing the thought that there is a nobler ideal in life than the accumulating of wealth. 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF CHARACTER 

When God gave us the command to subdue matter, he meant us to use the power derived therefrom, the power of material things, to realize something which is higher; and that is character, a life that will merit the inspiration of God. What the sunshine is to the field and to the flowers the Holy Spirit is to the life of man, and the Holy Spirit does not abide with base characters. He will not dwell in unclean tabernacles. 

Well, now, my thought is that we should put forth every effort to supplant the aristocracy of wealth with the aristocracy of character, and awaken in the minds of the youth a realization that to be honest, to be dependable, to be a loyal citizen of the country, to be true to the standards of the Gospel, are the noblest ideals of life. The important problem is now to instill these lofty principles into the minds of young people, and thereby make them worthy citizens. I am glad to see evidences in our own country that men are now moving towards the beginning of the stream of humanity to correct evils, rather than to expend so much money on those who have drifted down the stream of society and have become contaminated by sin and hardened in lawlessness. 

CHILD GUIDANCE 

On Christmas day, 1908, President Roosevelt invited 200 child welfare workers in all parts of the United States to attend a conference on dependent children, to be held in Washington, Jan. 25, 26, 1909. Much good came from that. Later President Wilson, referring to the Children's Bureau of the United States Department of Labor, expressed the hope that there might be set up "certain irreducible minimum standards for the health, education, and work of the American child." Recently President Hoover said that the opportunity of the nation lies in the health and protection of its children, and in accordance with that thought he has appointed an investigating committee charged with the duty of getting at the facts of the physical health, mental equipment, and social well-being of children in the United States. Many of the leading men of the nation, educators, business men, doctors, etc., are volunteering their services to a nationwide investigation of conditions, with a view of ascertaining what forces are operative in child guidance. 

DURING LEISURE HOURS 

I cannot refrain from calling your attention to what Utah is doing in regard to this important question. Let me say that I am not now thinking so much of the child when he is in the home under the influence of parents, neither am I concerned so much about him when he is in the public school under the influence of the teacher, although in both these basic environments much more emphasis might be placed upon character and loyal citizenship than we are placing upon it; I am concerned about the child when he is not in school, about what he is doing after school. In other words, it is time for the nation and for states to look after the youth during leisure hours. The leisure time of youth is the dangerous time. That is when he needs the training, and yet in some of our states we have compulsory education up to fourteen years of age, and in those same states have laws prohibiting the boy from working until he is sixteen. There you find a two years' period in which the boy is left practically to go his way. And what is his way? He will find the gang, and gangs are often the breeding grounds of bootleggers and organized vice squads. 

In Chicago alone it is said there are thirteen hundred and thirty gangs, young boys who are going their own way, and whose efforts should be guided, no matter what it costs, along the paths of better citizenship. In Utah we have a law that compels the young man and the young woman to be in school until he or she is eighteen years of age. However, it is one thing to force a boy into school, it is another thing to arouse in his life an ideal, or a desire to emulate the best in life. 

AN EXAMPLE WORTHY OF IMITATION 

In one of our school districts great strides have been taken in guiding and taking care of the leisure hours of youth, particularly during summer vacations, not only in recreation but in vocation. A few years ago the Granite School District inaugurated a plan of guiding these students in the proper way of citizenship. Brother Francis Kirkham, who is now a member of the national committee to which I have referred, was instrumental in introducing this, and Superintendent D. C. Jensen is carrying the work nobly forward. I am mentioning it now because it is an example worthy of imitation by all educators in the state and nation. Summer supervision for Junior and Senior high school students was inaugurated in 1920, when 1227 students were enrolled. In the summer of 1921, the enrollment increased to 1500. In 1930 in two important respects the policy in this district was changed in respect to compulsory enrollment. "School officials do not now require enrollment in the activities of the summer, nor do they make a formal record of the credits earned as a requisite to unconditional promotion. Enrollment is wholly voluntary and the joy obtained through participation is the only reward offered." Notwithstanding they give no credits, make no compulsion, last year there were enrolled 4303 in activities as follows : Music Dancing Playground 

Enrolled Av. Att. Enrolled A v. Att. Enrolled A v. Att. 1st Mo. 514 495 1287 910 1990 883 

2nd Mo. 568 481 947 700 2145 1007 

3rd Mo. 515 463 974 633 2447 1125 

Total enrolled in the three activities — 4303. 

Total school population, 6-18 years of age, Jordan District — 6037. 

In addition to those instructed by music teachers employed by the Board, 102 students were in regular classes under teachers employed by local municipal or civic organizations. 

It cost the children nothing, it cost the parents nothing. The Jordan District carried this on at an expense that is merely nominal, only $1.33 per pupil. 

But the teachers did not stop at instruction and play during the recreation period; they found also lucrative employment for the students. The total number of students thus placed and properly supervised in picking beans, thinning beets, delivering groceries and in other jobs, was 476. The number of boys contacted 111. Total number of employers cooperating 103. Total number of visits for all purposes 670. 

ITS EFFECT UPON CITIZENSHIP 

Now to show what effect this will have upon citizenship. During the school year there was a family in that district that refused to send the boys to school. The truant officer visited it and found antagonism on the part of the parents. The boys were not interested in school. Later the father was out of work and when the truant officer went there he threatened the officer by saying, "If you take me to court there will be a serious tragedy in this end of the county. If you want to keep healthy, leave me alone." But the boys were compelled to go to school.! The father however had to be arrested and the law was enforced. 

During the summer vacation this same officer visited that home with the view of offering employment to the boys. When the father met him at the door, despondent, still bitter and defiant of the law, he said, ''Well, what do you want now?" 

"Have you any employment?" 

"No." 

"Would your boys like to have a job?" 

"You mean to say you have work for my boys? You come here with a job?" 

Those boys joined the working squad, went out and picked beans. 

The father apologized and said, "I have misjudged you." 

Those boys as well as the father now have an entirely changed attitude towards the law and towards citizenship. Success to that method. Success to the Utah school laws. Success to Milton Bennion who is recognized in the United States as a pioneer in moral teaching in the schools, and to others associated with him. 

THE MEANS PROVIDED BY THE CHURCH ORGANIZATION 

But now, brethren of the Church, do you realize that we have here in the organization of the Church the best means in all the world of training the youth? Your Deacon Quorums, what are they but opportunities for the young boys to meet together and satisfy that spirit, of brotherhood? There are 1041 quorums in which over 30,000 boys ranging from 12 to 15 years of age meet every week under environment which is faith-promoting and character developing. Similarly grouped in 623 quorums are 18,500 Teachers, and 610 quorums over 23,000 Priests. Bishop, what is your Priests' quorum but an opportunity for you as a president of that quorum to get those young men around you as your bodyguard, young men who carve the social atmosphere of the ward, and whom you may lead in paths of honor, trustworthiness and faith? Continuing with auxiliaries, what do we find? In the Primary association 85,000 children between 4 years and 12 in the case of boys, and 4 years and 14 in the case of girls, all most efficiently supervised and instructed. In the Y. M. M. I. A. there are 42,813 youths, and in the Y. L. M. I. A. 42,042 young women. In the Sunday School 229,793 members exclusive of officers and teachers. 

I look upon the organization of the Church as the greatest opportunity ever given to man for the proper training of youth. I make the statement without fear of successful contradiction. I hope the national investigating committee will look into the opportunities furnished by this Church. I hope while they are investigating they will consider the fact that Joseph Smith, when he outlined this organization, was not twenty-five years of age, unlearned in sociology, unschooled in economics; yet after one hundred years that which he gave by inspiration of God stands as the best social condition that the world has. 

NOT ALL BAD 

God bless the officers of the Priesthood quorums and auxiliaries, that they may go forth from this Conference with renewed determination to reach the youth. Young people are not bad, they just need guidance, that is all, and if you are leaders you may depend upon it the boys and girls of the Church will follow. Even these criminals in Chicago are not all bad. In the race riot of 1919, one of the gangs, called the "Dirty Dozen," started out one day to harass the negroesjust a group of boys misled. One of the boys jerked the trolley cord and held the rope while the others jumped into the car to create a disturbance and throw out the occupants. While he was holding that rope a negro woman slashed him over the heart with a razor. Only one of the gang was caught, the others fled, but the one caught said he heard "Shakey," the boy who was cut, say as his last words, "What will mother think ?" He was not all bad when his dying thought was a regret that he had wounded his mother. 

I tell you the time has come for the nation, for the state, for the home, for the Church, to look more directly and particularly after the boys and girls and train them in the way they should go, and when they are old few will depart from it. 

God help us to utilize the quorums and the organizations to that end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

Brethren and sisters : Weakness is given to make a man humble; therefore, I feel very humble and dependent upon God at this moment. 

The Assyrians, with horses and chariots, sought to apprehend Elisha. "Fear not," said the prophet, "for they that be with us are more than they that be with them." 

I believe this truth applies to the Latter-day Saints. Ever since the world began all the prophets and righteous men have beheld in vision the work that we are doing and they have rejoiced in this glorious day. 

When Napoleon formed his armies in battle array in Egypt, pointing to the pyramids he said : "Soldiers, forty centuries look down upon you." All the former dispensations merging into this dispensation are looking upon us. God help us that they may behold in our labors richness of spirituality and steadiness of purpose. 

The Prophet Mormon in his teachings says that angels have a ministry : 

"Nay; neither have angels ceased to minister unto the children of men. 

"For behold, they are subject unto him, to minister according to the word of his command, showing themselves unto them of strong faith and a firm mind in every form of godliness. 

"And the office of their ministry is to call men unto repentance, and to fulfil and to do the work of the covenants of the Father, which he hath made unto the children of men, to prepare the way among the children of men, by declaring the word of Christ unto the chosen vessels of the Lord, that they may bear testimony of him. 

"And by so doing, the Lord God prepareth the way that the residue of men may have faith in Christ, that the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearts, according to the power thereof; and after this manner bringeth to pass the Father, the covenants which he hath made unto the children of men" (Moroni 7:29-32). 

We proclaim in humility, dear brethren and sisters, that Mormon foretold the mission of his splendid son, Moroni, and that Moroni did appear to a chosen vessel of the Lord, even the Prophet Joseph Smith, who with magnificent courage and firm in the faith of the living God proclaimed his message to the nations of the earth. With angels we share a heavenly gift, even the gift of the Holy Ghost, for the Book of Mormon tells us that angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

We are told in holy writ that angels are our fellow servants, and the Apostle Paul tells us that we are laborers together with God in the accomplishment of his glorious purposes. Is not this a high honsr? Is not this a sacred responsibility? Ought not this knowledge to  us with the loftiest ideals and devoted service to our Heavenly Father? 

I thank God for the gift of the Holy Ghost. It is this gift that distinguishes us from people described by a great writer as "the windmill species." Established in the truth by this personal testimony, we have faith in our leaders. The pilot in steering his vessel with its precious cargo of lives and merchandise would imperil both by steering according to weather vanes. But with the compass he will steer his ship through dark clouds knowing that beyond lies the haven of security and safety. 

So in this Church we are not guided by the theories of certain men which "with the hour begin and end," but we are guided by the compass of divine revelation which is in the possession of the leaders of this Church, even the revelations of God, the gift of the Holy Ghost, which God pours into every believing heart, and as we follow the direction of this compass we shall be guided safely into the harbor of eternal life. 

Oh, I thank God that we are following our Lord Jesus Christ. We desire to do his will. We love him. We love God our Heavenly Father. I bear you my humble testimony that God is with this people, that he is leading the Church, that Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and Savior, and that he is our friend if we will keep his commandments. I rejoice in the Gospel because I know it is the power of God unto salvation, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WINTER 

I need scarcely say to you that it is indeed a surprise to me to be called upon to speak to this vast audience. 

It has been my privilege to go forth on a short mission during the summer and visit the various missions of Europe. Many years ago I received two patriarchal blessings without any solicitation upon my part, and in each of those blessings a promise was made that was quite significant in the wording. I have often wondered how it could ever be realized. In each case the promise was made by the Patriarch that I should "travel from nation to nation" and preach the Gospel. The wording which is practically the same in both cases, was somewhat peculiar; it was not that I should go from place to place, from county to county, or from state to state, but that I should travel "from nation to nation," and preach the Gospel. 

In this call that came to me from the Presidency of the Church, along with Bishop Wells, those two patriarchal blessings, upon that point, were literally fulfilled; for I have in very deed traveled from nation to nation and preached the Gospel. 

Bishop Wells and I have visited every mission in Europe. First of all we had the opportunity of meeting with all the mission presidents of Europe in the city of Basel, Switzerland. We were with them in the closing sessions of their conference. The final session was a testimony meeting and I do not recall having attended a testimony meeting where the Spirit of God was poured out in richer abundance than it was at that time. 

The mission presidents of Europe are a splendid lot of men and are doing a magnificent work for the proclamation of the truth. They are led and supervised by President John A. Widtsoe, of the Council of the Twelve. He has a tremendous responsibility upon him, which he is discharging in a most remarkable manner. He is undertaking to systematize, organize and unify the work in all the missions abroad, so that the most effective work can be accomplished and the truth be made known in the most efficient manner. 

The Elders who are laboring in those missions are as fine a body of men as can be found anywhere on earth, and they are doing a marvelous work. Notwithstanding their youth and inexperience the Lord has touched their hearts. His Spirit is working with them and they are presenting the message of the Gospel in a very creditable manner. 

There are over thirty thousand members of the Church in the European missions and they are being organized as nearly as possible like the organizations at home. The priesthood work is being developed as fast as possible. The auxiliary work is showing a remarkable advance over the years gone by. The sisters are doing a splendid work in this particular. The wives of the presidents of the various missions are leading out and cooperating fully with their husbands. Sister Widtsoe especially is distinguishing herself by the intelligent and effective work she is doing among the sisters. The Relief Society, the Mutual Improvement Associations and the Sunday Schools, are all flourishing. The Primary Association has not yet been developed to the extent of the other organizations. But it is not being overlooked. These auxiliaries are more advanced now in the various missions of Europe than ever before, and are doing a splendid work in training and developing the people, both young and old. Many who are not of the Church belong to these associations, and through the influence of little children the mothers and fathers are being made acquainted with the truth. 

I am happy to say that the feeling of the world toward the Latter-day Saints has changed materially since I last visited Europe. The press shows a marked change for the better in its attitude towards the Church. There is now a willingness to publish articles in refutation of the slanders that may be put forth by our enemies (for the devil is not dead yet and the Church still has enemies in Europe), and the papers generally are trying to be fair in their attitude upon the "Mormon" question. Moreover, they are opening their columns to us. When conferences are held it is not uncommon for the newspapers to send representatives to such gatherings, and they usually give a fair account of what transpires. 

I rejoice in the wonderful experience I have had through this opportunity of visiting Europe. The work of the various missions is progressing, and the Gospel is being taught in its purity and power. 

However, there is one serious drawback to it all, and that is the indifference which prevails among the people. Since the war, particularly, there has been a noticeable change in the religious attitude of the people of Europe. Where they formerly believed in the Bible, in the church, in the observance of the Sabbath, and in those things that tend to build up and uplift humanity, they have gradually assumed an attitude of indifference to all these things. They no longer have much use for religion or for the churches. That spirit is growing, and I do not know just how we are going to meet it. It is one of the problems of missionary work today. Formerly you could approach the people with the Bible and sustain the principles of the Gospel from the "good book." But today too many pay little or no attention to the Bible. The approach therefore must be different. Our missionary methods and efforts will have to be changed somewhat in order to meet the changed situation. President Widtsoe is working along these lines, devoting a great deal of thought, time and energy to the development of other methods so as to meet the new conditions and get the people interested in the Gospel message. 

I want to say in closing, my brethren and sisters, that I am very happy in the work of the Lord. It is the dearest thing on earth to me. It is fifty years this month since I was baptized into the Church; and out of that fifty years of experience in the Church I can testify to you today that I know this to be the work of the Lord. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. And I know too that the Church is led by the inspiration of the Lord. The Lord has not forsaken it. He has not gone on a journey. He is guiding and directing the affairs of this Church. He is inspiring the leaders of the Church. For forty odd years I have been in close contact with them. I have seen their, lives, and I am here to testify to you that in guiding the affairs of this Church they have been led by the inspiration of the Almighty. Wie need have no fears as to the future of the work of the Lord, for it is his work and will triumph and I bear testimony to it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy St. Paul said: 

"For though I preach the Gospel, I have nothing to glory of : for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel! 

"For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward : but if against my will, a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me." 

He lea ves rather unsaid what he means by that significant remark : "If I preach not the gospel, then a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me." 

But undoubtedly he implies that a very serious consequence would rest upon him if he failed in this mission that had been granted unto him. I think very likely the contemplation of another prophet, who had also been commissioned of the Lord to carry a message unto Israel in Babylon, will throw some light upon the subject. 

Some time after the Babylonian captivity began the Lord called Ezekiel and sent him to Babylon to convey to Israel his mind and will. So Ezekiel departed on that mission. When he arrived in Babylon he seemed loath to undertake the responsibility. We are told that he sat by the river that ran through the city, doubtless in deep contemplation of the work before him. The Lord, it would appear, felt that he was somewhat delinquent in discharging the tremendous responsibility given him, so he spoke unto the prophet to this effect: 

"Son of man, I have placed thee upon the watchtower and given thee my word unto Israel." 

"When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood mill I require at thine hand. 

"Yet if thou warn the wicked man, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul." 

I think that in all probability this quotation from Ezekiel helps us to explain in something like fulness the words of Paul upon the subject of responsibility of those who receive commission and a mission from the Lord to the world. 

For the few minutes that I address you I would like to make a somewhat wider application of this same principle that we see operating here in the case of individual prophets. Let us remember that responsibility can rest upon a people, a nation, or a church in the same manner that it can rest upon an individual. Israel demonstrates the truth of that statement. I mean' the experience of the Hebrew nation; which people, after God had delivered them from Egypt, were called to be his witness in the earth — witness of his being and the kind of being he was, his character, his attributes; and also to be witness of his law which he revealed to them through Moses. The conditions making them his witness to the world were such that in any event they would be his witnesses. If by observing his law, keeping his com mandments, and honoring him, then by a realization of the highest blessings that God could confer upon a people; they would be strengthened and upheld as a people especially blessed of the Lord. In the event of their failure to live up to the requirements of his law, and do honor to him, then such calamities would fall upon them as would testify of God's displeasure upon those who ignore his laws and commandments. And the Hebrew nation under these conditions has been a witness for God, perhaps the most remarkable miracle in all history. I remember that Bishop Joseph Lightfoot, a Christian Bible scholar of high standing of the last century, declared that men could disbelieve every other miracle in the Bible and yet the Hebrew nation would be the outstanding miracle of all miracles that are mentioned. The experiences through which they had passed; and they, we know, 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 19 

have chiefly been witnesses of God through the things which they suffered because of their disobedience unto the Lord. 

The full passage by Bishop Lightfoot is as follows: 

"You may question, if you will, every single prophecy in the Old Testament, but the whole history of the Jews is one continuous prophecy more distinct and articulate than all. You may deny, if you will, every successive miracle which is recorded therein; but again, the history of the Jews is from first to last one stupendous miracle, more wonderful and convincing than all." {Quarterly Review, April, 1886). 

But I want to apply this principle, introduced by Paul's statement, to a Church, more especially to our Church, in which the ends of the earth are met, being the Church of the new dispensation, the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, which shall include within it all previous dispensations, for in it shall be realized that refreshing that was promised by St. Peter when he said, the heavens would receive and retain Jesus Christ until the times of refreshing should come from the presence of the Lord, and Jesus Christ should be again revealed from heaven, made known to the people; and all things spoken by the mouths of the prophets from the beginning of the world should be gathered together into one, and be established in this great forth-coming dispensation (Acts 3:19-22). 

This is the Church we are supremely interested in, this Church of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. God has committed to this Church his Gospel, his law. He has commissioned men and given unto the Church its organization wherein is his divine authority. He has commissioned this Church to preach the Gospel to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. And in a remarkable way he has made this Church the means through which he will instruct the world and administer to all men the ordinances of the Gospel. By reason of- this large commission this Church extends its interests from the first dispensation to this last dispensation, from Adam until the present time. God has made it all inclusive. It therefore becomes the official exponent of the whole scheme of life and salvation that God has designed for the world, the advocacy of the truth; and the defense especially of God's revealed truth, is lodged with this organization together with the tremendous responsibility that goes with this divine commission. 

Moreover, the Lord has given special instruction for our guidance, the guidance of his priesthood — how we may acquit ourselves and become efficiently instructed and prepared to discharge these high responsibilities. I want to call your attention to that. 

Ninety-eight years ago a group of elders had assembled in Kirtland — they were waiting the coming on of a conference at which they were expected to receive organization and instructions to go out with the message of the Lord to the people in the country round about. Most of them had come in from missions. .While thus in waiting they inquired of the Prophet for the word of the Lord respecting them and their future labors. It was on this occasion that the Lord gave what to me is one of the most wonderful, as it is also one of the most beautiful, of our revelations. It seems that the Prophet was inclined to regard it somewhat in this light, for he named it "The Olive Leaf," because it was intended, in certain parts of it, to make reconciliation of differences that had sprung up between the elders down at Independence, Missouri, and the elders of the Church in Kirtland. Coming to that part of it which was to be instruction to this group of Elders, the Lord said to them: 

"I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth. 

"And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another in the doctrine of the kingdom. 

"Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory — " 

They did not disregard theory. Some people are disposed to sneer at theoretical things, but the Lord required that these Elders should be instructed more perfectly in theory — 

" — in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand. 

"Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms — " 

And now observe this, I pray you. First, hold in your consciousness the width and length and height and depth of this great field of knowledge in relation to things of the past and the future; things to come; things of a national character; things in the earth itself, and under the earth. It seems to me that an effort was made to circumscribe the whole field of knowledge, human and divine; historical and philosophical. It is a tremendous designation of the field to be scored for knowledge of the things that are. And now, as I was about to say, mark the purpose of the instruction, for the paragraph continues : 

"That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you." 

And then later, by the way, I ought not to omit that, the Lord said : 

"Verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you. 

"And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith." 

You will observe that there are two sources mentioned here from which men may obtain learning and wisdom. One is through access to the treasures of knowledge by faith; but as all do not have that gift of obtaining knowledge by faith, then "seek ye wisdom from the best books;" and of course there can be no possible objection to men thus instructed of the Lord obtaining wisdom both by faith and also by research in experimentation, and by becoming familiar with the great truths that are taught in the best books. 

Well, that I think discloses somewhat the responsibility of the Church to become efficient as teachers of those truths which God has revealed, and also as to all truth, because I recognize the fact that the Lord from time to time has granted through his prophets, especially, great flashes of light that men call philosophical truth, as well as moral and spiritual truth and admonition. And I regard it the duty of the Church to represent and uphold and sustain in the exercise of the mission given to her of God the so-called philosophical truths of the revelations of God, as well as the important doctrinal truth and ordinances of the Gospel that he has restored. It is binding upon the Church, from my viewpoint, that she shall weave into beautiful harmony, as I believe it can be woven, the truth that God has revealed, and also those undoubted truths which men, and especially in this wonderful age, have been developing by their profound research and experimentations. A new world has opened to the knowledge of men in these last thirty years. It is called in their literature upon the subject, a New Renaissance, and that renaissance of knowledge has brought to the scientific and intellectual world and the philosophical world new conceptions in relation to the structure of the universe, and also its immensity, its almost unbelievable greatness. For now, whereas in past times we have spoken of the "solar system," we speak of that galaxy which we regard as constituting our universe — consisting of more than one billion blazing suns, and many thoughtful writers are ready to concede the possibility at least of these suns being the centers of opaque, circling planets, as is the case with our own sun, for our sun is like the other billions of suns that make up the galaxy. Now they burn holes into space by improved telescopes, supplemented by the great "photographic eye of science," the photograph-telescope, until a multiplicity of galaxies of blazing suns equal perhaps to our own galaxy, are to be found out in the depths of space, beyond the galaxy to which our solar system belongs. 

And so this larger view of the universe, together with other discoveries in geology, the science of earth structure; and biology, the science of life; and in chemistry as well as in astronomy,- — the ideas of men in the last thirty years have undergone a complete revolution you may say. 

I am sorry to call attention to the fact, but I must needs do so, that while there are a few exceptions to the notion among scientific men, it is safe to say that the trend of intellectual thought and scientific investigation and deduction holds out the idea of the coming of a dead universe, and also it denies — this trend of thought — even the possibility or the desirability of individual immortality, even the immortality of the race. Of course if the universe is headed towards a complete universal deadness, all forms of life go into that universe; and that is the trend, I wish to say, of scientific thought. Others, however, and some of them the most prominent in the intellectual life of our times, hold to the fact that as these blazing suns and many worlds that may attend upon them are wasting away, matter being annihilated, — contrary to the old philosophy — matter being annihilated, radiant energy is being developed in its stead. There are those who believe that radiant energy reaches a point at which it undergoes reconstruction, and that there is a building up of the universe, as well as a tearing down of it; but that is not the trend of scientific thought. 

Now, in relation to these things, I can only say at this time that the prophet of God of this New Dispensation has announced this great principle as to the eternity of the universe, the immortality of individual men, as well as of races— he has given the world to understand through our Book of Mormon that there is a God in heaven who has created all things, things to act and things to be acted upon; and all the researches of the scientists bring us at last only to those two things the positive and negative, out of which the unexhaustive matter of the space depths is brought into tangible being and reality, and the great drama of creation goes on though there be disintegration of worlds and integration of them. 

And so the Lord has made known unto his Church these great truths. It is my belief that the Church is the custodian of those great philosophical and scientific truths, and it is for us to be champions of those things and to harmonize them with the truths which men have discovered, that the truths of God may be vindicated. 

This is our new field of labor, you may say, at the commencement of this second century of the existence of the Church. I believe it is up to us to fortify the youth of our people and our missionaries that they shall go out into the world with a knowledge of these things that are in fact included in that great commandment which God gave to his servant ninety-eight years ago, that they may go out efficient to meet the world in respect to all the truths that God has revealed, and the reasonable implications that grow out of them. 

I pray you do not regard this as any attempt on my part to make any adequate statement of the development of the new knowledge of the world of the last thirty years. It is not so. I merely call your attention to this vast new field in which we ought to put our feet as far forward as any other people in the world, because we can do it with the assurance that God has revealed great truths in relation to these matters. So regard this, my brethren, as merely a mentioning of this broad field of which the ministry of the Church and the educational department of the Church should take notice. 

May the Lord bless us, we men of the second century in the Church. May we discharge our duties and responsibilities as faithfully and as successfully as did the men of the first century. If we do that we shall stand without reproach, a light given of God to the world. May the Lord bless us to that end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The hymn, '"How Firm a Foundation, Ye Saints of the Lord," was sung by the congregation, after which the closing prayer was offered by Elder Leonard G. Ball, President of the Idaho Falls Stake, and the Conference adjourned until 2:00 p. m. 

FIRST DAY 


