Morning
07 04 1940

The fifth session of the Conference was held in the Tabernacle Sunday morning, April 7 at 10 o'clock. 

Almost an hour in advance of the time to begin this meeting, the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity with people who had assembled from the various Stakes and Missions of the Church. The large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was also fully occupied with people, and thousands in addition assembled on the Tabernacle grounds. Those who had come together in the Assembly Hall, and also those on the Tabernacle grounds, listened to the Conference proceedings, by means of amplifiers that had been installed, as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The music for this session of the Conference was furnished by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Director. Dr. Frank W. Asper was at the organ console. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters : It becomes increasingly apparent that we need larger quarters for our General Conferences. An hour before the time of commencement this building was filled to capacity. I am sure there is the traditional ten thousand people here this morning. I hope that all will remain as quiet as possible so that everyone may hear. 

President Grant is "listening in" this morning. 

The congregation and the Tabernacle Choir sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man who Communed with Jehovah." 

Elder S. Taylor Farnsworth, President of the Beaver Stake, offered the opening prayer. 107 

ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will bless me with a generous portion of His Holy Spirit during the moment or two I stand before you this morning. 

I would that every member of this great congregation could have had the opportunity of attending the General Welfare meeting held yesterday morning and had visualized in picture, graph, and statistics the splendid achievements of this great movement and its possibilities for the future. 

CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM OF A PERMANENT NATURE 

Some of us are inclined to believe that the Church Welfare program is of a temporary nature, but I do not hesitate in declaring that the future will hold a greater need for it than there has been in the past. In analyzing conditions in our great nation today, it is obvious that the matter of relief and unemployment is a local problem and sooner or later the Federal Government will turn it back to states, counties, cities, communities, and churches for solution. 

The situation is clear. The Federal Government has before it two issues : first, as to whether or not it is able to carry the relief burden, or is the Federal income adequate to cover the huge expenditures of the past, present, and future. The present condition of the National Treasury indicates that disbursements are far in excess of receipts, which brings back to mind the truth expressed by President Clark, wherein he declared that no individual, nor private enterprise, nor even government can long exist on a sound financial basis when disbursements are greater than receipts. This local problem of relief which has and is being expanded into tremendous proportions by government agencies will come back to local units of government where it rightly belongs, or the nation faces bankruptcy. 

Secondly, the Federal Government in turning the problem of relief back to states, counties, cities, communities, and churches should set in motion through these local units preparation for the caring of those in distress. Where preparation is being made to meet this problem, there will be but little difficulty. But where no preparation has been made, suffering, difficulties, and bloodshed are not remote possibilities. 

STOREHOUSES TO BE BUILT 

The Welfare Program is not the child of any individual's brain, but comes to us from our Heavenly Father. Your attention is directed to a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the year 1832, as recorded in the 78th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verse 3 : 

For verily I say unto you, the time has come and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an organization of 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the storehouse for the poor of my people, both in this place and in the land of Zion. 

In this revelation there are indicated to us two important points, probably three. First, these storehouses are to be regulated and established by an organization of the Lord's people. Secondly, a storehouse was to be set up in "this" place. What place? The place where the Saints were residing in 1832 — in and about Kirtland, Ohio. Third, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph, "and in the land of Zion." 

In the wisdom of the Lord and through the power of inspiration, the Presidency of the Church some four years ago instituted this plan in greater measure than before. As a result, there have been established in the land of Zion storehouses under the direction and regulation of an organization of the Lord's people. These storehouses are found in Canada, the Northwest, California, and in every Stake of the Church. This impresses us with the fact that this is not a new plan, but rather the first one revealed to us through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This is one of the Lord's ways of taking care of his people in distress. 

PRAISE FOR WELFARE WORKERS 

As one phase of this organization there has recently been organized in the Church the General Welfare Committee, who under mandate of the First Presidency have been and are establishing the Church Welfare Program of the Church. The efforts of this group of men are of the highest order. This Committee is composed of men from the various walks and vocations of life; some of them are professional men, others business men, others educators. For the past four years they have given most generously of their time and talents in the attempt to establish in every Ward, Stake, and Region of the Church the Lord's way of caring for His distressed people. 

It is literally a day of preparation, and the members of the General Welfare Committee are exerting every effort to emphasize the necessity of being fully prepared in Priesthood quorums, Wards, Stakes, and Regions in order that this plan shall operate most efficiently in solving the problems of relief and unemployment. 

Another great organization stands out in bold relief in connection with this movement, namely the Relief Society organization, which has contributed willingly, freely, and generously of its time and resources to the program. If it had not been for the Relief Society organization, in some Stakes the Welfare program would have made but little progress. 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

This plan anticipates not only that men and women shall be rehabilitated in their temporal affairs, but that there shall be a rejuvenation and rehabilitation in their attitude towards God, towards their Government, and towards work. 109 

The past experiences of a great many charitable institutions and organizations prove, where assistance has been given without placing any requirements or obligation upon the recipients, it has brought about a condition of demoralization, disrespect for government, and the attitude that the world owes man a living without any mental or physical exertion on his part. In such instances, when relief is taken away, such individuals are not able through desire or training to take care of themselves. The Church Welfare Program solves the problem of demoralization by placing on every individual the responsibility of contributing of his time and talents on some worthwhile project that there may be instilled in his mind and heart the thought that what he has received is his, by right of having earned it. The Lord has placed this obligation on all. He said, "Thou shalt not be idle, for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." This is the essence and battle-cry of this great program of rehabilitation and preparation against the day of need, which will surely come. 

On the other hand, those of us who are not particularly affected by the conditions of the times temporally have a most definite responsibility in that we should be susceptible to the lessons of this great program : First, the lesson of thrift, wherein through the practice of conservative and careful principles, we shall safeguard our private resources against days of future need and depression. 

THE FAST OFFERING PLAN 

The matter of financing this great program rests squarely upon the shoulders of members of the Church. The means and ways of such financing come from divine sources, for the Lord has indicated His desires relative to taking care of those who are in need. The Lord's method of financing the Church Welfare Program is the Fast Offering Plan, which has already been mentioned by Elder George F. Richards and Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. This is a plan pregnant with enriching blessings for those who observe it, the most equitable and orderly system ever given to man whereby individuals contribute according to their resources : To abstain from two meals on the first Sunday of each month, the equivalent in cash or commodities to be presented to the Bishop in order that there might be provisions in the storehouse of the Lord for any who might be hungry or cold. This plan provides a blessing for the donor. It is a physical sacrifice for the receiving of a spiritual blessing. It places the body under subjection to the will of the Lord, establishes closer relationship between man and the Holy Ghost, which assures a high degree of spirituality, a blessing so much needed in the world today. It creates a prayerful attitude and provides an opportunity, as Paul declared, for the practice of pure and undefiled religion, in visiting the fatherless and the widows, and keeping themselves unspotted from the sins of the world. By far the greatest spiritual blessing derived from the observance of this plan is the gift of testimony. No greater privilege is offered to the 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

membership of this Church than the one afforded the first Sunday of each month to contribute of our resources to those who are in distress, to pray and fast, and to bear testimony of the goodness of the Lord unto us. 

The spirit of testimony is the power of the Holy Ghost. Any individual who rises to his feet and declares that he knows that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet, does so under the power and influence of the Holy Ghost. Brigham Young declared that no man could testify that Jesus was the Christ only by and through the power of the Holy Ghost. 

The temporal side of the Fast offering plan is so practical, equitable, and just that it places no undue burden on any individual be he rich or poor. It is interesting to note that the Fast offering per capita for the Church in 1925 was 22 cents. In 1939 it reached the all high of 82 cents. Remarkable progress has been made. But an analysis of the observance of the Fast offering plan proves we have hardly scratched the great field of possibilities in the Fast offering plan. 

Considering the Fast offering per capita of 1938 based on abstaining from 24 meals a year gives us a meal cost of 3j^ cents. It is obvious that no meal can be served for 3^2 cents which contains a balanced and adequate diet. The United States army meal cost for this area averages from 13 cents to 17 cents per meal. The quartermaster department of the United States army is a careful buyer. It buys the best. It buys as closely as it can, and yet meal costs average from 13 cents to 17 cents. 

One of the largest hospitals in Salt Lake City serves fifteen hundred meals daily, or forty-five thousand per month at an average cost of 20 cents per meal. It is safe to assume that the average family meal should cost at least 15 cents. This cost does not pertain to the Church as a whole, as there are families where meal costs run from 30 cents to 40 cents. But for the sake of comparison, we may use a meal cost of 15 cents. If we abstained from two meals monthly at the rate of 15 cents per meal, this would make a per capita of 30 cents per month, or $3.60 per year, approximately four and one-half times as much as was contributed in 1939. Supposing the entire membership of the Church were to fully observe the Fast offering plan as revealed to us by the Lord, abstaining from two meals per month, there would be available annually a Fast offering sum of $2,880,000. On the other hand, may we assume that only 500,000 members of the Church observe the Fast offering plan, based on the cost of 15 cents per meal, two meals each month or, a per capita of $3.60 per year, this would provide an annual fund of $1,800,000. With this amount available in the Wards, Stakes, and Regions of the Church, the Welfare Program would go forward by leaps and bounds. In addition thereto, many more new work projects would be inaugurated. It would be possible to assist in the establishment of industries which would utilize the dormant re-^ sources of this state and bring into gainful employment hundreds, of our brothers and sisters, 111 

Aside from all of the possibilities of providing adequate relief and employment for our people, the finest opportunity provided for the Church is that of leadership in a world floundering and gradually burying itself in the sea of distress, poor leadership, and destruction. 

LOVE FOR GOD SHOWN BY SERVICE 

We declare a love for God with all our hearts, minds, and souls. We know definitely that in our hearts a love for neighbors should exist, but love of God is only genuine, heartfelt, and real when actual service is rendered to our Father's children, our neighbors. The Apostle John declared : "He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love. If a man saith he loves me and hateth his brother, he. is a liar, for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" 

God's revealed plan for the caring of the unfortunate neither bankrupts nations, states, communities, churches nor individuals, but builds them up in faith and service to mankind. Love for God and love for neighbor will hasten the day when the King of kings shall rule and all men shall be equal. 

In the 78th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord again declares to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

That you may be equal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things. 

For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things; 

For if ye will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you. 

True it is that the Lord has required baptism of us, work for the dead and all other ordinances and principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; but He requires above all else that we shall love Him and love His children, our neighbors, by rendering a service which will provide temporal and spiritual rehabilitation. 

THE WORDS OF THE SAVIOR 

May God bless and so strengthen us that when the day of ac counting comes, each one of us may stand before a resurrected Savior to give an account of our stewardship; and may He say unto us, "For I was an hungered and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him saying, 'Lord when saw we Thee an hungered and took Thee in, or naked and clothed Thee; or when saw we Thee sick or in prison and came unto Thee?' And then shall the King answer and say unto them, 'Verily, I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my .brethren, ye have done it unto me.' " 

May the Lord bles"s us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10 :30 to 11 :00 a. m., a program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ as part of the proceedings of the General Conference, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting Company's network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by means of short wave to other points. This broadcast originated over Station KSL, Salt Lake City. The following program was given : 

"Awake the Harp," — Creation — (Haydn) Choir 

"Toccata in D" (Kinder) Organ 

"Out of the Silence" (Jenkins) Choir 

"O My Father" (Arranged by Asper) Organ 

"Behold, God the Lord Passed By,"— Elijah— { Mendelssohn 

Choir 

"The Lord Bless You and Keep You" (Lutkin) Male Voices 

The singing of the Choir was under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ accompaniments and Organ solo presentations were played by Frank W. Asper. The spoken word was by Richard L. Evans. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in ihe First Presidency 

President Grant is "listening in" this morning, and we wish to assure him that this comes to him with the loyalty, trust, faith, confidence, and love of the whole Church. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency My brethren and sisters : 

APPRECIATION FOR BLESSINGS 

There are few, if any persons in this congregation who are more truly appreciative than I of the privilege of attending this Conference. Until just recently it was doubtful whether I should be able to do so. This morning I stand before you practically a well man. I thank you, my brethren and sisters, and many friends, for your thoughtful solicitations, your faith and prayers. 

I am deeply grateful this morning for President Grant's remarkable improvement in health, I was with him when he went from the California 113 

Mission Home to the St. Vincent's Hospital February 5, and thereafter for ten days or more visited him almost daily. I met in council with him and President Oark March 23 and noted how greatly he had improved. Truly, the Lord has answered the prayers offered in his behalf. He is a great and inspired leader; and most earnestly we pray for the prolongation of his life, and his enjoyment of health and happiness. 

I have been made happy by the messages given by the General Authorities and the Mission Presidents. 

With you I rejoiced in the excellent singing of choral groups of young people from the Brigham Young University and the Ricks College. I am thankful that we have these Church schools. I know their power for good. 

The service rendered each week by the officers and members of the Tabernacle Choir is to the Church and the nation what the glorious sunshine this morning is to the world — it gives joy and peace to a million hearts. 

INCREASE OF ACTIVITY IN THE CHURCH 

It is a source of true satisfaction to note the evidences of increased activity throughout the Church — in Priesthood quorums; in Auxiliary associations; in the Church Welfare Plan; in missionary work at home and in the field; in better Ward teaching; in Temple work; in the large number of young people who are participating in Church duties, and who thereby are becoming anchored in the Truth, for it is an evidence of the truth of this work that the more service you render the happier you are. "If ye do, ye shall know" is axiomatic as it pertains to the Gospel. 

Brethren and sisters, God bless every one of you for your integrity and devotion to the work of the Lord! It is an honor and a continual joy to be associated with you in the Church of Jesus Christ. 

In my message to you this morning I wish to acknowledge God's kindness and mercy to His children everywhere, and to express my abiding faith in the ultimate triumph of the Gospel, and of the final victory of Right over Wrong. 

EVILS OF WAR 

Believing this, I am not blind to the fact that in the attitude of mankind generally, Truth seems to be "Forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne.'" 

The world is truly in turmoil, and there are those who fear modern civilization is dangerously near destruction. The fact is that since history began strife, wickedness, and war have existed among human beings, who it seems are too selfish and ambitious to learn what is best for them. As indicative of the slow progress of the world in regard especially to the evil of war listen to these extracts taken from accounts of conquests in widely separated eras : 

Shrieks and wailing, and every other species of outcry that comes from grief, terror, and despair arose from within (the palace); and such spectators as had the heart to look continuously upon the spectacle, could Third Day  wretched men running to and fro, and virgins clinging to altars for protection, and frantic mothers vainly endeavoring to find hiding places for themselves and their helpless children. 

That is quoted from a description of the destruction of a city 1200 years before the Christian Era. Now listen to this : 

Bodies are not pleasant sights under any circumstances. When they are of young women, torn to pieces by bombs, sometimes without heads or arms or legs, they are horrible to behold. This was sheer horror. 

Conquered men in the ruined city were executed. Men and women were driven to the public squares to watch the executions. 

That is taken from accounts of eye-witnesses of the bombing of a city in September in the year of our Lord 1939! 

Manifestly, there has not been much cessation of man's "inhumanity to man" in 3,000 years! Notwithstanding this, I believe that Right and Truth will eventually triumph. 

Today as we behold nations grasping at one another's throats, the strong crushing the weak, we are prone to think that righteousness among nations is waning. In our own country, we know that the struggle is still rife between capital and labor; that enemies to our democratic institutions are becoming more blatant; we see political demagogues more seemingly successful, drunkenness and immorality still flauntingly defiant; and we wonder whether mankind is growing better or worse, in private life unemployment, disappointments, adversity, sickness, and sorrow make us discouraged and sometimes despondent. 

Still I am confident that Truth will yet prevail, and in that confidence say with the Psalmist : 

Be of good courage, and He shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord. 

We may take courage in what I believe is a fact, that in the hearts of more millions of honest men and women than ever before in the history of the world, war is abhorrent. War has lost its false glamour and boasted glory. Such an attitude at least keeps alive our hope for the dawning of that day when men "shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." (Isaiah 2:4) 

How utterly foolish men are to quarrel, fight, and cause misery, destruction, and death when the gifts of a divine and loving Father are all around us for the asking — are already in our possession if we would but recognize them. Christ's invitation is still extended to all peoples : PEACE THROUGH JESUS CHRIST 

Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 115 

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find lest unlo your souls. 

For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (Matthew 11 :28, 30.) 

I am as sure as that I am speaking to you that the peace and happiness of mankind lie in the acceptance of Jesus Christ as Redeemer and Savior. As Peter declared 1900 years ago, so I testify to the world today that there is "none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved." 

The principles of the Gospel are the surest, safest guide to mortal man. Christ is the light to humanity. In that light man sees his way clearly. When it is rejected, the soul of man stumbles in darkness. No person, no group, no nation can achieve true success without following Him who said : 

I am the light of the world; he that f olloweth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. (John 8:12.) 

It is a sad thing when individuals and nations extinguish that light — when Christ and His Gospel are supplanted by the law of the jungle and the strength of the sword. The chief tragedy in the world at the present time is its disbelief in God's goodness, and its lack of faith in the teachings and doctrines of the Gospel. 

To all who believe in a living, personal God and His divine Truth, life can be so delightful and beautiful. 

THE BLESSING OF LIFE 

As a matter of fact, it's glorious just to be alive. Joy, even ecstasy, can be experienced in the consciousness of existence. There is supreme satisfaction in sensing one's individual entity, and in realizing that that entity is part of God's great creative plan. There are none so poor, none so rich, sick or maimed who may not be conscious of this relationship. 

I know that for not a few of us the true joy of living is overcast by trials, failures, worries, and perplexities incident to making a living and attempting to achieve success. Tear-bedimmed eyes are often blind to the beauties that surround us. Life sometimes seems a parched and barren desert, when, as a matter of fact, there is comfort even happiness within our grasp if we could or would but reach for it. 

It is possible for us to learn with Stanton that— 

This world o' God's is brighter than 

We ever dream or know; Its burdens' growin' lighter — 

An' it's love that makes 'em so! An' I'm thankful that I'm livin' 

Where love's blessedness I see, 'Neath a Heaven that's forgivin' 

Where the bells ring 'Home' to me! 

The Lord has given us life, and eternal life is His greatest gift to 

nian. 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 7 Third Day 

THE BLESSINGS OF FELLOWSHIP 

Among life's sweetest blessings is fellowship with men and women whose ideals and aspirations are high and noble. Next to a sense of a kinship with God comes the helpfulness, encouragement, and inspiration of friends. Friendship is a sacred possession. As air, water and sunshine to flowers, trees, and verdure, so smiles, sympathy and love of friends to the daily life of man. "To live, laugh, love one's friends, and be loved by them is to bask in the sunshine of life." One of the principal reasons which the Lord had for establishing His Church is to give all persons high and low, rich and poor, strong and feeble an opportunity to associate with their fellowmen in an atmosphere of uplifting, religious fellowship. This may be found in Priesthood quorums, Auxiliaries, Sacrament meetings. He who neglects these opportunities, who fails to take advantage of them, to that extent starves his own soul. Who among you who were numbered among the more than 9,000 in attendance at the General Priesthood meeting last night did not thrill in the realization of your being one in that great brotherhood of Christ. To what spiritual heights true fellowship may lift us may be glimpsed by John the Beloved's ecstatic remark: "I know that I have passed from death unto life, because I love the brethren." 

FREE AGENCY A GIFT FROM GOD 

But the gift which I desire more particularly to call to your attention this morning is a principle of the Gospel too seldom emphasized, but which is a blessing co-existent with man's creation. I refer to the fundamental principle of the Gospel, Free Agency. References in the Scriptures show that this principle is (1) essential to man's salvation; and, (2) may become a measuring rod by which the actions of men, of organizations, of nations may be judged. 

Therefore, cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are free to act for yourselves — to choose the way of everlasting death or the way of eternal life. (II Nephi 10:23.) 

For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves. (Doctrine and Covenants 104:17.) 

Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light. (Doctrine and Covenants 93:31.) 

Therefore it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. (Doctrine and Covenants 101 :79, 80.) 

Again : 

My independence is sacred to me— it is a portion of that same Deity that rules in the Heavens. There is not a being upon the face of the earth who is made in the image of God, who stands erect and is organized as God is, that should be deprived of the free exercise of his agency so far as he does not infringe upon others' rights, save by good advice and a good example. (Brigham Young.) 117 

It is true that faith is an essential principle in all progress, not spiritual progress only, but to all progress. But next to faith as an essential to man's advancement is Free Agency. 

The history of the world with all its contention and strife is largely an account of man's effort to free himself from bondage and usurpation, or to protect himself in the freedom he possessed. 

DANGERS SEEN IN CERTAIN TYPES OF GOVERNMENT 

In the light of the principle of Free Agency, it is not difficult to distinguish between the right and the wrong system of government. It is not difficult to tell when an organization transcends its bounds, and becomes despotic. How the people's rights may be curtailed by legislation here in the United States is emphasized in a timely editorial printed in the March 15th issue of the Los Angeles Times under the caption "The March of Absolutism." 

"Absolutism in politics," it says: 

May be defined as "a system of government in which public power is vested in some person or persons, unchecked and uncontrolled by any law, institution, constitutional device or coordinate body." The American system, on the other hand, insists on the separation of powers, legislative, executive, and judicial, and the freedom of the individual. It demands and maintains the supremacy of the law. This means that what is done officially must conform to law, exactly as much as what is done unofficially by private individuals. 

The administrative commission is a radical departure from the American system. It measurably and sometimes wholly consolidates the three separate powers of government and clothes its metabers with uncontrolled power to hear, to adjudicate, and to punish. In other words, it makes us subject to "some person or persons" who are free to act without the restraint of any law, guided solely by their own discretion. No one who has had any experience with an administrative commission will challenge this. 

What else do we find in the totalitarian governments of Europe? There, it is simply the placing of this power in the hands of one man, a Hitler or a Stalin, the area of whose government is practically unlimited. The limitation of the area within which a given commission operates does not change the power; it is, within the designated limits, despotic, that is, absolute. Recent Federal labor practice forbids the employer's resort to the courts until a commission has determined the matter, and the disposition of the authorities is to be chary of any review by the courts. Under some circumstances the employer is even denied access to the board; he must stand aside, his business tied up, until one of the contending labor organizations invokes the board's action. 

In the courts, like all other litigants, employer and employee are treated as equals. If either has infringed the rights of the other, the wronged is entitled to reparation, to be placed as near as may be in the position he had before the injury. The administrative commission is a departure from this in both principle and practice. It attempts the appraisal of what it calls social values, exalts the claims and values of labor above business and sets the interests of the labor organization above the interests of the individual workingman. It is a complete abandonment of the Anglo-American legal tradition. 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Dag 

FREEDOM A GLORIOUS PRIVILEGE 

To live in a land in which each individual has the right to life and liberty is a glorious privilege. 

If any man in this country prefers a government ruled by a dictator, he should go where the dictator rules; but here in the United States of America the people believe in a government as Abraham Lincoln declared, "of the people, by the people, and for the people." 

It is well ever to keep in mind the fact that the State exists for the individual; not the individual for the State. Jesus sought to perfect society by perfecting the individual, and only by the exercising of Free Agency can the individual even approach perfection. 

Man's Free Agency is an eternal principle of progress, and any form of government that curtails or inhibits its free exercise is wrong — Satan's plan in the beginning was one of coercion, and it was rejected, because he sought to destroy the agency of man which God had given him. 

When a man uses this God-given right to encroach upon the rights of another, he commits a wrong. Liberty becomes license, and the man a transgressor. It is the function of the State to curtail the violator, and to protect the violated. 

A WARNING TO LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Latter-day Saints should avoid affiliation with any committee, any group, any union that would, through coercion or force, deprive a person of the free exercise of his or her freedom of choice. It is understood, of course, that any person is free to join a union, when to do so favors his best interests; but no one should be compelled to join, or be deprived of any right as a citizen, including the right to honest labor, if he chooses not to become a member of a union or specially organized group. 

FAITH IN GOD BRINGS PEACE 

Yes, we are living in turbulent times, the most distressing phase of which is the rejection of Christ by the leaders and dictators of some European nations. But if you have faith in God you must believe as David Starr Jordan has aptly said, "in the final inevitable triumph of Truth," and I bear witness to the world in all sincerity that the Gospel of Jesus Christ as restored to the Prophet Joseph Smith is true and embraces all Truth. Paraphrasing the author just quoted, keep the principles of the Gospel as your guide, your companion, your ally and inspiration, and you will tingle with the consciousness of your kinship with the Infinite, and all petty trials, sorrows, and sufferings of life will fade away as temporary harmless visions seen in a dream. 

My God give us courage to choose the right, ability to appreciate the good things of life, and power faithfully to serve Him and our fellowmen, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 119 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been wondering whether I have ever attended a Conference when the influence of the Spirit of God has been made so manifest as at this gathering. 

THE POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

This is a wonderful Church, and as the years go by that truth will be known better in all parts of this world. At the wonderful Priesthood meeting held in this building, with nearly every seat filled, I thought to myself, what a marvelous power! With thaft: power directed by our Heavenly Father Himself, this Church will not only grow in numbers, but will grow in influence among the people of the world. 

CHARITY A CHRISTIAN VIRTUE 

Charity- — we believe in that grand principle, and not only believe in it but manifest our belief in action in the many ways provided for by the Gospel. Charity has been a great problem that every dispensation has had to meet in some way. God has provided the way, and this people, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, are living closer to that law, I am quite sure, than any other people in the world. Charity of the proper kind and spirit is an essential virtue in all Christian living. 

QUOTATIONS FROM SCRIPTURE 

In Corinthians, chapter thirteen, I find these words : 

Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. 

And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. * * * 

And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. 

Let all our things be done with charity. 

Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. 

Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. 

Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; 

Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. 

I find in the third chapter of Colossians it says : 

Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any; even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. 

And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful. 

Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. 

And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. 

The psalm of David asks : 

Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill?" 

The answer was : 

He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart. 

He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. 

Lack of charity might be blamed for much that is wrong in the world today, for if all the people were tolerant of the faults and weaknesses of others, and would approach them with charity and love in their hearts, it would be much easier to solve the problems confronting this old world of ours today, and which are threatening our civilization. 

THE GOSPEL A CURE FOR ILLS OF WORLD 

The only solution to these perplexing questions is to be found in the teachings of the Master. He gave to the world a philosophy of life that will bring to the world the peace and happiness for which humanity has been seeking through all the ages. His was a Gospel of peace, love and charity, and we must turn to His teachings. He was the Prince of Peace, and the nations which persist in ignoring His counsel and His warnings are following the path that leads to destruction and decay. The last is a quotation. 

John, in the fourth chapter of his first epistle, says: 

Let us love one another; for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. * * * 

If God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. * * * 

If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar; for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? 

And this commandment have we from Him, that he who loveth God love his brother also. 

AARON AND MIRIAM REBUKED 

When Moses married the Ethopian woman, as related in Numbers, twelfth chapter, Miriam and Aaron complained of it and said : 

Hath the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? Hath he not spoken also by us? And the Lord heard it. * * * 

And the Lord spake suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam: Come out ye three unto the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out. 

And the Lord came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in 121  door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam; and they both came forth. 

And he said : Hear now my words : If there be a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. 

My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house. 

With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the Lord shall he behold; wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? 

And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them; and he departed. 

And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow, and Aaron looked upon Miriam and, behold, she was leprous. 

SAYINGS OF THE SAVIOR 

In Matthew., seventh chapter, we read : Judge not, that ye be not judged. 

For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. 

And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 

Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? 

Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. 

God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God. Herein is our love made perfect, .... because as He is, so are we in this world. 

LOVE WILL FINALLY TRIUMPH 

We should love and speak the truth, but only in love and kindness. Truth should ever extend the hand of love. 

Who seeks for heaven alone, to save his soul, May keep the path, but will not reach the goal; While he who walks in love may wander far, Yet God will bring him where the blessed are. 

We should seek to obtain that love, that charity which the words of the Apostle Paul declared to be so important. Only by so doing can the ills of the world be cured. As Paul makes the assertion that "Charity beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things," he gives us to know that this heavenly attitude, charity or brotherly love, will triumph and continue, where most other things fail or cease. He assures us, in substance, that where charity rules, pride hangeth not. 

May God's blessings ever be with us. May we recognize our duties not only as citizens of this country, but as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

May God bless you all. May He bless all undertakings begun by the Authorities of this Church in carrying on His work, I humbly ask at this time, in the name of the Master, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

BISHOP MARVIN O. ASHTON 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I do not know how well you know it, but it takes a really strong constitution to stand what some of us have stood, expecting it, but not knowing how soon it would come. I have learned this much in my experience in the Church — I learned it only a couple of hours ago — that the Spirit of the Lord does not stay in a meeting too long, especially around twelve o'clock. I would not attempt by any means to do this job all alone. 

A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT MCKAY 

I am thankful from the bottom of my heart, as are you, to hear the testimony again of President McKay. I went on a mission to the same land as did he. I know how the people in that Mission loved him and I know the people of this Church love him in the same degree as do the Scotch people. May the Lord lengthen his days that he may be an inspiration to all of us for years to come. 

SUSTAINING OUR LEADERS 

May the Lord bless all of our leaders. May we have the good sense always to pray for them and, better than pray for them, let us sustain them in the way we should; I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Hosanna," (Jones), after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder Henry A. Gardner, President of the Palmyra Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


