Afternoon
05 04 1940

Conference reconvened at 2 o'clock p. m., Friday, April 5. 

The music for this session of the Conference was furnished by the Brigham Young University Chorus, Dr. Franklin W. Madsen and Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, directors, Dr. Frank W. Asper at the organ. 

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., who presided, announced that the Congregation and Chorus would sing, as the opening number, "High on the Mountain Top" (Beesley). 

After the singing of the opening song, the invocation was offered by Elder J. Berkeley Larsen, President of the Shelley Stake. 

An anthem, "Fierce Raged the Tempest" (T. F. H. Candlyn), was sung by the Brigham Young University Chorus. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, you who were present at this morning's session of Conference felt as I felt, that it was a wonderful session. The Spirit of the Lord was with us. It seems to me there never was so much reported in evidence of faithfulness on the part of the Latter-day Saints, at any one session of a General Conference as at this particular session referred to, and so much instruction of a definite, wide-spread character. I cheerfully bear testimony to the things which we heard this morning. I was led to feel grateful for my membership in this Church, to be identified with the Latterday Saints who are so faithful in living their religion, and in carrying on the work of the Lord. 

AN APPEAL TO THE INDIFFERENT 

I cannot help however but realize that while there is evidence of faithfulness in the Church, on the part of the membership there, that there is a great deal of lukewarmness. A great many members of our Church do not seem to appreciate the Gospel as fully as we would like that they should. In our preaching and teaching, naturally, while we commend the faithful Saints for their faithfulness and accomplishments, we try to appeal to those who are not doing their share in carrying on this great latter-day work, with the hope that they may be made to realize their opportunities, and to take advantage of them, realizing that we are here upon the earth to work out our salvation according to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which has been restored to earth anew in these last days. 

As a people I believe we are pretty well taught, so well taught, and our knowledge is so thorough, that if we would live up to the Gospel teachings and live as we know we ought to live, there would be little question as to our receiving a salvation. We have need of being impressed, therefore, with the necessity of doing the things that we know we ought to do, and also in refraining from doing the things which we know we ought not to do. 

THE SAVIOR'S MISSION 

We read in the scriptures how in the councils of heaven there was a rebellion, and Christ our Lord and Savior, the first-born of the Father in the spirit, came forth with a declaration of principles, brief but comprehensive : "Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." On the other hand, Lucifer sought to take away from our Father in heaven His honor and His glory, and from man the agency that he there exercised. That the matters under consideration pertained to this earth life is apparent. When the Savior came upon the earth He made the declaration repeatedly that He came because the Father sent Him; that He came to do the will of the Father. 

After His death, His resurrection and ascension to heaven, He visited the remnants of the Nephites on this American continent. In preaching to them, as recorded in the twenty-seventh chapter of Third Nephi, He made the declaration that He came here to the earth to do the will of the Father, and then asked those present: "What manner of men ought ye to be ?' He answered it for Himself : "Verily I say unto you, even as I am." My interpretation is that as the Savior came to earth to do the will of His Father, so we came to earth to do His will, and all of the commandments that the Lord has given are but an expression of His will concerning us. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM 

We are told in the scriptures that we should live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. We are spending a lot of time and effort in trying to persuade the members of the Church, particularly our young people, to refrain from the use of tobacco and intoxicating drinks. The Lord says expressly that it is 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Dag 

His will that we do refrain from the use of those things. Are we quite consistent, brethren and sisters of the Church, when we use those things which the Lord has expressed, by revelation as His will that we do not use? 

TITHES AND OFFERINGS 

The Lord has given to us a plan, a financial plan, by which, if the Latter-day Saints were all to observe it, I am sure there would be an abundance of means in the hands of those in authority, by which, if there were any needy among us, their needs would be amply supplied — the law of the tithe and of the offerings. They are not a new doctrine and responsibility. We read in the Old Testament, in the Book of Malachi, how that the Lord charged ancient Israel with robbing Him in their tithes and their offerings. We have the responsibility here to give our Fast offerings, an equivalent of what we would save by abstaining from food two meals on the Fast Day, one day each month. That I regard as the minimum that we can give and be justified before the Lord. Anything less than that, would certainly not be justified, but there is an opportunity to give all that we feel able to give, and according to the generosity of our hearts. Brethren and sisters, there are some that I know who give many times more than what they save by Fasting, but a great many others give no Fast offerings, and the results are there is not enough in the hands of the Bishops to take care of those who are in need. 

If all the Bishops had carried out the instructions, and the people had complied with those instructions, I repeat what I have said before, there would have been funds in the hands of the Authorities of this Church that would have taken good care of the people who were in need. Not only that, they would have had a surplus that would have taken care of those in need in times of financial distress such as the people have been going through for the last few years. 

The finance plan, the tithe — if the tithing had been paid by all the members of this Church since that law was given, we would have had means in the Church, by which we could build the tabernacles and meeting houses and gymnasiums and play centers of the Wards and Stakes in Zion without calling upon the people. The willing horse has to carry the load in this case, because so many of us have not done our duty. 

This morning we heard of wonderful accomplishments from the use of the tithing in the Church. I felt and feel now, brethren and sisters, that where I have paid a full tithing, I have assisted in all these splendid works for which tithing is used in the Church. I don't see how those who are not paying any tithing can claim any credit for what has been done and accomplished in the Church by the use of the tithing. 

CHOSEN ONES 

We read in the Book of Abraham, in the Pearl of Great Price, how that Abraham was shown the intelligences that were before the world was. He was told that among them were many of the Lord's noble and great ones, whom He had chosen to be His rulers, and that he, Abraham, was one of them. Joseph Smith was one of them, and those who succeeded him in presiding over this Church and directing its affairs no doubt were among the noble ones. 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and He said unto those who were with Him : We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. 

In other words, to see whether they would keep all His commandments. 

A HIGHER LAW INTRODUCED 

Brethren and sisters, we are being weighed in the balance, and some of us, I fear, will be found wanting in respect to the tithes and the offerings. 

In ancient Israel, because of a lack of faith, Moses and the Higher Priesthood were taken from them, and they were given the law of the carnal commandments, but they were given the law of the tithe. This law of carnal commandments was as a schoolmaster, to bring them up to a standard where they could receive the higher law of the Gospel. When the Savior came He said He did not come to destroy, but to fulfil the law, and He introduced the higher law of the Gospel, the spirit of which was to return good for evil. If a man smite you on one cheek, turn the other. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you, and pray for those who despitefully use you and persecute you. 

This is the spirit of the Christ, the higher law of the Gospel, and if this spirit were enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints, there would be no difficulty about their keeping the commandments of the Lord with respect to the tithes and the offerings, and the Word of Wisdom, and every other requirement. 

THE MEANING OF A HYMN 

We are commanded to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul and mind, and our neighbor as ourself. If we were loving the Lord with all our hearts, there is no requirement He could make of us that we would not gladly and willingly comply with. We sing that beautiful song: 

We thank Thee O God for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 Pint Day 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel, To lighten our minds with its rays. We thank Thee for every blessing Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand. We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, And love to obey Thy commands. 

I wonder how many of us think of that sentiment when we are singing it, and we sing it frequently. Are we thankful for a prophet to guide us in these latter days? If so, we will follow his lead, will we not? If we were following the lead of the President of this Church as a prophet of God to us, and to the world, there would be no trouble about our keeping the Word of Wisdom, about our paying our tithing, and meeting the other obligations that rest upon us as members of the Church. 

Do we really feel it a pleasure to serve the Lord in His appointed way, which means, of course, sacrifice and self-denial? Do we love to obey His commands, to keep His commandments? Brethren and sisters, are we wholly consistent? Do we think of these things seriously? They are the weightier matters, things that pertain to eternity. If we obtain an exaltation, for which we are candidates, it will be not for believing in these principles : It will be for living them, as the Lord designed that we should. 

JOY IN DOING RIGHT 

We are told in the Book of Mormon that "Adam fell that men might be, and men are that they might have joy". It is my testimony to you, brethren and sisters, so far as my experience goes, that when I have met my religious obligations, the payment of my tithes honestly, and my offerings generously, keeping the Word of Wisdom, answering the calls that come upon me in the Church, my conscience is clear, and I have real joy. I want to tell you, brethren and sisters, that we rob ourselves of much of the joy we might have in this life, through a guilty conscience, a consciousness that our course of life is not approved of the Lord. 

May the Lord bless you, brethren and sisters, and reward those abundantly who are making such sacrifices for the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes, looking to the saving of the souls of His children, the living and the dead. And may He help those of us who are indifferent to our own interests and the interests and welfare of the work of the Lord, that our faith may be renewed and revived, and that we may prove our faith by devotion to the work of the Lord, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters: I rejoice in being again in attendance at one of our great General Conferences. They are refreshing periods to all of us who believe in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT GRANT 

We regret that President Grant is not here. But we all rejoice to know that he is improving in health. I want to say that President Grant is not only the President of the Church, and our leader in that sense, but that the prophetic mantle of this day rests upon him. He is a prophet of God, and we shall do well to follow his example, listen to his teachings, and be worthy of his blessings. During the years that I have been permitted to labor among the General Authorities of the Church I have had the privilege on many occasions to witness the prophetic power that accompanies President Grant, and I bear testimony today, solemnly and soberly, that he is a prophet of the living God. 

A STANDARD TO THE WORLD 

In thinking about this Conference my mind has wandered rather far and wide. Probably the thought that has come to me most often has been as to the place and purpose of the Church in this war-torn world, this world of strife and unhappiness. What is our mission to the world ? I have turned to the scriptures to get the answer, and have found the answer, both in ancient and modern scriptures. It is that the Church of Christ at all times must be as a standard to the nations, a standard to which all nations, all people, all men may turn as they seek safety, peace, and happiness. 

It is our great mission, brethren and sisters, to be a standard to all the world, and we say without hesitation that those who obey and comply with that standard will find that which men most desire in life. It is a bold declaration, tremendously bold, that a small people in the valleys of these mountains, misunderstood, often harassed by persecution, may become the standard by which all mankind may be led to peace and happiness; but so it is. I am not saying it. It is the word of the Lord, both in ancient and modern days. If this standard would be accepted by the world the things we pray and hope for would soon come. 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

Let me say that the Church of itself cannot be this standard. Since the Church is made up of individuals, it becomes an individual responsibility to make the Church a standard for the nations. I must be a standard in my life. I must so conduct myself that I may be a standard worthy of being followed by those who seek the greater joy in life. 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 first Day 

The question as to individual responsibility for the welfare of the Church was asked in the early days by members of the Church. Several of the men who labored with the Prophet Joseph Smith came to him in those early days and said: "What shall we do?" They might have said: "What shall we do to be saved?" The Lord in every instance gave an answer. We have a series of short revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, which are the answers to that question. I find in every one a significant statement, worded almost identically in all of these revelations, to Hyrum Smith, David Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery, and others of less fame in the Church: "Keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion." That is our business, the business of the Latter-day Saints. 

From one point of view, it is selfish enough, perhaps, to keep the commandments that I may be blessed, but it is something even greater to keep the commandments that Zion may be established. As the foundation of His great cause the Lord gave the law of sacrifice. Unless we give of ourselves we cannot build Zion, or anything else worthy of the great cause that the Lord has given us. The law of sacrifice, from the day of Adam to the present day, in one form or another, is the basic principle of life among the communities of Saints. 

So we need, in this Church and Kingdom, for our own and the world's welfare a group of men and women in their individual lives who shall be as a light to the nations, and really standards for the world to follow. Such a people must be different from the world as it now is. There is no opportunity for Latter-day Saints to say we shall be as the world is, unless the world has the same aim that we have. We are here to build Zion to Almighty God, for the blessing of all the world. In that aim we are unique and different from all other peoples. We must respect that obligation, and not be afraid of it. We cannot walk as other men, or talk as other men, or do as other men, for we have a different destiny, obligation, and responsibility placed upon us, and we must fit ourselves for that great destiny and obligation. 

JESUS' PRAYER FOR HIS DISCIPLES 

I remember the wonderful prayer offered by the Savior in Gethsemane just before His crucifixion, when He talked to His Father — perhaps the most sublime prayer known to us — in which He said : "I pray not that thou shouldst take them" — He spake of His disciples — "out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from evil. They are not of the world." 

Just now, perhaps, as never before, we need to remember that this Church and Kingdom, and the members thereof are not to be out of the world, but they must not be of the world. There is a vast difference between those two conditions — the difference between light and darkness. We are a peculiar people and ever shall be and ever must be a peculiar people. 

Let us remember the obligation that rests upon the Latter-day Saints to build Zion. It is not so difficult to carry out, for the Lord is our helper, and He will be with us and assist us and instruct us and make us able to do the work that lies before us, if only we have a sincere desire to be the Lord's helpers. 

Let us remember one of the best known statements in our Latter-day scripture — the Book of Mormon — in which Nephi's faith is evidenced by this statement : "For I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which He commandeth them." 

We must be unique, separate in ideals from most of the world. We have the greatest mission in all the world. But let us not be afraid. The Lord has called us to His Kingdom and His service. He will make it possible for us to do the work He would like us to do. 

THE COMMANDMENTS OF THE LORD HAVE SPIRITUAL MEANING 

That brings me to the final thought that has been moving through my mind the last few days, that all these things, all the commandments, all the wonderful statistics that were read this forenoon, which made us grateful, all the achievements of the Church, have great spiritual significance. We of the Kingdom of God cannot walk merely on earth; we must walk in heaven as we walk on earth. 

The Lord has told us so in modern revelation, in another wellknown and much-loved message to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. 

At no time has God given His children a commandment which does not have a spiritual significance. Often I fear we fail in our obedience, because we look upon God's commandments with temporal eyes, and fail to understand their spiritual meaning. Let me call your attention to three or four commandments which have a deep spiritual meaning. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM HELPS IN SELF-MASTERY 

The Word of Wisdom is one of the best known of all the laws given to His people in these latter days. It was given in the year 1833, and has been preached by every President and leader of the Church. Every father and mother should be preaching and teaching the Word of Wisdom — a protection to the body against ill health. The observance of the Word of Wisdom does give us sound bodies, lengthens out our lives here on earth, gives us clear minds, wisdom and understanding; but it has even a greater meaning than that, a spiritual meaning. For if I am able to observe the Word of Wisdom, refrain from the things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom, do the 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 Pttst Day 

things there advised, I thereby become master of my appetites. I can look my appetites, as it were, in the face, and say : "Get thee behind me." I am master, not subject to an appetite. The cigarette is not my master, I am the master. This glass of liquor is not my master, I am the master. Can the Lord build Zion, can He establish the cause of Zion, can He make us a standard for all the nations to follow unless we are masters of ourselves? If we are but slaves to an appetite, what can the Lord do with us? Great as He is the work shall fail. 

TITHING IN A SPIRITUAL SENSE 

Take another law that has been talked about several times here today, the law of tithing. It has built meeting houses, sent me)n and women on missions, maintained our Temples,, and the many activities that President Clark reported in his stirring address this morning. The spiritual value of tithing is that if I obey the law of tithing sincerely I separate myself from the love of earthly things, and become strong enough to love the things of heaven better than the things of earth. No man can rise very high who lives by earthly things alone. The things of earth drag us down unless spiritually made alive. I must look upon things of the earth merely as helps in my temporal life, no more than that. 

I believe that until mankind is able to divorce itself from its love of earthly things we shall not be able to build God's kingdom or be a standard for the nations to follow. 

Another principle spoken of here today — missionary work — has a distinct spiritual equivalent. In it lies a spiritual principle. I create and develop within myself, when I give of my time and means and talents to the preaching of the Gospel a love for my fellow men, brotherly love. God is love. Without love we can do nothing in the building of His Kingdom. 

WORK FOR THE DEAD DEVELOPS SPIRITUALITY 

And fourth and last — although many might be dealt with in this fashion — -is the work that will be celebrated here tonight in the Tabernacle. One hundred years ago the first baptisms for the dead were performed. Since then we have done a tremendous amount of work for the dead. We have built Temples and spent time and money in gathering genealogies. We spend days and days in the Temples serving the dead. The spiritual principle back of that activity is the development of a more perfect love, a more complete unselfishness. It is well enough to preach to those who are living. They may become my friends and neighbors, my helpers, I may see the fruits of my labors, but it is quite different to spend my strength and time and money for those long since dead, who are to me only names. By giving myself in the spirit of true helpfulness to those that have gone before me, I develop within myself, within my heart and soul, an abounding love very near to that of God Himself. Then the sel of the world fades away, and upon the conquest of selfishness hinges all human welfare. 

ZION TO BE BUILT BY OVERCOMING SELFISHNESS 

I want to call the attention of the Latter-day Saints to the fact that there are always two sides to Gospel principles, the one pertaining to this earth for our guide and help here, and the other dealing with the eternal spiritual realities, the eternal principles of the Gospel by which men touch the unseen world. What a standard to all the world we would be if we all were masters of ourselves, of our appetites, if we could set aside earthly joys for spiritual welfare! If we really loved our fellowmen, if we were really impelled by unselfishness in all that we do, then we would be a standard to the nations, the power of the Lord would be ours, and Zion would be built through our efforts. 

God bless us in all that we do in behalf of this great work. I bear testimony to the truth of the restored Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, its prophetic power and service, from Joseph Smith to our present leader, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

All the days of my life — and they are now many — I have been brought up under the influence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. My heart is full of gratitude that I have a membership in this Church. I remember from my very youth many of the testimonies that have come to me by reason of that membership. Many, many times has the Lord manifested unto me the truth of His everlasting Gospel as it has been restored to the earth through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, in the day and age in which we live. 

A TESTIMONY AT AN EARLY AGE 

It was only, very likely, a few days or weeks after my baptism, which occurred shortly after I was eight years of age, that I received a testimony. I did not then know definitely just what it was; I hardly appreciated what it meant, but the Lord manifested to me the truth of this work in my boyhood. I recollect very well a remarkable incident which occurred as I was coming home from school one day (the school being located across the street eastward from the present location of the West High School, in the building then known as the Union Academy, under the tutorship of Doctor Doremus), returning by my usual route up North Temple Street, then known as Jordan Street, on the south bank of City Creek, which was a winding, deep canyon stream going down Jordan Street until 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 First Day 

it entered into the Jordan River. City Creek was bounded on either side by wild rose bushes and willows. As I was wandering home after school I came to a place immediately north of where the Temple now stands — ("The Temple not built, but scattered 'round in native rock upon the ground"). As I went down close to the edge of the creek and then arose to a higher elvation it seemed to me that I was almost lifted to heaven. I felt the power of the Spirit of the Lord upon me. I did not then know what it was, but I was made happy and full of joy and gladness, even to overflowing. A boy, a lad of nine years of age, to receive such a deep impression that to this day it has remained with me, vivid in my memory, even to the smallest details! 

I learned to recognize what this feeling was when in later years I traveled as a missionary and the Spirit of the Lord came to me and manifested its power by giving me words of utterance in setting forth the principles of eternal life. And, I said to myself, "that is just exactly the same feeling that I had as a boy when I stood upon the bank of City Creek north of where the Temple now stands. The Lord poured out His Spirit upon me and I felt it in every fiber of my being. And now here as I am called abroad to proclaim this everlasting Gospel, comes this same testimony, and I know that it came from God." 

A PRAYER IN THE CANYON 

That is only one of the many testimonies that I have had. I do not mind now telling one or two, for I have had many of them in the course of my experiences, but they have been for me. When I went upon my first mission I was blessed by President Brigham Young. He laid his hands upon my head on the twenty-second day of October, 1875, and blessed me and ordained me a Seventy and set me apart for my first mission, which was in Switzerland and Germany. I went upon my mission, but prior to my departure I had been working at my father's saw-mills in Big Cottonwood Canyon. I hardly knew that Conference was in session in October, 1875. One day a strange feeling came over me as I stood upon the top of a large pile of lumber, filling orders that had come from Salt Lake City to my father's lumber mill. And an impulse came to me to "get down from this pile of lumber and go up to the office" which was a lumber shanty serving the three-fold purpose of my bedroom, store and office, where I kept the accounts of the men that were employed around the mill. I also had the task of measuring the logs as they came to the mill, and the lumber as it came from the mill. These loggers indulged in a great deal of profanity and when we remonstrated with them they claimed the oxen understood no other language. I mention this so you will understand the environment in which I then found myself. Without knowing why I followed that impulse, I descended from the tall pile of lumber and went into the office, and as soon as I did so I closed the door, and approaching the  of the room (there was nothing to lean upon at all) I fell down upon my knees and prayed unto God that He would send me where He wanted me to go. I did not know why I said that; I was not aware of the Conference then being held, nor had I any intimation whatever of receiving a missionary call, but at that very time (I do not know that it was the identical minute, but it is quite possible the Conference was in session, and my name was being called with many others to go upon a mission.) the Lord compelled me to get upon my knees and ask for this blessed privilege of being the bearer of glad tidings in the days of my young manhood, to go out into the world. What was this manifestation? Surely it must have been that same Spirit that took possession of me in my boyhood days. 

The following day my mother rode on horseback up to the sawmill to let me know that I had been called upon my mission. 

Let me here say that at this time I was occasionally associated with people entertaining non-Mormon views, some of them being infidels and atheists, but in every discussion I found myself defending the existence of God. I may have been somewhat neglectful of my duties, although I was always more or less of a religious turn of mind, and had been reading some books that probably were not as wholesome as they might have been — Ingersoll and other infidels — and my mind had become a little bit disturbed. 

A REMARKABLE DREAM 

While on my way to my mission field, crossing the ocean on the Steamship Dakota, I went down into the salon of the ship one day, and lay upon one of the cushioned benches surrounding the eating tables, where I fell asleep. While asleep the Lord appeared to me in a dream and I saw Him standing before me; and by His side was William W. Taylor, one of the other missionaries, a son of President John Taylor, a boy like myself going upon his first mission. He stood by the side of the Savior, and the Savior extended His hand to me and grasping my hand, holding it tight, looked at me in the face and said: "Will you ever doubt again?" Brother Taylor, who stood beside Him said : "I believe that is enough for him." With that, the Lord let go of my hand and I awoke. 

That is only another instance of how the Lord has been training and preparing me for my life's ministry, and I know that this is His work. I could recite many other experiences that I have had in my long life, many wonderful testimonies given to me. I have not published them; I have not given them out in public meetings; I do not remember ever having done so before. I hope that I may be pardoned if I ask of you now, my brothers and sisters, to accept of this testimony one hundred percent, for I know that this is the work of the Lord and that He has commissioned His servants to carry the Gospel to the nations of the earth, for it is to be preached as a witness unto all nations before the end shall come. 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Pay 

ADMIRATION FOR LEADERS 

I bear testimony that this is the work of the Lord and I uphold and sustain this work and the men who have been chosen to stand at the head. How I have admired their administration, and how I do admire President Grant and his counselors and our file leaders who are now leading the affairs of this Church! How I do admire the wonderful work that is being carried on by these men of God! I do more than admire them; I love them with a love unfeigned, and I know that they are true servants of God. May the Lord help us all and bless us according to our needs, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Supplement to Elder Rulon S. Wells' Sermon 

AN ASSURANCE OF THE LORD'S APPROVAL 

I have in mind another very extremely interesting experience which preceded my call to the First Council of the Seventy. I told a personal friend of mine who was commenting on my Conference address of this experience, and she remarked that I should have included it also in my talk, so I am taking the liberty now of relating it although it was not delivered in my Conference Talk! 

April 6th, 1892, the capstone of the Temple ( SaltLake) was laid, and during the year that followed a campaign to secure sufficient money to finish the Temple was inaugurated and carried to a successful conclusion, and, as well known, the Temple was dedicated April 6, 1893, just forty years after the laying of the corner stone in 1853. Like many others I took part in this campaign and assisted in making the collection from members of our Ward, I being one of the workers in the 18th Ward. Also like others I had a strong desire to put myself in a proper condition for entering the Temple at the time of its dedication. I wanted to receive another manifestation of the Lord's approval of me, and I prayed to Him earnestly that I might receive the assurance that I was approved of Him. I did not ask that I might see an angel or hear a voice from heaven, I only wanted to know that I had His approval of me as a member of His Church, worthy of attending the dedication of the Temple. I knew nothing of the vacancy existing in the First Council of the Seventy until I was notified in a note received from Brother George Reynolds, who was then private secretary of the First Presidency, who notified me that I had been selected to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Jacob Gates as one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies. This notification was received on April 5, 1893, and my name was presented at the Conference held that day, and I was set apart the same day. On April 6 1 sat with my brethren of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies on the stand and while sitting there I commented to myself: "Well, I have heard no voice, and I have seen no angel, but here I am, and I feel I have been accepted and approved of God.' 1 ' 

The Brigham Young University Chorus sang an athem, "Open Our Eyes" (W. C. Macfarlane). 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

To say that these are troublous times characterized by strenuous struggles for goods, position and power is to say something trite. It is equally trite to say these times are also characterized by religious indifference and doubts, moral delinquencies and a worship of mammon. So no one questions the need of reforms or of helpful admonition relative to many things. 

We who are gathered here are deeply concerned, of course, with the faith and practices of our people. Partaking of the spirit of the times there is more or less questioning among us relative to these things. Conditions are different and are continually changing. Should not some of our practices likewise change is a question frequently asked. In view of all this some even of our devout members ask for advice touching matters of our faith and practice. 

COMMANDMENTS REGARDING THE SABBATH 

A question in the minds of many, particularly of our young people, asks what is a proper observance of the Sabbath day — what may we do and may not do on Sunday? And in view of what they see this is a reasonable question to ask. They are familiar with the injunctions given to ancient Israel : 

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; 

But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. (Exodus 20:8-11.) 

This quotation is made of course from the Ten Commandments. But concerning the Sabbath we may further read that the Lord spoke to Moses, commanding him thus : 

Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, verily my Sabbaths ye shall keep : for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. 

Ye shall keep the Sabbath therefore; for it is holy. * * * Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. (Exodus 31:13-17.) 

A violation of this law of the Sabbath by ancient Israel was a matter so serious that the Lord commanded the offender should be put to death. 

In the course of Israelitish history we read that successive prophets rebuked the people for neglect or profanation of the Sabbath. Nehemiah ascribed the affliction of the nation to the forfeiture of divine protection through Sabbath violation (Neh. 13: 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

15-22). Through Ezekiel the Lord reaffirmed the significance of the Sabbath as a mark of His covenant with Israel, and sternly upbraided those who observed not the day. (Ezek. 20:12-24) 

Yes, our moderns say, ancient Israel was taught that the Sabbath day was holy and its profanation was a very serious offense. But conditions then were vastly different from those of today. We agree. 

TEACHINGS OF MODERN SCRIPTURES 

But for guidance in matters of faith and practice, Latter-day Saints are not wholly dependent upon the Bible and ancient prophets. Fortunately we have modern scriptures and modern prophets — invaluable possessions. The Lord has spoken in this dispensation as well as in dispensations of biblical times. 

What do these scriptures and prophets teach in our day relative to Sabbath observance and other religious duties? Let us see. 

As early as August, 1831, only sixteen months after the Church was organized, the Lord gave a very beautiful revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith, reaffirming the biblical code of a religious life acceptable to Him. 

I quote from Section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

5. Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus : Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve Him. 

6. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. 

7. Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. 

8. Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

9. And that thou may est more fully keep thyself unspotted, from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; 

10. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; 

11. Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; 

12. But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. 

13. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. 

14. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer. 

15. And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance — 

16. Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; 

17. Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; 

18. Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof,  made for the benefit and use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; 

19. Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. 

20. And it pleaseth God that He hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion. 

21. And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is His wrath kindled, save those who confess not His hand in all things, and obey not His commandments. 

22. Behold, this is according to the law and the prophets; wherefore, trouble me no more concerning this matter. 

23. But learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come. 

24. I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record. Amen. (Doctrine and Covenants 59:5-24.) 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITHES ADVICE 

But the critic who wants a free Sunday may say this revelation was given a hundred years ago when conditions were also vastly different from those today. In reply I call attention to the fact that the Church has today a divinely inspired leadership as it had then. What do these leaders say? Let me quote some of the words of President Joseph F. Smith as found in "Gospel Doctrine," as follows : 

The Sabbath is a day of rest and worship designated and set apart by special commandment of the Lord to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we should honor and keep it holy. We should also teach our children this principle. 

True, Sunday is a day of rest, a change from the ordinary occupations of the week, but it is more than that. It is a day of worship, a day in which the spiritual life of man may be enriched. A day of indolence, a day of physical recuperation is too often a very different thing from the God-ordained day of rest. Physical exhaustion and indolence are incompatible with a spirit of worship. A proper observance of the duties and devotions of the Sabbath day will, by its change and its spiritual life, give the best rest that men can enjoy on the Sabbath day. 

What shall we do on the Sabbath day? * * * Honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, just as the Lord has commanded us to do. Go to the house of prayer. Listen to instructions. Bear testimony to the truth. * * * When we go home, get the family together. Let us sing a few songs, read a chapter or two from the Bible, Book of Mormon, or Doctrine and Covenants, and discuss principles pertaining to advancement in divine knowledge. * * * 

It is imperatively necessary at all times, and especially so when our associations do not afford us the moral and spiritual support which we require for our advancement, that we go to the house of the Lord to worship and mingle with the Saints, that their moral and spiritual influence may help to correct our false impressions and restore us to that life which the duties and obligations of our conscience and true religion impose upon us." 

The reason for this required course upon the Sabbath day is plainly stated in the revelations. It is that one may more fully keep himself unspotted from the world; and to this end, also, the Saints are required to go to the house of prayer and offer up their sacraments on the Sabbath day. 

Now, what is the promise to the Saints who observe the Sabbath? GENERAL CONFERENCE He then iread from the revelation given in Section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants the words of the Lord that I have already recited and proceeded to remark : 

All these blessings are promised to those who keep the commandments, among which is the important one, to observe properly the Sabbath day. The Lord is not pleased with people who know these things and do them not. 

He went on to say : 

Men are not resting from their labors when they plow, and plant and haul and dig. They are not resting when they linger around the home all day on Sunday, doing odd jobs that they have been too busy to do on other days. 

Men are not showing zeal and ardor in their religious faith and duty when they bustle off early Sunday morning in automobiles to the canyons, the resorts or places of amusement with their wives and children. Not in seeking pleasure and recreation do they offer their time and attention in the worship of the Lord; nor can they thus rejoice in the spirit of forgiveness and worship that comes with partaking of the holy sacrament. 

People are not keeping holy the Sabbath day, when they spend the day loafing around the village ice cream stand or restaurant, playing games or in riding, fishing, shooting, or engaged in physical sports, excursions and outings. Such is not the course that will keep them unspotted from the world, but rather one that will deprive them of the rich promises of the Lord, giving them sorrow instead of joy, and unrest and anxiety instead of the peace that ccmes with works of righteousness. 

I shall end my reading from President Smith with these words : 

Let us play and take recreation to our hearts' content during other days, but on the Sabbath let us rest, worship, go to the house of prayer, partake of the sacrament, eat our food with singleness of heart, and pay our devotions to God, that the fulness of the earth may be ours, and that we may have peace in this world and eternal life in the world to come. (Gospel Doctrine pages 304-309.) 

And now I give you a statement of the views of President Grant's administration relative to Sabbath observance. A few years ago the First Presidency published an editorial on this topic in the Deseret News. It was entitled "Sunday and The Home" and is as follows : 

The Lord's day is a holy day — not a holiday. It has been set apart as a day of rest and worship. A sacred Sabbath begets reverence for God. It is not pleasing in His sight that the day be given over to pleasure seeking in places of amusement or elsewhere. 

Sunday Schools and meetings have been so arranged as to meet the convenience of the people and leave a considerable portion of the Sabbath day without Church appointments. We earnestly appeal to the people to keep their meeting appointments faithfully and to utilize that portion, of Sunday not appointed for meetings in promoting family association in the home, with the purpose of stimulating and establishing greater home fealty, a closer companionship among parents and children, and more intimate relations among all kindred. ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 



We believe that it is unnecessary for families to go beyond their own homes or those of their kindred for the relaxation and association which are proper for the Sabbath day, and we therefore discourage more traveling than is necessary for this purpose and attendance upon appointed meetings. 

Let all unnecessary labor be suspended and let no encouragement be given by the attendance of members of the Church at places of amusement and recreation on the Sabbath day. If Sunday is spent in our meetings and in our homes great blessings will come to our families and communities. 

HEBER J. GRANT, ANTHONY W. IVINS, CHARLES W. NIBLEY, September 1, 1928. First Presidency. 

SABBATH OBSERVANCE A BLESSING 

Thus, if we please the Lord, among other things we must do is to keep holy the Sabbath day. And the way to do this has not essentially changed from the days of Moses and ancient Israel down through the ages to the present moment. 

But sad as it is to see, the modern Christian world has almost forgotten the sanctity of the Sabbath. With the vast majority the day has ceased to be holy. Instead it is a holiday, a day of amusements and pleasure-seeking, of all kinds of activities foreign to worship and holiness. 

I speak of these things because some of our own people are becoming worldly minded with respect to the Sabbath. This is certainly displeasing to the Lord who will certainly withhold blessings otherwise obtainable. 

We read in the Doctrine and Covenants these words : 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated. And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (Doc. and Cov. 130:20-21.) 

This is a law of the universe, governing things material, as all scientists know. Through the Prophet Joseph Smith we learn that it also applies to things spiritual. 

The blessings divinely promised for keeping holy the Lord's Sabbath are invaluable, as the scriptures indicate. Hence let no Latter-day Saint sacrifice these blessings by going fishing, deer hunting, golfing, amusement seeking, joy riding, to sports, movies and games, or engaging in other Sabbath-breaking activities. 

Brethren and sisters, let us show our confidence in the Lord and in the divinity of this Church by abstaining from participation in the sinful practices of Babylon, so common on every hand. In any case, as surely as the night follows the day we shall finally reap as we have sown. The Lord help us to sow wisely and well I pray in the name of Christ our Lord, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE ELDER THOMAS E. McKAY 

Former President of the Swiss Mission 

Brothers and sisters, I sense keenly the responsibility resting upon me at this time. I confess I am a little frightened because of that responsibility. I pray humbly that I may be directed by the Spirit of God in what I say. I remember just before my farewell party, when I was leaving for my first mission, I was very much worried as to what I should say, and I thought — "how thankful and happy I will be after this mission is over, so that I will not be so frightened and worry so much when I am called upon to speak.' 1 ' That was forty years ago, I am now returning from my third mission, and I confess I am just as frightened, and I have worried as much, or more, I believe, than I did then. 

I remember also a few lines of poetry that were written on the fly-leaf of a little book that was given to me at that time, a book of views of beautiful Ogden Canyon; I appreciated them so much that I memorized them. I appreciate them even more today, after spending about nine years in the mission field in Europe, than I did then. They are as follows : 

There is a land of every land the pride, beloved of Heaven 

o'er all the earth beside. There is a spot of earth supremely blest, 

A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest. 

Where is that land, that spot of earth to find? 

Art thou a man, a patriot? Look around And O thou shalt find, where'er thy footsteps roam, 

That land, thy country, and that spot thy home. 

I am more grateful today than ever before for my country and for my home. I appreciate and love them more. I love and appreciate my wife and children, my parentage, my brothers and sisters and friends, more than ever before. We are glad to be home again. Of course, we have enjoyed our mission. We have enjoyed our association with your sons, the finest missionaries in the world. We wish to thank you parents for sending such sons into the mission field. It has been a great inspiration to us to associate with such choice young men. Some of them are sons of missionaries with whom we labored when presiding over the Swiss-German Mission before. 

And by the way, tomorrow, Saturday, the 6th of April, will bp just twenty-eight years since I reported my return from presiding over the Swiss and German Mission; at that time, as I recall, President Joseph F. Smith presided. The music was furnished by the Brigham Young University choir, conducted by Professor Lund. Apostle Hyrum Smith was the first speaker. Many changes have taken place since that time. A number of changes have taken place since we left a little over thirty months ago. We miss some very dear faces here on the stand. 

It has been a wonderful experience, brothers and sisters, to be in the mission field for the third time. The Lord said, through «the Savior : 

If ye do the work ye shall know. My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 

I have seen the fulfilment of that promise. People that I met on my first mission, forty years ago, have sons now in the mission field, or they have been. Babies that I blessed on that first mission are now leaders, one of them presiding over the West German Mission. Many of the parents, who were Sunday School children at that time, have had sons in the mission field. All of the missionaries in the Swiss Mission, except two, have been born since that mission twenty-eight years ago. The large majority of these missionaries are sons of either parents or grandparents born in Switzerland, and I want to tell you parents that they are a credit to you and a credit to the Church, and their strong testimonies, as well as those of their parents, are a practical demonstration of the promise, "if ye will do the work, ye shall know." 

The Swiss and German Mission twenty-eight years ago comprised all of Germany, Austria, Hungary, Switzerland and France. Today there are five Missions in these countries. They are doing well. Of course, they are handicapped because of the evacuation of all our missionaries and Mission presidents, but I am pleased to report that the local people are carrying on. Quite a number of those people who are now in charge of the work have been born in the Church; they understand the Gospel and are well qualified to carry on; they have faith; they are not discouraged because, as they say, they have the Gospel. 

Some of our Branches have had to be closed, but in the main they are all functioning. Two Branches which we have had to close — very fine Branches too, one of which I think had the best record in tithe-paying in the Church — were located in Strassbourg and Muehlhausen, France. These cities were evacuated when war was declared. The people, our members among them, had to leave over night, with only a bundle of clothing to take with them. For weeks we didn't know just where they were. Finally we were able to get some letters through, and they were located. As soon as arrangements could be made with the French and Swiss authorities for permission to cross the border, one of our brethren was sent to visit them, taking a considerable sum of money with him to help make them as comfortable as possible. 

We had learned, just for an example, that thirty-five thousand people were being taken care of in a city of thirty thousand population. You can imagine what that would mean, with the limited accommodations. Some members, we learned, - were sleeping in bath-rooms; others sleeping in the halls. So we sent considerable money with this good brother, a local brother, to buy bed springs, 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

bedding, curtains, and other things. By sending- some telegrams, and telephoning, he succeeded in getting most of them together. They held a testimony meeting. 

When this brother came back he said : "President McKay, you sent me there to give them spiritual uplift and to encourage them, but I received much more help spiritually from them than I was able to give them." Those people, although they didn't know whether they would ever see an Elder again, an authority of the Church, had put away their tithing as usual. They had received work — some of them — and they had been blessed. This local brother brought back nearly as much money as we had sent to help them. They said : "You express our thankfulness to President McKay for the help that he has sent us, and tell him that we are all right, and are not discouraged, because we have the Gospel." That is the faith of those people over there, brothers and sisters. They are keeping the commandments of the Lord and are doing the will of the Father. 

It is difficult to keep all the Branches organized. We get them organized, then our brethren are taken into the army. About six hundred of our brethren are in the army in Germany. Seven of them have lost their lives — not in battle, however. They are praying that they will not have to fight. They are peace-loving, those members. They have no hate in their hearts, but a love for all mankind, the love of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We have committees appointed, so that as soon as a vacancy occurs, another man is called to take his place. We have called sisters on missions, to take charge of the office work, and they are getting along very nicely. They are keeping busy and are trying to do the will of the Father. 

They know, as I know, that God lives; that He is our Father; that we are all His children; that He loves us, and because He loves us He has given us the Gospel. Every commandment He has given is for our progress and happiness in this life, as well as our life hereafter. Our members know this as I know it, and they are keeping the commandments. They keep the Word of Wisdom, are paying their tithing, their Fast offerings, and they are being blessed for it. 

I was delighted to hear this morning in the report — I don't know whether you noticed it or not, but I did — that the Swiss Mission is leading in Fast offerings, per capita; that is, outside of the smaller Missions. 

They know, too, as I know, that Jesus is the Christ, that He is our head, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ. They know, too, as I know, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet, and that his successors are prophets of the Lord, including our beloved President Heber J. Grant. Oh, how we do love and appreciate President Grant. It is remarkable; it is a miracle what he has accomplished in establishing just this one point I will mention — better public relations between the Church and the rest of the world. 

We have had occasion to visi* our Consuls and Consul Generals, representing the United States, qviite often we made it a point to call  them and get acquainted as soon as we entered a city. I remember calling on the Consul General in Zurich : I gave him my card, the Temple card. He looked at it and said : "It is a beautiful card.'" I said : "You may keep it, if you wish to." He said : "Thank you, but I have something I prize a great deal more than this Temple card." He reached in his desk and brought out a book presented to him by President Grant, autographed by President Grant. That was one of his prizes, and he took a great deal of pride in showing it to me. 

God bless President Grant. The people there love him. We all love him. He is our leader, chosen of the Lord. God bless these brethren on the stand. President Clark also is known by many of these representatives of our Government. They have been in very deed friends to us during our rather exciting and worrying experiences because of war conditions. They have arranged for us to telephone, when it was impossible for private people to telephone. We appreciate them. I wish to express our appreciation here publicly for what they have done. 

Brethren and sisters, I am grateful, more grateful than I can express, for the testimony I have that this is the Church of God. May He help us always to do His will, and thereby retain this testimony that we have, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER WALLACE F. TORONTO 

Former President of the C zecho-Slovakian Mission 

Brethren and sisters : You cannot know the thrill which goes through my being today in beholding again, for the first time in five years, this glorious sight, a Conference of the members of the Church. I pray for the inspiration of the Lord in that which I might say today, for I feel that my responsibility is great, and I am keenly aware that those things should be emphasized which will be of profit and benefit to this congregation. 

I bring you the greetings, brethren and sisters, of a small band of people, Czecho-Slovaks, who know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is indeed the most priceless possession which they have ever had. They are living in a war-torn country which has been ravaged, robbed and plundered. They are existing under the most adverse of conditions, but none-the-less they live the Gospel to such an extent as would put many of us to shame. Perhaps we need adversity, in order to fully appreciate the commandments and the blessings coming from the Gospel which we have. 

I want to say a word, too, about the splendid missionaries which you have sent us during the past three and a half years. We have had the finest men upon the face of the earth, to carry these glad tidings to thousands upon thousands of people residing in that nation. The work has not been easy. Programs have been projected and 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

plans have been brought into being, only to meet with disappointment because of incidents and situations beyond the power of men to control. 

These Elders have evacuated twice. They have come back more determined than ever to see that the Gospel should not perish in Czecho-Slovakia. They have done a mighty work. I bear testimony to you today, brothers and sisters, that these young men whom you have sent out into the field abroad, have been willing to go the limit in bringing- the Gospel of peace, joy and happiness to a war-torn Europe. My heart goes out in praise and gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the opportunities which these young men have had, as well as for the opportunities which they, through their work, have been able to afford those much less fortunate than you and I. 

Members of the Church in Central Europe have learned to know the deep meaning of the Gospel. They have learned to know that its core and essence is to be found in the admonition of Jesus : "Love thy neighbor even as thyself." 

A short time after almost two million German troops had marched across the borders of Czecho-Slovakia — during that time of tension and terror, which inevitably resulted — a young German officer, a fine, straight, clean-looking fellow, walked through the door of our meeting hall in Prague. We thought : Certainly, this is the end for us. The Secret Police have probably sent some one here to close the Mission. Coming up he said : "My name is Brother R. (for obvious reasons it is felt unwise to give his name.) I am an officer in the German Army. As soon as I had completed my official duties here in Prague, the first thing I set out to do was to find this Branch of the Church in Czecho-Slovakia." With your permission, I would like to say just a word to this congregation. I replied: "Certainly, Brother R., we shall be happy to hear from you." 

He stood up, and in a language which most of the pepple of Czecho-Slovakia detested, German, he had this to say to the members of the Church and to the friends who were present : 

Brothers and sisters, I come here not on an appointment of my own choosing. I come here as a servant of my government. I know we have brought you considerable distress and dismay. We have caused already much suffering. Nevertheless, you and I have something in common, something which oversteps the boundaries of race, language, and color. You and I have the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Despite the fact that I speak German and you Czech, yet because of the Gospel we still speak in common terms. The time is coming when we shall know this better than ever before. 

I wish I had time to tell you all he said. Tears streamed down the faces of those Czecho-Slovakian people. As he walked down the aisle they stood up and put their arms around him and wept upon his shoulder. Every available Sunday — he believed in keeping the Sabbath — he was at the Branch hall, doing his best to make the Gospel of Jesus Christ a living thing among a subjugated people. 

That is what the Gospel of Jesus Christ does for a man. When  touches him it changes him, and he knows, as President Hugh B. Brown has already said, that all mankind come of common blood, and that we are brothers and sisters in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, all having but one Father. These are momentous things, brothers and sisters. They are truths which cannot be equalled any place in the world, outside the plan of the Gospel. 

We regretted having to leave our members in Czecho-Slovakia. Had we been able to leave them in the hands of a successor, we should have felt good about coming home, but conditions would not permit that. Nevertheless it is my testimony to you that some thirty thousand members of the. Church who have been left in Europe, who are now carrying on for themselves — despite the fact that they must suffer, and perhaps have want of the necessities of life — are being protected by the hand of the Lord. 

If I may have just a moment or two I should like to relate a story, one of several within our experience, which to me is an evidence of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and of the protecting power and goodness of God. 

A young Ukrainian, Tarnawskyj by name, who had been studying for the ministry in the Greek Catholic Church, was on his way from Warsaw, Poland, to New York City, there to attend a graduate school for the ministry of that church. He came by the way of the city of Prague. As he was going down the street he saw the sign, "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 1 " He noticed that we were holding a meeting at that time. He thought to himself : "I have learned of those people in my studies. I am curious. I think I will go in and see what they have to say." 

He entered, dressed in his black robe and white collar, and sat in the back. He was a young man about twenty-eight or thirty years of age. Two of our missionaries stood up and explained some of the principles of the Gospel. They bore their testimonies. Since he spoke Ukrainian, which is kindred to Czech, he understood them. After the meeting he came up and asked : "When do you hold the rest of your services?" We enumerated the meetings of the week and he came to all of them, even including the Relief Society. In a few weeks he made this request : "Brother Toronto, I would like to be baptized into this Church." 

"Now, Brother Tarnawskyj, you know you can't make your living in this Church. Our missionaries sustain themselves, either from their own sayings or through the sustenance which their folks send them." 

"Oh, Brother Toronto," he replied, "I know all about that. Your missionaries have been teaching me the Gospel.'" Continuing, he said : "I have found the most priceless thing in all the world. I want the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I have been seeking it for years in the universities and the divinity schools of many lands, and I have never found anything that can equal this." 

I said : "All right. As soon as we instruct you a little more fully 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

in the .Gospel we shall be happy to have you as a member of the Church." He was subsequently baptized. Upon accepting baptism a great characteristic of truth took hold of him, that of wanting to tell somebody else about it. Of course, those he thought of first were his loved ones back in Poland. He wrote them a long letter, in which he declared : "I have found the greatest thing in life. I want to tell you something of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that you, too, might enjoy the blessings which flow from it." 

I met him a few days later. He wore a long face and was very dejected. "What on earth has happened to you, Brother Tarnawsyj ?" "I just received a letter from my folks in Poland. They tell me here : 'Dear Son and Brother: If you do not immediately renounce this thing you call Mormonism we shall cease to send you one penny of support, which you know is your only means of livelihood; and furthermore, we shall disown you as a son and a brother!' " 

"What is your answer, Brother Tarnawskyj ? You are at the cross-roads. You have a grave decision to make." 

"Oh, Brother Toronto, you know what my answer is : 'Dear loved ones, I cannot renounce the thing I hold dearest in life, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I pray God that you, too, at some future time, through my efforts or the efforts of others, might also come into this Church.' " 

From that day until this, so far as I know, he has not received one penny or one word from his people. He found himself in Czechoslovakia, a foreigner, unable to secure employment. 

During these troublesome times the subtle political forces in Central Europe had operated to break down the Czecho-Slovakian Republic, so that Slovakia gained its freedom, as well as the little province of Ruthenia or Sub-Carpathian Russia, far to the east, hardly larger than the County of Salt Lake. Brother Tarnawskyj finally proposed : "Brother Toronto, many of my countrymen are out there in Ruthenia, a large group of Ukrainians among whom I could work. Since I am an educated man, I think I could get a position as an Inspector in the Ministry of Education. Can you help me get there? I want to become a self-sustaining citizen." "All right. We will help you get to Ruthenia, if you think you can succeed." 

Upon his arrival in this new autonomous state, he filed his application for a position in the ministry. It went through the various hands and much red tape through which such things have to pass, and finally reached the Minister himself. Up to this point all went well. When it reached the Minister there was great delay. Finally our brother wrote me a letter and said : "Brother Toronto, I don't know what the trouble down here is. I am qualified for the position, and I have pulled every string I know. And I have prayed. The Lord God knows I am hungry. He knows I need a place to rest my head. I have tried to live the Gospel since I joined the Church. From the earnings on little jobs I have secured here and there I  set aside my tithing, and as soo-.i as the mails go through I will send it on to you. Why, oh why does the Lord persecute me like this?'"' But in conclusion he added: (I wish I had the letter here to read to you :) "Perhaps it is all for the best." 

A card came a few days later : "I am going to take a job out in the little town of Perecyn as a humble school teacher, where I can make enough to at least buy me a few crusts of bread.'" 

He was employed there for three days, when that tiny state of Central Europe, Sub-Carpathian Russia, was drenched in blood by the Hungarian hordes which swept over it. Men, women and children by the hundreds were left dying in the streets. He and nine of his Ukrainian companions were routed out of bed at five o'clock one morning and thrown into prison. After twenty-four hours of intense suffering they were called before a military court consisting of one man in the uniform of a Hungarian officer. He had the sole right to say, "You live," or "You die." The ten men came before him. They were asked two questions : "How long have you been in this country?" and "What is your religious affiliation?" 

Our brother led the others. To the first question he replied that he had been there so and so many weeks. "What is your religious affiliation?" 

"I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Sometimes they call us 'Mormons.' " 

"Mormons ? Mormons ? I have heard of you folks. I have read of you in the newspapers of Budapest. I hear your people have done some good in this world." A tense moment of hesitation and then, "You go free." 

His nine companions came up after him. They were asked the identical questions. Being no more guilty than he himself, they were nevertheless condemned to death, and shot down in cold blood before the sun went down that day. 

This brother finally got out of the country, and wrote me another letter. "Brother Toronto," he said, "I know the Lord does move in a mysterious way His wonders to perform. The Gospel is the most priceless thing I have in the world. I know the Lord has preserved my life, that I may be a beacon light to my fellow men. He has not only preserved my life, in the way I have described to you, but He has also protected me, for had I received the position of Inspector in the Ministry of Education I today would have been sitting in the concentration camps of Hungary, subjected to some of the most terrible torture known to humankind. I owe all I have to the Gospel of Jesus Christ." 

Our faithful members will be protected, brothers and sisters. Were this the only incident I might be skeptical in thinking that it was perhaps a chance occurrence. But we have seen many cases of providential care and protection. Some of the Jewish members of our Church, despite the anti-Semitic programs, have been preserved, 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

and we have seen it. The Gospel of Jesus Christ means everything to them." Does it mean everything to you? 

Go home tonight. Get down on your knees. Thank the Lord your God that you live in a "land choice above all others," in this land of freedom and happiness. And thank the Lord again that you have been privileged to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Covenant anew that you will keep the commandments of the Lord as never before. 

I know that God lives and it has been a testimony to me to live among these people who placed their trust in Him. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the Lord, even as they know it. I give you this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I should like to thank the Brigham Young University Chorus for the wonderful music they have given us today. I think it may be truthfully said that there is no college in the United States, of any size, that has better music than the Brigham Young University. 

The Brigham Young University Chorus sang, as the closing number, "Oft in Danger, Oft in Woe, Onward Christian, Onward Go," (Harry R. Shelly). 

Elder Horace Raymond Pond, President of the Benson Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Saturday morning, April 6th. 


