Afternoon
07 04 1940

The concluding session of the Conference was held Sunday afternoon, October 3, at 2 o'clock. 

As was the condition at the morning session, the great Tabernacle was filled to capacity, and again thousands of people congregated in the Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle, and on the Tabernacle grounds, to listen to the services as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session of the Conference, J. Spencer Cornwall, Director. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ console. 123 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, we come now to the opening of the closing session of the Conference. The building is again crowded to capacity with thousands on the outside who can not get in. 

The Choir sang an anothem, "Lift Up Your Heads, O ye Gates" (Handel). 

Elder Byron O. Colton, President of the Roosevelt Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang "All Hail the Power of Jesus' Name" (Williams). 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I should like to say a word in support of the beautification plan sponsored both by our Church and the Centennial Commission. I can scarcely think of anything more appropriate as a tribute to the Pioneers and their heroic struggle. They loved this land. It was at once their refuge, their home and their destiny. They called it Zion because that word most nearly characterized the Utopia of safety, peace, progress and achievement which they sought to establish. And a real Zion it was to the thousands of sincere and ardent men and women who gathered here from many nations to find expression for the loftiest ideals and noblest purposes ever to be found in the human soul. 

This country was beautiful when the Pioneers first came. It was virgin territory. The hills, the streams, the forests and the plains were lovely, just as nature always is until marred by the hand of man. It has taken nearly a century to demonstrate the natural beauty of the country which the Pioneers chose. It may be that they themselves did not realize that it was possessed of so many marvelous scenic attractions which have come in for appreciation in recent years. It is doubtful that the variety, the grandeur and the novelty of our natural scenery can be duplicated within equal space anywhere in the entire world. 

DESCRIPTION OF NEARBY BEAUTY SPOTS 

I wish you would take a short trip with me. I am a lover of nature and the great outdoors, and I have taken this trip many times. I might escort you on many other beautiful excursions in our intermountain empire. I choose this one merely as a sample. We usually begin by going to Fish Lake, then on to Bryce and the Grand Canyon, back to Cedar Breaks and down to Zion. The regard that I have for these places has grown with the years until they have become dear and sacred. I must tell you what they mean to me. 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

I love Fish Lake for her tranquility. She nestles in the pines and quaking aspens, cool, calm and inviting. When I row a boat over her placid waters, crystal-clear, revealing the schools of trout so sophisticated as to be unafraid and untempted, a peace and contentment come over me. I feel reconciled with life. The bfoken harmonies are mended. My soul is calmed. 

I am passionately fond of Bryce. She is a cameo of nature — not big, but big enough to have dignity. One looks down on her, but it is literally and not figuratively, for she commands esteem as well as love. I have seen her at sunrise, at sunset, and in the moonlight; and as the light and shadows play on her jeweled spires, her cathedrals, her organ, her dainty nymphs and graces, the ethereal world seems very near, the imagination runs riot with the senses, and the soul of man is transported into a realm of exquisite beauty and loveliness. 

IMPRESSION MADE ON FRIENDS 

When I first saw her I could not rest until I had taken two parties of relatives and friends in quick succession to enjoy with us the spell of her supernal beauty. I once included with my guests two dear friends, lovers of art and nature, whom, were I to mention their names, you would know. I could scarcely await the opportunity of seeing them enjoy their first vision of the canyon. They approached the rim expectantly but of course not knowing, as no one who has not seen can ever know, what awaited them. I thought there would be exclamations of delight and wonder. There were not. They just looked and as they looked, tears flowed down their cheeks like drops of rain. I'm not ashamed to say my eyes filled too. There were no words, only feeling — feeling too deep for expression. 

GRAND CANYON, CEDAR BREAKS AND ZION PARK 

The Grand Canyon is so stupendous, so collossal and overwhelming as to defy description. Into its awful caverns could all the works of man be dumped and lost. The mighty gorge is the demonstration of nature's power in changing the face of earth. How puny and insignificant it makes the strength of man appear! Humility and meekness are the burden of the message that rises from the silver ribbon of the river in its depths, up through the mists, to the reverent pilgrims who gather at this wonder of the world. 

Cedar Breaks is a masterpiece in oil, a wonderful perspective extending far out on the hearth of the setting sun. The brilliant hues of her color scheme leave little to be desired in a work of art. I enjoy the approach through the wild meadows and the pines. She is usually seen in passing but she is of more than passing worth. 

After all of these I come to Zion. Zion the lofty, the majestic where you look up instead of down. In its major concept it is not a poem, although there are a thousand poems in its sequestered nooks, its lovely trees, shrubs and wild flowers, its lacy vines and 125  mosses, its mists, its mirror pool, its delicate and gorgeous colors and its myriad charms. Rather it is a sermon — inspiring), exalting, lifting man from the baser things in life to the nobler. 

Like all worthy things it is well guarded. The Watchman and the Sentinel stand in the gateway and the Three Patriarchs solemnly scrutinize all who enter. When within, however, the friendly Twin Brothers and gracious Lady Mountain beckon on with hospitality and good cheer. The pilgrim is at home in the leafy valley. He may pursue his quest without hindrance or disturbance, except perhaps for the commotion of his thoughts and his feelings as he ponders this marvel of God's handiwork. 

AN AWE-INSPIRING SYMBOL 

I have looked diligently to find some one thing — some symbol that would epitomize the meaning of it all. I think that I found it many years ago. It is not El Gubernador, — the Great White Throne, that rears its lofty crested peak high into the blue of heaven, as many might suppose it to be. It is not Cable Mountain, nor the Ledge of the Weeping Rock, nor even Angel's Landing, significant as that may be. It is not the Temple of Sinawava, much as I love to worship in that peerless cathedral whose floor is the verdant valley with river running through, whose walls are chiseled mile-high by the Master Sculptor and whose arch is the blue of the firmament. 

It is a mountain slightly more modest perhaps than some of these. I wish it might have had the name I wanted it to have — it is called Red Arch Mountain. There is an arch, it is true, and it is red. But they who named it could not have seen what made the arch or they would have proclaimed it Sinai, the Mountain of the Lord, for out of the face of this imposing cliff, a tablet of stone of vast proportions has been taken, perfectly hewn. In my fancy I have always seen that massive tablet inscribed by the finger of God, broken loose by the fierce lightning and resounding thunder and cast to the mighty Moses and by that Prophet proclaimed in sonorous and piercing voice down through all the ages of man. When I stand in awe before this portentous symbol wrought without hands in the everlasting hills I seem to hear as in their primeval freshness the great commandments of Jehovah : 

Thou shalt have no other Gods before me. 

Thou shalt not steal. 

Thou shalt not commit adultery. 

Thou shalt not kill. 

Thou shalt not covet. 

Thou shalt not bear false witness. 

Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Honor thy father and thy mother, that it may go well with thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. 

IMPROVEMENTS NOTED 

What a strange paradox it seems that civilization should be 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

unbeautiful. To the lover of nature, every landscape, even the desert and waste places, has charm and attraction until man digs a hole, builds a shack, erects a telegraph pole or a smokestack. But civilization need not and should not be ugly. Man's construction can beautify rather than deface nature if there is the will, the energy and the art to make it so. 

Even commercial and industrial structures and appliances can be made good looking. It is noticeable that railroad stations, once grimy and unsightly affairs, are now frequently embellished with bits of lawn, shrubs, flowers, trees and sometimes with pleasing architecture in elaborate settings. Factories, power houses and other plants, once bare and forbidding, are now covered with vines set in pleasant landscapes, with adequate exposure to light, air and sunshine. These transformations in the commercial world give warrant to the hope that some day we shall have beauty in business and that it will be a disgrace for any enterprise to be conducted in ugly surroundings. 

The chief consideration and the problems, however, in this beautification program probably lie with homes, churches, schools and other public properties. In the interest of competition business institutions may be pretty well relied upon to go forward with artistic improvements, but what can be relied upon to move the home owners, the church goers and the school patrons to do their part in this worthy endeavor? 

COOPERATION NECESSARY 

I believe that nothing but a wholesome, individual and community pride will accomplish the task. To stimulate that pride it is necessary to understand and appreciate the real values involved. I wish I could say something to enhance that understanding and appreciation. 

I revert to the first item which I mentioned, — we live in a remarkably beautiful country. Our scenery is now being exploited. It is true that in the main this is done for commercial reasons but nevertheless all the people are beneficiaries of the wide advertising and the increased tourist travel which such exploitation brings. From a purely monetary standpoint, it is the poorest kind of business to spoil the landscape that we are trying so hard to sell. Every dirty,' unkept, unpainted, and shabby home; every unsightly outbuilding; every old corral and fallen fence; every scraggly dead tree; every barren and forbidding school house and church and courthouse with broken windows, curled shingles and other evidences of neglect; every littered and weedy vacant lot, street and highway is a definite liability against the credit asset of this productive tourist traffic we are striving so hard to get. Chambers of Commerce, civic clubs and other agencies engaged in its promotion need, more than anything else, cooperation in the items I have mentioned. I wish I could pledge that support for every home and community in this 127  and also for every home and community in which our people dwell. 

Now this is the business side of the question. I want to present another aspect of equal if not superior importance. Some of you may remember an old play which was popular on the boards many years ago. It was called "Ingomar, the Barbarian." There was a scene in this play between the barbarian and Parthenia, the fair maiden whom he had come to love. The girl is picking flowers and Ingomar, wondering at her interest in them, asks her, "What is their use?" Rather startled at such a question, the maiden answers, "Why, they're beautiful! That's their use." 

LOVE OF BEAUTY INNATE 

I think perhaps this gives a good idea of the esthetic and pure love of the beautiful. I believe that all people are by nature endowed with something of this love in their hearts, and it needs but cultivation and encouragement to develop into one of the loveliest aspects of living. Almost all are sensitive to color, to form and symmetry, so that good architecture and good landscaping with trees, flowers, shrubs and lawns have a very appreciable effect, even though sometimes unconsciously, upon all persons. 

The love of home is one of the great virtues of the race and undoubtedly the beauty of home has done much to stimulate that love. Fortunately it is not necessary to be rich or learned to have a love of beauty. Very humble folk often have true artistic appreciation. I once knew an old lady who spent many hours scrubbing a long board walk leading from her house to some outbuildings. I asked her why she did it. "Oh, I don't know," she said, "but it seems to me the outside should be as clean as the inside." It's very fortunate that it doesn't take much money to indulge esthetic tastes, particularly in the care of a home. Cleanliness and neatness are the chief requirements and personal energy, ambition and pride can supply these. The humblest cottage can be a lovely place, a haven of refuge and a constant delight if it is but kept neat and tidy and clean. 

I think of all implements that make for homely beauty there is none that compares with the broom and the rake. Well swept floors and porches and well raked yards never yet failed to bring their thrill of satisfaction and pride. 

Next in importance to a neat yard is a green and colorful one. Any house, great or small, attains its real attraction and beauty in a setting which nature, with a little human effort, provides. What a pity it is not to take advantage of this kindly provision of nature when it costs so little and means so much. I'm grateful that out in our country relatively few families, and especially the children, are required to live in apartments and tenement houses without surrounding grounds. As I have driven through the streets of New York and the bigger cities and seen the little tots struggling to make their piay dreams come true, out on the hard, unyielding pavement, with

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 7 Third Day 

out a spear of green or a flower or a tree, I have felt that I would like to pick up every child and bring it to a cottage where it could dig its fingers and toes into mother earth, not encrusted with an impenetrable shell. 

AN APPEAL FOR BEAUTIFUL HOME SURROUNDINGS 

What a marvelous boon is mother earth! How abundantly she yields of her hidden chemicals and nutriments to make the verdure and the vegetation that gladdens and supports the race. My brothers and sisters, — countrymen of these mountain valleys, I fear we scarcely appreciate the inestimable privilege that we have to live on the soil. Oh, for just a little labor and not much money to make the soil that we have taken from nature's domain and enclosed around our houses, beautiful and attractive! 

I have said this much about esthetic considerations in the hope of encouraging our home people to make the most of their opportunities. If every man and woman who lives in a home would embellish it to the best of his ability I should feel little concerned about public buildings and property. There would be such pride engendered by these home-loving people that they would not permit the meeting house and the school house to suffer in comparison with their homes. 

Here a little cooperation will bring the desired results. The contribution of a few hours of labor with perhaps a little cash will landscape the meeting house and transform it from a bleak and barren structure into a beautiful and inviting edifice nestled among trees, shrubs and lawns. The same may be said of the school house except that the school authorities are chiefly responsible and their responsibility for an ill-kept, forbidding and ugly school house is not so much to the town or community whose civic pride is hurt, as to the children, the boys and girls, who all through their lives will carry the impressions of ugliness which their surroundings inflict upon them. 

The converse of what I have said is also true, namely, that beautifully landscaped and attractive churches, schools and other public buildings will do much to stimulate better care of homes and all private property. In fact, nothing can be done to stir and encourage the esthetic sense in any aspect of our surroundings and our living without promoting generally a more beautiful world. 

DUTY OF MAN TO BEAUTIFY THE EARTH 

I will turn your attention to another aspect of this subject with which I will conclude. I am sure that beauty is intimately associated with pure religion. I believe that our Father in Heaven is a God of order and of beauty. I doubt if any rational being ever entertained a concept of God, that is, as a personal Being, except in surroundings of beauty and exquisite loveliness. We so envisage heaven. 

We as a church believe and so declare that in the end the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory. When this is 129  it will be beautiful and glorious beyond finite conception. This being our doctrine, do you think it becoming in God's children to deface the earth while we sojourn here ? Being the stewards and custodians of the resources which are committed to us, have we not an obligation to use them, preserve them and return them in the best possible condition of which our circumstances will permit? I think upon reflection you will say that we have such an obligation and that it is very definitely our'task to make God's footstool as beautiful as we may. For "the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof," and the righteous "and their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation forever and forever." 

What a delightful abode for men this good earth could be if men would but make it so! If neighbors all had flower gardens and gossip centered around daffodils, lilacs and petunias, there would be far more kindliness and sympathy in the world. Even the thorns of roses do not irritate men's souls. 

You will find that the unfortunate young men who today fill our prisons and other houses of detention do not come from pretty cottages with vines growing over the door, carefully trained by patient, tender mothers and you will find that the proud and haughty and arrogant of the world are not the true product of the soil. It is no misstatement that "the meek shall inherit the earth," for it is only they who truly acknowledge and worship the Master Giver. 

Need I say more to persuade us that every consideration,— business, esthetic and religious, — constrains our people to take the lead in this worthy cause of beautifying the land ? I understand that expert advice will be made available in the laying out of grounds, in planting and in other features calculated to reach the objectives of the program. With this aid our efforts will be successful if only our interest and our energy are sufficient. 

A GREAT LEADER MENTIONED 

What if our great and wise pioneer leader, Brigham Young, should return on the hundredth anniversary of his entrance into this the Salt Lake Valley? How it would please him and thrill his noble soul to find the cities, the towns and villages which he planned so well and strove so diligently and courageously to found, all in the bloom of midsummer, with farms and fields laden with maturing crops, with pastures and hills dotted with flocks and herds, with factories, business blocks, public buildings, schools and churches reflecting a vast development in enterprise, culture and religion which he so earnestly advocated; and then too, most thrilling of all, if he could find thousands of contented homes, nestled in the shade of myriads of trees, growing out of lawns, shrubs and fragrant flowers, all neat and clean, the habitation of an honest, thrifty, God-loving, joyous people, and all this in the desert valleys which he first saw, now transformed and beautified by the enterprise and the idealism 

130 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 7 Third Day 

of the generations that followed him! Surely the cup of his gratitude would be running over. 

Why may it not be so ? What more worthy and fitting tribute could we offer to those patient, devoted men and women whose courage, whose intelligence and whose labor have bequeathed to us the priceless heritage we now enjoy? 

God grant that our love, our gratitude and our veneration may find tangible expression in beauty — beauty of life and surroundings, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Clark: We are pleased and I am sure we shall be enheartened by a message which has just come from President Heber J. Grant, which I shall read : 

Los Angeles, April 7, 1940 

Presidents J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and David O. McKay, Care Mormon Conference, Salt Lake Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

I cannot adequately express the joy that came from listening in on this morning's session of Conference. It came through wonderfully clear and was a spiritual feast in which many friends here joined. I was especially pleased that President McKay was able to speak with such ease. I am looking forward with great anticipation to this afternoon's session in which I shall join with you in spirit. I am feeling fine today and improving some every day. Please convey again to the Saints my love and blessings. 

HEBER J. GRANT. 

BISHOP LEGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

More than anything else this day, my brethren and sisters, I feel grateful to the Lord for membership in this great Church. It has been a wonderful privilege to associate with President Grant, President Clark, and President McKay in the weekly meetings that we have been privileged to hold with them as members of the Presiding Bishopric. To me they are indeed prophets of God. I love and respect the members of the Quorum of the Twelve likewise, and the Seven Presidents of Seventy. I am grateful to the Lord for my Counselors because they are truly men of God. I am grateful for all you who are here representing the great body of the Church, these General Boards, the Mission Presidents, Stake Presidents, and their associates, the Bishops, these Patriarchs, and all who are putting forth their energies for the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God in the earth. 131 

THE PRESENT NEED FOR TEACHING THE WORD OF WISDOM 

I was very much impressed with the charge given to the Priesthood by President Clark in the opening session of this Conference, and I thought of the words of Dr. Widtsoe when speaking of the Word of Wisdom. He said there are some in the Church who feel that we have said enough about it. I have been in private conversation, and Sunday School classes where the thought has been expressed that they wished President Grant would cease harping on the Word of Wisdom. In my heart I have felt to say, "Thank God for the leader that he is who has the courage to speak out and present to the people the things which God has revealed!" I am sure if we appreciated the Word of Wisdom and its meaning to the Church as much as Satan appreciates what it means when we can be persuaded to disregard the same, we would appreciate it more than we do today. I am grateful to my parents who taught me to observe and keep the Word of Wisdom. 

I am sure that as far as our young people are concerned, the members of our Church, a disregard for the Word of Wisdom is the first step that Satan would have them take in his great effort to destroy their souls. At the time there was war in heaven and Satan and his hosts were cast out, a cry went up in heaven saying, "Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the Devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time." 

In our Temples we are told of the use Satan would make of the riches of the world to try to destroy the souls of men. Last night in our Priesthood assembly Brother Merrill told us that some thirty million dollars are expended each year in the United States alone in advertising tobacco and liquor in an effort to induce our young people to break the Word of Wisdom. 

MANIFESTATION TO A PATRIARCH 

One of the most interesting things that has occurred to me during this Conference was a visit at the Presiding Bishop's Office of one of my former associates in the Church who was recently appointed a Patriarch and set apart and ordained by Dr. Widtsoe. He told me of how he felt his inability to meet that wonderful calling until he was blessed by Brother Widtsoe, and then he told of the joy he had had in giving blessings to the young people in the Church and of,the manifestations that had come to him. Among other things he said that while he was blessing one young man he saw an evil spirit standing by his side, and the impression came to him that the evil spirit was listening to what was being said so that he would know what his mission in life was, that he might try to destroy that mission. It reminded me of a picture I saw in Brussels many years ago, when I was on my first mission, of a man who shot his head off, and by his side stood two angels, one of light and one of darkness, 

132 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 ' Third Day 

and as he committed the deed the angel of darkness laughed with a laugh of triumph and the angel of light turned his head and wept. 

EFFECTS OF BREAKING WORD OF WISDOM FAR-REACHING 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, the Evil One is doing all he can to try to destroy the lives of our boys and girls. He did it with the Prophet Joseph. You will remember the Prophet's own testimony of how he was first overcome by the power of darkness, when he went into the woods to pray. He is seeking to destroy us because we have been given the Light, and I want to say to you that when we disregard the Word of Wisdom, we not only suffer a biological ill effect upon our bodies by using things that are not good for the body, but it changes our mental attitude toward the things of God. If you brethren and sisters question this, I would ask you to inquire in your own homes or the homes of your associates. I think you will find that when boys and girls commence using tobacco or liquor they cease to pray, and in most cases they cease to attend Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement organization, and other Auxiliaries of this Church. I think an examination of the rolls would indicate that this is true in almost every case. And that is not all. The Lord has indicated to us that these bodies are tabernacles of the Holy Ghost and that the Holy Ghost will not dwell in an unholy tabernacle. Paul tells us that these bodies are not our own but God has purchased them with a price and he that defileth the body, him shall God destroy. So, when we commence to do the things we should not do, and thus we quit praying, the Lord withdraws His Spirit and we are turned over to the buffetings of Satan. It is first a cigaret; then it is a glass of beer; then it is a drinking party; and that leads to immorality; and some of us know from our experience in the Church something of what this means. I wish that in all the cities of this great country all the Latter-day Saints were keeping the Word of Wisdom. I want to tell you that the light and influence that would go forth therefrom would touch the hearts and the lives of men and women who reside in our midst who are not members of the Church, and they would be led to do likewise. As the Master said, "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." 

From a statement made by Dr. George Thomason, M. D., F. A. C. S., regarding the effects of tobacco, I read : 

Our hearts are saddened and our eyes filled with tears at the sight of the mangled and crippled human wrecks left as an aftermath of war; but these do not compare in horror with the innumerable multitudes of hereditary defectives left in the wake of the vast army of cigarets. Is it fair to make the man or woman of tomorrow — our posterity — pay the fiddler for our pleasures today? 

In the Ten Commandments, 4he Lord has said that He will visit the iniquities of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate Him, but show mercy unto 133  of them who love Him and keep His commandments. Keeping the Word of Wisdom will free us and our posterity from these calamities. 

LIQUOR AND ITS TRAIN OF EVILS 

Regarding the use of liquor, I should like to quote from the words of Evangeline Booth of the Salvation Army : 

Drink has drained more blood, hung more crepe, sold more homes, plunged more people into bankruptcy, armed more villains, slain more children, snapped more wedding rings, defiled more innocence, blinded more eyes, twisted more limbs, dethroned more reason, wrecked more manhood, dishonored more womanhood, broken more hearts, blasted more lives, driven more to suicide, and dug more graves than any other poisoned scourge that ever swept its death-dealing waves across the world. 

If we never used tobacco and liquor, we would never have any of these things to contend with. It seems to me that the Word of Wisdom might be regarded as an insurance policy; if we keep the Word of Wisdom, Satan does not get to first base with us because we are not made subject to his temptations. 

OUTSTANDING EXAMPLE OF AN ACTRESS 

I should like to take the liberty of reading a quotation that appeared in the "Hollywood Citizen," under date of February 15, 1940, showing what the life of a Mormon boy or girl can do and of the notoriety it brings when they stand up for the things they have been taught in their Church : 

Wonders never cease and today we met in the center of Hollywood a movie actress, and a beautiful one, too, who never has tasted a cocktail nor smoked a cigaret. 

Her name is Laraine Day, and lips that touch liquor shall never touch hers, and if there is any other movie star with a record like that, we'll put it in our pipe and smoke it. 

We're not trying to spoof Miss Day, either. She is a member of the Church of the Latter-day Saints, she's engaged to a missionary, and we have the greatest of respect for her. Only we're a little surprised that a girl of her temperament and background is in the movies. 

"But it isn't at all surprising," she insisted, "Mormons don't drink or smoke, but they have no objections to the theater, or to motion pictures. In fact, I got my first stage experience in Church plays, and here in Hollywood I'm in charge of a Little Theater group sponsored by the Church." 

Miss Day, who is hazel-eyed, barely 20, and one of the brightest of M-G-M's younger stars, likes night clubs, where she drinks either soda pop or milk. 

"Keeping away from liquor is no problem for me," she said, "except in the movies. A few weeks ago I was in a picture where we were supposed to be at dinner, eating trifle. This is a British dessert, which consists of macaroons and whipped cream. So the studio sent to a caterer's and got a whole barrel of trifle. It was flavored with rum. I just tasted the whipped cream on top and didn't eat a bit of it! 

134 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

We suggested that a tablespoon of rum in a pudding was no more intoxicating than a spoon of vanilla extract, but Miss Day said she wasn't interested in that. It was the principle of the thing. 

Currently she is playing the leading feminine role in "And One Was Beautiful," opposite Robert Cummings, and if ever there was a living example of the fact that a girl needn't be wild to succeed in Hollywood, she is it. 

Then the article goes on to tell more about her, how she earns a good salary; how 5 she pays her tithing to the Church; how she converted her young boy friend, and he is now filling a mission for the Church. 

If, like Miss Day, we would never touch tobacco or liquor, because of the "principle of the thing," we would never have to quit, and we would bring great honor to the Church. And, as I say, the principle is like an insurance policy, a protection against the snares of the Evil One and the consequences that follow the disregard thereof. 

IMMORALITY A MODERN CURSE 

In addition to the injury to the body because of the use of tobacco and liquor as I have stated, is the injury that comes from immorality. Those of us who have read and know something of the conditions in the world today know that this is a plague that is reaching into our very communities, that we should not be unmindful of, but we ought to surround our girls and our boys with all the influence and power possible to enable them to shun this evil. 

I was delighted with the plainness with which President Clark spoke on this subject. In one of our meetings with the First Presidency, President Grant told of a letter he had received from a young woman who had been untrue morally and how she wrote and said to the President, "Why don't you publish a warning in the 'Era' and the newspapers and tell it in the organizations so that young people will know what it is when they have lost their virtue ?" 

I hope that the fathers and mothers in Israel are training their boys and girls today as my father and mother trained me when they told me that immorality was the greatest sin a man could commit next to the shedding of innocent blood, and that they would rather lay me away in the grave innocent and clean than to know I had lost my virtue or had robbed a woman of hers. I think, my brothers and sisters, that we need to do a little more of that kind of preaching today. It seems to me that one of the evidences that there is a God is the great scourge and curse that He places upon men and women who are immoral in their lives. A few years ago we read in a Salt Lake newspaper that a young man had committed suicide, and the paper said, "because he was despondent," but his father told me that the reason he committed suicide was because his body was wasting away as the result of immoral living. I might not have understood what he meant had it not been for an experience I had in Chicago when I was on my way to my first mission as a boy. We saw there 135  of men's and women's bodies literally being eaten away by the effects of venereal disease. It made such an impression upon my mind at that time that I could not help but think it almost as bad as leprosy. I read a report in one of the Railroad stations in one of our large cities rfot long ago that indicated that 780,000 young men reach their majority in the United States each year, and of that number 450,000, according to statistics of the Bureau of Vital Statistics of the United States of America, suffer from venereal disease. And that, in this great land we call a Christian nation. When we know such conditions exist, my brothers and sisters, we realize more the need of teaching our young people. I feel to thank God for these teachings. In my position as a presiding officer in this Church, I have had men come to me in transgression. I have seen them shed bitter tears, and I thank God for the principle of forgiveness of sin. I have wished it were even possible, not only to forgive the sin but to blot out the memory of the sin, and then I think as they grow in experience, even if they repent and they become useful in the Church, of the scars that are still there, when they know there are women who know they have been unclean. 

The Lord said to Ezekiel of old that He had placed him as a watchman on the towers of Israel and when He gave a commandment unto him and he failed to carry it to the people, then their blood would be required at his hands, but if he delivered the message, he would be free. I think it is up to the Elders in Israel and the officers of this Church, as President Clark has said, to let the people know so that we might keep ourselves free from responsibility for their sins, and help them to remain unspotted from the sins of the world. "Blessed are the pure in heart," Jesus said, "for they shall see God." God help us to be that, and our children likewise, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Ladies' Voices of the Tabernacle Choir sang "O Divine Redeemer" (Gounod-Cain). 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

The purpose of my remarks this afternoon is to appeal to the people to come to the support of the Church Welfare Plan. 

DIRECTION OF WELFARE PLAN BY LEADERS 

Our leader, the President of the Church, has directed its' organization and operation. And he has appealed to the people to come to the support of this undertaking in much the same way as did Paul the Apostle when, in speaking to the Elders of the Church, he said, "Ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how He said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." (Acts 20:35.) And President Grant has made his appeal with much the same 

136 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

earnestness and feeling as did Paul when he added, "Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears." (Acts 20:31.) 

And while the aims of this Church Welfare Plan are many, on this occasion I am going to mention but two. The first of these is providing employment and teaching the untrained and inefficient how to work, and the second is eliminating the suffering and the handicaps that are due to poverty. 

THE IM'PORTANCE OF EFFICIENCY 

After projects have been created and employment has been secured, hardly anything is more important than teaching people how to work and then teaching them the importance of performing assigned tasks with reasonable speed and efficiency. There are mothers who say that because they themselves had a hard time they are going to see to it that their daughters have an easy time. And there are fathers who say because they themselves had a hard time in the days of their youth, they are going to do their utmost to see to it that their sons have an easy time. 

Strong men and strong women, those who work efficiently, those whose services are always in demand, are not brought up having an easy time. Work is the only thing in the world worth while that wins. The world seems to be seeking always the services of those who work with a high degree of speed and a high degree of efficiency. Such individuals are rarely unemployed. It has been wisely said that he who can write a better book or preach a better sermon, or even make a better mouse trap than his neighbor, though he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten pathway to his door. 

And since it is the ability and the willingness of people to work, and the speed and the efficiency with which they toil, which creates a demand for their services, one of the outstanding purposes of the Church Welfare Plan after providing employment is to teach people to work. At the same time it should be borne in mind that there are two periods in life which ought to be free from the necessity of earning a living. One of these is childhood. No child ought to be compelled to work for his daily bread. And the other period is old age. No one who is old, especially when in poor health, ought to be compelled to work for his living. 

THRIFT URGED 

And if these two periods in life are to be free from the necessity of earning a living, it will be necessary for those who labor to lay something by during the laboring years of their lives in order to provide for the necessities of childhood and the necessities of age. This can be done only when and if frugal ways, frugal habits and industry are the characteristics of those who toil. These desirable conditions can be brought about only if workers during the earning period of their lives spend less than they make. 137 

PROJECTS TO BE PLANNED 

It is the aim of the Church so to train the people that they will have the character and the honor, the desire and the willingness, to give a full day of honest, efficient service for a full day's pay. The able-bodied are expected to work for their daily bread. Projects of many different kinds and descriptions are to be organized in every Stake and Ward and Mission and Branch of the Church with the hope and with the expectation that those who are able to work will be given an opportunity, on these projects, to provide themselves, by honest effort, with the necessities of life. 

HUMAN BEINGS NOT ALL ALIKE 

And in all this the natural weaknesses and imperfections of mankind must be taken into account. There are. those in the human family whose mental make-up is such that for them to learn to lace up their own shoes is a real accomplishment. In fact the mentalities, capacities and abilities of human beings are so varied that one wise man has said : The human family may be divided into three groups with a rather high degree of accuracy. Fifteen per cent of the "human family will work whether they are watched or not. Thirty-five per cent of the human family will work if well watched, and fifty per cent of the human family will not work watched or otherwise." I leave it to you to decide for yourselves whether or not this conclusion is correct. 

A GOOD REPORT FROM ONE STAKE 

The second aim of the Church Welfare Plan, as I have already stated, is the elimination of the suffering and the handicaps which are due to poverty. In a Stake Welfare meeting held recently the Ward Presidents of the Relief Societies of the Stake were called upon for reports. And all stated that in their respective Wards every family had been visited and every home had been carefully investigated. The visitors found that all the families were comfortably housed, no child was, nor were any of the unemployable aged, required to work for a living. There was no child bare-footed. There was no child that was hungry. All the children were well clothed. All of the aged and all of the children were reported as being well cared for and it was stated further that the children all had ample opportunity to attend school. Thus, in that particular Stake, the aim had been reached of eliminating the suffering and the handicaps which are due to poverty. 

A STORY REVIEWED 

The main purpose of these remarks is to appeal to you to come to the support of this Church Welfare Plan. I repeat the words of the Master Himself, "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and the words of Paul, "Ye ought to support the weak." I can think of no better illustration of what I mean than the impressive lesson taught in Van Dyke's grippingly interesting religious story entitled, "The Mansion." I 

138 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 7 Third Day 

shall give this story briefly in almost the exact language of my close and beloved friend, that master of English literature, the late Dr. Henry Van Dyke. 

John Wightman, a wealthy business man and banker, dreamed that he was sitting on a stone, not far from a broad pathway, in a strange land. The travelers in little groups or larger ones were all clothed in white. It was like some old picture. Now and then one of the travelers would smile, and beckon John Wightman a friendly greeting, so that he felt as if they would like to have him join them. 

This was a vastly different world from that in which the palatial mansion of John Wightman on a great avenue of a great city, a modern metropolis, had been built. All of this looked strange to him and yet most' real — as real as anything he had ever seen. 

He had a faint premonition of what all this must be, but, wishing to be sure, he walked toward one of the passing groups of people. One of them turned to meet him and put out his hand. It was an old man under whose white beard and brows John Wightman saw the face of the village doctor who had cared for him when he was but a poor boy in the country. 

"Welcome," said the old man, "Will you come with us ?" 

"Where are you going?" 

"To see the heavenly city, to see our mansions there! Come join us. It will do you good. You also must have a mansion in this heavenly city waiting for you — a fine one too. Are you not looking forward to seeing it?" 

"Yes," replied John Wightman, "Yes, it must be so. But I had not expected to see it so soon. I will go with you and we will talk on the way." 

The doctor had little to tell of his plain, hard life in the country. It had been uneventfully spent for others. His story and that of the country village where he lived was a very simple one. A much richer story was that of John Wightman's adventures, and triumphs, full of contacts with the great events and the great personages of his time. But in that wide, heavenly moorland, in that free air of perfect peace, John Wightman did not care to speak much about his experiences. 

All the people in these groups seemed to be people who, during their lifetime upon the earth, had been folks of comparatively little consideration. But John Wightman was glad that they would all find fit dwelling places prepared for them; but he thought also, with a certain pride and pleasure, of the great surprise that some of them would feel when they saw his appointed mansion. If they were so sure, each one, of finding a mansion there, could not he be far more sure? For his life had surely been more fruitful than theirs. He had been a leader, a founder, owner and manager of many new and important enterprises. 

Now. before these travelers, stood the heavenly city. It was white and wonderful. Its walls were so low a child could see over them. The gate of this city was not like a gate at all. It was not barred with iron or wood; it was only a single pearl which marked the place where the wall ended and the entrance lay open. 139 

A person standing there said, "Come in, you are at your journey's end and your mansions are ready for you." 

They passed from street to street among fair and spacious dwellings adorned with an infinitely varied beauty of divine simplicity. The mansions differed in size, in shape, in charm; each seemed to have its own personal look of loveliness. As the company came one by one to the mansions prepared for them, and their guide beckoned to the happy ones to enter into and take possession, there was, on the part of all of them, a soft murmur of joy. These new and immortal dwellings were lovelier and nobler than all the earthly dreams they had had of them. One after another the travelers were led to their own mansions and went in gladly; and from within, through the open doors, came sweet voices of welcome and low laughter and happy song. 

At last there was no one left with the guide but the two old friends, the village doctor and John Wightman. They were standing in front of one of the largest and fairest of the heavenly mansions whose garden glowed softly with radiant flowers. The guide, laying his hand upon the doctor's shoulder said, "This is for you. Go in. There is no more sickness here, no more death, no sorrow, no pain! The old enemies are all conquered, and all the good that you have done for others, all the help that you have given, all the comfort that you have brought, all the strength and love that you have bestowed upon the suffering, are here, and we have built all of them into this mansion for you." 

The good man's face lighted with a still joy. He clasped his old friend's hand and whispered, "How wonderful all of this is! Go on, you will come to your own mansion next no doubt. It will not be far away. We shall see each other again soon, very soon." 

And so the village doctor went through the garden and into the music within. The keeper of the gate then turned to John Wightman with level, quiet, searching eyes and asked gravely, "Where do you wish me to lead you now ?" 

"To my own mansion," answered the man with half-concealed excitement. "Is there not one here for me? I am John Wightman. I wish very much to see my mansion. I believe that you have one for me. Will you take me to it ?" 

The keeper of the gate drew a little book from the breast of his robe and turned over the pages. 

"Certainly," he said, with a curious look at the man, "Your name is here; and you shall see your mansion if you will follow me." 

It seemed as if they must have walked miles and miles through the vast city before they came into a kind of suburb where there were many small cottages. Finally they reached an open field, barren and lonely looking. In the center of the field was a tiny hut, hardly big enough for a shepherd's shelter. It looked as if it had been built of discarded things, scraps and fragments of other buildings. These, however, had been put together with great care by someone who had taken great pains to make the most of cast-off material. There was something pitiful and shameful about the hut. 

140 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

"This," said the keeper of the gate, standing still and speaking with a low, distinct voice, "This, John Wightman, is yours." 

An almost intolerable shock of grief, wonder and indignation choked the man for a moment so that he could not say a word. Then finally he turned his face away from the poor little hut and .began to remonstrate eagerly with his companion. 

"Surely, sir," he stammered, "You must be in error about this. There is something wrong — some other John Wightman — confusion of names — the book must be incorrect." 

"There is no mistake," said the keeper of the gate very calmly; "Here is your name, the record of your title and of your possessions in this place." 

"But how could such a house be prepared for me?" cried the man, with a resentful tremor in his voice. "Is this a suitable mansion for one so well-known and so successful in life upon the earth? Why is it so pitifully small and mean? Why have you not built it large and fair like the others ?" 

"That is all the material you sent to us." 

"What!" 

"We have used all the material that you sent us," repeated the keeper of the gate. 

"I acknowledge," added the man, "that I considered my own interests too much. But surely not altogether." 

Dimly, through the trouble of his mind, John Wightman began to see the seriousness of his situation. 

"What is it that counts here ?" he asked. 

"Only that counts here," said the keeper of the gate, "which is truly given. Only those things are given consideration in this place which are done solely for the love of doing good, only those plans are given consideration in which the welfare of others is the master thought. Only those labors count here in which the sacrifice is greater than the anticipated reward. Only those gifts are given consideration in which the giver forgets himself!" 

THE WORDS OF THE SAVIOR 

And I will conclude this, my appeal, to you, to come to the support of the Church Welfare Plan with the following familiar words from the 25th chapter of Matthew: (verses 31-40) 

When the Son of Man shall come in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then shall He sit upon the throne of His glory; 

And before Him shall be gathered all nations; and He shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats; 

And He shall set the sheep on His right hand, but the goats on the 

left. 

Then shall the King say unto them on His right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; 

For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat; I wqs thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; 141 

Naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 

Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? 

When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in ? or naked, and clothed thee? 

Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 

And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

Again, in the language of Paul the Apostle, let us "Remember the words of the Lord Jesus how He said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." (Acts 20:35) And may we all be found among those worthy, unselfish and righteous ones who feed the hungry and clothe the naked, I humbly pray. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

As a people we have been thoroughly traditionated in the thought that it is a duty as well as a privilege for all of our men, as conditions will permit, to go out and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Tradition is a wholesome thing provided it has had its beginning in high ideals, courage, the thought that we are the servants of the Lord, and that these high ideals have been carried unchanged from the past down to the present. 

ASSIGNING MISSIONARIES TO NEW FIELDS 

One of the ideals of the missionary is that he is willing to go wherever the Lord requires him to do. Last night in our Priesthood Meeting we sang the song "I'll Go Where You Want Me to Go, Dear Lord." Perhaps we never have had the same opportunity of witnessing a demonstration of this attitude with as large a number as we had recently when, on account of the war, missionaries were returned from Europe to America. Through the kindness of the First Presidency I was assigned to go to New York to work with President Frank Evans of the Eastern States Mission in receiving the missionaries as they arrived. Hotel accommodations and transportation were arranged for them and mission assignments were made for those who were to finish their missions in the United States and Canada. It has been indicated by President Clark the amount of work that was accomplished in handling the missionaries. May I say in addition that the short stay of the missionaries in New York was made more enjoyable because of the splendid hospitality and kindness of President and Sister Evans and the missionaries in the office. 

When the missionaries were to be reassigned we expected to use the same methods that were used when they left home, that is, we thought that we would be able to interview missionaries and find 

142 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Snnday. April 7 Third Day 

out in detail concerning their attitude and their desires. After the first group or so, it became evident that because of the short time they were in New York, this would be impossible. We therefore took the attitude that most of the missionaries coming from Europe were experienced, well trained and full of faith and therefore would be willing to go wherever they might be assigned for the best interests of the work of the Lord. 

I am quite sure that all of the missionaries, just as we would have felt ourselves, had some thought or desire as to where they would like to labor while in the American Missions. Most missionaries, at the time of their call, have had the experience of making mental adjustments. At home we send out missionary calls all over the Church only knowing in a small way the disappointment that sometimes comes to the missionary and the parents when they find that he has been assigned to a mission field different from the one most desired. But with good courage and faith in the work, they do not ask for a change. 

I might say that we were helped in selecting new mission fields for the missionaries by the kindly instructions of the brethren at home and also by the suggestions of the Mission Presidents under whom they had labored. However, these suggestions were only few in number. The assignment of the great majority was left to me. 

A meeting was held with each group. The missionaries, as they came into these meetings had, I am quite certain, a desire or wish that they might be sent to certain mission fields. We came to each meeting with a sincere prayer in our hearts that the Lord would guide us in making the most suitable assignments. When names were read out and the mission fields were designated, it was astonishing with what good spirit they were accepted. The cases were few and far between when information was brought to our attention that a missionary thought he should have been sent to some other field. I can not remember of any missionary saying that he would not go to the field assigned to him. 

To me it was one of the finest expressions of faith in the work of the Lord to see them accept these appointments, even though they might not have been as agreeable to them as some other mission field. And so, these wonderful boys and girls, holding on to the high missionary ideals of the Church, went into the different American fields and made the adjustment no matter what it was. 

COURAGE AND FAITH OF MISSIONARIES 

Not only had each missionary the experience of being transferred from one field to another but he also had the sad experience of having to say goodby to those faithful Saints in the foreign fields. I am speaking of those men and women in Europe who have shown much true devotion to the work of the Lord. The missionaries had also come in contact with the splendid Presidents and their wives in the foreign fields. They had learned to love these 143  and women, had become sincerely devoted to them because of their humility and ability as leaders. Now they were to come into another field and make new contacts, to work under different circumstances and conditions, and this took considerable faith and courage on the part of all these missionaries. 

The reports that have come to us from the American fields have been most favorable. You parents can certainly be very proud of these boys and girls of yours who were in Europe, because of their attitude, their love of the work, their devotion to the Cause, and their determination to make good in any field or under any condition. 

If future missionaries, parents, and those in leadership could constantly keep before them this example of holding true to high missionary ideals, I am sure that we should find an increase in happiness, spirituality and usefulness on the part of missionaries as they give service to our Heavenly Father. 

May this be a part of our missionary life, a part of our true tradition that has been carried forward so splendidly all these years, and may we not be found wanting as we are called into the field, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brothers and sisters, I am sure that I feel, as do you on this occasion, gratitude and joy and thanksgiving in our hearts for the presence here of President McKay. 

THE INFLUENCE OF THE CONFERENCE FELT AFAR OFF 

Somehow or other I feel that perhaps I am not mistaken in the thought that President Grant has been here with us. You know this world and its influences move on, and some marvelous things are coming constantly. Even today we have had a message from him, and his spirit and influence have been with us. When we gather together such a great concourse of people, such a marvelous gathering of the Priesthood as was here last night, that power, that influence, that strength and might which emanate from each individual spirit are felt by other individuals, and I feel confident President Grant "will have received this spirit and this influence, together with love, hope, faith, and strength from us. Therefore, he has been blessed and we have been blessed in receiving from him his blessedness, his tenderness, love, and felicitations. 

I thank God for His peaceful, sweet influence which has permeated this Conference and that all of us have been filled with the testimony of Jesus Christ, and the knowledge that God is our Father.STAKE MISSIONARY WORK 

As I come to these Conferences lately I have only one thing on Third Dag  mind that I should like above everything else to mention, and that is the work which is being done by the two thousand missionaries in your midst in the Stakes of Zion. I thank you sincerely for your help and I would like you to know that during the year 1939, two thousand two hundred and twenty souls have been added to this Church through the missionary labors of those in the Stakes of Zion of this Church, and that four thousand souls have been gathered into the fold who had become somewhat indifferent and inactive. Those six thousand people engaging in activity in this Church — and they are about half the size of this audience — will add mighty strength and tremendous force to the work of God going on here on the earth today. 

' I sincerely trust that the early days of this missionary work, recently inaugurated, are over, and that our fine and splendid Bishops — God bless them for the help they have given — won't give us Tom, Dick, or Harry, whom they never have been able to get to do anything, and so they suggest them to the President of the Stake because if he can do anything with them in the missionary field the Bishops would like to see it done. 

God, our Heavenly Father, chose to give to you and to me the choicest soul He had — His Only Begotten- — to lead the great missionary work of the earth and be the pattern for us to follow. These men and women, our stake missionaries, are meeting up and down the highways and the byways of our own cities and towns the finer people, the better class, those who need and seek instruction, and we need that better type of missionary; not only one who is trained, but one who is willing and desires to go forth and do that which God would have him do. I am sure that our work will be made much plainer and much more happiness will result if we are given that kind of missionary. 

I want to read to you something that I have copied, and then 

close : 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; * * * 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

I am sure that we have received great blessings, great joys, and great happiness in this Conference, and I know that when we thank God for what we possess and what we are, we can do it with a better understanding and a fuller meaning, so that God Himself will know THE WORD OF THE LORD 145  we do those things which we have been taught and trained to do, which have been revealed by Him. May He give to us grace, peace, courage, and above everything else a desire to do that which is right, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I have been thrilled since the opening of this Conference with each of the statements of my brethren, as I am sure you have been, beginning with the greeting from President Grant, continuing with the broad, enlightening view of the past year, and the deep and solemn admonitions for the year to come by President Clark, and continuing down through the remainder of the speakers. 

I was thrilled this morning to have with us President McKay and to hear his remarks, as I know all of you were. 

RECORDS MADE BY LEADING BRETHREN 

When I came to my present calling in the Church I thought perhaps I should make something of a reputation in some field or another, and I looked around to see what records might be available that could be acquired. I saw that some of my brethren had acquired, justifiably, a reputation for being authorities in the field of doctrine — some were trained in the professions — some in law, some in the sciences; and I concluded that about the only record that was left for me to strive for was that of brevity of expression, but I anticipated no such cooperation from the presiding officer in helping me to achieve this record as I have had here today. (Laughter.) 

SPEECHES THAT WERE NOT DELIVERED 

I think it was just about a year ago at this hour that a similar situation had arisen, and Dr. Widtsoe was called upon to speak. He advised us that he had a prepared talk in his pocket, but there was no time to deliver it and he would probably deliver it at the next Conference. I think he did not deliver it at the next Conference, however, and my curiosity, fully equal to that of a woman on this particular subject, got the better of me, and-I have asked him several times since what that talk was about. He has merely smiled, and I do not know yet. 

I think my retaliation at this time will be of like character. I have a talk in my pocket. It was to have been a very good one. (Laughter.) It is still a very good one, but it is not for the ears of this congregation. I am not above borrowing time from my brethren here on the stand, but there is no one left to borrow it from except the congregation, and I refuse to do that. 

A TESTIMONY AS TO TITHING 

. I should like to say one thing more. I was happy to hear the 

146 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 7 Third Dag 

remarks yesterday of Brother Joseph Fielding Smith concerning the subject of tithing, and the brief but forceful message given in the Priesthood meeting last night on the same subject by President Clark. I do not know what a full tithing means to you, but I know what it means to me by the teachings of my great and good mother whose presence I so sorely miss at this time. It has meant to me all the days of my life a tenth of every dollar that ever passed through my hands, whether by gift or as a reward for labor. I am grateful for that example and that teaching. 

I have thought at times that I would like to put the Lord in my debt, but have found that it is impossible to do so, and I commend to all of you who have not experienced the surpassing joy of attempting to do so that you. do it. No one with whom you have any business in this world or out of it will repay you so surely or so generously. That is my testimony; it has proved to be so in my own life, and I know it will in the life of every Latter-day Saint who will take this principle of the Gospel and live it and reap from it all the material and spiritual rewards that come therefrom. 

I wish to leave you my testimony this day, that I know that God lives as well as I know any of the material facts of life, or anything that I can reach out and touch with my hand; that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, as have been all his successors, including our present leader, President Heber J. Grant, whom I pray God will increase in health and strength and return to us, and I speak it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MARK B. GARFF 

Former President of the Danish Mission 

"Blessed is he who endureth to the end." 

I bring the good greetings and the love of the Danish people who belong to the Church, to President Grant, President Clark, President McKay, the Council of the Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric and the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. That is my first obligation to this group. 

My second obligation is that I shall extend the love of the Danish people to the congregation of the Church. That was their wish and their desire before I left that land. 

I express my appreciation to Elder Richard R. Lyman, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, and Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon for their visits to the Danish Mission, for the inspiration that they brought. I am most grateful and thankful for the opportunity I have had of giving service, that I was an instrument in the hands of the Lord in helping to evacuate the missionaries from Europe under the jurisdiction and leadership of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. I learned to love him and I appreciate him. Even though we were eight thousand miles from the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ, yet I am sure that the same inspiration dominated all of us, and your 147  and your daughters returned to the land of Zion, "a choice land above all other lands," because of the inspiration that our Heavenly Father granted unto His servants. 

There is one thought that I would like to leave with you, and that thought is this : Why are you here today ? Why are you not in war-torn Europe? Why aren't bombs falling on you? This is the only place in the world today — the United States — where there is any religious security, it is the only place where there is any guarantee of religious security, and why are you here ? Why have you been so blessed? Because the Lord God talked to Joseph Smith and gave him commandments concerning the peoples of the earth; that he should go, and that he should send others to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. Some humble missionary left Salt Lake City, or left some other city, and went into far-away Denmark, into far-away Norway, and into far-away Germany, and other nations and sought out our parents, our grandparents, our great grandparents, and because the Lord sent those men we are enjoying the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We are not Americans, a great part of us, because of any choice of our own, but because missionaries went to that land and brought us here. We owe that to the Gospel of Jesus Christ; we owe it to the Church. 

If for no other reason I paid my tithing I would pay it because some humble missionary brought my grandparents to this country. I have an opportunity for religious freedom; I have an opportunity for economic security; I have an opportunity to hear the voice of the prophet of the living God, and oh how grateful I am that I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ! How grateful I am that some missionary sought out my grandparents! How blessed am I that I have had the opportunity of rendering service in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! I say this to you in all sincerity. The greatest thing that you and I can do is to give more richly than we have received. 

I bear witness to you as a servant of God that He lives, and that His coming is near at hand. I bear witness to you that the door is opening, for He said a hundred years ago that His coming was near at hand, even at our very door, and the Lord will show unto the nations, and unto you, and unto all mankind that that which the prophets have said is true. 

As recorded in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord said the time would come that they who would not hear the voice of His servants, the voice of the prophets, and the voice of the Apostles, would be cut off from among the people, and that has happened. 

God grant that we may appreciate the fact that we are Americans. Do not sell your birthright for a mess of pottage. Do not barter your freedom away. Do not trade your Constitution for all the things and all the thoughts that are propounded by men, for they would steal from you your freedom, and the Gospel, and your soul for the almighty dollar. God lives. This is the Gospel of Jesus 

148 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

Christ, and I bear you my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I feel that I owe an apology to the other brethren because our trouble here runs back to the beginning; I talked too much the first day. So Brother Jacobs of the Palestine-Syrian Mission, Brother A. Richard Peterson of the Norwegian Mission, and later, Brother John A. Israelson of the Norwegian Mission, we shall hear from you next time. 

I might say just a word myself. I wish sincerely to thank the brethren and sisters for the prayers which they have offered up in my behalf. Only the Lord Himself knows how much I needed help. This has been my first experience, I hope it is my last. I am grateful for the Spirit of the Lord that has been with us. I am grateful for the blessings that have come from the testimonies of the brethren who have spoken, and grateful that we have been able to let President Grant hear this great Conference. 

I also leave my testimony with you of the truth of this great work in which we are engaged. I ask God to bless us always, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

I wish to thank the choir for the music rendered at this Conference, beautiful and inspirational it has been as always. 

An anthem, "Worthy is the Lamb, and 'Amen,'" (Handel), was sung by the Choir. 

Elder Heber J. Burgon, President of the East Jordan Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned sine die. 

The musical exercises at the Friday sessions were furnished by the Brigham Young University Chorus, under the joint direction of Dr. Franklin W. Madsen and Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen; at the Saturday sessions, by the Ricks College Choir, John M. Anderson, Director; and at the Sunday services by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Director. 

The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. Organ accompaniments and solo presentations for the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast Sunday morning were played by Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson 

Clerk of the Conference. Ashton, Elder Marvin O - 122 

A tribute to President McKay, 122 — Sustaining our leaders, 122. 

Auditing Committee, Report of 12 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities Sustained 74 

Auxiliary Officers of the Church - 76 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O. 90 

An inspired leadership, 91 — Witnesses for Christ, 91 — Modern witnesses, 92 — More than one witness necessary, 93 — David Whitmer's testimony, 93 — Oliver Cowdery and Martin Harris, 94 — Testimony comes from the power of the Holy Ghost, 94. 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 66 

The Savior's words, 66 — The meaning changed, 66 — A higher interpretation, 67 — Parable of the rich man, 67 — Care of the body essential, 67 — President Young's practical teaching, 68 — The ultimate purpose of life, 68 — Acceptance of Gospel teachings necessary, 69 — The tempter overcome, 70 — Eternal life is the greatest prize, 70. 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 112 

Brown, Elder Hugh B - 27 

Callis, Elder Charles A 88 

A special appointment, 88 — Early missionary work in Hawaii, 88 — The power of Jesus Christ, 89 — A visit to the island of Molokai, 89 — Testimony of God's goodness, 90. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 23 

Wars and rumors of war, 23 — Quotation from a British thinker, 

24 — Free agency given to man, 24 — Joy comes from serving God, 

25 — The sovereignty of God, 26 — The Gospel brings peace, 27. 

Changes in Officers 8 

Church Officers, Presentation of 74 

Church Welfare Work 5 

Clawson, Elder Rudger 57 

An inspired hymn, 57 — Work of the ancient prophets, 57 — Blessings of the latter days, 58 — The work in the temples, 59 — Missionary service, 59 — Sealed portion of the Book of Mormon, 60. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 4 

Visit with President Grant, 4. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 12 

Significant features of the Annual Report, 12 — Church income dependent upon faith and prosperity, 12 — Tithing a trust fund, 14 

— The Church free from debt, 14— The Welfare program, 15 — Wheat to be stored, 16 — Work yet to be done, 16— Economy in erection of buildings, 17 — Beautification plan approved, 17 — Auxiliary organizations to help the homes, 18 — Church education, 18 — Withdrawal of European missionaries, 19 — Responsibility of Priesthood, 20 — World conditions, 21 — The women of the Church,21 — The youth of the Church, 22 — Organizations commended, 22 — Loyalty brings blessings, 22. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 30 

Urging Saints to drive carefully, 30. 

ISO GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 56 

Gratitude to Brigham Young University for music furnished, 56. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 71 

Explanation of manner of voting, 71 — Church office not sought, 72 — Revelations regarding the President of the Church, 72 — Attitude of the First Presidency, 7,3 — Responsibility in voting, 73. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 82 

Announced dissenting vote, 82. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 105 

Gratitude to Ricks College Choir for music furnished, 105. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 106 

Need for larger quarters for conferences, 106. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 112 

Message from President Grant, 112. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 123 

Speaks of Conference crowds, 123. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 148 

Gratitude for prayers of Saints, 148 — Testimony, 148. 

Evans, Elder Joseph E. 64 

Evans, Elder Richard L 145 

Records made by leading brethren, 145 — Speeches that were not delivered, 145 — A testimony as to tithing, 145. 

Financial Statement of the Church 4 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 30 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

Garff, Elder Mark B 146 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities Sustained 74 

General Auxiliary Officers 76 

General Officers of the Church '.. 75 

Grant, President Heber J. 2 

Activities in California followed by sickness, 2 — Blessing and commendation, 3 — Appeal to the young, 3 — A testimony, 3 — Expression of sympathy, 3 — Prayer and blessing, 3. 

Grant, President Heber J 130 

Message from California, 130. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 143 

The influence of the Conference felt afar off, 143 — Stake Missionary work, 143 — Type of missionaries needed at home, 144 — The word of the Lord, 144. 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 60 

A desire to be helpful, 60 — The word of the Lord, 61 — The Gospel for both rich and poor, 61 — Our responsibility towards our neighbors, 62 — Christian principles not applied in the world, 63. 

Lyman, Elder Richard R. 135 



INDEX 151 

Direction of Welfare Plan by leaders, 135 — The importance of efficiency, 135— Thrift urged, 135 — Projects to be planned, 137 — Human beings not all alike, 137— A good report from one Stake, 137 — A story reviewed, 137 — The words of the Savior, 140. 

McKay, President David O 112 

Appreciation for blessings, 112 — Increase of activity in the Church, 113 — Evils of War, 113 — Courage needed amidst conflict, 114 — Peace through Jesus Christ, 114 — The blessing of life, 115 — Blessings of fellowship, 116 — Free agency a gift from God, 116 — Dangers seen in certain types of government, 117 — Freedom a glorious privilege, 118 — A warning to Latter-day Saints, 118 — Faith in God brings peace, 118. 

McKay, Elder Thomas E 48 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 43. 

Commandments regarding the Sabbath, 43 — Teachings of modern scriptures, 44 — President Joseph F. Smith's advice, 45 — The First Presidency's appeal, 46 — Sabbath observance a blessing, 47. 

Murdock, Elder Franklin J 103 

Richards, Elder George F 30 

Appeal to the indifferent, 30 — The Savior's mission, 31 — The Word of Wisdom, 31 — Tithes and offerings, 32 — The Chosen ones, 33 — The Higher law, introduced, 33 — The meaning of a hymn, 33 — Joy in doing right, 34. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 130 

Present need for teaching the Word of Wisdom, 131 — Manifestation to a Patriarch, 131 — Effects of breaking the Word of Wisdom far-reaching, 132 — Liquor and its train of evils , 133 — Outstanding example of an actress, 133 — Immorality a modern curse, 134. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 123 

Description of beauty spots, 123 — Impression made on friends, 124 — Grand Canyon, Cedar Breaks, and Zion Park, 124 — An inspiringsymbol, 125 — Improvements needed, 125 — Cooperation necessary, 126 — Love of beauty innate, 127 — An appeal for beautiful home surroundings, 128 — A great leader mentioned, 129. 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 82 

Second Day, Morning Meeting , 56 

Smith, Elder George Albert 83 

Belief in a God of miracles necessary, 83 — The love of God the same in all ages, 84 — The adversary opposes the leaders of God's work, 85 — The Lord's ways are different from man's, 86 — Safety in keeping God's commandments, 87 — Gratitude for blessings, 87. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding - 95 

Covenants to be kept, 95 — Guidance comes from the Holy Ghost, 96 — President Brigham Young's advice to Bishops, 97 — Fast Day requirements, 97 — Joseph Smith's teachings regarding perfection, 98 — Faithfulness a protection against evil, 98. 

Smoot, Elder Reed .119 

The power of the Priesthood, 119 — Charity a Christian virtue, 119 — 'Quotations from scripture, 119 — The Gospel a cure for the ills of the world, 120 — Aaron and Miriam, 120 — Saying of the Savior, 121 — Love will finally triumph, 121. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Taylor, Elder John H 141 

Assigning missionaries to new fields, 141 — Courage and faith of missionaries, 142. 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 122 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 106 

Toronto, Elder Wallace F 51 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 39 

A testimony at an early age, 39 — A prayer in the mountains, 40 — A remarkable dream, 41 — Admiration for leaders, 42 — Assurance of the Lord's approval, 42. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 35 

A tribute to President Grant, 35 — A standard to the world, 35 —  Individual responsibility, 35 — Jesus' prayer for the disciples, 36- — The commandments of the Lord have spiritual meaning, 37 — The Word of Wisdom helps in self-mastery, 37 — Tithing in a spiritual sense, 38 — Work for the dead develops spirituality, 38 — Zion to be built by overcoming selfishness, 39. 

Wirthlin, Elder Joseph L 107 

Church Welfare program of a permanent nature, 107 — Storehouses to be built, 107 — Praise for Welfare workers, 108 — Individual responsibility, 109 — Fast Offering Plan, 109 — Love for God shown by service, 111 — The words of the Savior, 111. 

Wood, Elder M. Douglas 77 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 99 

Education in New England, 99 — Faith necessary to higher life, 99 Message of Jesus, 100— -The struggle between the spiritual and the material, 101 — Christianity most vital to meet problems, 101 — Religion and education. 102 — A writer's prayer, 103. 

(Book, 

The Deseret Boole Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the 

following books, on sale here: 

Program oi the Church oi Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

Priesthood and Church Welfare 

(Specially priced while they last 90c — 6 for $5.00 

A Rational Theology by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by losiah E. Hickman. $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Prompt Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days oi the Prophet's ministry 

Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use. 

SPECIALLY PRICED AT $2.00 

Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns 

(Their Authors and Composers) 

GEORGE D. PYPER 

"The Latter-day Saints have always been a singing people. Some of their greatest sermons and messages have come through the avenue of song." 

So writes the author, George D. Pyper, in this fascinating story of an essential feature in the lives of a culture loving people. 

Well illustrated throughout, this work will take a high place in literary circes, and will win a permanent spot in the hearts of all lovers of great and good music. 

PRICE — $2.00 

LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH 

Sixth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints By JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

From the day of his birth until the day of his passing — four score years — there was scarcely a day that was not filled with intense and interesting activity. He commenced life in the midst of tribulation and dark persecution, and through the greater part of his life he was called upon to face the spirit of hate and wickedness, to a degree almost beyond human endurance. 

This volume dedicated to a man among men with the faith of the prophets of old. Its worth in your library is incomprehensible and its presence, when read, will give words of wisdom and words of courage. 

PRICE— $2.50 

DESERET BODE COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah 







