Afternoon
06 04 1940


Saturday afternoon, April 6. 

As the time approached for commencing this session of the Conference, a great body of people had assembled to worship the Lord, every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries being occupied. 

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., called the meeting to order promptly at 2 o'clock, and announced that the Ricks College Choir, John M. Anderson, director, would furnish the music for this meeting. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. 

The congregation and the Ricks College Choir sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." 

Elder Arthur V. Watkins, President of the Sharon Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Ricks College Choir sang "Send Out Thy Light," (Gounod). ' 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency When I announced the voting this morning on the First Presidency I announced one dissenting vote. I am now informed that that dissenting vote was cast by an excommunicant who had no right to vote, and therefore the voting was unanimous. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I trust that I may enjoy the inspiration of the Almighty in what I may say this afternoon. My soul has been stirred during the meetings of this Conference. I have rejoiced at the remarks of my brethren, the sweet singing and the tones of the great organ. 

In no other place in the world can you witness a sight such as we see on this Temple Block today. The weather has been delightful, the new vegetation is coming on, the flowers are in bloom and we have a rare garden of youth at the back of us in this choir loft. 

I feel as I look into the faces of the men who have been forced to return from our foreign missions (due to the unwisdom of some of our Father's children in those lands) that I am glad they are at home. We have done a great deal of missionary work in Europe during the past one hundred years. I do not know whether the Lord has now decided to have us do more of our missionary work in other places where people have not yet had an opportunity to hear the Gospel. We have had thousands of missionaries in Europe and many people have had opportunity to hear the truth, as they have in the United States of America. Our Heavenly Father has said that He will not be mocked, and there will come a time when disaster will overtake the unrepentant sinner. 

BELIEF IN A GOD OF MIRACLES NECESSARY 

Some time ago I had a man ask me if the Latter-day Saints believed in Jesus Christ. I probably would have been shocked, but that was not the first time I have had that question asked. Even with the radio and our modern means of transportation, there are thousands of our Father's children in the world who do not know what we believe. They do not know that we worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the same Heavenly Father who preserved the Children of Israel in their flight from Egypt when Pharaoh's hosts were drowned in the sea. They do not know that we pray to the same God that was worshipped by Israel while they were traveling from Egypt to the promised land. He was a God of miracles. Feeding the Children of Israel with manna was a simple operation for Him to perform. In His own way He has supplied food for His children always. He provided food for the Latter-day Saints when they came to this then wilderness and has fed us ever since, many times miraculously. 

We believe in the God who counseled the people, through Moses, and led them to their destination. Upon one occasion when Moses announced a policy some of the prominent men of the camp refused to conform to his advice and rebelled. They said : "We hold the Priesthood just the same as you do." They seemed not to realize that it was the Lord's advice they were ignoring and not Moses! But the result was that while they were still defiant the earth opened and they were swallowed up in its depths. 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 . Second Dag 

Another group of the same camp criticized Moses for what had occurred and a plague broke out among them and thousands of them died before it was stayed by the power of the Lord. 

We believe in that God who not only teaches us what we should do. but permits destruction to come upon us when we violate His laws. 

I am thinking as I stand here of the experience of the three Hebrew Children who passed through the fiery furnace and lived. That was a miracle wrought by the Lord in that day, as was the preservation of Daniel when he was cast into the den of hungry lions. 

You remember also the experience of those who came to America from the tower of Babel at the time of the confusion of tongues. Some of them pleaded with the Lord that they might retain their own language and they brought it with them to this country under the direction of this same Heavenly Father; and later they, because of their failure to do what they should, lost their identity upon the land and were destroyed. 

The same Heavenly Father directed Lehi to bring his people to this country and marvelously preserved them, giving them an instrument called the Liahona whereby they could tell which direction they were going, and it worked only when they kept the commandments of God. That is the way the inspiration of the Almighty works with you; it is when you keep His commandments and not otherwise. If we are worthy of it He never fails to give it to us. 

THE LOVE OF GOD THE SAME IN ALL AGES 

Think of the things that have happened in the world during past centuries. Loving all His children our Lord has tried to have His truth so disseminated that His children would accept it and, remarkable as it may seem, those who believed in the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and obeyed Him have become the foremost nations of the world. 

In the Meridian of Time His only Begotten Son in the flesh was born. He turned water into wine and performed other miracles. He was cruelly slain, but was resurrected, and demonstrated that he still had a body of flesh and bones. He partook of fish and honeycomb with His disciples and visited them repeatedly as a resurrected being. He gave His life, making it possible for all mankind to be raised from the dead. 

America has been greatly blessed. I wonder if we appreciate how much the Lord has favored us. Our Heavenly Father told the Jaredites who came here from the Tower of Babel, and later told Lehi and his people that this was a land choice above all other lands, and if they kept His commandments they should prosper upon the land. Jesus of Nazareth came to visit the Western Hemisphere after His resurrection from the dead. He taught the people many truths and His teachings were so effective that for two hundred years they who dwelt upon this land were a righteous people. 

And again, even in our day, the Savior of the world and His Father appeared to the youth Joseph Smith in their immortal glorified bodies and renewed to the world the knowledge of a personal God. 

We accept what the Bible teaches with reference to God the Father and Jesus Christ, His Son, and what the Book of Mormon teaches with reference to the same Godhead. We believe that in our own time they have again appeared, so that all doubts as to their existence has been removed. We believe that the Father and the Son came after they had prepared the way for the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ here in America. 

Just think of the coming of the Pilgrim fathers to this land, and how the Lord preserved them and made it possible for them to extend their power when the United States was born. Think of how He blessed and raised up the very men who prepared the Constitution of the United States. 

All down through the ages this same kind Father has been working with His children and in this, the fulness of times, Jesus Christ our Lord came and directed the organization of this Church and said that it should be called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The Church was organized in 1830 and began to grow rapidly. But the adversary sought to impede its progress by falsehood, mobbing, murdering, and driving its members repeatedly. Finally the Church built the City of Nauvoo, the largest then in the State of Illinois. The organization was completed; the Temple was built; Joseph the Prophet had finished his work and been martyred. The time had come for the people to cross the Plains and establish themselves in the Rocky Mountains. It was the Lord's way. They had finished their work back there. They were driven again, this time far from so-called civilization. Our Heavenly Father preserved them. They were fed quails even as Israel was fed manna. They were led by the same God that led Israel and began the civilized settlement of this western land under His guidance. 

When they came into the valley and planted crops, crickets swarmed down to devour them. Starvation threatened the faithful outcasts, but the God of Israel intervened and sent the seagulls to destroy the crickets and the harvest was saved. The people had been preserved by a miracle. 

The waters in these valleys have been increased unto the people as the necessities required to mature crops, and the community has acknowledged God as the source of the gift. 

Missionaries have been sent to the four corners of the earth by this Church and they have proclaimed the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Many have not had training in the great universities of the world. Their education has been largely limited to the practical experiences of life, but they have had what is more potent in inspiring the human family, the companionship of the Holy Ghost. 

THE ADVERSARY OPPOSES THE LEADERS OF GOD'S WORK 

All down through the centuries that are past there have been those who have opposed the leaders appointed by the Lord. They defied Moses and were destroyed. They crucified Jesus of Nazareth, and disappeared from the world, while His name illumines the pages of all history. They cried out against Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and sought his death and 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Dag 

succeeded in destroying his mortal life, but his name will go ringing down through the ages as a man who tried to keep the commandments of God and teach His Truth, while the names of his murderers are held in derision or have been blotted out as God said they would. 

President Young had many annoyances and distresses come to him. The greatest pioneer leader the United States has seen was hated by misguided people because he led the Church when Joseph was martyred. Not only did he have the wisdom of man, but the inspiration of the Almighty. There were those who sought his life and would have taken it if they had had opportunity. He was charged with evil and there were those who persisted in following him and annoying him, and why? Because he was a servant of the Lord and all of the Presidents of this Church have been criticized by those who abused and hated them. The adversary of all righteousness is not satisfied to let the man who stands at the head of a great dispensation go unscathed. He works with men, not men who have unusual intelligence, but ordinary men, exceedingly ordinary men in most cases, and he puts evil into their hearts and into their minds. 

Think of the way they abused President Joseph F. Smith. Our daily newspapers here at one time were full of scurrilous articles, falsehoods. He was charged with things that were absolutely untrue. Why ? Because he was the representative of God upon the earth. 

THE LORD'S WAYS ARE DIFFERENT FROM MAN'S 

And so it has been down to our day. There are among us today some misguided men. I have no anger in my heart for them. I pity them because they do not know better. They are finding fault with the leadership of the Church, particularly the President of the Church. And I stand here to say that no President that we have had has been more loyal to the Gospel of Jesus Christ than President Heber J. Grant. No President that we have had has been more willing to give his all that the Truth might be known among the nations of the earth, and yet there are those who are influenced by the adversary of all righteousness, who would belittle him and destroy his influence. I say unto you that his name will continue to be held in honor as a servant of the living God, while those who traduce him and misrepresent him will disappear from the earth, and the Lord has said their sins will be visited upon their children unless they repent. 

Today when I saw by uplifted hands of this great congregation the unanimous vote sustaining the President of the Church I was thrilled. You will see nothing like it in the world; no other organization functions as this does. Why ? Because this is the Lord's Church. It is carried on in the Lord's way; it is different from the work of man. It is not our Church — it is the Church of Jesus Christ. 

How beautiful it is to sit here in this great house, apart from the distresses that afflict mankind, and wait upon Him who is our Heavenly Father, the Father of our spirits. We come into His presence in this house that has been sanctified by the devotion of some of the greatest men and women who have ever lived, who have stood in this stand and proclaimed the Truth. The Church continues to grow and strengthen. The adversary will deceive some of those who are members of the Church. He has done it from the beginning. They have so far misinterpreted what our Heavenly Father desires that they array themselves not against His servants only but against the Lord Himself and thus impede the progress of His work, for which they will suffer the penalty. 

SAFETY IN KEEPING GOD'S COMMANDMENTS 

Today we have heard reports from the mission fields of the earth, mission fields that have been closed, because many of the people who live in those lands have refused to keep the commandments of God, and the adversary has put into their hearts to do the thing that has brought war into the world. Our own nation may not be free. The only hope for continued peace and prosperity in America, will be if our people retain their senses. When I say our people I mean American men and women who live upon this land that God said should only be recognized as His favored land when people kept His commandments. God the Eternal Father is our King; He is our Law-giver. President Grant is but the humble instrument in His hands, but he is the instrument, humble though he may be, with power to tell us what to do, and it is well for those who desire a place in the Celestial Kingdom to follow his leadership of the Church. I want to say that just as long as our Heavenly Father has sustained the Presidents of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints since its organization, those who have followed their leadership have been blessed and those who have apostatized and transgressed the law have lost their opportunity and their privilege and in many cases it passed away never to return. 

GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS 

I stand here within a few hundred yards of where I was born. I have seen the towers of the Temple rise. I was here when this building was decorated with festoons of paper flowers by the people. I was here when the organ was completed. I have lived here in this city to see it grow from a village to one of the most notable cities in the world. And I want to say that every man and every woman who has lived here and has kept the commandments of God has had an assurance that this is our Father's work which bears the name of His Beloved Son. 

And so today ought I not to be grateful, as I look at these fine young people and think of the opportunities that have come to them in our northern State, Idaho, and elsewhere, and realize that there are thousands of others who are being similarly trained and blessed? My heart is filled with gratitude to God that I was born in this age, that my loved ones have had opportunity to partake of these blessings that come only from the Father of us all, and they will be eternal if we will be faithful. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be in your hearts and in your homes. Attend to your prayers. Pray to Him who is the Author of your being. Do not be misled by the sophistries of men and the foolishness 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

of those that imagine things that are vain, but know this, that it is your privilege, it is within your power to know not only today and tomorrow, but every day, that God is God, and that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph was a prophet, and that the leader of this Church is the representative of God upon the earth. You will know that only when you are keeping the commandments of our Heavenly Father. 

Now let us unite together always, as we have, in prayer and thanksgiving here today. Let us appreciate the blessings of our lives and set our own homes in order so that they will be sanctuaries to our own boys and girls and those who come there as strangers. Let the light of peace and love abound with us, that every soul we contact will be richer because of us. That is our privilege. 

God grant that we may continue to worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in honor through His beloved Son Jesus Christ, to the end that we may gain exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom when our life's labors are completed, I humbly pray in the name of His beloved Son Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

On Wednesday, of this week, President Heber J. Grant graciously permitted me the privilege of visiting him for a few moments. Our'beloyed President is rapidly mending in health. He loves his people. 

A SPECIAL APPOINTMENT 

A little over a month ago I was honored by the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve with an appointment to visit the Oahu Stake and the Hawaiian Mission and the Japanese Mission in Hawaii. It was one of the finest missionary journeys I have ever had. The Islands are noted for their surpassing beauty and every island is covered with creation and life. 

The Conference was blessed by the Lord. There was a very large attendance. The Presiding Bishop of the Church, LeGrand Richards, made a notable contribution to the success of that important gathering. President Ralph E. Woolley and his talented wife, Romania, are doing a splendid work in that distant outpost of the Church, and the Mission Presidents with their faithful wives are laboring with zeal to advance the work of God. It rejoiced my heart to see your sons and daughters in that Mission preaching the restored Gospel in the spirit of piety and with unwavering faith in God. They love the people — the Hawaiians, Japanese, Chinese, Portugese, Samoans and Filipinos. The missionaries love these people with the love of Christ and verily that love is mutual. 

EARLY MISSIONARY WORK IN HAWAII ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

 Gods he can plan for his brethren." That refers, as you well know, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe with all my heart that Joseph Smith interceded with the Powers on high for the Gospel to be sent to the people of those Islands, and God sent forth His light. George Q. Cannon, Joseph F. Smith, Lorenzo Snow — these men were sent forth by the Lord and upon the lips of these soldiers of the Cross the word of God was mighty. There were other stalwarts sent forth and they did a remarkable work. 

We see but half the causes of our deeds, Seeking them wholly in the outer life 

And heedless of the encircling spirit world 

Which, though unseen, is felt, and sows in us 

All germs of pure and world-wide purpose. 

THE POWER OF JESUS CHRIST 

God turned His countenance towards that people and, as their fathers were worthy to receive the Gospel of Christ, so these humble and Christ-like children of God were deemed worthy of having preached to them the restored Gospel. As I looked upon those people and preached to them, people of different nationalities, the thought came to me, some men appeal to certain people, other men to other people, but the Lord Jesus Christ appeals to all men. His voice is the authoritative voice that is sounding in the hearts of men and women today. In the pre-existent state when the sons of God shouted for joy it is my firm belief that Jesus Christ was the only one who was willing to pay the price for the redemption of the children of God. Blessed be His holy name forever. 

A VISIT TO THE ISLAND OF M0LOKAI 

Before I left the Islands I felt a strong urge to visit those stricken people — the lepers — on the Island of Molokai. The only way to reach that place then was by airplane. I had never been in one of these machines but my wife, who accompanied me, urged me to try the plane. I did, and I believe God took the fear out of my heart. As we were passing over the Pacific from one island to another, the pilot pointed downward and there in the blue depths of the Pacific was a school of whales disporting themselves. When we arrived on the island a delegation of those afflicted people was there to welcome us with songs. The officer said to me as I approached them "Go no closer." President Cox and his wife were with us." 

We met with those afflicted people — afflicted only in body — in our meeting house. Irrespective of creed they came to the services. I spoke to them about the resurrection and of the love God had for them, and in the course of my address I quoted the immortal words of Jesus, which should ring in the hearts of every man and woman in the world : "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

At the close of my remarks a brother, who was presiding over the meeting, the Justice of the Peace, himself a leper, arose and made 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

a response which for eloquence I have never heard surpassed. It was the eloquence that comes from the heart, not from the lips. He said, "Apostle Callis, we could not go to Honolulu to attend that big Conference, but you have come to us and you have fed us; you have come to the least of your brethren, and inasmuch as you have done it unto us, you have done it unto the Lord Jesus Christ." And he continued, "We are happy. We cannot greet you with a handshake. Some of us have received the Gospel since we were on this island, and the joy and the comfort we receive from the Gospel has more than compensated us for our affliction, our infirmities. God will bless you, Brother Callis, for coming to the least of these your brethren." He closed the meeting while my tears were fast falling, and then to think though I loved this people, I had to pass through them while they withdrew to one side; could not touch them, could not shake hands with them. Oh, brethren and sisters, how blessed we are! It seems to me that God in Heaven is preparing a house for His afflicted children, a resurrected body, the glories of which have not entered into their minds to conceive. 

TESTIMONY OF GOd's GOODNESS 

I humbly testify that this work is of God; that Christ is appealing unto all nations, and ere long they will receive His teachings for He is the Holy One of Israel. He is the Savior of the world. This Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. Joseph Smith, mingling with Gods, is planning for his brethren, for this people. God bless him forever. 

I testify that President Grant is an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is God's choice for President of this Church, and he is a Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, loved by his people, honored by the Lord, and one whose love cannot be shaken for his people and for his God. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

This is an inspiring sight. I believe I have never been more filled with thankfulness unto the Lord for the strength of Zion than at the present time. I recognize here in this building the leaders of the Church in all parts of the country, men and women who have gathered together to get more information concerning their work to take back to the different Stakes of Zion and the world, and it is a glorious sight. I endorse the expression by some who have preceded me relative to the fine and inspirational words of welcome that came to us from President Heber J. Grant. I marvel at the strength and power of the man. I know that if God were not with him, he could not have stood the many responsibilities that have been his, and I believe with all my heart that the faith and prayers and devotion of the Latter-day Saints have kept him from being destroyed, and that the Lord has preserved his life. 

AN INSPIRED LEADERSHIP 

I marvel at the leadership of the Church. I am thankful that President McKay is alive and so well after such an illness, an illness which seemed to have power to strike him down but failed. I am sure that all who listened to President Clark yesterday were thrilled with the power of his message, that they could not help but say in their hearts "There is the voice of God," the leadership that the Lord inspired him to take in this Conference, covering so well the things that need to be expressed and understood by the Latter-day Saints. 

It is always an inspiration for me, brothers and sisters, to attend these Conferences and hear the testimonies of the leaders of the Church as they bear witness to the truth of the restored Gospel. 

When they speak as they do during these Conferences, they do so as men having authority, for they are divinely empowered to declare this restored message of latter days. They are God's representatives, bearing witness in modern times, as His ancient prophets did in their day. 

WITNESSES FOR CHRIST 

The Lord has declared that in the mouths of witnesses shall all things be established. This has been a rule of the Gospel in all ages. It was so in the days of Moses and Aaron, it was so in the days of the Master, and it is equally so today. 

In the Meridian of Time the Apostles of the Lord became eye witnesses to the works of the Master. They accompanied Him throughout His ministry, saw His acts of kindness, and heard Him teach the multitudes which followed Him. Some of His disciples were with Him at the time of His transfiguration, and in His final suffering. They saw Him betrayed by Judas, and later crucified. They were witnesses of His burial in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, and finally they were eye witnesses of His resurrection. They saw Him after He came forth from the tomb, and heard His voice. Some felt Him, so that they knew He was not merely a spirit. They saw Him eat, and at last beheld Him ascend to His Father in heaven. They were in every sense of the word, witnesses of the Lord. By their experience they could testify to the world concerning Him. 

When the time came for the appointment of one to succeed Judas, who betrayed the Lord, Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples and said : 

Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us * * * must one be ordained to be a witness with us of His resurrection. 

And when they had drawn lots, the lot fell upon Matthias, "and he was numbered with the eleven Apostles." 

I would have you note here that when Matthias was called to the Apostleship he was called to be a living witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. This was definitely the mission the 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 6 Second Day 

Lord had in mind for His ancient Apostles, for He said to them at one time : "Ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth." 

As Peter bore his testimony at one time concerning the risen Lord, he declared that Jesus would come again to the earth at the time of the restitution of all things which God hath spoken by the mouths of all His holy prophets since the world began. 

MODERN WITNESSES 

We are now living in the time of the restitution of all things. The Gospel has been restored to the earth, together with the power by which its ordinances are to be administered. If all things were to be restored, then this principle of witnesses must likewise be restored, so that in our day men may receive the testimony of eyewitnesses of the Lord and His work. 

We declare that this principle has been restored, and that in modern times mortal men have become eye witnesses of the Lord and His work, and that through having seen and talked with Him these men were able to give testimony similar to that borne by Peter and Paul in ancient times. 

As Moses of old talked with God face to face, as the ancient Apostles saw and talked with the Lord after His resurrection, so did Joseph Smith, the modern prophet and some of his most intimate associates see the Lord, becoming eye-witnesses of Him and His work. 

Concerning one of these experiences which occurred in the Kirtland Temple, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery wrote the following : 

We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of His head was white like the pure snow; His countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and His voice was as the sound of the rushing, of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: 

I am the first and the last; I am He who liveth, I am He who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. 

Concerning another such experience, we have the following testimony : 

We, Joseph Smith, Junior, and Sidney Rigdon, being in the Spirit on the sixteenth day of February in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two — by the power of the Spirit our eyes were opened and our understandings were enlightened, so as to see and understand the things of God — even those things which were from the beginning before the world was, which were ordained of the Father through His Only Begotten Son, who was in the bosom of the Father, even from the beginning; of whom we bear record, and the record which we bear is the fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, who is the Son, whom we saw and with whom we conversed in the heavenly vision. 

Through other experiences also, the leaders of our Church became witnesses of the Lord, divinely empowered to testify to all the world of the restoration of the Gospel, of the fact that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, for they saw Him and talked with Him as did the ancient Apostles. 

But these are not the only instances in which men became witnesses of the work of the Lord. 

MORE THAN ONE WITNESS NECESSARY 

As it is declared, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses so shall all things be established, so witnesses were chosen for other phases of the work of God in these last days. 

It is a striking thing that at no time were any of the keys of the Priesthood restored in our time when only one man was present. Always there were two. Oliver Cowdery and Joseph Smith were together when John the Baptist restored the Aaronic Priesthood. Likewise they were together when the Melchizedek Priesthood was restored. When the keys of the gathering of Israel, of the dispensation of the Gospel in the days of Abraham, and the keys held by Elijah were brought again to the earth, these two men were together to receive them, so that in compliance with this law of witnesses, there would be more than one voice to declare the truth to the world, and so that being two, one would corroborate the other and thus establish the truth of what they said. 

Since the coming forth of the Book of Mormon was to form such a prominent part of the restoration plan, and since it carried in and of itself such an important message to the world, the Lord saw fit to provide it with the testimony of witnesses. 

Its origin was not to be declared solely upon the word of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Eleven other men were chosen to be witnesses of that book. Each one saw the plates with his own eyes, and signed a testimony to that effect. 

Three of these witnesses were shown the plates by an angel who appeared to them and displayed the engraved writings before them as a voice from heaven declared the record was true, and that the translation thereof was correct. 

DAVID WHITMER'S TESTIMONY 

For years I resided in the middle west where also lived men and women who knew David Whitmer, one of the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon. I have talked with some of these people concerning him and his testimony, and although they were not members of the Church, they united in saying that David Whitmer remained faithful to his testimony to the very end. 

At one time it was reported that he had denied this testimony, but when he heard of it, he published a new declaration concerning the Book of Mormon. In this new pronouncement, he affirmed positively the truth of his original testimony, saying that he had seen the angel, that he had seen the original plates from which the 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Dag 

Book of Mormon was translated, and that his testimony as published in the Book of Mormon was true. At this time he was not a member of the Church, having been excommunicated previously. 

OLIVER COWDERY AND MARTIN HARRIS 

Oliver Cowdery and Martin Harris, the others who signed the testimony of the Three Witnesses, likewise remained true and faithful to their testimony concerning this book. They always affirmed, wherever they were, that they had signed their names as the Book of Mormon bears evidence. Oliver Cowdery died in Richmond, Missouri, while he was visiting with his brother-in-law, David Whitmer, for David Whitmer married his sister. He, Oliver, had joined the Church again in Omaha, or Florence, where the Saints were gathering, and took a last trip down to see his sister. There he sickened and died and did not come West. But Martin Harris came West, and affiliated with the main body of the Church. 

TESTIMONY COMES THROUGH THE POWER OF THE HOLY GHOST 

As the early leaders of the Church were witnesses of the restored Gospel, so we today witness that we too know of the truth of these things. Latter-day Saints throughout the world also testify that they know the restored Gospel of Christ is true. By the power of the Holy Ghost, the Lord has borne witness to their spirits that Mormonism is divine, and by the same power do we here today reaffirm our own faith in this work. 

We say to all men who wish to know whether these things are true to ask of God who giveth to all men liberally, and, in the language of the Prophet Moroni, if we shall ask in faith, nothing doubting, believing in the Lord, He shall manifest the truth of it by the power of the Holy Ghost, and this is the way that all men may know the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that is, by the testimony of this great witness, the power of the Holy Ghost. 

I give to the children of men in this audience and to all who may be listening, men with whom I may associate and men whom I do not know, who are listening in, I bear my testimony that this is the work of God and the same evidence that comes to me will ' come to you, it will come to all men who will make an investigation and will humble themselves before God. The true greatness of His power shall be made manifest and all who do it and keep the commandments of God shall, in the language of the great Nephite Prophet, be saved in the everlasting Kingdom of the Lamb of God. Amen. 

An anthem, "How Lovely Are the Messengers," (Mendelssohn) was^ungby the Ricks College Choir. ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

I have greatly rejoiced in the testimonies given at this Conference. With my brethren I regret very much the absence of President Grant, and pray earnestly for his speedy return in full health and vigor. I have been extremely happy because of the nature of the remarks that have been made by those who have spoken. I feel very humble, and pray that the Spirit of the Lord will lead me this afternoon in the remarks that I may make, for I have only one desire and that is to say the things the Lord would have me say. 

I am going to read from the 59th section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Wherefore I give unto them [meaning the members of the Church] a commandment, saying thus : Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve Him. 

Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. 

Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. 

COVENANTS TO BE KEPT 

Every person baptized into this Church has made a covenant with the Lord to keep His commandments, and in this commandment, reiterated in the dispensation in which we live, we are told that we are to serve the Lord with all the heart and all the mind, and with all the strength that we have, and that too in the name of Jesus Christ. Everything that we do should be done in the name of Jesus Christ. 

In the waters of baptism we covenanted that we would keep these commandments; that we would serve the Lord; that we would keep this first and greatest of all the commandments, and love the Lord our God; that we would keep the next great commandment, we would love our neighbor as ourselves; and with all the might that we have, with all the strength, with all our hearts we would prove to Him that we would "live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God f that we would be obedient and humble, diligent in his service, willing to obey, to hearken to the counsels of those who preside over us and do all things with an eye single to the glory of God. 

We should not forget these things, for this commandment is binding upon us as members of the Church. 

Now may I read you another commandment : 

But ye (again having reference to the members of the Church) are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils. 

Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given. 

Now, my good brethren and sisters, if we are humble, if we are diligent in the service of the Lord, if we seek to serve Him with an eye single to the glory of our Father in heaven, keeping in mind that He has asked for that service with a full heart, with all our might, with all our mind, and with all our strength, we will not go astray, we will not be seduced by evil spirits nor by the spirits of men, but we will be led and directed by the Spirit of God. 

GUIDANCE COMES THROUGH THE HOLY GHOST 

Every member of the Church has had hands laid upon his head for the gift of the Holy Ghost. He has a right to receive the revelations that are expedient and necessary for his guidance individually; not for the Church, but for himself. He has a right through his obedience, through his humility, to receive light and truth as it shall be revealed through the Spirit of Truth, and he who will hearken to that Spirit and seek for the gift of the Spirit in humility and faith shall not be deceived. 

Now there are some of our people who are being deceived. Why? Because they lack knowledge, because they lack understanding, and because they are not in tune with the Holy Spirit, which they have a right to receive through their faithfulness and obedience. 

PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOw's COUNSEL REGARDING TITHING 

I would like briefly to call attention to a few things that have been mentioned here, and some that have not. I would like to say a word or two about tithing. It has been mentioned, and I am very grateful to know that it has. I want to read to you a few words that were uttered by President Lorenzo Snow when he was pleading with the people to be honest with the Lord. Now we are not faithful Latter-day Saints if we are dishonest with the Lord, we are not serving Him with all our hearts, with all our might, with all our strength if we are dishonest in the payment of our tithes and our offerings, and we shall stand before the Lord condemned and not entitled to the guidance of His Holy Spirit, and likely will be deceived by these spirits that lie in wait to deceive, if we are guilty of failing to keep this great commandment or any other of the commandments that the Lord has given us. 

These are the words of President Snow to the Church : 

Teach the children to pay tithing so that it may be properly observed. If we observe this law, no matter what our enemies may do the Lord will preserve us. Because we are His sons and daughters He loves us, and He has forgiven our forgetfulness of this holy law in the past, but He will not forgive you and me any longer, should we continue in this dilatory way of  tithing. We shall be scattered just as the people in Jackson County were. This is true as the Lord is true. The Lord has blessed us wonderfully and preserved us in the land and yet we haveref used to pay our honest debt unto Him. A great many people have not paid one cent of tithing, and yet they have gone into the temples of the Lord. 

Then speaking to the officers of the Stakes and Wards he said : 

How do you feel when you give a recommend to a person to come into our Temples who pays no tithing, who only pays half a tithing? How will you feel after this ? You will feel that you are taking a sacred responsibility in doing that which God does not approve. He has said that the man who fails to pay his tithing shall have no place among the people of God. Yet here are these Temples erected by the sacrifice of the poor, and to give recommends to parties who pay little or no tithing, how can you feel to take this responsibility? I could not. Part of a tithing is not tithing at all in the eyes of the law that the Lord has revealed. 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S ADVICE TO BISHOPS 

I have another statement here from President Brigham Young, given to the Bishops of the Church : 

These men and women whom you recommend must be individuals who pay their tithing from year to year; that is, those who are recommended to go to the Temple should pray and not speak against the Authorities of the Church, against the Kingdom of God, nor steal, nor lie, nor interfere with their neighbors' things, nor their neighbors' wives or husbands, but attend strictly to meetings, and prayer meetings, and those who pay due respect to their presiding officers and Bishops, and those who do not swear. 

People who are guilty of these offenses, according to President Young, should not be recommended to go to the Temple to receive the ordinances of the House of the Lord. 

FAST DAY REQUIREMENTS 

Let me say a word or two now in regard to Fasting and Fast offerings. This morning in the meeting that was held — the Welfare meeting we had portrayed before us the gradual rise of the percentage of Fast offerings paid by the Church. Now, my good brethren and sisters, the amount that has been paid up to this present year is not by any means the amount that we ought to pay. We have not kept this commandment, for Fasting and prayer in faith and the payment of offerings are commandments of the Lord. We have been called upon to Fast. I do not know when we have heard a discourse on Fasting; not very often, am I am sure that we are not observing this law of Fasting as members of the Church as we ought to do. We have made it easy for the people, that is, easy to break this commandment because we have moved the Fast service up so high on the Fast Day that we can get all through and home again by one o'clock, or 12:30. That is a good time to eat, isn't it? And yet according to the commandment that the Lord has given to us through His servants we should abstain from food and water for one day, counting twenty-four hours, or from sunset to sunset. Now if you want to 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

Fast from twelve o'clock noon until twelve o'clock noon I suppose it would be just as well if that is what you wish to do, but many of us are not observing the Fast Day now. 

I want to say to you, my good brethren, we cannot have that guidance of the Holy Spirit as we ought to have it if we do not Fast as the Lord has required it of us; not extensive Fasts, but the Fast which has been set apart which we should do in wisdom. Now the Lord says we should do all things in wisdom, but we are not Fasting, hence we are not paying our Fast offerings; we are not praying I fear, as we should. I wonder if we are praying in our secret closets. I wonder if we are teaching our families to pray; if the spirit of prayer is among us as it ought to be. 

I commend to your reading, and I shall not take time to do it, the words of an ancient prophet, found in the 34th chapter of Alma in the Book of Mormon. Amulek says that we should cry unto the Lord over our flocks, over our herds, over our goods, in our fields, and in our secret chambers, that we should do nothing but that we present the matter before the Lord and ask for His guidance and His blessing. We should go on our knees a little more and then we will have more faith. We need to be more humble in the service of the Lord. We need to spend less time in the criticism of those who preside. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS REGARDING PERFECTION 

I am going to read to you a statement from the Prophet Joseph Smith that I think is important. I have a number of statements here that I should like to read, but I shall not take the time to do so, but this is worthy of our consideration : 

We consider that God has created man with a mind capable of instruction, and a faculty which may be enlarged in proportion to the heed and diligence given to the light communicated from heaven to the intellect; and that the nearer man approaches perfection, the clearer are his views, and the greater his enjoyments, till he has overcome the evils of his life and lost every desire for sin; and like the ancients, arrives at that point of faith where he is wrapped up in the power and glory of his Maker and is caught up to dwell with Him. But we consider that this is a station to which no man ever arrived in a moment; he must have been instructed in the government and laws of that Kingdom by proper degrees, until his mind is capable in some measure of comprehending the propriety, justice, equality, and consistency of the same. 

If God should speak from heaven, He would command you not to steal, not to commit adultery, not to covet, nor deceive, but be faithful over a few things. As far as we degenerate from God, we descend to the devil and lose knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot be saved, and while our hearts are filled with evil, and we are studying evil, there is no room in our hearts for good, or studying good. Is not God good? Then you be good; if He is faithful, then you be faithful. Add to your faith virtue, to virtue knowledge, and seek for every good thing. 

FAITHFULNESS A PROTECTION AGAINST EVIL 

The nearer we approach God, the better we endeavor to keep His commandments, the more we will search to know His will as it  been revealed, the less likely it will be for us to be led astray by every wind of doctrine, by these false spirits that lie in wait to deceive, and by the spirits of men, as the Lord has stated in the revelations which I have read to you. We will be protected, and we will have the power to understand, to segregate truth from error, we will walk in the light and we will not be deceived. Now the man who is dilatory, the man who is unfaithful, the man who is not willing to keep the commandments of the Lord in all things lays himself open to deception because the Spirit of the Lord is not with him to lead and direct him and to show him the way of truth and righteousness, and therefore some error comes along and he absorbs it because he cannot understand and realize the difference between truth and error. I want to tell you there is much error in this world that is passed off as truth, and it behooves every man of us to seek God, and, as stated by the prophet, draw near unto Him, and the nearer we draw unto Him, and the more we seek to do His will the more light we shall receive and the less shall be the danger of our deception. And so I pray in the nariie of Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the New England Mission 

New England is one of the distinct geographical sections of the United States, and is the most thickly populated part of our country. All the sectarian groups of America are naturally found among the people, who are as a rule very religious. They cherish the memory of the Pilgrim fathers, who have left us a great example of mighty courage, for they never thought of themselves as making history. Of the one hundred and one passengers on the Mayflower, over half of them died the first winter. They gave us our Mayflower Compact, a document that has influenced the form of our government more than any other with the exception of the Magna Charta. 

EDUCATION IN NEW ENGLAND 

The New England people sponsored education from the first, and today, metropolitan Boston boasts of twenty-seven colleges and universities. It is a section that has the oldest colleges of the United States — Harvard, Yale, Brown, Dartmouth, and many other famous universities. To these higher institutions of learning, students come from all over the world, and many of our own Utah boys and girls are studying in them. We feel that New England is a fruitful field for the Gospel because its people naturally have a high regard for culture and the principles of Christianity. 

FAITH NECESSARY TO THE HIGHER LIFE 

In this Conference, our brethren have emphasized the subject GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

of faith in God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Faith is one of the principal characteristics of a soul, seeking the higher things of life. It is that something whch tells us that God lives. George Santayana, who was at one time professor of Spanish and Spanish literature at Harvard College, has expressed the beauty of faith in his poem called "Columbus." It reads. 

O world, thou choosest not the better part! 

It is not wisdom to be only wise, 

And on the inward vision close the eyes; 

But it is wisdom to believe the heart. 

Columbus found a world and had no chart, 

Save one that faith deciphered in the skies. 

To trust the soul's invincible surmise 

Was all his science and his only art. 

Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine 

That lights the pathway but one step ahead 

Across a void of mystery and dread. 

Bid, then, "the tender light of faith to shine 

By which alone the mortal heart is led 

Unto the thinking of the thought divine. 

If we will direct our thoughts to the last days of Jesus Christ on earth, we will have our faith strengthened in such a manner that will give our souls a joy divine. On the night He was taken to meet His death, He said to His Disciples : 

THE MESSAGE OF JESUS 

"Because I live ye shall also live." The Easter Day was the vindication of what He knew. "It must needs be," He said, "that the Son of man should suffer and be put to death and rise again. Because I live, ye shall also live." We may be sure that this word of the Savior is one of the eternal truths of God. And then He left us another word : "I am not of this world," and the people said : "This man speaks with authority and not as the scribes." There are in these words something transcendent in meaning and something more beautiful than this world today can understand. There is a sureness to them; there is a something that goes deep into our hearts that all the education of the world cannot efface. To all Christian people and to all Pagan nations, Jesus also utters other words today with more power than ever : "Fear not; I am the first and the last, but am alive forevermore." Ringing down through all the centuries, this eternal message of Him who died for us gives us the renewed faith and hope as nothing else can do. You and I are citizens of the aeons of time that have created our present day. Will we forget them in our onward march in the conquest of material things? 

MODERN ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

The ends of the earth are brought to us at our breakfast tables. Wonders and powers have been put into our hands before which the men and women of the days of Jesus would have trembled with 101 . Yet ye are not living peaceably with ourselves nor with our neighbors, nor with nations. We live on sensation rather than on divine truth. Civilization has strewn the paths of progress with the spoils of science and the fruits of invention. Distance has been conquered, bodily diseases are within our power to cure, humanity is crowned with the diadem of intellectual progress and material success, but parallel with all this growth, our hearts are swollen with pride, and we are not living buoyantly and serenely. I remember the healing word of a great physician who said one day to his invalid child: "My child, the hand that sent you to earth will give you strength forever more." This is what Jesus meant by His other words when He said: "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." 

THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN THE SPIRITUAL AND MATERIAL 

The laws of the spiritual world and the laws of the material world are God's laws and are eternal. Spiritual laws are suffering at the hands of men. This is why darkness prevails and the dawn of the new day is delayed. We citizens of this great nation of the United States, have a mighty duty which we are forgetting. A duty that can only be carried out as we come into the knowledge of the Gospel of the Kingdom, which by His gracious and merciful word has again been given to man. The word must be carried to the ends of the earth, that it may be established in the hearts of men. We have three great visions of truth : First, the word of God given to Moses at Sinai : "I am the Lord thy God." Secondly, the voice of America proclaiming the liberty and equality of man; and third, the mightiest voice of all : "Because I live, ye shall also live." These are the messages that will save the world. 

Our duties are fraught with portentious responsibilities. This present life must be made richer by the men of nations, states, and churches. All peoples will have to enter into more unselfish relations with the peoples of the earth; with the men and women with whom they live and serve. They will have to enter into richer relations with God, that the reign of righteousness, good-will, and brotherhood will declare once and for all "that never again shall they lift up the sword against nations, neither shall they learn war any more." 

CHRISTIANITY MUST BE VITAL TO MEET PROBLEMS 

The Church of which we are members has a divine message for the world, for it was founded by revelation and declares that God has spoken again. It declares that religion must affiliate itself with all the pursuits of mankind. The Holy Bible is resplendent with legislation in reference to land and wealth, and the Jewish Talmud develops in some detail the rights and privileges of all men who work, and all men should work. A living religion must grapple with living issues. While it is true that today, the social and economic problems are far more complicated than ever before in history, measures must 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Dag 

be designed by all Christian peoples to deal with our complex problems. If Christianity is to recapture the vitality of creative religion, it must seek to follow in the footsteps of the path-finders of old. The Latter-day Saint Church is demonstrating- its concern with social problems and that is why we have our Priesthood and Auxiliary organizations. Organized religion with us is playing a mighty part in bringing about social and economic reform. We shall not solve the problems for ages to come, but we may take courage from the words of an ancient sage, who declared : "Not thine to complete the work, neither art thou free to lay it down." 

RELIGION AND EDUCATION 

One of the largest factors for the proper teaching of the higher spiritual values of life should be our public schools and colleges. For our youth should participate in the religious life of the communities where they live. Religion should be the most constructive part of our culture, for that culture wherein religious idealism prevails, is a culture that loves beauty, truth, and goodness. The great souls who in 1776 won for us our independence and the right to have religious freedom were men and women who wanted to exercise that right. It is religion we want, but not secularism. The inhibitions written in our State laws are not against religious teaching, but against sectarian teaching. Religion and education cannot be separated. The minute education assumes an attitude that religion is for a special class of thinkers, then our schools miss that quality in human life that make for the happiness of mankind. We who advocate religious training, however, have missed the larger issue at times. We should not require credit for religious subjects, for we should think of something higher than marks. We should require something more fundamental and that is the truth that the school's responsibility should be to lay a foundation of religious principles, and this can only be done by the teachers consecrating their lives to the highest religious ideals of the Holy Bible. The consciences of teachers must be quickened and inspired with faith and courage to lift their voices against wrong and infidelity. This does not mean that teachers should adopt or accept any one rule of life or agree on any one concept of religious thoughts. "There is, however, within every soul a divine light, a divine impulse for good and truth, and when this light is developed, then life reaches its highest vision and man his greatest happiness," said the philosopher, Swedenborg. It is this light that must be made to glow in the souls of our children, for it is the light of God and immortality. Dr. James Conant, the President of Harvard College, has recently written in his report to the Board of Overseers, "Our Puritan ancestors thought of education and theology as inseparably connected. It is hard for us to recapture their point of view." 

It is religion that man needs, for when all the ideals of culture find their inspiration and nourishment in the divine ideals of Jesus 103 

Christ, and take their place in the great living purpose of the world's Savior; when thought and art and literature and knowledge and life are brought into subjection, to the obedience of Christ, then mankind shall have attained the true victory, and will say : "Thou hast conquered, O Galilean." 

a writer's prayer 

May we turn in solemn worship and adoration of Him who died that we might live. May the Easter spirit of a few days ago remain with us to lead us to greater heights; may we keep in mind the lovely words of John Drinkwater who wrote just before he died : 

MY PRAYER 

We know the paths wherein our feet should press, Across our hearts are written Thy decrees Yet now, O Lord, be merciful to bless with more than these. 

Grant us the will to fashion as we feel, Grant us the strength to labor as we know, Grant us the purpose, ribbed and edged with steel, to strike the blow. 

Knowledge we ask not — knowledge Thou has lent, But Lord, the will — there lies our bitter need. Give us to build above the deep intent the deed, the deed. 

* * * 

God help us to walk through this world, now opened to us as through a Kingdom, with uplifted hearts and larger faith to the life more glorious, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER FRANKLIN J. MURDOCK 

Former President of the Netherlands Mission 

I rejoice with you, brethren and sisters, in being here in attendance at this great Conference of our Church. I have found comfort in these words : 

If we work upon marble it will perish; If we work upon brass, time will efface it; If we rear temples they will crumble into dust; But if we work upon immortal souls, 

If we imbue them with principles, with a just fear of the Creator, 

a love of fellow men, We engrave on those tablets something which will brighten all eternity. 

This seems to me to be the ideal of our great missionary system, and for the past two and a half years it has been my privilege and pleasure to work as a missionary in Holland. It is a beautiful little country, just one-seventh the size of the State of Utah, and has a population sixteen times that which we have here. We have ap104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

proximately three thousand members of the Church in Holland. All of our Branches are officered by capable, local people. Our Auxiliary boards are organized, and the work of our Heavenly Father is making good progress there. 

Lesson material was prepared for a year in advance. They are preparing now for their Spring Conferences, and from a letter which I received last week, I learn that during the month of March they baptized ten new converts into the Church. Their Fast offerings and tithes are showing a slight increase. I have no fear that the Gospel and the members of the Church will go forward together in the land of dikes and windmills. 

I shall never forget the words of President McKay as he set us apart for our Mission. He said : "President Murdock, your first concern is your missionaries." And how true that was! 

I want to take this opportunity, my brethren and sisters, to thank you personally for the boys and girls you sent to the Dutch Mission. They are even better than the other Missions which we have heard from. (Laughter). To see those young men come from all walks of life, the farm, the mine, the factory, the banks, and the schools, inexperienced, not knowing one word of that foreign tongue; to see them come into the Mission office for the first time, assign them, get acquainted with them, and after a short period of time, a month perhaps, go and attend a testimony meeting with them; to sleep with them and pray with them, and Fast with them, and to see the development which they receive under the guidance of our Heavenly Father, was a marvel to me. It gave me a testimony of the truth and divinity of this work. Young men do not go seven thousand miles away from their loved ones; they do not put up with every kind of sacrifice that is necessary to perform missionary labor; they do not meet with all kinds of hardships, unless it is in God's work. 

I think the remarkable thing about our missionary system is that all of these boys and girls, coming together from all over the Church, meet together and learn to know and love one another and work as a great unit, preaching the Gospel. These young men travel all day and come to their journey's end at night and then climb into bed with a boy that they have never met before in their lives, and wake up in the morning and call each other brother, and are willing to endure all kinds of hardships. These things give me an assurance that this is God's work and not man's. 

I shall never forget one experience. One of our young men was taken to the hospital. It was necessary to operate upon him for appendicitis, and as the great surgeon was scrubbing his hands, making all preparations for the operation, he called me to one side and said: "President Murdock, what is there about these young men? I have never before in my life seen such clean blood, such clean flesh as you have here in this young man." And then, in a few 105 , my brethren and sisters, it was my rare privilege to present the principles of the Gospel to this great and famous surgeon. 

The last days of the closing of the Mission he came to my office and said : "There is something divine about Mormonism, and I am ready to investigate it because you have something that I have not found in any other group of people in all the world." 

To keep the young men and young women in our Church clean is the greatest work that we can be engaged in. That is the way we can brighten all eternity. 

I want to bear witness to the great and wonderful work that was done by our beloved President Grant in his visit with us; to the great leadership of President and Sister Richard R. Lyman; and in the crisis which overtook us last fall, in the guiding hands of Apostle and Sister Joseph Fielding Smith. To have these leaders in our Mission was a great stimulation to the work. I shall never forget the closing scenes of our missionary life. As our boat was sailing away, those humble people gathered on the shore and sang in unison : 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

And with tear-stained faces as they left the shore and our boat went down the harbor, I could hear the strains of 

Come, come, ye Saints, No toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way. 

That great and brave people, the Dutch people, are a wonderful people, and they will carry on; I have no doubt of that. 

Coming back home, I realize more than ever before the value of this great land and the Gospel which we have accepted, and as my closing thought let me leave this with you : 

To appreciate our heritage, The will and power to make our destiny, To seek, to choose, to cherish, and to work, The right to worship how and where we please, 

God gave that. Let us not shirk the task, the joy Of carrying on this creed To those whose strength Must serve tomorrow's need. 

That we may always be missionaries wherever we are, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We wish to thank this wonderful choir from Ricks College. Their singing is beautiful, and behind it is a spirit and a spirituality which I find nowhere else than among our people in their songs. May God bless them in their labors. 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 7 Third Day 

The Ricks College Choir sang the "Hallelujah" anthem from the "Messiah," (Handel). 

Elder Claudius Bowman, President of the Juarez Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Sunday morning, April 7, at 10 o'clock. 


