13
Afternoon
05 10 1934
President Heber J. Grant 
10
42-44

None

None

I desire to read my remarks made at the funeral of Brother Charles H. Hart, so that they may be in the Conference Pamphlet. They are as follows: 

"From my personal association during all the years that Brother Hart was one of the General Authorities of the Church I am able to bear witness to all of the splendid things that have been said here today regarding his character. There was no one of the General Authorities with whom I traveled from stake to stake, in fulfilling the duties devolving upon us of attending quarterly conferences, that I enjoyed traveling with more than I did Brother Hart. The sincerity and honesty, the integrity and devotion of the man always impressed me. He was a man whom to know was to love. Love begets love. He was a man who loved the people, loved to mingle with them, loved to gather evidences, as has been said here, of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged, and to be in a position to defend it. 

A RIGHTEOUS JUDGE 

It is a wonderful thing to be a judge and to have the reputation among all those who knew him that his decisions were absolutely true and straight, and what they ought to be according to the evidence presented. To my mind the greatest tribute that could be paid to a man is that those who know him best love him most, and I am sure that this tribute can be paid to Brother Hart and that he is worthy of it. 

ENGAGED IN A NOBLE CAUSE 

There are many of us who make friends and sometimes make enemies. If Brother Hart had an enemy I have never heard of it. I have always heard people speak of him in the highest terms. To have a perfect and abiding knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and to devote the best that is in us to carry that knowledge to others and to inspire others to try to obtain it, is the highest labor I believe in which any of us can be engaged, and this was the labor of Brother Hart during the latter part of his life as one of the General Authorities of the Church, and it was a labor that he took pleasure in performing. 

RICH BLESSINGS EARNED 

I rejoice in all the splendid things that have been said here today. I commend to his wife and his children that they read the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, telling of the marvelous and wonderful blessings that shall come to those who embrace the Gospel and live it, and of the promises that are made to them concerning the life to come. 

I have no hesitancy whatever in assuring the beloved wife and splendid family that all of those marvelous blessings promised to those who shall endure to the end and keep the commandments of the Lord, that they shall inherit celestial glory, shall come to Brother Hart. There is nothing I can urge upon the family more than to follow in his footsteps and walk in the narrow and straight path that he walked in during his entire life. 

NOT IN THE GRAVE 

I can never think of my loved ones, my, dear mother and those who have passed away, as being in the grave. I rejoice in the associations they are enjoying and in the pleasure they are having in meeting with their loved ones on the other side. 

May God help each and all of us to so order our lives that they will be a proclamation of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. And may that sweet and peaceful influence that comes from our Heavenly Father in times of sorrow be given to the wife and her children. May they be comforted, encouraged and blessed in their time of sorrow, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in humility in the name of our Redeemer. Amen.
