3
Morning
05 10 1934
Elder Richard R. Lyman 
17
12-17

None

None

As an officer of the Mutual Improvement Association of the Church, I desire to speak briefly in this conference of some of the ideals we are striving for in this great young peoples' organization. This M. I. A. structure of activity, this Mutual Improvement program that means actions noble and high and exalted on the part of your young folks, speaks louder than can words that we are giving genuine allegiance to the Church. 

M. I. A. SLOGAN 

Our slogan for the present season is: "By my actions I will prove my allegiance to the Church." Our young people are repeating it everywhere. Perhaps most of you who are in attendance at this General Conference have also repeated it. Judging from the spirit of the Mutual conventions which, during the last three months, have been held in nearly all of our stakes, our young folks, our young men and young women, have been found putting forth an effective and commendable effort, they have been struggling earnestly, and it seems successfully, to live in accordance with this practical teaching, this intensely practical doctrine of letting their conduct tell of their interest in and their devotion to the Church. Their attitude is giving us cheer and encouragement. 

MISUNDERSTANDINGS BETWEEN YOUTH AND MATURITY 

There have always been misunderstandings more or less serious between the younger and the older folks and probably this condition will always prevail. Maturity always fears for the morality, for the faith and for the safety of those who are young; while on the other hand, those who are young feel keenly that they are not understood by those who are older. In the past, however, youth seems always to have gotten along fairly well in some way or other. Remember we who are the grown-ups of today, we who have the gray heads now were the youth of yesterday. 

M. I. A. MANUALS AND BOOKS 

As an evidence of our sincerity in adopting this year's slogan, I refer you to our M. I. A. manuals and the books on our reading course. I need not name them. They are available to you since they are being studied in all your wards. Concerning one of these, the manual for the M Men department, written by Dr. Lowell L. Bennion and entitled "What About Religion," I understood President Grant to say that this little volume pleased him greatly, so much so in fact that he regards it as one of the best pieces of literature the Church has produced. 

But it is not of this but of our Adult Manual that I desire on this occasion to say a few words. This publication has been prepared by our able writer and scholar, John Henry Evans, and its title is "The Leadership of Joseph Smith." Realizing that members of the Church cannot learn too much of this strong, outstanding, divinely guided leader, we have had this manual prepared confident that as you read and study it you will find new joy and faith and testimony. The more we learn of Joseph Smith the Prophet, the greater and grander and nobler as an inspired leader and prophet will we discover him to be and the more we will desire to follow his inspired leadership. 

A SUBJECT ON WHICH ALL CAN AGREE 

The divinity of the teachings, the revelations and the messages of the Prophet is one subject on which all genuine Latter-day Saints, young as well as old, can and must agree. We have in him a man genuinely great. He was made so, we verily believe, by the power of God. I have been looking all my days for some one, philosopher, statesman or scholar, who could account for the numerous outstanding accomplishments of Joseph Smith in any way other than that he was guided by divine power. Thus far I have found no one, scholar, philosopher or other wise man, who could account for him and his accomplishments in any other way. 

THE PERSONALITY OF JOSEPH SMITH 

In this outstanding personage, the Prophet Joseph Smith, no one was ever disappointed. The fondest anticipations of those who had heard of him as a new and modern and marvelous prophet were mild indeed compared with the actual impressions that his presence, his personality and his individual contact produced. Dr. Andrew D. White, outstanding teacher, president of Cornell University, scholar, diplomat and statesman, told me with his own lips that while he had seen the Prophet in Nauvoo for but a moment he regarded him as not only a strong personality but as a most unusual and magnetic one. 

Joseph Smith aroused the keenest interest in every one who met him. From those who are not members of our own Church, he invariably commanded respect and admiration. From his fellow churchmen he drew forth an undying love that we might call almost adoration. Our outstanding leaders who traveled far to see the Prophet soon found themselves tied to him with that affection which nothing else can produce but the power of Almighty God. Parley P. Pratt came to him from Ohio, Orson Pratt from New York, Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge from Ohio, John Taylor from Canada, Brigham Young from Vermont, Willard Richards and Orson Spencer from Massachusetts, Charles C. Rich from Ilinois, etc. Many other outstanding scholars, pioneers and great men of the Church came from all parts of the nation and not one was disappointed in the character, the personality and the leadership of Joseph Smith. All were glad of an opportunity to follow his inspired leadership and considered so doing an outstanding privilege. Strangers who came to see him, even from foreign countries, invariably looked upon him with admiration. 

TRIBUTES BY CONTEMPORARIES 

"Although in him there was nothing strange or different from other men in his personal appearance," said Amasa M. Lyman who came from Massachusetts, "yet when he grasped my hand in that cordial way known to those who had met him in the honest simplicity of truth, I felt as one of old in the presence of the Lord. My strength seemed to be gone, so that it required an effort on my part to stand on my feet. 

But in all this," says he, "there was no fear. The serenity and peace of heaven pervaded my soul, and the still, small voice of the Spirit whispered its living testimony into the depths of my being that he was a man of God." (Joseph Smith the American Prophet, Evans, p. 5.) 

Josiah Quincy has said that it is by no means improbable that some future text book will state that the historical American of the nineteenth century that has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his country is Joseph Smith the Mormon prophet. "Born in the lowest ranks of poverty," continues Quincy, "he had, without book learning, made himself at the age of 39 a power upon the earth. If the reader does not know what to make of Joseph Smith, I cannot help him out of the difficulty since I myself stand helpless before the puzzle." (Joseph Smith the American Prophet, pp. 4 and 13.) 

A GREAT LEADER AND PROPHET 

It is certain, says John Henry Evans (p. vii) that "no more spectacular or strange or dynamic or fascinating personality can be found in modern history." Evans further writes: 

Here is a man who was born in the stark hills of Vermont; who was reared in the backwoods of New York; who never looked inside a college or a high school; who lived in six states, no one of which would own him during his lifetime; who spent months in the vile prisons of the period; who even when he had his freedom, was hounded like a fugitive; who was covered once with a coat of tar and feathers, and left for dead; who, with his follow, was driven by irate neighbors from New York to Ohio, from Ohio to Missouri, and from Missouri to Illinois; and who, at the unripe age of thirty-nine was shot to death by a mob with painted faces. 

Yet this man became the mayor of the biggest town in Illinois and the state's most prominent citizen, the commander of the largest body of trained soldiers in the nation outside of the Federal army, the founder of cities and of a university, and aspired to become President of the United States. 

* * * On the threshold of an organizing age he established the most nearly perfect social mechanism in the modern world, and developed a religious philosophy that challenges anything of the kind in history, for completeness and cohesion. And he set up the machinery for an economic system that would take the brood of Fears out of the heart of man — that is, the fear of want through sickness, old age, unemployment and poverty. In thirty nations are men and women who look upon him as a greater leader than Moses and a greater prophet than Isaiah. (See introductory page of Evans' book.) 

Is it any wonder that we recommend, in fact that we urge not only the youth but all other members of the Church to make a more careful study of the outstanding accomplishments, teachings, life and doctrines of this great leader and prophet under whose inspired leadership the Church of Jesus Christ has been restored and reestablished? 

Perhaps by reading and studying his life we ourselves may be able to acquire in some small degree some of his marvelous traits of character. It is certainly our duty as members of the Church of Jesus Christ — believers in the Gospel plan restored and established by the power of God through this Prophet, to know more of this great character. 

SAMPLES OF INSPIRATION 

Listen to a few sentences from some of the revelations which have come to us through this modern Prophet: 

Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea listen together. 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see; neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. (Doc. & Cov. 1:1-2.) 

And further: 

I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. (Doc. & Cov. 1:31.) 

These are but samples of the language and the inspiration contained in some of the words given to us by the Prophet, our Prophet, the Prophet of the Lord, the Prophet of these last days. 

Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. (Doc. & Cov. 89:4.) 

NOT GOOD FOR MAN 

This Word of Wisdom informs us that tea and coffee and tobacco and strong drinks are not good for man. While it is true that on the 7th day of November in the year of our Lord 1933, the people of the United States by their votes repealed Prohibition, while they repealed the Eighteenth Amendment, the people did not then nor will they ever repeal that law of nature which says that alcohol is a poison. The people did not then nor will they ever repeal the Word of Wisdom which says strong drinks are not good for man. 

Actions not only speak louder, but they speak much louder than do words. He who belongs to the L. D. S. group and drinks tea or drinks coffee or uses tobacco in any form or fails to resist the temptation to drink his glass of beer or any other beverage containing alcohol surely cannot regard himself as being true to his own group. Certainly he is not by his actions proving his allegiance to the Church. 

What actions of mine are referred to in this slogan? As I repeat it do I give proper consideration to Church standards and do I analyze my conduct with regard to these standards? 

HONESTY AND FAIR DEALING 

First, we believe in being honest. Do we have this in mind when we say that by our actions we will prove our allegiance to the Church? If we live up to the ideal expressed in this slogan, then in our dealings we are to be fair. When we speak we are to tell the truth. If by our actions we are to show ourselves to be honest, we will not create a false impression by telling only half of the truth. In short, our dealings with our fellowmen will be so fair and so frank, so honest that we shall have nothing to conceal. By thus living and thus acting we shall so teach the Gospel that by our actions, which speak louder than any words, we shall teach our neighbors and our business associates that we not only believe the Gospel as it has been revealed through Joseph Smith the Prophet, but we in our very lives are practicing it. We shall then be proving by our conduct our allegiance to the Church and our faith in the divinity of the message brought to us through this outstanding and marvelous modern man, the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

IN ACCORDANCE WITH HIGH IDEALS 

Next, we believe in being true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men. In our dealings with our fellows day by day and all the time if we are true to the promise in this pledge, this slogan, then we must try unceasingly to live in accordance with all these high ideals. Thus we shall prove that we have faith in and that we are struggling to live in accordance with the high ideals, the standards of the Church of Jesus Christ. 

By being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men, by going forward literally by the tens of thousands and thus by our actions proving our allegiance to the Church, we are, as our new M. I. A. song by Miss Beesley says, "Building today the house of youth. Its foundations are strong and secure. Faith in God and devotion to truth, honor that shall endure. Its walls are adorned with garlands bright," in which "virtue and love entwine; and its structure shall rise till it reaches the skies, gleaming with light divine." 

It is not by our words only but by our actions, by living in accordance with the ideals expressed in this new and noble song that we are building a structure that will be great and glorious and beautiful. The structure will rise until it reaches the skies and it will be lighted with the light and power and inspiration of Almighty God. It will indeed "gleam with light divine." 

THE ROAD TO PERFECTION 

I am speaking now of the ideals of our institution, the ideals of the Church. As M. I. A. workers we may not be able always to live strictly in accordance with these, all cannot reach the top; this would be impossible since our goal is perfection. With us who have weaknesses, with us who lack strength to resist temptation, I appeal to you to have patience and charity. We pledge ourselves that all the time and without ceasing we shall try to do and to be better. We have had come into our souls that light and inspiration which comes with the receiving of the Holy Ghost, we have tugging at our feet constantly that pull to do right, that pull whose aim is to bring us back into the straight way, that way which is narrow. We expect this pull to continue as long as in our souls there is that glow of joy and satisfaction that nothing else can give but a testimony and knowledge of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet. I mean that knowledge and testimony which nothing else can bring but righteous living and the power of God. 
