7
Afternoon
05 10 1934
Elder David A. Smith 
95
25-28

None

None

For more than a quarter of a century it has been my good fortune and cherished privilege to labor with President Anthony W. Ivins, President Charles H. Hart and Judge Franklin S. Richards. I sincerely hope and pray that when my work is finished in this sphere I shall be worthy to continue to labor with them. 

During the past month it was my pleasure to accompany the tabernacle choir on an historic venture. After some weeks of negotiations and feverish days preparing for the trip, days that those who accompanied us little realized were trying, for to make the selection of those who were to go and try to pacify those who could not go gave to me and some of my associates sleepless and restless nights, and days filled with concern — on the 8th of last month the train with more than three hundred people left for the East. The joy of that group was increased when they found that we were to be accompanied by President Heber J. Grant and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. I believe that the first interesting incident occurred when an order was placed by the dining car service for 750 bottles of milk. It was an unusual order, and I think the largest that has ever been let by the dining car service for one train. It was a tribute to the teaching of the Word of Wisdom. 

Our trip was uneventful until we reached Chicago, where we quickly boarded buses and were taken to our hotel and then to the Fair grounds. We were about twelve minutes late with our first concert. It was not altogether our fault; the proper arrangements had not been made and suitable dressing rooms had not been provided for such a large group. 

After the choir began its concert I took my position outside where I could see and hear, accompanied by the representative of the Ford Exposition, with whom we had carried on our negotiations, this company having assisted in paying the expenses of the trip. He said nothing until the concert was over, and I turned to him and asked what he thought of it? 

"It is more than I expected. We did not even dream that we were getting anything like this," was his answer. 

Each day, during the time that we were there, their statement of appreciation was more pronounced. On the first day they invited Presidents Grant and Clark and their party to a luncheon in the Ford offices on the Fair grounds. 

It was an inspiring sight during that week to see the people come into the great Ford Gardens, two thousand or more at nearly every performance. At night nearly every seat was taken. Several nights every seat was taken, and one night nearly a thousand, as near as I could reckon, sat for more than a half hour in a rain storm to hear the balance of the program. 

During the week we were invited to sing on the street in Chicago. We left the hotel where we were staying, in a fleet of Ford cars as the guests of the Ford Motor Company, and were escorted through the streets of Chicago to the plaza between the Daily News and Chicago Civic Opera buildings, where the concert was given. It was a wonderful sight. As far as we could see the streets were filled with people anxious to hear. And as the choir began to sing the windows of the buildings thirty and forty stories high were filled with people. As I stood there and listened I thought of the contrast when about ninety years before our fathers had been driven from a city in Illinois by mob violence, and now we, their children, had returned, and on every hand found the spirit of kindness, and words of encouragement and praise. 

After the concert we were taken to the Fair grounds, where our afternoon concert was given, and afterwards from there to the Ford executive offices in their exhibition building, which had been cleared of office furniture, and the entire group were seated at tables and served a delightful luncheon. 

To my mind, the trip was a most wonderful event. We started on it with the spirit of the Psalmist of old: 

But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high. I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving. 

This also shall please the Lord. 

The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your hearts shall live that seek God. 

For the Lord heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners. 

Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and everything that moveth therein. 

For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession. 

The seed also of his servants shall inherit it; and they that love his name shall dwell therein. 

On the Sunday before we left on our return trip, through the efforts of the Chicago branch presidency, we were permitted to hold services in the Rockefeller church on the campus of the Chicago University. The building was filled. During the service President Grant addressed the congregation briefly, referring to the Articles of Faith of the Church and the Prophet's statement on government. His clear voice carried to all parts of the building and was very impressive. It was not the most pleasant place to sing in, because of the high ceilings and hard walls, which caused the sound to come back at the singers and interfere somewhat with the tone. But it was a delightful experience and we were happy to be welcomed in that way. 

On our return trip we stopped at Independence, Missouri, and other places from which our forefathers had been driven. Upon arriving in Independence we gathered at the new auditorium of the Reorganized Church. We were received in a spirit of great friendliness. As President Grant and Frederick M. Smith, president of the Reorganized Church, made their way from their seats in the body of the house to the platform there was great applause. This, too, was not a pleasant place to sing in, for the unfinished condition of the building was such that it was difficult for the singers to hear the accompaniment, and the steep incline where the seats were placed made it impossible to develop a satisfactory tone quality. But the warmth of our welcome I am sure caused all to forget the unfinished condition of the building which interfered so much with the music. Again we were impressed with the remarks of our President as he stated the belief of this people and referred to the revelations of Joseph Smith, which should also be believed in by his descendants, our kinsmen, who were entertaining us at that time. In all it was a choice occasion, and we came away feeling that it was good to have been there. 

The last stop was at Denver, where Brother Daynes had arranged with one of the newspapers for our appearance in the large Denver Civic Auditorium. This was an inspiring sight. The place was filled, even the gallery back of the drop curtain being fairly well filled with people, and the chairs on the stage surrounding the choir also. As the President made his appearance on the platform to acknowledge their greetings and welcome, there was great applause. He spoke for only a few minutes, expressing appreciation, and they applauded him as he left, as they also applauded the choir for their singing. It was a most wonderful trip, not primarily a missionary trip, but we hope, through the service rendered, to draw to the attention of those who were unacquainted with us, something of the ideals and purposes of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and I am sure that the fifty or sixty thousand people who came to hear us, and the untold numbers who listened in over the air during each concert were well pleased with what they heard. We feel that the trip was worth while. 

The choir members had with them the spirit of the Gospel; they were exemplary. At times I thought I became a nuisance to them, for it was my task to keep them on the job and to see that their concerts started on time. They were enthused over the privilege of going and each felt that the success of the whole venture rested upon him or her. 

As we left the hotel and were settling our accounts, the hotel manager said: "I hope you will come again. We have never before had such a gathering in this hotel. The maids have had very little to do. We have found no cigarette stumps, no; cigars, no burnt furniture or linen, and no whiskey bottles. Your group have been orderly; we have hardly known that they were here. It was a pleasure to have you with us." 

I think that through our actions we preached the Gospel. 

On the Fair grounds we were given reduced rates for the choir members. Their badges took them into many of the concessions and many invited them in without cost. We found a friendly attitude wherever we went and came away feeling that we had performed a wonderful missionary service. We had in mind constantly the saying of the Lord: "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing on their heads." We wanted a blessing. We felt the Lord was fulfilling his promise upon our heads, and we pray that his blessings shall continue to be upon us, that we may continue to serve him in song, in faith, and in a desire to be worthy of the blessings which he has bestowed upon us and which he has promised to bestow upon us all through our faithfulness. May he so bless us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
