9
Afternoon
05 10 1934
Elder John Wells 
108
29-32

None

None

I have been encouraged this morning and this afternoon with the advice, counsel and testimony, and the remarks of my brethren concerning our departed dead. The thought occurred to me, what a toll has been taken during the last three or four years from among the General Authorities of the Church: President Anthony W. Ivins, President Charles W. Nibley, Elder Orson F. Whitney, Elder James E. Talmage, President B. H. Roberts, President Rey L. Pratt, President Charles H. Hart, and Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith — almost one-third. But while I have missed them and shall miss them and their tremendous influence for good, and the power of their example, what a blessing it is for those on the other side where they will labor with the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates, in carrying on the great work of redemption in the spirit world, where millions are waiting for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

And so our loss is someone else's benefit — the law of compensation still applies. 

I have been thinking very much lately concerning our service, one to another, and to the world. 

On the last day of the Master's public ministry he left Bethany accompanied by his disciples and made his way to the temple. The usual crowd, including those who were opposed to him, met him in the temple courts. The Pharisees and Sadducees plied him with questions, after which a lawyer or Scribe inquired of him, "Master, which is the greatest commandment of all?" The Savior quoted verses 4 and 5 of the 6th chapter of Deuteronomy and part of the 18th verse of the 19th chapter of Leviticus. It was required of every Jew to repeat the words contained in these verses twice each day. Therefore, his critics well knew the source of his answer. This is the answer the Master gave to the lawyer's question: 

The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord: 

And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength; this is the first commandment. 

And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. 

And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: 

And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 

And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the Kingdom of God. 

Thus the Master made clear to his audience and to the lawyer and to future generations that the first commandments are to love God and to love our fellow men. Love translates itself into service. The Master himself exemplified his doctrine by service to his fellow men. Again and again did he show that love, indeed, it can only be evidenced by service. On another occasion he said to his disciples: 

Whosover will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. (Matt. 20:28.) 

The Master himself performed the greatest possible service to humanity, for he spent three years of his life teaching men how to live and how to obtain eternal life, and he laid down his life that the resurrection and eternal life might be brought to pass. 

To love God means that we will not only keep his commandments, but that we will qualify ourselves for the duties and responsibilities required of all who accept the Gospel to proclaim the restored Gospel and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I like the symbol found on an old Roman coin which bore the design of an ox standing between a plow and an altar, thus signifying its readiness for either service or sacrifice. No symbol could more beautifully represent the attitude of the true servant of the Master — ready, when the Master wills, to toil in his service; and just as ready, when a call comes, to sacrifice everything, if necessary for the Gospel's sake. 

As to our neighbor, I like the thought expressed by King Benjamin in the 2nd chapter of the book of Mosiah: He who is in the service of his fellow men is in the service of his God. Today, men see more clearly than ever before that we are our brothers' keepers. How great, therefore, is the need of keeping constantly before us the second great commandment, and how far we are from observing it as the Lord requires, and we should frequently ask ourselves, What manner of men and women are we? 

The Lord has said this in Section 58 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

Verily, I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. 

If we are profitable servants, we will go beyond the routine requirements of our membership in the Church, and we will devote ourselves more than ever to the service of our fellow men. 

Where shall we look for service? We must not repeat the experience of the knight in the ancient tale, who left his home when a young man to find the Holy Grail, or cup, out of which our Savior drank, and came back an old white-haired man, only to find the grail in his own house, where it had been all those years. 

As Latter-day Saints, there are many avenues for service in the organizations of the Church. We can be better neighbors and help the poor, the unfortunate, the aged, the feeble, the widow, and the orphan, who live around us. Fortunate are we if we have learned the great truth that happiness is not determined by how much we get out of life, but what we put into life in the way of helpfulness and service for others. For there is a richness in life that will come to every Latter-day Saint once he has experienced the joy that is to be found in helpful service to others. The happiest people on earth are those who contribute to the welfare of their neighbors and friends. 

The General Authorities of the Church, those who preside in the stakes and wards and missions, use their time and talents in the service of God and their fellow men and for the establishment of the Church of God for the preaching of the Gospel and for the dead. 

There is a wonderful field for all officers and members of the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood to increase the faith of their members and to see that every person holding this Priesthood is giving service to the Lord and to his fellow men. 

The Presiding Bishopric deeply appreciate the untiring labors of the bishops of wards and those associated with them in developing and training the youth of Zion who hold the Aaronic Priesthood. The result of their labors is already being noticed in the improved standards of the members of this Priesthood. There are also under the direction of the bishopric approximately 30,000 men holding the Priesthood whose duty it is to visit the homes of the Latter-day Saints monthly. They go in the true spirit of neighborly help to the members of their flock. 

On this Temple Block thousands of men and women hear the message of the Gospel, in addition to those who are reached by the labor of the missionaries who are out in the world proclaiming the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. By this means the Church is exalted and advanced in its great purpose due to the devotion and labors of faithful men and women. 

The question might be asked, Is there recompense for all this labor? I say, Yes, for the Lord has said: 

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father. 

No person can be happy in this Church unless he is working for it, praying for it, and living for it. Service in the Church is a safeguard to youth. It is a blessing and protection to those of middle age. It is a crown of satisfaction to the aged. Our testimonies and appreciation of this Latter-day work will grow in proportion to the service we render our Master, for service in the Church will bring joy, satisfaction, happiness, contentment, and appreciation. 

I pray that we may keep these two great commandments constantly in mind and in the spirit and intent of the Master's answer to the lawyer on that fateful last day of his ministry. Let us look around us for further opportunities to be useful in the communities where we live, that we may become more profitable servants in the cause of our Master. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is my meat and drink. I love to serve; I want to serve; I want to labor as long as I have the ability to do it in the cause of the Master and of my fellow men. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is true; it is the power of God unto salvation. God lives. Jesus Christ is our Redeemer. Joseph Smith came in these latter days to restore the Gospel and establish the holy Priesthood preparatory to the coming of the Son of God, when his kingdom shall be established, and he shall reign in God's name upon the earth. 

I pray that we may be blessed with this deep sense of service and appreciation of our opportunities in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
