8
Afternoon
05 10 1934
Elder John V. Bluth 
128
28-29

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privilege of again attending conference. Since I was here before I have undergone a serious operation, but the blessings of the Lord brought me through. Through my own carelessness I have contracted a cold which makes me hoarse. 

During the past six months we have had the pleasure of having with us in the Canadian Mission Brother James H. Wallis and his wife, he acting as a patriarch in the mission for the purpose of giving blessings to the worthy Saints therein. He has been with us now a little over three months, and has nearly completed his work there. He is now working on the recording of the blessings he has given, that they may be mailed out to the respective members. It has been a spiritual blessing to us; we do appreciate the inspiration that came to the brethren to send Brother Wallis into our midst. I think that from there he will go into the Northern States, the North Central States, and the Southern States missions for the same purpose. 

In visiting with the members, talking with them, and going confidentially into their lives, much good has been accomplished by Brother Wallis in bringing the Saints to a realization that the blessings of God can come only from living his commandments. All kinds of blessings may be conferred upon us, but to make them a reality in our lives depends upon how we live. Many who have never thought of it in that light have discovered that, in our Church, activity is life and inactivity is spiritual death. Wonderful promises have been given, depending upon their living nearer to the Lord, keeping his commandments, observing the Sabbath day and having prayer in their homes, living the Word of Wisdom and keeping the law of tithing. Some of them were under the impression that when they were in debt they owed no tithing, and there are hundreds of our people who are in debt; so, of course, comparatively little tithing has been paid under those conditions. But they have now become convinced that the Lord expects one-tenth of all that he gives unto them, whether or not they are in debt, and that leaves them the ninety per cent with which to take care of their own affairs, which includes their indebtedness. I think it will mean much to the spiritual life of our mission. 

I do not know of any time since I have been in the mission when our missionaries were more united, nor do I know of a time when they have better understood the responsibility of the position they occupy and what is required of them. I feel that to a great extent they are working because of their love of the work rather than merely measuring up to the regulations, and in so doing they are naturally keeping the missionary regulations. 

I pray God that he may bless us, that we may realize that he has given unto us the Gospel of his dear Son; that it is given unto us to be lived, not to be stored away as something that is merely beautiful and grand, but something that we should live, that it may be exemplified in our lives, that we might eventually be fitted for an inheritance in his celestial kingdom. 

I bring greetings to you from the missionaries of the Canadian Mission. They love their work, they dread sickness and anything else that interferes with their work. They are having an enjoyable time together. We love the work in the mission field. To me there is no more glorious blessing that has come into our lives than has come to Sister Bluth and myself in missionary service. We rejoice in it, we thank the Lord for the privilege of being in the mission field. May his Spirit attend us continuously in our labors, that we may serve him faithfully all the days of our lives, that we may realize in our lives the things for which we hope and aspire, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
