4
Morning
05 10 1934
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
17-20

None

None

I sincerely hope that I may be led to say this morning that which the Lord would have me say for the good of all who are here and for all who may listen. This, I think, is a great opportunity that the Lord has given his children, to gather together upon occasions of this kind, to give a reason for the hope that is within them, and to gain more evidence of him and his great plan. 

I am sure that this is the work of the Lord. There is not any question in my mind concerning the truth of his great revelation and his organization in these the last days. We are not so sure of the things of this world. The mediums of exchange that are used everywhere may change. They may lose their value entirely. Principles may prove to be valueless in the management of nations. But the plan of God, our Eternal Father, will not change. The great institution that he established through his Son, in the days of the Prophet, over a hundred years ago, will not change. It is the right and the privilege of all men to become acquainted with the plan of life and salvation, which provides for their welfare, not only here but in the world to come. There never was a greater opportunity than now, I am sure, for the youth of Zion, and all the inhabitants of Zion, to become acquainted with this great work of our Redeemer. 

The law of baptism was instituted as the means by which men were to gain admission into the Church of God our Father in the earth. The mode is indicated by the word from which "baptism" is derived, and when this ordinance is administered in any other way we know it is incorrect. There, is no other way than by immersion for the remission of sins. We may be challenged on this point, but the language itself concerning the mode of baptism clearly defines the way by which men are to be brought into the Church, and no other way could be considered. So we stand, as a church, absolutely sure of our ground. Men have changed the ordinance, but our Eternal Father's plan never changes. His language pointed out the mode in the beginning. It will be so in the end. 

Following baptism is the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. This is the birth of the Spirit which completely immerses the souls of men and fills them with the inspiration and power of the Eternal Father, bears witness unto them that they have received the knowledge that he wished to convey, a knowledge of their Redeemer, a knowledge of his great plan for the redemption of his children. It is within the reach of the entire human family, if they will but read aright and pray unto God, their Father, for understanding. 

The youth of Zion should become acquainted with this ordinance of baptism. I am sure that we do not understand it as well as we ought to do. Hundreds of young men and young women have not learned, as they must learn, the reason why men and women are baptized, the mode of baptism, who are to administer it, and what it means to be a baptized member of the Church and to receive the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost. 

The things of this earth will pass away as the frost before the sun. Men and women will come and go. Great institutions will be organized and fail. But the plan of our Eternal Father will always live. It will be found in eternity as well as here. It is the thing by which men may measure themselves. It is the thing by which they may know whereof they speak. It is the thing that will keep them in the straight and the narrow way. 

There can be no question at all concerning this great Church. Men and women in the Church may fail, but the great Church is the one that our Eternal Father established in these the last days, by which men and women should return unto him. If men and women will but keep the commandments of God as well as they can they need have no fear. Life is but a short span. We are here but a few moments of time, compared with the great periods of time of our Eternal Father. It is your day and it is mine to live in the earth and to obtain a knowledge that will take us back into the presence of God, that will give us the power to overcome, to live down weaknesses that are natural to the flesh. It is the great school that our Eternal Father planned for us, and we of all people can be most sure of our position, and give unto God, our Eternal Father, the praise and the honor and the glory. We can afford to be charitable in every way. We can afford to be kind and to be diligent. We can extend, every courtesy to others who have not received the light that has come to us in this day. 

I have heard that the Gospel is termed "dry" by some people. But it is the most interesting thing in all the world. It has a foundation and assurance by which every man and woman may know their possibilities, as the days come and go and as they advance. It is the great plan which our Eternal Father sent from heaven to us. We became acquainted with it long before the foundation of this earth was laid, and we now have the opportunity of taking part in it. This is a temporary world to which there will be an end; the bodies of men will grow cold and inactive; life will depart. But while we are here, away from home as it were, our Eternal Father has given us the privilege of proving ourselves to him. We are here, to learn the truth, to speak it and to live it, and to overcome the power of the adversary, who is in the earth to thwart the purposes of God. He challenged God long before the foundations of this earth were laid. He went into battle against him, and he has renewed it here, every day and every hour while men live in the flesh. He will claim as many as he can, and the only weapon by which men may reach him and be able to withstand his attack is to learn the paths which our Eternal Father has laid out for us. He desires his sons and his daughters to know the Church and to enter into it; and to know its principles; to teach them to others. This is the great plan by which men and women may come unto him. 

Our Heavenly Father gave us our own free agency. He taught it to us, gave it to us when we walked by sight and not by faith. He planned for our redemption, but gave us the privilege to receive or reject. I am sure that if all men could know the plan of our Eternal Father, as he has outlined it in his revelations, they would be able to meet the advance of the adversary in every form, and be led to glorify God, for great is the work of God, and great are the purposes of our Redeemer! 

This is the day for men to become men, and for women to become women. It is the day, as Alma the prophet, said, when men are to prepare to meet their God. While here in mortality we enter into business, into commercial relationships with men, but there is a right way to do it. God never intended that it should be done in a dishonest way, any more than he intended that men should be untruthful. He planned the greatest scheme by which men should become strong, and by which they might come unto him as only real sons can come. He provided a great course of study for his sons and daughters in the earth. 

When men can see their way clear to enter into the Church, through the door of the sheep-fold, to obtain that witness that comes from him that this is his work, it is the happiest and most privileged new birth that they have ever received. There are millions of men in this world who need the support of this Church. They need the testimony of men who know the truth; they need the explanation of the principles of it. It isn't hard; it is easy to understand. The people of the world need it more today than they ever did before. The world is in trouble. Trouble is everywhere. It is in the family, it is in the nations. The voice of God is ready when they are ready to receive it, but they can only receive it when they hear it, and they cannot hear it except men be sent to provide for their hearing. In the fulness of time every son and daughter who may be entitled to the testimony of Jesus in the flesh shall hear it. 

As I see it this morning this is our mission: To provide for the welfare of the children of men, to sustain the holy Priesthood of God the Father in the earth, vested in his sons, to carry on the plan that he intended, to speak the truth and to live it, and to overcome. I think that men and women will never be perfect in the flesh. It is not a perfect world. But we can go on every day acquiring the power to perfect ourselves, and thus be better prepared when we leave here to enter into another great school of experience that shall be ours before the time comes for men to receive their bodies, resurrected and assigned to a glory. 

This is a great life, brethren and sisters and friends. It is a glorious opportunity to acquire knowledge. The knowledge of this Gospel is the most interesting thing in the world. The exchanges of this world and their values may pass away in a night and be of no more use to us, but the things that God revealed for the benefit of his children shall always be useful, as long as the earth stands, and in the eternities to come, forever and forever. 

May we keep these things in our minds, and sustain the authority of the Church. I tell you those men who stood by the Prophet in the days of Nauvoo, and who stood by the Prophet Brigham Young, and who have stood by the leaders of this Church, from then until now — they and their seed are the ones upon whom the Lord counts. I find them in the stakes of Zion where I travel. I have been away from home a long time and have not had an opportunity to visit the stakes of Zion, but now, in these stakes and in these valleys, I find the descendants of these men standing valiantly for the great plan of our Eternal Father. I bear witness to you, that it is because of the faith and devotion of their fathers that was taught them and written in their hearts by those early leaders with whom they associated. I hope the men and women of Zion, the youth of Zion, will learn the principles of the Gospel, and will love them. That this may be our privilege, more now than ever before, I humbly pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.
