2
Morning
05 10 1934
Elder John A. Widtsoe 
122
8-12

None

None

I have listened with much interest and appreciation to the remarks made by President Grant. I have felt the spirit that came from him to us — a spirit of love, admiration and appreciation for our brethren who have been called home and for all faithful Latter-day Saints who have fought life's battle wisely and well. It was my privilege to know, with some intimacy, the three brethren to whom President Grant has referred. They were men of God, wise men, kind men, generous men, for whom there grew up in my heart a deep and abiding love. I wish to add, without multiplying words on this occasion, my own appreciation, my own high estimate of these brethren whom we have lost during the last few weeks as they have gone to their eternal home. 

NO DEVIATION FROM FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH 

While President Grant was speaking, the question ran through my mind, more than any other: Just what made these men great? What made them worthy of the great praise given to them by the President of the Church? The thought came in answer that ever since the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the present prophet, Heber J. Grant, the men who have stood at the head of this Church have taught the same doctrine, have left behind the same message. There has been a certainty of declaration on their part. There has been no deviation from fundamental principles. Undoubtedly the reason why these brethren, who have been held before us as examples today, were great, is because they also clung to the fundamental principles of truth which make up the foundation and the frame work of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

For a number of years I was engaged in reading the sermons of Brigham Young, having in mind a compilation of his wise sayings for the benefit of the Saints. I was amazed to note how closely, how carefully, he followed the doctrine laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith who himself only taught the pure, unchanged Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. As I read on, studying the teachings of those who came after Brigham Young, I found the same thing to be true. I have listened in this tabernacle, for many years, to the words of President Heber J. Grant, and I have found him likewise a teacher of the same doctrine that was taught by Joseph Smith, by Brigham Young, and by the others who have preceded President Grant in his high office. There has been no deviation in his teachings from fundamental truth; not by a hair's breadth. 

In this changelessness of fundamental teaching, lies not only a testimony of the truth of this great work but also a principle of comfort to all who belong to the Church. I belong to various scientific societies. In them I find that theories come and go. We all belong to various organizations, political parties, and we observe that from day to day the principles that guide the membership of these associations seem to vary, to change. I can cling safely to the Church, to the Gospel of Jesus Christ; it has steadying power, it does not change nor vary. It is the same today, yesterday and forever. 

THE STORY OF MAN'S HISTORICAL DIFFICULTY AND SUCCESS 

I am wondering if in this principle does not lie the real story of man's historical difficulty and success. The history of the world indicates that any nation, country, or group of people which has set up a righteous principle and has lived by it and died by it, has risen to greatness, both before their own generation and those that came after. Perhaps the greatness of the British people, admired over the world, is due in great measure to the fact that for three-quarters of a millennium they have clung to a doctrine of human liberty expressed in the famous document known as Magna Charta. Perhaps the greatness of the United States of America is due, in largest measure, to the clinging to the simple principle that every man is entitled to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is by the adherence to such fundamental principles that men and families, peoples and nations, grow great and persist among the generations of men. 

THE CHURCH NOT STATIC 

 Do not misunderstand me as I speak on this theme. Every man clothes his ideas in his own words. Joseph Smith did not speak as Heber J. Grant speaks. The principles, the ideas were the same, but the words used, the forms of expression, belong to the speaker; and every man has a right to express as best he can in the words God gives him, the eternal truths that he may obtain from a divine source. 

Again, do not misunderstand me. I do not mean that this church and kingdom is static, that we stand still. I believe in a living, growing Church, which is in need of and does receive revelation from day to day. Nothing is more certain to me than that we were founded in revelation from God, and that we are guided daily by such revelation. We shall have revelation for our guidance to the end of time; but such new revelations as may come will never supersede, destroy or abrogate the fundamental principles upon which this Church rests its body of doctrine. A new revelation merely adds and develops and more nearly completes that which has formerly been given. 

APPLICATION OF ETERNAL PRINCIPLES TO PRESENT NEEDS 

The conditions of our people, the Latter-day Saints, in the days of Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, were as different from the conditions of today, almost as night is from day. Our people then lived under pioneer conditions, with no knowledge of the things which have given us the most remarkable mechanical civilization of all earthly time. We cannot expect that the exact application of the eternal principles of the Gospel should be the same today as in the days of Ohio or Missouri, but we do expect that any new revelation will be very largely the application of the eternal principles of truth to present needs. I rejoice that as far as I have been able to read the history of this Church and as far as I have lived life in the Church I have seen from day to day such application of fundamental eternal unchanging laws of the Gospel to the needs of the changing, existing today. 

GUIDED BY SPIRIT OF REVELATION 

I speak from a firm conviction, having tried the Gospel. When I say that this Church is guided and led today as yesterday by the spirit of revelation issuing from God to and through his servants who are called from time to time to guide, on earth, the destinies of the Church, I am certain that President Ivins possessed the spirit of revelation and was guided by it. President Hart, Elder Richards and all other faithful people who have lived the Gospel and gone to their honorable reward, have lived righteously because they in their respective spheres were under the guidance of the spirit of revelation. Every person is entitled to communion with God and guidance from him in all that has to be done from day to day. All officers of the Church, in the Priesthood, or the auxiliary organizations in their official labors, have the right to enjoy that spirit of guidance which we call the spirit of inspiration or revelation. The man who stands at the head of the Church receives such guidance for all of us. He is indeed a revelator for the Church. Our safety lies in listening to that which he says, in being guided by what he counsels. We are as nothing, in this Church and kingdom, if we are not founded upon revelation and guided by continuous revelation. The urgent need of the world is the wisdom that comes by revelation from the Lord. There will be no peace on earth, no final solution of man's vexing problems, until leaders and followers humble themselves to receive guidance from the heavens. 

MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING AND COMPREHENSION 

In concluding this thought let me say that not only must the speaker, standing in this or any other pulpit, be guided by the spirit of revelation in what he says — if he is to serve well the cause that he represents — but those who listen must also be directed by the spirit of revelation. The speaker and the hearer together must be guided by the voice that comes from God's presence. Then there is mutual understanding and comprehension. That principle was beautifully told to the Prophet Joseph Smith at the very beginning of the Church. The doctrine is set forth in section 50, of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, in which it is explained that when both the hearer and the speaker are moved upon by the same power and spirit the greatest joy is attained. I may be permitted to read at least two verses of that glorious revelation which should be known by all Latter-day Saints: 

Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understandeth one another, and both are edified and rejoice together; 

And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

THE SPIRIT OF LIGHT AND TRUTH 

Then follows what is to me perhaps the most beautiful saying among the many beautiful sayings in the revelations of God in these latter days: 

That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light and continueth in God, receiveth more light, and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. 

The day for which we hope, the day towards which we move even in this life. 

When apostasy comes, it is because the spirit of revelation departs from us. The wire is broken between us and the source of truth. We cannot understand, though truth be spoken, since we are not possessed of the spirit of truth. We misunderstand and misinterpret. 

There is only one way, brethren and sisters, to obtain and possess this mighty spirit which led Joseph Smith into the grove, there to receive the first vision, which made him the head of the last dispensation, which guides the Church today and enlightens every soul, and that is by obeying strictly, with all our might, as far as we poor mortal beings are able, the laws of the Gospel. If we obey, if we practice in our lives the truths given us, then as certainly as we do that, the enlivening spirit of light, of revelation, of understanding will come to us, comprehension will enter our minds and hearts and we shall know the true joy of being Latter-day Saints. 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that President Heber J. Grant is called and inspired of God and that he speaks the words of God. I bear witness that revelation continues in this Church, that, the door of divine communication is as open today as it was in the days of Joseph Smith. The great men mentioned here today so lived the Gospel that they will reap the rich reward of faithful living, and also have become examples fit to hold up in a general conference for us all to follow. They walked in the light of revelation. 

May God grant us power to understand the principles of the Gospel and power to live them, so that we may win for ourselves the abiding great joy that all faithful Latter-day Saints have the right to claim, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
