18
Morning
06 10 1934
Elder Wilford W. Richards 
180
56-57

None

None

My brethren and sisters, on this, my first appearance in this capacity, I feel indeed my humility. In the presence of that list, that great galaxy of leaders of this Church just referred to by Brother Smith, who have stood in this pulpit, and who have for these sixty-nine years administered the truths of the Gospel here, I indeed feel as though I stand upon sacred ground. I have the same feeling of humility with respect to the new responsibilities that have come to me recently in connection with the North Central States Mission, and I pray most humbly that my Father in heaven will be kind to me, and magnify those meager powers with which I have been blessed to his service and to his good. 

The missionaries and the Saints of the North Central States Mission are thoughtful of the Authorities of this Church and of you, my brethren and sisters, who constitute the Church at large. They send their love, their expressions of loyalty and their good will. They desire to be known as energetic workers in the field of service, and interested in the activities and growth of this great cause. 

Just a few days ago Sister Richards and I sat at a banquet table in the Minneapolis branch. A survey disclosed the fact that we were the only ones in that group who had been born and reared in the Church. The remainder were those who had heard the Gospel truths in this or other lands and had responded to the call. As we discussed with them their growth in the Church and their interest in it, their countenances beamed with joy as they enumerated the great good that had come into their lives as a result of their response to the truth. 

I have always been interested, my brethren and sisters, in seeing the fruits in the lives of the individuals of the earth who would accept the truths of the Gospel and attempt to apply them. I see here, in this experience and others of which this is only typical, that great perpetual miracle by which our Father in heaven takes the souls of his sons or daughters and remakes them for his service. Many of them have given up habits that are unclean, given up practices that were injurious, and given their lives and souls to the growth, development, and power of the service of God. I have always been interested in the spiritual responses that come to those who have attempted to apply themselves to the truth, but this has impressed me more in the mission field of recent date, I think, than ever before. So I desire that we, as members of this great kingdom of our Father in heaven, may be ever worthy of that touch of his which will inspire in us a desire to grow in the direction of service. 

Today I appreciate the opportunity of gathering with you. I appreciate the confidence of my brethren. I appreciate my association with the missionaries and the Saints of the world. I rejoice in the vital fires which the Gospel is able to kindle in the lives of those who are willing to serve and to put themselves in harmony therewith. 

May God bless us that we may exemplify in our lives that thing which the Savior meant when he said: "By their fruits ye shall know them," to the end that the fruits of our lives may be always the fruits of righteousness, fruits of service, fruits of glory unto his name everlasting. 

I bear you my testimony to the divinity of this great work and the power of it in our lives, if we will but apply it. May God bless us that we may serve him earnestly and humbly, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
