29
Afternoon
06 10 1934
Elder Harold W. Pratt
173
81-82

None

None

My very dear brethren and sisters: Words cannot express the humility and the thankfulness with which I stand before you. I have not vocabulary sufficient to express to you the happiness, the honor, and the gratitude that Sister Pratt and I feel in having the opportunity of representing you, in representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the mission field, among the Mexican people. 

I bring you greetings from the southern republic and from the thousands of Saints who have accepted the Gospel there. I should like to have time to tell you of the work we are doing. You have been told this afternoon of the work that has been accomplished in Europe in organizing the branches there and in placing the local Priesthood in charge. 

That work is being undertaken in the Mexican Mission today. In part it has been accomplished, through necessity, in the central part of the republic, due to the fact that our missionaries cannot work there on account of the religious laws. Those people have responded wonderfully, and even in our branches along the border today we are following the example of the European missions, and find that everywhere the local Priesthood, our Mexican brethren, are responding to the call of duty, and taking an active part in the management and self-government of their branches. 

As has been expressed regarding the European Saints, the same is true regarding the Mexican Saints. They feel more interest in the work, they feel that they are now becoming real members, participants in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Much has been said, my brethren and sisters, during this conference in tribute and honor to those who have passed recently from our midst. I should like to take time to express just one more thought of appreciation of President Anthony W. Ivins. I knew him intimately when I was a lad. He and my father at that time were closely associated, and it is thus that I remember him best, expressed in the thought that he was a man to whom I could go, even then, with any questions that might arise, confident that I would get an answer. He was my ideal then and has been throughout my life. I have watched him and watched his career; I have watched the reports regarding him, and have failed to find one point in him which I might criticize. 

I only wish that I might emulate his example, and might be as good a Church-man as he. It has been difficult to see who could pick up his burden, but I feel that the Lord has made the proper choice. I testify to you this afternoon that this is the Lord's work, and it does not depend upon any one man. The Lord can always supply a man to pick up the duties laid down by any man whom he sees fit to call home. 

I testify unto you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives, and that this is his work. I know that the General Authorities of this Church are called of him; I testify that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and further, that Heber J. Grant is today our prophet and seer, the representative of God upon the earth. 

We today have held up our hands sustaining him and sustaining those called to assist him in presiding over us. As for me and mine, I hope that we shall always be able to sustain him and those associated with him in very deed. 

May the blessing of our Father be poured out upon the Church throughout the world. May his blessings be poured out upon the world, may the serious times of which we have been told, and of which we know, pass by, and may his directing hand guide the nations of the earth and the peoples of the world, that his will may be accomplished, I ask in his name. Amen.
