19
Morning
06 10 1934
Elder Joseph Quinney, Jr. 
181
57-59

None

None

I appreciate beyond my power to express the great privilege that has come to me in again acting as a missionary in the nations of the world. I am grateful that I find myself in full fellowship, sustaining and upholding the Authorities of this church, for I believe that they are inspired by the light and power of God, our Eternal Father, to lead and direct his people in the paths of righteousness, and their appreciation for this great and mighty work is inspiring and uplifting. 

I should like to say just a word in reference to my predecessor, President Sloan. He has done an excellent work in the Northwestern States Mission. He has endeared himself to the hearts of many people. They appreciate his labors. It is my pleasure to report that one of the outstanding features since we have been called into the ministry is the tour around the mission that we made in August with Apostle Reed Smoot and his wife. Everywhere we went we were greeted with crowded houses. Our chapels were filled with not only our own people, but with many friends and investigators. In many places we were favored with the presence of lawyers, judges, business and professional men; indeed men of affairs in these respective places came out to hear Apostle Smoot. The good that he accomplished in the Northwest I am sure cannot be estimated. The reactions since his visit have been fine and splendid. We appreciate very much the wonderful amount of work that he did. 

We have found since going into that fine and delightful country a warmth among the people. They are responsive. They like to visit with you. Their prejudices, if they ever had any, have vanished. As a result, we are invited into the homes of many people, unfolding to them the Gospel message as revealed in these the last days. As a result, many are coming into the Church, many are investigating, many friends are being made, and we are very happy in the prospects ahead. 

We have a small but very intelligent group of missionaries. I bring from them their love and appreciation to their fathers and mothers who are keeping them in the mission field. They are well physically, mentally and spiritually, and are doing their very best to promote, teach and preach the principles of the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. It is fine to be associated with them, to feel of their spirit, to witness their determination in their labors, and to see the development that is taking place from time to time in their lives. They are laboring in a delightful and beautiful country. 

There is nothing in life, my dear brethren and sisters, that gives us so much pleasure as bearing witness to this great and mighty work, not only at home, but in the nations of the earth. I have thought that to have a testimony concerning the divinity of this work is the greatest thing that can come to any Latter-day Saint. Our testimonies increase and grow because of our service, because of our faith and the quality of prayer that we offer up to God, our Eternal Father, day by day. We are dealing with divine truth, and the exercise of it brings freedom to our souls, also brings us in touch with our Father in heaven. 

Bancroft tells us: 

No truth can perish: No truth can pass away: The flame is undying though generations disappear. Whenever moral truth has struck into being, humanity claims and guards its greatest bequest. Each generation gathers together imperishable children of the past and increases them by new sons of light alike radiant with immortality. 

Truth is one. It never contradicts itself. One truth cannot contradict another truth. Hence truth is the bond of union. But error not only contradicts truth but may contradict itself; so that there may be many errors and each at variance with the rest. Truth is therefore of necessity an element of harmony; error as necessarily an element of discord. 

The world can advance only through the culture and intellectual powers of the people. To accomplish this end by means of the people themselves is the highest purpose of government. If it be the duty of the individual to strive after a perfection like the perfection of God, how much more ought a nation to be the image of duty. 

If I interpret the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, correctly, we can advance only in our spiritual selves by adhering to those everlasting principles of truth that come to us through the Gospel of our Savior. He established the code for human behavior which when built upon leads us into an everlasting understanding of the saving graces of his divine Gospel. 

I desire, my dear brethren and sisters, to leave with you my humble testimony concerning the divinity of this great and mighty work. I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was an instrumentality through which God operated in bringing to pass the restoration of the Gospel with all of its saving graces and powers. May he bless us with the spirit of appreciation for the great opportunities that are ours, and may we always deem it a high privilege to proclaim these truths whenever opportunity affords. May we uphold and sustain those who have been called to lead and direct us in this day and time. God bless them. May they have the light of wisdom and the power of his Holy Spirit to ever guide and direct his people, is my humble prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
