27
Afternoon
06 10 1934
Elder Arthur Welling
102
78-79

None

None

I am grateful, my brethen and sisters, for the opportunity of again joining in testimony that this is verily the Church and Kingdom of God, and of making final report of my labors in the North Central States Mission, over which I have had the honor to preside during the last five years. 

I rejoice that I have membership in what I believe to be the most perfect instrument for individual development, mutual improvement, social service and moral and spiritual welfare upon the earth today — The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints— whose maker and builder is God. 

I join and rejoice in the testimony that the mission field offers one of the richest of these opportunities for development. Missionaries soon learn to rely upon the truth announced by Nephi that the Lord requires nothing of his servants but that he provides the means by which that which is required may be accomplished; also the truth of the Savior's assurance that “he that seeketh his life shall lose it; but he that will lose his life for my sake shall find it." And so, realizing his dependence upon the Lord and his partnership with him in a great cause, he serves unselfishly and well himself and fellow men. 

The first time I was called to make this report five years ago it was near the end of the final session of the conference. As I waited a moment for my turn, that peerless leader and teacher, since gone to his reward, Dr. James E. Talmage, said impressively to me: "You used to be a student of mine. Don't waste any time explaining that the time is short." 

I have greatly appreciated that lesson and the spirit in which it was offered. The time is short, here, in the mission field, everywhere. My five years in the field were all too brief, and I am glad now that I did not wait until the end to appreciate that fact. Traveling approximately forty to fifty thousand miles a year, over an area a thousand miles square, and holding not quite an average of one public meeting a day, but more than one every other day. I enjoyed every minute of it. The other missionaries were equally busy and happy in their work, and the Lord blessed our efforts; and he blessed the people that they bore with patience our imperfections, and we were all happy in service. But that is over; and we return, "with glad heart and cheerful countenance," to the work awaiting us here, for which also I am grateful. 

I rejoice in the appointment of my successor, President Wilford W. Richards, who now presides in the North Central States Mission. Already the people love him; and I bespeak for him and them the further favor and blessing of the Lord in rich abundance. 

I am glad to find myself in complete harmony with the Spirit of divine guidance which is manifest in the selection of brethren to fill important vacancies at this conference, Presidents Clark and McKay, and Elders Hinckley and Hardy. I have always worshipped from afar the General Authorities of the Church; and the better I get acquainted with them the more I love them. I know and bear record they are men of God. 

A final word of testimony I wish might reach the youth of Zion everywhere: I believe in God as our Father and in mankind as his children; in the ultimate triumph of truth and righteousness; and in prayer as a source of spiritual strength. I like a story one of the brethren tells about prayer: 

A little boy was going to bed without saying his prayers. "Haven't you forgotten something?" inquired his father. 

"No father, I haven't," said the boy. 

"Aren't you going to say your prayers?" 

"No. I've quit." 

"Quit?" 

"Yes, I've quit. You know father, you used to tell me, and mother did too, that if I would ask God for things I needed badly, he would answer my prayers and grant my requests; but when mother was sick and I prayed that she might get well, God didn't hear nor answer our prayers, but took her away instead; and so I don't see the use of praying any more, and I've quit." 

How would you have answered that little boy? 

Do we remember that one sad night the Son of God himself knelt in the garden of Gethsemane and prayed: "Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass." Was he answered? Did the cup of which he prayed pass? We know it did not. On the contrary, Son of God though he was, he drank and saved a world. 

But there was another part to the prayer he prayed in Gethsemane: "Nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done." Possibly the little boy did not know or had forgotten that part of the Savior's prayer, as likewise have too many of our Father's children, who, like the little boy, have "quit." 

The greatest need of the world today, I believe, is a disposition to concur in that second half of the Master's prayer: "Thy will, O God, not mine, be done." 

To which humble report and testimony may the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
