24
Afternoon
06 10 1934
Elder Reed Smoot 
39
67-71

None

None

I do not think that I ever attended a General Conference of the Church when I have felt a greater portion of the Spirit of the Lord and when I have been more in accord with the statements made by those who spoke. There is an echo in my heart to all that has been said, and I am quite sure that everyone present has that same feeling of loyalty to the Church. 

CHARGES IN SMOOT INVESTIGATION 

I picked up volume three of the "Investigation of Reed Smoot," and it opened to page 593. I read these words, which are part of the charges made against me by Mr. Tayler, the prosecuting attorney, I may term him, at that time: 

Several hundred thousand sincere men and women have believed and now believe, as they believe in their own existence, that Joseph Smith, Jr. received revelations direct from God, and if anyone ever believed that we must assume that Senator Smoot believes it. 

Now a Senator of the United States might believe anything else in the world but that and not be ineligible to a seat in the body to which he belongs. He might believe in polygamy; he might believe that murder was commendable; he might deny the propriety as a rule of life of all the ten commandments; he might believe in the sacrifice of human life; he might believe in no God or in a thousand gods; he might be Jew or Gentile, Mohammedan or Buddhist, atheist or pantheist; he might believe that the world began last year and would end next year, but to believe with the kind of conviction that Reed Smoot possesses that God speaks to him or may speak to him is to admit by the inevitable logic of his conviction that there is a superior authority with whom here and now he may converse, and whose command he can no more refuse to obey than he can will himself not to think. 

FAITH IN GOD AND HIS REVELATIONS 

My brethren and sisters, in my answer to the charges of Mr. Tayler, do you think for a moment that I would admit that I was not to be a Senator because I believed in a living God; because I believed that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, establishing God's work here upon this earth in this dispensation? No. I wanted every Senator and every person in all the world, if it were possible, to understand that the charge that was made against me upon that occasion I agreed was correct as far as my belief in receiving revelations from God, or that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. I never want to live long enough that that testimony shall not be burning in my soul. Rather would I die than have such a thing happen to me. I know that he was a prophet of God. I know that God and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him. I know that this is the work of God, and just as sure as we live the world will acknowledge it some time or other. 

TRIBUTE TO THE CHOIR 

I received a letter the other day, and while I have listened to the choir and know what a wonderful agency it has been to allay the prejudices of the people against the Church, I would like to read this letter to you. It is from 370 Seventh Avenue, New York, and dated August 26th, 1934: 

For more than a year I have promised myself that I would do what I am now doing, to express to you as one of the heads of the Mormon Church our appreciation for the wonderful contribution you folks are making in your Sunday presentation of the Mormon choir. 

Vacationing down along the coast during August, eight of us, including our organist and director, piled into one car to listen to your choir. The owner of that car took out an old radio set and put in a new one because he was warned in advance that nothing was to interfere on Sundays at twelve with listening to the Mormon Choir. 

I wonder if the members of your Choir realize the sheer, unalloyed joy their music is bringing to so many people! I wonder if Richard Evans realizes how gracious and fitting are his announcements and how truly, coupled with the music, they do bring peace through the week! I wonder if Frank Asper realizes that, not deprecating the work of a guest organist, we would rather hear him play. I wonder if those who pay the bills realize the great gift they are making. 

This letter is not from a gusher or a publicity seeker. We have tasted the emptiness of the gusher's words. We don't need any publicity. But when the Mormon Choir can make such heathens of Methodist singers, who love to sing, that they stay home to listen, what truer tribute could there be? 

Can't someone send us a copy of your Choir's theme song, just one copy, words and music? And might we use it in our opening service? If so, we will be singing with you. I do not mean for regular use or for broadcasting but just occasionally when we must miss your choir. I hope you can read this scribbling, but if left until tomorrow to be typed in the office it will be passed by as it has been for a year and this "thank you" has waited long enough. 

What nicer tribute could any man pay to our choir than this? 

WORDS OF ORSON HYDE 

I believe in revelation as every Latter-day Saint must. I picked up an old History of the Church the other day and I found these words, which I endorse with all my heart. They are from an address made on April 6th, 1840, at Nauvoo, by Orson Hyde, one of the great men of this Church, one of the pillars of the Church in its early days, one who traveled in Europe, in parts of the great countries of Europe, early in the forties. I read this from his journal: 

On Sunday morning, October 24, 1841, a good while before day, I arose from sleep and went out of the city (Jerusalem) as soon as the gates were opened, crossed the brook Kedron and went upon the Mount of Olives and there in solemn silence, with pen and ink and paper, just as I saw in the vision, offered up the following prayer to Him who lives forever and ever. 

LAND OF PALESTINE BLESSED 

I quote one or two paragraphs only from that lengthy prayer: 

Grant, therefore, O Lord, in the name of thy well beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water its thirsty soil. Let the vine and olive produce in their strength, and the fig tree bloom and flourish. Let the land become abundantly fruitful when possessed by its rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty to feed the returning prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication; upon it let the clouds distil virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty. Let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and the hills; and let Thy great kindness conquer and subdue the unbelief of Thy people. Do thou take from them their stony heart, and give them a heart of flesh; and may the sun of Thy favor dispel the cold mists of darkness which have beclouded their atmosphere. Incline them to gather in upon this land according to Thy word. Let them come like clouds and like doves to their windows. Let the large ships of the nations bring them from the distant isles; and let kings become their nursing fathers, and queens with motherly fondness wipe the tears of sorrow from their eyes. * * * * *

Let the nation or that people, who shall take an active part in behalf of Abraham's children, and in the rising up of Jerusalem, find favor in Thy sight. Let not their enemies prevail against them, neither let pestilence nor famine overcome them, but let the glory of Israel overshadow them, and the power of the Highest protect them; while that nation or kingdom that will not serve Thee in this glorious work must perish, according to Thy word — "Yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted." 

He then states: 

It was by political power and influence that the Jewish nation was broken down, and her subjects dispersed abroad. And I will here hazard the opinion that by political power and influence they will be gathered and built up; and further, that England is destined, in the wisdom and economy of heaven, to stretch forth the arm of political power, and advance in the front ranks of this glorious enterprise. 

PROPHECY FULFILLED 

Now let us see if that has been fulfilled. On November 5th, 1914, England declared war against Turkey. General Allenby, in command of an army of English soldiers, began his triumphant march to recover the Holy Land, driving the Turks before him and destroying their power of conquest and possession forever. He captured Gaza on November 7, 1917; Jerusalem, December 9, 1917; Nazareth, September 22, 1918; Damascus, October 1, 1918; and proceeded to Aleppo October 26, thus sweeping Palestine from Beersheba to Dan. This campaign was marvelous in many ways. It was led by an Englishman who is reported to be a man of faith and prayer. The favor of the Lord was made manifest in the comparative ease with which it was accomplished and in the few casualties of the English. The Turks were completely defeated and the surrender of the Turkish Empire followed October 30th, 1918. 

INSPIRED UTTERANCES 

My brethren and sisters, for the last few months I have been reading the old prophecies as recorded in our Millennial Star, and it seems to me that no human being could read them and know the history and look at it as it is today without acknowledging that those men were inspired of the living God, and spoke as they were inspired to speak by a higher power than man. 

I wanted to call attention to that, my brethren and sisters, for I think sometimes we who are living in this material world are so busy working hours and hours into the night— and I was going to say that ninety-five per cent of us have but one goal in view, and that is gathering to ourselves the things of this world. Most of these ninety-five per cent think of God but a few hours perhaps once a week. 

WORK OF GOD 

So, my brethren and sisters, I want to testify to you that I know that this is the work of God. I know that all that has been promised will be given if we but fulfil the requirements made by the Father. May God's blessings ever attend you in your every-day life. May his choicest blessings be upon the brethren who have been appointed to responsible positions in the Church this day. I know them, I know that our Heavenly Father knows them. I know they are worthy, and I am sure that God will be with them, and they shall have influence wherever they go, not only among our own people, but among the peoples of the world with whom they come in contact. 

PRAYS FOR PRESIDENT GRANT 

Father in heaven, bless President Grant. Thou knowest his labors and his devotion to thy cause. May he be beloved by all men for his greatness and his goodness and his love for thy cause, and may I ask the same prayer, the same blessing upon every man who is serving God in any way. May his Church grow and increase. No matter how soon the day comes when the world shall end may we all be prepared for the salvation of the children of men, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
