22
Morning
06 10 1934
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 
37
63-65

None

None

I have been edified and made happy in the testimonies of my brethren, as they have been presented at the sessions of this conference. I indorse all that has been said. I have been in somewhat of a conflict in my own mind, feeling that I would be called on, to know just what I should say, because so many things have been presented and could be enlarged upon. 

THE REVEALED WORD OF THE LORD 

I shall read a passage from the Pearl of Great Price, where the Lord says: 

And whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived. 

I have been pleading for years with the members of the Church, as I have traveled up and down through the stakes of Zion, to get them to read the scriptures. I am of the opinion that there are a great many members of this Church who would be offended if any one should say that they were not in good standing, and yet they are not familiar with the revealed word of the Lord. 

I know of no time in the history of this Church, of no time in the history of the world, when it has been more important or necessary for the people to know the will of God, and to make themselves acquainted with that which he has revealed. 

TO ESTABLISH TRUTH OF SCRIPTURES 

In the revelations given to this Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith we are informed that the Book of Mormon came forth for the purpose of establishing the truth of the Jewish scriptures, in the hearts of the people. In a revelation that was given at the time the Church was organized the Lord said, speaking of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the mission of the Prophet in translating it: 

God administered unto him by an holy angel, whose countenance was as lightning, and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness; 

And gave him power from on high, by the means which were before prepared, to translate the Book of Mormon; 

Which contains a record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jew also; 

Which was given by inspiration, and is confirmed to others by the ministering of angels, and is declared unto the world by them — 

Proving to the world that the holy scriptures are true, and that God does inspire men and call them to his holy work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old. 

LACK OF FAITH IN CHRIST’S MISSION 

It is a sad thing, but true, that the world today, the so-called Christian world, does not stand fundamentally upon the mission of Jesus Christ and the revealed word of God. I grant you there are, scattered among those who profess the Christian faith, many who do have faith and do acknowledge Christ as the Son of God, but the tendency of the times is against it. The teachings of our day are against it. The theories of men are against it. I think I know what I am speaking about, because I have studied them. 

IN CONFLICT WITH GOD's WORD 

Any theory that presents as a fact a statement that man has evolved from other forms, and has not always been a sentient being, capable of thought, of reasoning, is in conflict with the word of the Lord, as has been pointed out already by Elder Taylor in his remarks here yesterday. Any doctrine that presents a view contrary to that which has been given by revelation, that Adam was placed in the Garden of Eden, that by violation of the law he brought death into the world, and through that death sin and all the vicissitudes of mortality have come, — such a doctrine is in conflict with the revealed word of God. 

Any doctrine that declares that man has always been a fallen creature, or in other words, subject to the mortal conditions as we find them today, strikes at the vitals of the Christian faith. Any doctrine that will say there was no Garden of Eden, no need of Adam, no fall, no transgression by our first parents, also teaches that there is no redemption from the fall and that the need of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer is unnecessary. If there had been no fall there would have been no redemption; there would have been no need of Jesus Christ coming, as he declared he did come, and as it has been declared by the prophets, to repair a broken law and to restore again that which was lost and to redeem men from the fallen condition. I think what I say is logical, reasonable, and above all, it is scriptural. 

BEARS TESTIMONY OF CHRIST AND HIS MISSION 

I believe in Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the only begotten Son of the Father in the flesh; that he came into the world as the Redeemer, as the Savior; and through his death, through his ministry, the shedding of his blood, he has brought to pass redemption from death to all men, to all creatures — not alone to man, but to every living thing, and even to this earth itself, upon which we stand, for we are informed through the revelations that it too shall receive the resurrection and come forth to be crowned as a celestial body, and to be the abode of celestial beings eternally. 

I believe in Jesus Christ as the Savior of all men who are willing to repent and receive the Gospel, and not the Savior to any others, in the sense that he will give unto them an exaltation and bring them back again into the presence of God the Father. Yet he is the Savior of all men and will bless every creature, every soul, as far as he is able to bless, according to their works. 

JOSEPH SMITH AND HIS WORK 

I know that Joseph Smith was called of God; that he, as the instrument in the hands of the Lord, introduced again to the world the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and by the power of God established anew the Church of Jesus Christ in all the world, now called "of Latter-day Saints," to distinguish it from the church of former-day Saints. This is my testimony. There isn't time, of course, to enlarge upon these things, but I know this is true. I know this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and these men who are called to stand at the head do have the inspiration and the guidance of the Holy Spirit which is upon them. 

THAT WE MAY WALK IN THE TRUTH 

And I do know that it is a requirement that is made of us, as members of this Church, to make ourselves familiar with that which the Lord has revealed, that we may not be led astray, for the Lord has said there are many spirits abroad in the land; some of them are the spirits of men, some are the spirits of devils; but he has given unto us his Spirit, if we will receive it, and that Spirit leads and directs in all truth. How are we going to walk in the truth if we do not know it? 

I bear this testimony. May the Lord bless us, guide and protect us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
