23
Morning
06 10 1934
Elder Oliver H. Budge 
183
65-67

None

None

My dear brethren and sisters and good friends of the Church, I am indeed pleased, after an absence of more than four years, to have the privilege of attending this one hundred and fifth semi-annual conference of the Church of our Lord, and to again be able to associate myself with the leading brethren of the Church, as well as with all those in conference assembled. 

In reporting the German-Austrian Mission may I say that the work of the Lord in that part of his vineyard is progressing, and that the Saints are rejoicing in the blessings of the Gospel. I bring greetings to you from all of the missionaries and from approximately eight thousand members. The German Saints express the hope that the Latter-day Saints here in Zion are appreciating their membership in the Church, and that they are true and faithful to the covenants they have made with God. 

Upon my arrival in the German-Austrian Mission in October, 1930, I discovered that the financial condition of the mission was anything but desirable, but with the help of the Lord, the missionaries, the brethren of the Priesthood, and the Saints generally, we were in a position, by July, 1932, to pay all of our indebtedness in the mission, in the various districts, in the branches and in the organizations of the branches; and from that day to this we have been able to meet our obligations promptly. 

The auxiliary organizations in the mission are fully organized, with a board for each. Each organization has sufficient means to pay for its traveling expenses, its circulars, stationery and the like. Since July, 1932, no auxiliary organization has had as much as one mark from the general fund of the mission. The mission is now in a very healthy condition, financially and spiritually. 

When I arrived in the mission all of the districts were presided over by missionaries from home. Today all of the districts are presided over by local brethren of the Priesthood. Thirty per cent of the branches were then in the hands of local brethren. Today ninety-seven per cent of the branches are presided over by them. In other words, out of seventy-seven branches all are presided over by local brethren except three. 

I am thoroughly converted to the idea of turning the responsibilities of the mission over to local brethren and sisters. They are just as capable, just as intelligent, and just as able to conduct the affairs as we, if they are properly taught. As with the Priesthood, so with the Saints. I think that our work should be taken up principally with the Priesthood; teaching them proper principles, and why this, that and the other is done, and how to do it. They will take care of the rest. 

Upon my arrival there were a hundred and sixty-two missionaries in the German-Austrian Mission, and let me say to you this afternoon that, with a very few exceptions, I think the Church has never produced better young men than we have had and still have in that mission. They are clean and sweet in their habits. They are obedient and humble. If we have made any progress worth the mentioning, I desire that the credit be equally divided with these missionaries. 

We had the misfortune, during my time, to lose two missionaries in the field, Elder Arthur Wright and Elder Dale Read, of Ogden. Both of these men came into the mission field with the proper spirit and with a determination to serve God, and God only. It was not possible, however, for them to devote very much of their time to the work. God willed it otherwise. Elder Melvin A. Ashton, another good missionary, died in this city soon after his return home. Brother Melvin Ashton was also one of God's choice spirits. He was the secretary of the mission. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that when we witnessed the suffering of these men, and finally their death, our heart-strings were pulled, because we loved them almost as we love our own sons. 

Sister Budge was of great assistance in the mission, and accomplished much with the Relief Society, the young women, and the Primary organization. There had been little or nothing done in Primary work up to the time of our arrival. Sister Budge, with her assistants, succeeded in enrolling at one time fifteen hundred children in the Primary work. Fifty to sixty per cent of these children's parents are non-members of the Church. The Primaries were regular and neighborhood Primaries. I would that Sister Budge could explain to you just how the work was conducted and just how much in this regard was accomplished. 

I am grateful to the leading brethren of the Church for the opportunity I have had of filling a mission in that part of the Lord's vineyard. I desire to say that the Church owes me nothing. I shall never live long enough to repay the Church for what it has done for me. I desire to continue to be humble and obedient. The Authorities of the Church have never had occasion to ask me if I were willing to do this or that or the other; all they had to do was to tell me to do it. 

I know that the Gospel is true. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the Holy Ghost will lead and direct us in all righteousness, if we put ourselves in a position to be led by him. May we all so live that we shall be able to say, although the world is full of devils who seek to overthrow us, we fear not, for in the end we shall win. Amen.
