28
Afternoon
06 10 1934
Elder William R. Sloan
97
79-82

None

None 

For seventeen successive conferences of the Church it has been my happy privilege to stand before a congregation such as this and give a report of the Northwestern States Mission, over which Sister Sloan and I had been called to preside. We were called to this responsibility on the 19th day of October, 1926. A few days later we were set apart, and the latter part of November I went to the mission and toured it with my predecessor, President Brigham S. Young. 

I am happy to say, in your presence that our life has been tremendously happy, and if you brethren and sisters, in your homes, have enjoyed life as much as my companion and I have done during the past thirty years, you have tasted a little of the joys of heaven, I am sure. We believe that the heaven received in the hereafter will be commensurate with what we make it here, and the first place to establish those heavenly relations, I believe, is in the home. 

Had it not been for the help of the Lord, the faith and prayers of my brethren, and the untiring support of my good wife, my success in life would have been greatly diminished from what it has been, if there has been any success. Oh, we are not half so appreciative of the blessing of good companionship as we should be. 

We have enjoyed the work of the mission; we are happy that Brother and Sister Joseph Quinney, Jr., have been chosen to succeed us. We have known these good people many years, they are not going to be found wanting in their responsibilities, I am sure. They are presiding over one of the finest missions in the world, and they are meeting a wonderfully fine people. I am sure that success will crown their noble efforts. 

I am grateful, above all, to you good fathers and mothers who have trusted your sons and daughters with us. Oh, what an enrichment has come into our lives in the companionship of those noble young men and women. Finer men and women do not live in any part of the world than those among whom we have labored in the Northwestern States Mission, and if I might ask only one favor of my Heavenly Father today, it would be that those young men and young women might be as loyal to this Church all the days of their lives as they were while they labored with us.

May God grant that we too, Sister Sloan and I, may never find ourselves becoming soured, may never find ourselves disappointed, may never find ourselves in a condition or position where we have aught to complain about regarding our brethren in this Church. 

I love the leadership of this Church. I am in strict accord with them. I am happy to say that we have had almost five hundred young men and women labor with us in the mission field. Tens of thousands of copies of the Book of Mormon have been distributed in that mission almost twenty-five hundred baptisms have been performed during our term of office; and so we have watched the mission grow Many new chapels have been erected, the people have prospered and developed and they are enjoying the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ today 

I am happy, upon our release, to cast my lot with the people of the Northwest. I am happy for the favorable comments that have been made concerning our work. I was delighted a few weeks ago to be invited into a meeting of the leading business men of Portland, among them a former governor of the state, the mayor of the city, and other noted men of Portland. I sat at a luncheon with them. At the close of the luncheon they said: "Mr. Sloan, would you object to giving us a brief resume of your life." 

This I did, and they said: "You are the man we are looking for." I was offered then a very fine position with those gentlemen, and I am happy to tell you that I have accepted it. 

A few days later I was in the presence of one of these men, and during the course of our conversation he said these words: "Mr. Sloan, do you know why you were invited into that meeting? Do you know why you were given this position?" 

I said, "I have no idea. Probably it would be interesting to me to know." 

He said: "I will tell you, then. Mr. Sloan, the reason you were given this position was the fact that you are a Mormon." 

Oh, how my heart leaped with joy. "You are a Mormon." What greater heritage could I ask for? 

God bless this Church, its manhood and its womanhood. As this gentlemen said those words the face of my mother was pictured in my mind and I remembered her teaching from infancy: "Son, your moral character is worth more to you than all life itself." 

Standing before you today I bear witness that the teachings of my mother and the teachings of this Church have carried me on, and now to stand and look honorable, virtuous men and women in the face, this is the heritage of this Church. Be not ashamed of it. Let us emulate the teachings of this Church. 

You brethren holding the Priesthood, I commend to you the reading of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. I commend to you that you obtain a knowledge of that book. 

May we cherish this work above all else in the earth, for it is not the work of man, it is of God. He is at the helm and it shall never fail. This is my testimony; I leave it with you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
