21
Morning
06 10 1934
Elder Frank I. Kooyman 
182
61-63

None

None

It certainly is an inspiration, my brethren and sisters, to be here with you in conference, and to enjoy the wonderful spirit that is present. I was thrilled this morning when I heard President Grant announce that Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley, who many years ago labored in Holland where I have been presiding for the past four and a half years, had been chosen as one of the Twelve. It was Alonzo A. Hinckley who took me into the water and baptized me. I have always looked upon him as a real servant of God. When I was in his presence I could understand why it was that people testified about the Prophet Joseph and President Brigham Young and others, that no matter how much these men were slandered, if they could only come into their presence, could feel what kind of men they were, all ill feelings would leave them. I have the very tenderest spot in my heart for Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley, and I thank my Father in heaven for the joy that his service brought to me. I know his appointment is by inspiration. 

I have very much enjoyed my labors in Holland. It has been a pleasure to try to follow the instructions that were given to us by President John A. Widtsoe, who was in charge of the European Mission while I was there. What a joy it was to teach, especially our young people, through the labors of our auxiliary organizations. The people at large there did not seem to be very much impressed with our teachings, not very much interested, so we started to labor with our young people, to get them into uniform action with all the groups at home. 

What an inspiration it was to receive our young men, our young Elders, and train them to work with our local people there, to see them develop and take hold of the work, and to hear them sing the songs of Zion with the same spirit that we sing them here. 

And by the way, what would our M. I. A. leaders say should they be over there and attend a meeting of our young people, an inspiring meeting, when the one in charge of the congregation might lean over and ask: "What would you suggest we sing?" 

They might say: "Let's sing 'Carry On.' " 

"Well, we haven't got it in our language." 

" 'True to the Faith,' then." 

"We haven't got it." 

" ‘Put your Shoulder to the Wheel.' " 

"Oh, no, we haven't got that translated yet, either." 

That was the condition. Then, if the Lord had blessed you, that you had, perhaps, a little ability to translate, you would try to put these songs into the other language. "Firm as the mountains around us" — what does the Hollander know about mountains? Not a thing. "And we hear the desert singing" — they have never seen a desert. So, of course, we have our difficulties, but still, with the help of the Lord, we have been able to translate these songs, and now the Saints are singing them. 

Our young people are entering their tenth year of Mutual work, and they feel that same spirit, that same thrill that we feel when we sing "Carry On," when we sing, "True to the Faith," and "Put your Shoulder to the Wheel." 

I thank my Father in heaven for my contact with this great latter-day work, for my contact with men like Alonzo A. Hinckley and all of our leaders— President Heber J. Grant was presiding over the European Mission when I was on my first mission. Oh, I thank my Father in heaven that I stood next to that man as an interpreter and felt the power of God, for I was unable to talk English at that time. I was just studying the language and in the beginning I could not remember half of what President Grant said. Then some time later, when that beautiful inspiration, that power of God, descended upon both of us, there was the word of God, an interpretation that couldn't be better. Thanks to our Father in heaven! 

I thank the Lord for the opportunity I have had of laboring in the mission field, for the opportunity I have now of laboring among the people at home, of bearing testimony that God has spoken, that his servants are again upon the earth, that we have his Priesthood, that we have a living Church. 

May the Lord help us to realize our opportunities, to live such lives that his power and influence may be felt through us, I humbly pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen.
