17
Morning
06 10 1934
Elder James M. Kirkham
179
55-56

None

None 

I pray that the Lord will bless me while I stand here before you. I want to report to you the condition of the East Central States Mission. We are happy in our work and the Lord is blessing us. We need more help in the mission field, and I believe that will be true in nearly all of the missions. I know it is in our mission field. 

I would like to encourage you, my brethren and sisters, to send your sons and daughters into the mission field. I think I can speak truthfully and with knowledge, having sent seven of my own children into the mission field, when I say to you that the Lord will bless you if you will do it. I know that he has blessed me. I know that he has provided the way, and from that point of view I can speak to you sincerely and say to you, if you will exercise your faith in our Heavenly Father he will provide the way for them to go. 

It is but a short time after these young men and women come into our field — even at the door, when we greet them at the mission home, — when we feel that we are acquainted with them. It is but a day or two until we fairly love them and make them as part of our own family. It is wonderful to labor with these young people. Their example, their lives, their every word is watched by the people with whom they labor. I believe, my brethren and sisters, if we would preach a sermon that would be powerful and of great worth we must live the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because our lives and our actions are watched. I know this from the experience I have gained in the short time that I have been away, from people who report to us who have visited here in Utah. 

The Saints in the East Central States Mission are very much scattered. There are but few places where there are any number of our people who meet together. For this reason we have a great problem in teaching them spirituality and keeping them active in church work. We have been teaching them to pray; the two brethren who have preceded me have spoken on this subject, and I want to emphasize the power of prayer. I believe that we do not pray sincerely enough sometimes. We pray, I know, but "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed." I want you, my brethren and sisters, to pray for me, to pray for the missionaries who are away, because we need your faith and your sustaining power. The prayer of the righteous man availeth much. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to carry on, to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the world, to warn the people of the coming day when our Savior will be here, because I honestly believe that that time is not far distant. The prophecies that have been made concerning the coming of this event are being fulfilled. 

My brethren and sisters, may the Lord bless you, and help us all to so live and conduct our lives that we will be worthy of the blessings that we so much desire from him from time to time, is my prayer and blessing, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
