34
Morning
07 10 1934
President Rudger Clawson 
7
100-103

None

None

My brethren and sisters, this great gathering is an amazing sight. The Tabernacle is filled to its utmost capacity. Last evening it was reported there were five thousand of the Priesthood assembled here. Later word came that the number was seven thousand. I presume there are some people who would interpret this to mean that Mormonism is failing. I have been thrilled with the spirit of this conference; the testimonies and exhortations that have been given were powerful, and the singing has been most excellent. 

I desire to speak a word of appreciation for the Singing Mothers who have done so well during the conference, under the direction of Mrs. Charlotte Sackett, a capable leader. As to the Tabernacle Choir, I need only to say its work is "par excellence." 

INTELLIGENCE NECESSARY TO ACCEPTABLE WORSHIP 

Brethren and sisters, the moments are precious, and in order to conserve the time, I jotted down a few thoughts that have been running through my mind during the conference. This is the fifth session of the conference. We are assembled here to worship the Lord, but we cannot worship him intelligently and acceptably without some knowledge of just What kind of being he is. 

Paul, the apostle, said: "This is life eternal that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." There are some people in the world around us who contend that God is a being without body, parts or passions, and is incomprehensible. Truly such a God is incomprehensible. 

ATTRIBUTES ASCRIBED TO GOD 

The God of the Bible, that being whom the Latter-day Saints worship, it is evident, has a body, parts and passions, for in the beginning he said: 

"Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." And the record goes on to say that God did make man in his own image and after his likeness. It is disclosed in Holy Writ that Moses saw God and talked with him face to face. It is also recorded that Christ Jesus was in the express image of God his Father. 

The attributes of God which in combination go to make his character are glorious to contemplate. The Lord is a God of mercy, a God of truth, a God of justice and a God of love. In respect to these great attributes God is unchangeable. In Malachi the following scripture is found: 

For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. 

In one of the Psalms we read "The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy." These references clearly indicate that God has passions. 

And on the other hand, my brethren and sisters, the Lord refers to himself as a God of vengeance, and I am going to read to you now a few words from the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Let me emphasize the importance of this record. It is a great book. It contains revelations of God in latter times, given to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and others. I refer to Section 133, and the words there recorded are extremely important and impressive: 

And it shall be said: Who is this that cometh down from God in heaven with dyed garments; yea, from the regions which are not known, clothed in his glorious apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength? 

And he shall say: I am he who spake in righteousness, mighty to save. 

And the Lord shall be red in his apparel, and his garments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat. 

And so great shall be the glory of his presence that the sun shall hide his face in shame, and the moon shall withhold its light, and the stars shall be hurled from their places. 

And his voice shall be heard: I have trodden the wine-press alone, and have brought judgment upon all people; and none were with me; 

And I have trampled them in my fury, and I did tread upon them in mine anger, and their blood have I sprinkled upon my garments, and stained all my raiment; for this was the day of vengeance which was in my heart. 

And again, in the same great section: 

And also that which was written by the prophet Malachi: For, behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 

WICKED WILL HAVE OPPORTUNITY 

The great mercy of the Lord, however, is shown by the fact that he will withhold his final judgment from overtaking the wicked till after the Gospel has been preached to them, the message reaching every nation, kindred, tongue and people. The responsibility of putting over the Gospel message rests with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, through its important missionary system. 

The contrast between the destruction of the wicked and the salvation of the righteous is set forth in impressive language in Section 133 also. Now, listen, my brethren and sisters, to these wonderful words of the Lord: 

And now the year of my redeemed is come; and they shall mention the loving kindness of their Lord, and all that he has bestowed upon them according to his goodness, and according to his loving kindness, forever and ever. 

In all their afflictions he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them; and in his love, and in his pity, he redeemed them, and bore them, and carried them all the days of old. 

Yea, and Enoch also, and they who were with him; the prophets who were before him; and Noah also, and they who were before him; and Moses also, and, they who were before him; 

And from Moses to Elijah, and from Elijah to John, who were with Christ in his resurrection, and the holy apostles, with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, shall be in the presence of the Lamb. 

And the graves of the saints shall be opened; and they shall come forth and stand on the right hand of the Lamb, when he shall stand upon Mount Zion, and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem; and they shall sing the song of the Lamb, day and night forever and ever. 

And for this cause, that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his gospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity. 

And then this further: 

For since the beginning of the world have not men heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath any eye seen, O God, besides thee, how great things thou hast prepared for him that waiteth for thee. 

THE TWO ROADS 

It will be seen, from the foregoing impressive and stirring words of the revelation given to the Latter-day Saints, that in the great scheme of life there are two roads to travel, and it is the privilege of every human soul to determine, under the God-given right of his free agency, which road he will elect to follow. If he chooses the road of wickedness it will lead him down to certain destruction. If he chooses the road of righteousness it will lead him up to everlasting life in a kingdom of glory. 

Brethren and sisters, Latter-day Saints, you have elected to follow the road of righteousness. So continue, but remember this: "The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, but to him that endureth to the end." 

CHANGES IN PRESIDING COUNCILS 

Within three and one-half years, as was mentioned in one of yesterday's meetings, some nine of the General Authorities of the Church have gone hence. Death came and took them. There were two members of the First Presidency, President Anthony W. Ivins and President Charles W. Nibley. There were two members of the Council of the Twelve, Brother Orson F. Whitney and Brother James E. Talmage. 

There was the Patriarch, Brother Hyrum G. Smith; and four members of the First Council of Seventy, Brother Rey L. Pratt, Brother Joseph W. McMurrin, Brother B. H. Roberts, and last week, Brother Charles H. Hart. These were great and good men. They were valiant for the testimony of Jesus. They did a good work and kept the faith, and thus it was that they followed the road to righteousness. They will come forth in the morning of the first resurrection and enter into immortality and eternal life. 

Now the gap that has been made by death in the ranks of these leading quorums has been closed. We will greatly miss Presidents Ivins and Nibley and these brethren of the First Council who were strong in testimony and wise in exhortation. Others have come to take their place, and it must be a satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints, to the Church generally, that there is now no rent, no gap in these higher councils of the Church. 

Brother David O. McKay has gone from the Council of the Twelve and is now sustained as Second Counselor in the quorum of the First Presidency. He is a man that we have truly loved. He has had our utmost confidence. As a member of the Council of the Twelve he accomplished a great and a good work that will follow him throughout life and throughout all eternity. 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

In conclusion permit me, my brethren and sisters, to bear my testimony. I love the Lord God because I can comprehend him, because I know that he has a body, parts and passions, and is in the form of man. I love him because of the glorious attributes of his character, and, thus loving him, I feel that I can approach him, can worship him acceptably and intelligently. I love Jesus Christ because he is the Son of the living God and is in the likeness of his Father. I can comprehend that. I love him particularly for the great atonement that he wrought out through the shedding of his precious blood. He is your Savior and he is my Savior. I love Joseph Smith because he was and is a true prophet of God, who stands at the head of this great last dispensation. I know that this is the work of God and that it will never be overthrown. 

I pray God the Eternal Father to bless the Latter-day Saints, to bless the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy, to bless all the leaders of the Church down through the various ranks of the Priesthood. This I do in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
