Afternoon 
10 04 1930

The hymn, "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire," was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Clarence E. (Smith, President of the Bear River Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

"For behold, my soul delighteth in plainness unto my people, that they may learn." 

These kre the words of an ancient Hebrew prophet, addressed  the people whose leader he was, commissioned and appointed o'f God. 

The spirit of plainness has characterized the addresses of this conference so far, and if I speak plainly unto you at this time I trust you will understand that I speak under the same spirit that impelled Nephi in the utterance cited. 

WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH THE WORLD? 

We do not believe in treating ourselves with gratulation to the extent that we feel because we are the covenant people of God —  and we boldly proclaim this fact — that all is well with us and that we are right in the sight of God to the extent he would have us be. Gentle but firm admonishment has been given in earlier addresses. Well deserved commendations have been made of the good that our people have accomplished and are accomplishing, and the question of what is the matter with the world, which occasionally we see in bold headlines in newspapers and magazines, has been touched upon. 

The great trouble with the world today as I understand it is that it has become idolatrous. We read of idolatry and think of it as a practice or series of practices in the past. This is an idolatrous generation, defying the commandment written by the finger of God — "Thou shalt have no other gods before me," and an idolatrous generation is an adulterous generation. 

IDOLATRY AND ADULTERY 

Have you never pondered over that remark of the Savior to those who came seeking a sign at his hand, when there were signs all about them? They had seen the sick healed, the lame made to walk, the deaf made to hear, the blind made to see, the dead raised to life, and still they came asking for a sign; and he answered them as befitted their hypocrisy: 

"An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign." 

I ask, have you ever considered the connection between the awful sin of adultery and that godlessness that made those curiosity-seekers come asking for a sign? The word "adultery" and the word "idolatry" were originally one, that is, they sprang from the same root, and mean essentially the condition of being false to a solemn covenant. 

The Lord compared himself — though in terms of rebuke — to the Israelites of old, as their husband. "I am married unto you," he said; and further, in effect: "O recreant Judah, backsliding Israel. I am married unto you. I love you as a husband loves his wife, and yet you go after strange gods and desert me, with whom you have made covenant." 

LIVING SCRIPTURES 

That was adultery and idolatry, and such is characteristic of the world today. How far does it affect the Latter-day Saints? Let Vis consider later. But first I cite you to a bit of ancient scriptural history, and as introductory to such citation, I take the opportunity of saying that every dispensation of the Lord's dealings with mankind, from the Adamic down, has been characterized by living scriptures. The accumulated scriptures of earlier dispensations were quite essential to the people lest they would dwindle in unbelief. These ancient records are the world's treasures; but ancient scripture is not enough. In every dispensation there have been oracles of God empowered to speak the will and the word of the Lord, and what they spoke became scripture, technically after it was written; and these scriptures are preserved for our guidance. 

A BIT OF ANCIENT HISTORY 

Here is the historic instance I would cite to you. Call to mind the history of King Nebuchadnezzar, whom the Lord used as a scourge unto the covenant people because they had gone astray. Aye, because they had deserted him, their husband, and had fallen into the ways of idolatry and adultery, he sent Nebuchadnezzar to scourge them. The pagan king led Israel captive. He went so far as to take from the temple in Jerusalem the sacred vessels of gold and silver that has been used in the ceremonies- and ordinances of the holy house. Eventually Nebuchadnezzar was brought to see the power of God and rendered praise unto him. 

His successor, Belshazzar, referred to by historians as the son or the grandson of Nebuchadnezzar, was lifted up in the pride of his heart, and on the occasion of a great feast he called for the vessels that had been brought from the temple that he might display before his people his power and proclaim anew the captivity of Judah. 

You know the story. As he and his lords with their wives and concubines there in the court were drinking from those vessels, a mystic hand appeared, writing upon the wall. None of the king's sooth-sayers or wise men could interpret the writing. Belshazzar was greatly frightened. Then Daniel was called, he who had interpreted the dream of Nebuchadnezzar, and he spoke plainly, for his soul delighted in plainness. He recited the troubles that had come upon Nebuchadnezzar, and then added : 

"And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart, though thou knewest all this; 

"But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines, have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silver, and gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor know : and the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all!thy ways, hast thou not glorified." 

Then did he interpret the divinely cryptic writing, part of which interpretation made clear to Belshazzar that he had been weighed in the balance and found wanting, and his kingdom was to be taken from him. 

PRESENT DAY APPLICATION 

Ancient history, you say, yes but is it not applicable to conditions in the world today? Men are praising the gods of silver and of gold and of all the other valuable commodities that make up wealth, and the God in whose hand their breath is and whose are all their ways they will not recognize. Do you wonder that wickedness and crime have increased to terrifying proportions under those conditions? The prophets of old foresaw it. They spoke of the days of wickedness and vengeance immediately precedent to the second coming of the Lord, which I reiterate, for it has been spoken before, is near at hand. 

Now, O Israel, ye Latter-day Saints, how far do these conditions exist among us as a people, laying claim even to higher title than that of which Israel of old were so proud? There were certain signs by which that ancient people were known among their pagan contemporaries. I mention three, as many as time will permit. 

SIGNS OF THE COVENANT PEOPLE 

The Israelites were distinguished in the first place as worshipers of a living God, -a personal God, in whose image they had been created and made. No other nation on the face of the earth recognized the living God. That was a sign by which the covenant people, descendants of Abraham, through Isaac and Jacob, were known. Another sign was this, they observed every seventh day as the Sabbath of the Lord their God; and the Lord had said : This shall be a sign between thee and the nations : The}' shall know that ye are my people, because ye observe my Sabbaths. And the third sign I mention is that they were tithed of all they possessed. Those were set forth prominently as the banners of Israel, by which all nations should know that they were the covenant people of God. 

Now I repeat, in every dispensation living scriptures are given. The history of the past is of value, but the great principles are restated, the fundamental laws are reenacted. Christ came to fulfil and supersede the law of Moses, and yet with his own lips in the flesh he restated every commandment in the Decalog, giving it to the new dispensation. He cited prophecies of the past, connecting up the earlier dispensations with that in which he lived and at the head of which he stood in a particular sense, not only as the head of all dispensations, but in the sense of his being there in mortality. 

Where do we stand with respect to those signs ? Are we worshiping the true and living God, or are we going idolatrously after the gods of gold and silver, of iron and wood, and brass, diamonds and other idols of wealth? Are we worshiping our farms, our cattle and sheep ? Who is our God ? To whom are we yielding homage, allegiance and worship? Not worship by means of words only, in ritualistic form, but worship in action, devotion, and sacrificial service? 

COMMENDATION AND ADMONITION 

I feel it is the duty of those who stand as your presiding servants and your leaders to call attention to the defects of the people as well as to praise their good deeds; and I say that we are not fully living up to those signs characteristic of the Lord's covenant people. Where are you spending your Sabbaths? Are you tithed? No other people on the face of the earth is making such a record, and I believe no other people in past ages have made such a record as the Latter-day Saints are making, in the matter of the payment of tithes. But collectively we are about a fifty per cent tithe-paying people. Are we in the habit of leaving our tithing settlement until the end of the year and then making some donation or gift, calling it tithing, trifling with the word of God and his law? I doubt if there be one man in fifty, perhaps not one in a hundred, who leaves the payment of his tithing until the end of the year who pays a tithe. Unless he keeps his books with all the care that a bookkeeper in a great business corporation could give he does not know what he has to tithe. But the Lord would have you tithed as his people of old were tithed, paying when they received. 

I know that this people are the people of the Lord, that they are acceptable unto him, but we are not reaching fully the requirements that the Lord has made upon us; and too many Latter-day Saints are going after strange gods, setting their hearts on their hay and their corn, their bonds and stocks, their automobiles and the luxuries of the world, to the neglect of their duties in the Church. Though I would be no prophet of evil, of disaster, or of calamity, I feel to say that if the Latter-day Saints do not obey the law that God has given with respect to the tithes, they will have less and less to tithe, this in the Lord's own time. 

EXHORTATION TO GREATER EFFORT 

Let us lift the banners of Zion, the banner of the true worship of the living God, the banner of Sabbath observance, make it a holy day for the service of the Lord, not a day of idle rest and sleep and inactivity, but a day of activity in the Lord's important service. This he has required of us, and he never has modified the requirement by the slightest amendment. Keep flying the banner of the sacred tithe for the Lord. He would have his people tithed that the land may be sanctified unto them. It is for our good that the law of the tithe has been given. We cannot advance in the knowledge of God and the things pertaining to exaltation in the kingdom of God unless we have that training. 

I can join with full heart and soul with my brethren and sisters in that joyous hymn, "Zion prospers, all is well." But I remember also the words of the Lord given unto the Nephites of old : "Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion! Wo be unto him that crieth : All is well!" It depends upon how we say it and how we sing it. Zion is prospering and will continue to prosper in spite of you, my brother, you forty per cent Latter-day Saint; in spite of myself, whatever my rating may be, and I am trying to attain the one hundred per cent 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 75 

standard. Zion will prosper in spite of me, if I am not faithful. But wo unto him who sits down in idle complacency, neglecting the commandments of God. 

I pray that we may be what we profess to be, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, man in his creation is a dual being. There is a spiritual side to his nature and there is a temporal side, and with respect to this matter I desire to give expression to the thought that is in my mind. 

THE DUAL NATURE OF MAN 

If you will pardon me for being personal, I will say that for the last seventy-three years I have been partaking of food, and every time I sit down to a meal of victuals, if I address myself to the occasion with a good appetite and the food is properly prepared, I enjoy it. It contributes to my body. It is pleasant, refreshing and healthful. 

Now, the elements that were in the food that I have partaken of are about the same, and yet when the food is prepared in a variety of different ways and made inviting to the taste it accomplishes the purpose. If I refrain from taking food into my mortal body, the body will die. 

What I have said of the body is equally applicable to the spirit. We come to meeting and sit down at the table of the Lord, so to speak, and partake of spiritual food. We have had a most wonderful spectacle in this General Conference. Yesterday the people assembled in great numbers and sat and listened with rapt attention to what was said. Why did they come to the meeting? They came in order to get spiritual food, and they appeared to enjoy it and to be well satisfied at the conclusion of the services. It almost appeared from their attitude that they were indeed perfectly satisfied and would require no more of such food. But here they are again today, the same people, with an appetite for more food to strengthen their spiritual natures. 

This seems wonderful to me, but it is comprehensible and it is true. 

THE GOSPEL EVERLASTING AND EVER-INTERESTING 

Now, with respect to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, we have been listening to the preaching of the Gospel for an hundred years. It has not changed in principle, or theory, or practice, one iota in all that period of time. We are led to believe, and we surely do believe, that it will never change. It is an everlasting Gospel, and yet when these glorious doctrines such as faith, repentance and baptism, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and other principles of the Gospel — I say when they are presented to us from different viewpoints, combined with the particular characteristics of the speakers, their manner of delivery, etc., we become interested, and what we hear seems to be new to us and is acceptable and pleasant. And yet, as I have already said, there isn't any change at all in the scheme of salvation. 

It may be, my brethren and sisters, in my remarks this afternoon that I shall touch upon some principle or principles that have been emphasized in this Conference. If so, I hope to approach them at a little different angle from that which you have heard, so that you will not become weary and tired, but may be profited. 

A SACRED VOLUME OF SCRIPTURE 

I have in my hand the Pearl of Great Price, which is a sacred volume of scripture. It is one of the standard works of the Church, and in its teachings, it is in perfect harmony with the Holy Bible. The title page reads as follows: 

"The Pearl of Great Price — selections from the revelations, translations and narrations of Joseph Smith, the first prophet, seer and revelator to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

So, in part, what is found in this book, is a veritable pearl of great value. It was translated by Joseph Smith the Prophet from parchment, or papyrus, which came down from ancient times and was found enclosed with a mummy. It is a record which is well worth the careful attention of the world. 

AN EXTREMELY IMPORTANT WORK 

In this book there is a sentence which has already been quoted in our Conference and which I am disposed to repeat, wherein the Lord says : 

"This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

Brother W hitney, I think, emphasized these words, and others have referred to them. Well, now, brethren and sisters, let me say to you that in my opinion the work thus referred to is the greatest and most important and most vital work in which God is engaged. Why is it so extremely important that he should bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man? It is for this reason: God himself is eternal, God is the "Father of the spirits of all flesh." Our earthly parents furnish our bodies, and our Heavenly Parents furnish our spirits, and the spirit and the body joined together constitute the soul of man. Hence the children of men are living souls. It so appears from the very beginning, at the time of man's creation. The record says : "God created man of the dust of the earth and breathed into him the breath of life, and man became a living soul." He was never a living soul until that moment. What was he? A living spirit — whose habitation was in heaven. But when the body was created from the dust of the earth God put the spirit into the body, and man became a living soul, a child of God. It is not to be wondered at that God is interested in man. It is not to be wondered at that he desires his salvation. 

SAVING PRINCIPLES 

Now, God is a pure and holy being, and in order that man might be saved it is highly essential that he should become like God. And if that be the case, it is imperative that man should repent of his sins and do works of righteousness, and until such time as this is brought about man cannot be saved. No impure or unholy thing can come into the presence of God and dwell there. This emphasizes powerfully the importance of the doctrine of repentance. 

And then if you put forth the saving principle of repentance there must be something to go with it. It is not complete in itself. It is not sufficient that a man shall repent of his sins. There still remains the weight of sin upon his soul. There must be some way to remove the weight of sin from his soul. God has provided the means, and it consists of baptism, baptism by water, by immersion, in the name of Jesus Christ, administered by one having authority, for the remission of sins. All conditions being equal, when the man comes forth from the water of baptism, his sins are washed away absolutely. If they are not washed away baptism is a mockery in the sight of God. If it does not accomplish this purpose there is nothing to it. But we maintain that it does, and the effect of baptism properly administered is apparent at once. That is, mark you, if it is a complete baptism, and it is not complete if it has to do with the water simply and nothing further. 

A NEW BIRTH 

Baptism, like many other things, is dual in character. There are two vital features connected with it. There is the baptism by water, or the birth by water, as Jesus said to Nicodemus, and there is the baptism of the Spirit, or the birth by Spirit. What kind of baptism is the baptism by the Spirit? the Christian world might ask. Do yon not know, ye men of the world, ye ministers of the Gospel, do ye not know what the birth of the Spirit is? If you do not let me enlighten you and say that it is the gift of the Holy Ghost, which comes upon a man by the laying on of hands of one having authority, and the gift is transmitted to the baptized believer. He is enveloped, buried as it were, in that spirit and power, the power of the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of truth, that brings to his memory things present, things past, and things to come. 

This is a complete baptism and it is described by the Savior as a new birth. We are born into the world. That is the first birth with which we have to do. What a wonderful thing that is! What a tremendous privilege, that we were permitted to come into the world and take upon ourselves these bodies. And so now if we are to come into the Church and Kingdom 'of God it must be by some such means as birth. We must be born into the Kingdom of God. We cannot walk into it; we cannot run or jump into it, or drop into it, or grow up into it; we must be born into it. We must go through the door, and the door is baptism. SALVATION IN NO OTHER WAY 

You see that there is reason and logic in this great principle that is treated lightly by some people in the world, some people who say, "yes, yes, that is very well, if you want baptism you may have it; some of the churches will give it to you if you want it. If you do not want it you are at liberty to let it alone. You can have it or not as you please." But the Latter-day Saints say it is a vital principle of the Gospel and it cannot be set aside and must not be ignored. And so surely as the sun shines and truly as we live, no man or woman can come into the Church and Kingdom of God and be saved in his presence without passing through the door. 

FULFILLING AN IMPORTANT OBLIGATION 

Having passed through the door of baptism into the Kingdom this is just the initial step. We simply have the means, the blessing and the gift to become acquainted with the things of God, to grow in understanding, in knowledge and wisdom. And let me tell you of one thing — there are many things of course — but one very vital principle I would like to emphasize for a moment before I sit down. It was brought to my mind as I left the meeting this morning. 

I met a good sister who offered her hand and said to me : 

"Brother Clawson, don't you recognize me?" 

I said to her, "Yes, of course I recognize you, but for the moment I am unable to call your name. Your face is familiar to me." 

"W)ell," she said, "Brother Clawson you might forget me but I shall never forget you, because you once presided over me and over my people in the Box Elder Stake. My name is so-and-so." 

I said : "Surely it is, I recognize you now perfectly. How is your health? You are looking very fine, in fact, you have quite a youthful appearance." 

She said : "Brother Clawson, my health is very good, and do you know, I have had quite a family of children." "How many have you had?" 

She answered : "I have had twelve children and they are all living." Then I said to her : "Are they doing well ? Are they good children ?" She said, "Yes." 

I said to her : "You are very fortunate, you are a blessed woman, because you have given heed to that first great commandment that was given to Adam in the garden of Eden, when God said unto him and unto Eve, 'Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth.' That was the obligation put upon Adam, and that is the obligation that rests upon his children." 

A PARTNERSHIP WITH GOD 

Then I said to her, "Do you know what that means? It means you have met this obligation, that you have fulfilled this great duty in life. It means that you have entered into a partnership with God Almighty. Now, that seems like strong language to use, to say that a  man, or a mortal woman, has entered into partnership with the Lord. But it is true, for the Lord is the Creator of the souls of men, and it takes the spirit and the body to make a soul, a living soul. You and your good husband have created mortal bodies for twelve beings, twelve souls. That is your work, and God has contributed twelve living, eternal spirits and put them into those bodies. So you have become a partner with him. You occupy a very different position, entirely different to many of those grand ladies in the world, so denominated, so thought to be, with their wealth and their culture and their opportunities. These grand ladies seem to be satisfied and content to put their affections, and the affections of the human heart are very wonderful, upon the lower animals — dogs, cats, and monkeys." 

I said, "I have wondered many times what would be the feeling of these people that I am speaking of who are blessed with mortal bodies, when they appear before the bar of God and stand there convicted of not having been willing to meet the great obligation of marriage which was instituted to people the earth." 

ADVICE CONCERNING MARRIAGE 

Now, brethren and sisters, this is an extremely interesting and important matter because the Latter-day Saints, and particularly the authorities of the Church, favor marriage. We advise our young people to marry when they have reached a proper and suitable age. Young ladies are marriageable at eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one and twenty-two, and later on. Young men at twenty-two, twenty-three and twenty-four, twenty-five and later on. It is their duty to go forth and honor this law of God. We say to them, be very careful and keep yourselves pure and undefiled. We say to the young men of Israel, be careful in selecting your companions. Make it a subject of prayer and much thought. Seek women of faith, women of pure lives; and then be sure, be very sure that you are in love with the women you espouse and hope to marry. I would not say to love them with all your heart and soul, because that belongs to God. That duty is to him alone. But be sure you love the young woman sincerely and truly, and be sure that she is a good woman. Then, we would say to the young woman in making her choice : Be ye equally careful. Be sure the young man is of good character, pure in his life, that he is a young man of faith; and after all be very sure that you love him. Without love there could be no lasting happiness between husband and wife. Love is very binding in its nature and will help to hold them together. 

FOR TIME ONLY OR FOR ETERNITY? 

Then I should ask a couple if I were advising them, "What kind of marriage are you contracting? Is it a civil marriage or a temple marriage?" If a civil marriage, I should say: "Well that is a good marriage, that is legal. The United States of America stands behind the civil marriage. It is not the best marriage for you, however. There is another marriage that is far superior, and it is the Temple marriage. The Temple marriage is very different in character to the civil marriage." I would say to them : "You must remember, if you are married by the law of the land the contract holds good only until death, at which time the bond is broken. On the other hand, if you are married in the Temple the contract holds good for this life and the life to come, and you will have a claim on each other in that future life that cannot be had by the civil law." 

The young man or young woman might say : "Well, Brother Clawson, I have heard that people who are married by the civil law, members of the Church, when they come up in the resurrection, will find the civil ceremony to be of no virtue or force. Is that true?" I would answer, "Yes, it is absolutely true." 

The girl might then say, "Well, I cannot subscribe to that idea. I cannot believe God would be so unkind as to separate me from my husband. I love him. He loves me. We love our children. Surely God will not separate us, will he?" 

And I would say, "No, of course the Lord won't separate you. No, he is too kind and merciful for that. You have separated yourselves. God would bind you together by his law, but you will not permit it, so that vou have already separated yourselves for the other world." 

She might persist in saying, "I do not believe it." 

Well, now, in conclusion I would say to her: "Let me refer you to a paragraph in the one hundred and thirty-second section of the Doctrine and Covenants (the thirteenth verse)." God, in speaking to Joseph Smith, his prophet, said : 

"Everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God. 

"For whatsoever things remain are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me shall be shaken and destroyed." 

I would say to the young lady, "Mark it well. The Temple marriage is of God and therefore it is one of the things that cannot be shaken or thrown down." 

Let all the young men of Israel, and all the young women of Israel, whether they are married or single, remember that the Temple marriage will stand in the eternities to come when no other marriage will stand. 

God bless you, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The assembly arose and sang the first verse of "America." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

As always happens in our Conferences we do not have as much time as we would like. We have a surplus of speakers, figuratively , but not enough time to hear from all. I will request the remaining speakers this afternoon to watch the clock, and I would like them not to take more than fifteen minutes each. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I have been blessed with the privilege of performing a short mission to Europe, having been appointed by the First Presidency. I was very glad, indeed, that this privilege came to me, for I have never been on a foreign mission. My labors as a young man while in England were quite extensive, though necessarily restricted to a branch in Nottingham and its nearby towns and villages. When I was asked to go to my native land for a short time, I was very happy about it, particularly when a similar call came to my dear friend, Arthur Winter, who spoke to you yesterday forenoon and gave you some general ideas concerning our duties and the conditions in Europe. 

It might interest you to know that Brother Winter and I were born in the same town, played together as children in the same streets, went to the same school, and worked together in the same office. He heard and accepted the Gospel and labored assiduously with me month after month teaching me its wonderful principles and bearing constant testimony to its truth. Arguments, scriptural and otherwise, did not seem to affect me, but at last I asked the Lord to give me light and understanding. When I did this fervently, I began to understand the Gospel and accepted it. Twenty-five years ago Brother Winter and I had the privilege of returning to our native land where we enjoyed a brief stay. Wjords cannot express our thankfulness to the Lord for the Gospel, for the marvelous opportunities that have come to both of us because of the blessings we enjoy, and for the privilege of coming to this goodly land where we had the opportunity to be trained and educated in the Gospel, and now after twenty-five years, we again return from England full of thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for all the Gospel has done for us. 

The First Presidency instructed us to report to President Widtsoe and to labor under his direction. During our voyage to Europe we received a radiogram requesting us to go on to Basel, Switzerland, instead of landing at Plymouth. At Basel we attended the closing session of the conference of European Mission Presidents. A day was spent with President Widtsoe who outlined what he would like us to do when visiting the missions. These instructions were carried out as far as time and circumstances would permit. Our work was mainly this : to reduce the clerical labor in the mission offices, to simplify and reduce, if possible, the labor of district presidents and secretaries, to encourage the organization of branches with the local priesthood in charge, to develop local self-government in the branches. President Widtsoe placed upon me the special duty to work out the organization, duties and functions of the Aaronic Priesthood, the law of tithing, the proper use of the tithes for mission purposes, the care of the poor, etc. 

It was very refreshing indeed to be in the company of President Widtsoe, with his splendid powers of administration and his wonderful grasp of the needs of the missions of Europe. Since he has been released as president of the British Mission, he is laboring night and day to organize and systematize the work of the various missions of Europe. 

Basel is the headquarters of the Swiss and German Mission. There we found a fine body of Latter-day Saints. There were many large branches of intelligent members, and by the time we had visited this mission and the German-Austrian Mission, we had a very high opinion of the German people. They are refined and educated and have very high ideals. 

Our next stay was in Geneva where we met with the President of the French Mission, who has a fine group of young elders. They are trying to allay prejudice and want the privilege of giving the French nation a fair opportunity to hear the Gospel. President Woolf has moved headquarters to Paris where he expects to organize a branch and to gather in quite a number of Latter-day Saints who are taking special courses in the great universities in science, art, and literature. There are some members of the Church who are residing in Paris permanently. 

On leaving Geneva we visited Oberammergau where we saw the great Passion Play. It is a wonderful production, but if I had my choice, I would rather see our own great pageant. I felt the influence of our own pageant more than that of the Passion Play. In saying this, however, I do not wish to belittle the marvelous work of the village folks of Oberammergau. 

From there we went to Czecho-Slovakia where we met a number of elders in the city of Prague. They are happy and optimistic as to the future. I believe the English language is spoken more in that city in proportion to its inhabitants than in any other foreign city. The elders were preaching to crowds of people in English. They found they were not making progress in acquiring the Czech language, so they resolved to speak only the Czech language among themselves. They are now prepared to go out into the country districts. I believe there is a great future in this land. The reformation started in the city of Prague. It was the home of John PIuss. I was gratified to hear that the people were thankful for what the United States has done for them in securing their liberty, and they are naming streets and other places after great men of the United States. 

From Prague we went to Dresden and found that President Edward P. Kimball had been released because of the illness of his wife. He was just getting started in the work, introducing ideas for the development of the missionary work in the German-Austrian Mission. While there we attended the great health exhibition. The Latter-day Saint exhibition typified the words, "By their fruits ye shall know them." The exhibit stressed the Word of Wisdom and its results  the people in Utah. A table had been provided in the room upon which were small folders called "The Word of Wisdom," and one hundred and twenty thousand of these folders had been taken. We then went to the former home of Karl G. Maeser in Meissen and stood in reverence before the house, discussing the life and labors of that great man. One of the brethren said, "What a marvelous work Brother Maeser did for the Church." He was answered by another, "Yes, and what a marvelous work the Church did for Brother Maeser." 

From there we went to Berlin where we met with a number of elders. That city has a fine body of Latter-day Saints and a splendid troop of Boy Scouts. We met with the branch members one night. 

The next stopping place was Copenhagen which has been one of the most fruitful missions of the Church. It is claimed that more people have embraced the Gospel in Denmark in proportion to its population than in any other country. A beautiful mission home and chapel are being erected there. The buildings are a credit to the community, and these two fine buildings will serve notice to the Danish people that the Latter-day Saints are there to stay. 

In Stockholm we were very cordially received. Several days were spent in office work. We met with the saints in their meetings on two different occasions. We also met with the local priesthood and with the missionaries; in fact, this was our policy everywhere we went. The people, as well as the missionaries, accorded us royal treatment, and when we left, a large body of the saints were at the station to bid us farewell and sang two of the songs of Zion, much to the astonishment of the passengers on the train. 

We continued our journey to Oslo where we attended to the business of the Church. We visited one branch forty-five miles south, met with the elders, and during our stay there the old folks' annual party was given. I noticed many elderly people who, under ordinary circumstances, will never have an opportunity to come to Zion, and yet they are full of faith and devotion. 

Our next visit was to Rotterdam. We met with the President and his staff and with the saints in Rotterdam and Utrecht. A special meeting was held with the elders in Utrecht at which there were thirty elders present out of the fifty in the mission. 

After that we went to Birmingham in England, which is now the headquarters of the British Mission. There we had the pleasure of meeting a large body of elders. After attending to routine and clerical work, we enjoyed the hospitality of President Lund and his wife. A few days later we met with all the district presidents along with President and Sister Widtsoe. 

Liverpool was our next destination. We reported to President Wlidtsoe our labors in the missions and to Sister Widtsoe we reported Relief Society, M. I. A., and Primary matters. In England we found a large number of Latter-day Saints out of work. Poverty is very closely related to the unemployed, but through the efforts of branch organizations, some are obtaining employment, and I am pleased to say that no Latter-day Saints are suffering for the necessities of life. Many have inquired, "How did you find conditions in England, Germany, etc.?" We found serious business depressions and much poverty. We thought we noticed the demoralizing effect of the "dole" system in both countries. In most of the countries we visited there was a disposition to ignore religion. Some said, "What is the use of religion? It did not stop the war." We said in several cases that had the Gospel of Jesus Christ dominated the Christian nations, war would have been impossible. 

Some of the countries of Europe are still unsettled politically, as well as economically, and it is probable that during the next few years there will be serious changes in their forms of government. 

All the elders seem enthusiastic. They are developing remarkably. They are the finest body of men I have seen outside of Utah. I was delighted with their poise and intelligence. The captain on one of the ships said to me, "I am always glad when there are Latter-day Saint missionaries on my ship. They are the cleanest, best behaved, best mannered people that travel. I am always glad to have them. Tell your people that from me." 

As to the indifference of the peoples of Europe to religion, I am wondering. There is a reaction against all kinds of religion. The result will be, I believe, that in the near future honest men and women will look for a worth while religion, and I hope when that time comes such honest people will listen to the message of this Church. 

May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints. May we sense deeply our responsibility to preach the Gospel and warn the world. May the quorums of High Priests, Seventies, and Elders rise to their responsibility and cooperate with the bishops so that the widow's son or daughter may have the privilege of going into the mission field. If each of the five hundred Elders' quorums, one hundred and fifty Seventies' quorums, and one hundred and four High Priests' quorums would make up their minds to support one missionary, the number on missions could be very materially increased. I pray the Lord to bless us all so that His will may be done and righteousness established in the earth. I ask these blessings in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

When the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ was restored and his Church again established upon the earth and endowed with power from on high a tremendous responsibility was placed upon it. This responsibility was twofold in its nature. First, the proclamation of that Gospel unto the inhabitants of the earth. As to how well the Church has discharged itself of that responsibility — and it is still engaged in it — these great gatherings of the Latter-day Saints upon the occasions of our General Conferences, bear eloquent testimony. 

Missionaries are sent to every part of the world, carrying the glad tidings of great joy, declaring unto the nations that God has  again and restored that Gospel which has within it the power of God unto salvation, making known unto the inhabitants of the earth the plan of life and salvation. What a wonderful work that is! 

These missionaries numbering two thousand and upwards, at the call of the Church, cheerfully leave their homes and their loved ones, oftentimes under most trying circumstances, pay their own expenses, even buying the literature which they use, and devote some two or three years of their time or as many more as may be required of them in the promulgation of the Gospel. Surely the first phase of this responsibility is being fairly met. Why all this noble endeavor, this great sacrifice, this hearty response which would be impossible under any ordinary circumstances? And why such devotion? Why was it necessary to restore the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the earth ? Because it was nowhere to be found among its inhabitants or as the Prophet Amos prophesied, there was a "famine in the land, not a famine for bread nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord." 

The other phase of that responsibility is the perfecting of the saints. Why have we come up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob? The scriptures tell us "that we might learn of his ways and walk in his paths." 

What was the matter with the earth that all this should be necessary? What was the condition that prevailed? The prophet Isaiah clearly saw in vision what the difficulty was. Said he : 

"The earth is defiled under the inhabitants thereof because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, and broken the everlasting covenant." 

That was the condition that prevailed in the world, and to a very large extent it still prevails. With the restoration of this Gospel our duties are clearly outlined in the revelations that have been given through the modern prophet, Joseph Smith. Let me quote a few words from the Doctrine and Covenants as they are found in Section 88: 

"The spirit and the body are the soul of man. 

"And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. 

"And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and meek of the earth shall inherit it. 

"Therefore, it must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory." 

Here it is very plainly pointed out, the great problem that we have before us. This world that is defiled under the inhabitants thereof must be called to repentance. They must turn unto the Lord. They will not all do it, but those who have accepted of that glorious message and have been brought into the fold of Christ are expected to lay hold of eternal life. 

From these passages we learn that these souls of ours are constituted of a spirit and a body, the spirit which came from God, begotten of him in the spirit, and a body which we receive from mother earth. That spirit and that body in combination constitute the soul of man. How are we going to sanctify this earth from all unrighteousness ? Merely by sanctifying the souls of those who inhabit it. This earth that "is denied under the inhabitants thereof" for the very simple reason that they had transgressed the laws and are still transgressing them, for the very reason that they have changed the ordinances, broken the everlasting covenant, the covenant of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that new and everlasting covenant that is designed, given and revealed unto the children of men for the express purpose of sanctifying their souls from all unrighteousness — that is why it has been revealed from heaven. It has within it the very power of God unto salvation unto the sanctifying and purifying of our souls. 

W!e have heard during the sessions of this Conference of many things that we can do. There is the wonderful activity that is going on to spread a knowledge of this Gospel among the children of men. After we have received the Gospel and have come up and identified ourselves with the people of God are we sitting supinely by and thinking that the Lord will do the rest of this work ? We read in these passages that the redemption of our souls will be through him who quickeneth all things, him who made and fashioned the universe, who made every living thing; through him who gave us life, original life — who causes the grass to grow upon the earth, the insects to creep, the birds to fly, the fish to swim, the beasts to roam upon the field. Through him who quickeneth all things, and created man in his own image — even our Creator. Through him is this redemption of our souls to take place and not through any act of ours. He will redeem us. From what ? From death and the grave. But there is something for us to do. He is our Redeemer. He also died not only that we might be redeemed from death and the grave, but that our own sins might be blotted out on the condition, however, of our obedience to his plan. Even God could not save and redeem us from our own sins unless we repent of them, unless we do our part and sanctify and purify our souls. Therefore it behooves us that we shall do our part that our souls may be redeemed from the consequences of our own sins. 

To sanctify and purify our souls from all unrighteousness or in other words, the perfecting of the saints, is the second phase of this great responsibility. How is this to be accomplished? After hearing the words of the Lord and believing on him, and ceasing the transgression of his laws, restoring the ordinances that have been changed to their primitive purity, and again renewing that "everlasting covenant" that has been broken, let us go on to perfection. How? Let me enumerate a few of the things which have been revealed for this express purpose : 

1. The law of tithing has been mentioned in this Conference. Avarice is a soul-destroying vice; it is the love of money that lies at the root of all evil. Obedience to this law lays the axe at the very root of all evil. Observe it then as a means of sanctifying your soul from all unrighteousness. 

2. Remember the Sabbath day and attend your sacrament meetings  a means of spiritual growth and with clean hands and pure hearts partake of those sacred emblems which testify to our faith in him who died upon the cross. If you do this, you are eating and drinking eternal life into your very souls. 

3. A Word of Wisdom designed for the health of the body wherein may dwell the Spirit of God. A sound mind in a sound body or as the Latin philosopher puts it: "Mens sana in corpore sano". It was given as a warning against present day evils, clearly shown to the Prophet Joseph in prophetic vision, and also with a promise of immunity against the destroying angel. 

These subjects have all been discussed by various speakers during this Conference. Let me call your attention to one more requirement which if properly met, will surely sanctify our souls and prepare us for the celestial glory. I refer to prayer. The Lord has commanded that we shall pray without ceasing. Does he really mean that? Most assuredly he does. The Lord gives us no commandment that he does not mean. Of course he does not intend that we shall always be on our knees nor unceasingly speaking words of prayer, and yet he does intend that we shall pray without ceasing. Then what is prayer ? "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed," as we sometimes sing and have sung during this Conference. The real prayer, the true prayer is a condition of the heart. When we bow the knee and offer up our verbal petitions, we are giving expression to prayer and this should be done at frequent intervals, every morning and every night, but the prayer itself is in the heart and must be constant and unceasing. It follows, then, if our prayers are to be effectual we must be deeply concerned over the condition of our hearts. What is lurking there? Watch and pray. Are our desires pure and holy? or are we praying for the sordid things of this world, for the gratification of our evil desires? Be sure of this that whatever those desires may be, whether good or evil they will surely find expression, for "out of the fulness of the heart, the mouth will speak." Be careful then, as to what you harbor in your hearts. 

Prayer is a daily exercise in the fundamental principles of the Gospel. It is practicing faith, drawing nigh unto God that God may draw nigh unto you; it is practicing repentance, for when you turn to God of necessity you 'turn away from evil. When you pray you confess your sins to God and seek forgiveness, the very thing for which baptism has been provided in the plan of life and salvation, and surely we seek to obtain God's Holy Spirit, even the gift of the Holy Ghost, which has been sealed upon our heads by the laying on of hands. 

The Lord has taught us how to pray. Pray for your enemies and those that despitefully use you. Do you do that? I don't know what effect your prayer will have on him who thus despitefully uses you but I do know it will do you good if you will sincerely pray for him. How? It will cast all hatred out of your heart and make you a better man or woman, and aid you in keeping that great commandment: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." But how can I love my wicked neighbor who mistreats and cheats me and otherwise despitef ully uses me ? Well, the Lord didn't say you should only love your good neighbor but: irrespective of whether good or bad, love him as you do yourself. Let me ask : Do you love yourself because you are good? Not so! The meaner a man is the more he loves himself. And that's exactly what makes him so mean. Some people say their prayers are not answered. Perhaps not exactly as we offer them. What an unfortunate thing it would be if all our prayers were answered in precisely the way we pray. What confusion and dismay! It would completely upset the plan of the Almighty. Let me say, however, every true prayer offered in sincerity will be answered in blessings on our heads. "Ask and ye shall receive." 

Then let us pray to our Father in heaven for the triumph of Zion, that his kingdom may come and his will be done on earth as in heaven; for our daily bread or the things we stand in need of day by day; for the forgiveness of our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us; (how vain will be our prayer if we do not forgive others) that we be not led into temptation but delivered from all evil. Let this be the unceasing prayer in our hearts and as sure as the day follows the night shall our souls be sanctified from all unrighteousness, and being thus sanctified we shall be saints in very deed and be prepared for the celestial glory. 

The Lord has permitted us to be called "Saints." Are we that? Yes, if we have the Spirit of God. What is a saint? A saint is a sanctified being. Then let us cultivate the gift that is within us which we received by the laying on of the hands of the Elders of this Church, and if we obtain and retain this gift even the gift of the Holy Ghost, it will surely lead us into the presence of God, to dwell with him and his Son, to whom be all the praise, for his is the kingdom and the power and the glory, forever. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Temple Block 

Mission 

As I reflect on what has been said at this Conference, I feel more deeply than ever before that communion with God is the greatest fact of life. All our words, all our activities, all our ideals find their meaning here. The spirit of religion is not the burden of duties that makes life prosaic, but it is a personal mystical union with God, to be attained each man for himself. It is a knowledge of the nearness of God. The chief characteristics of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are its divine truth and beauty. In Keat's Endymion is this lovely thought : 

"A thing of beauty is a joy forever: 

Its loveliness increases. It will never pass into nothingness; But still will keep a bower, quiet for us and a sleep Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing." 

The Gospel of our Lord is a message of beauty, and a joy forever. 

It teaches us that the way of true life is not the world's way. The Prophet Joel tells us in sublime words that "Ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and none else : and my people shall never he ashamed. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I shall pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions." 

What the Christian world needs today is to know Christ; and the world can only know Christ by its coming to know the" living, personal God, the Creator of heaven and earth and all things therein. He is our Heavenly Father, and in his image man is created. Jesus Christ came to redeem us, and to teach us the divine truth of eternal life. Turning to the American scriptures, the Book of Mormon, which in the years to come will be more widely read and better understood, I read these words as recorded by the prophet Nephi : 

"And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about i:he temple which was in the land of Bountiful; and they were marveling one with another, and were showing one to another the great and marvelous change which had taken place. 

"And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given concerning his death. 

"And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn. 

"And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they understood it not. 

"And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came. 

"And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them : 

"Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him. 

"And it came to pass, as they understood, they cast their eyes up again toward heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them." 

The people heard and cleansed their hearts and understood. Then in the Holy Bible is the story of St. John concerning the resurrection of Christ. It is lovely in its simplicity; it is the comforting message of the ages. 

(Gospel of St. John 20:1-19). 

"The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. 

"Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. "Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple and came to the sepulchre. 

"So they ran both together; and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. 

"And he, stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. 

"Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, 

"And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. 

"Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. 

"For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. 

"Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. 

"But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping; and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre. 

"And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 

"And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them. Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. 

"And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 

"Jesus saith unto her. Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 

"Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and, saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master. 

"Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father : but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father : and to my God, and your God. 

"Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things unto her 

"Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 

Down through the ages, people have sought after Christ; some have found him. But the new contact with God came a hundred years ago when a little boy — a pure boy and filled with faith — went into the woods to pray for light and truth. God the father and Jesus Christ, the Son, came to him. Joseph Smith heard the message of the Father, and it was then that Jesus Christ became a living reality. Man had again been brought into communion with God. 

This fundamental truth is at the very foundation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and it takes this new revelation to understand life and immortality. When the world will open its heart to these three historic truths, mankind will again know that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good. Men will direct their lives in accordance with God's will, and come unto greater faith and more abundant life. Knowledge alone cannot solve our social and religious problems; but knowledge with faith in God can. This thought is beautifully expressed by George Santayana of Harvard University: 

"O world, thou choosest not the better part, It is not wisdom to be only wise. 

And on the inward vision, close the eyes; But it is wisdom to believe the heart. Columbus found a world, and had no chart, Save one that faith deciphered in the skies; To trust the soul's invincible surmise Was all his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine That lights the pathway but one step ahead Across a void of mystery and dread. Bid then, the tender light of faith to_shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Unto the thinking of the thought divine." 

God lives; Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Redeemer of the world. The beauty of his message will always appeal to the children of men, for in it they will discover that there is an infinite power in each and every child that leads him to the meaning of life. A new era opens before us, and if we will pursue the path that has been mapped out by Christ our Lord, we will grow unto perfection through service and our spirits will take flight to more distant summits from which we can become a light unto mankind. May we as a people take new courage; may our faith in the message of the Lord increase and deepen from day to day. Amen. 


