Afternoon 
10 05 1930

The closing meeting of the 101st Semi-Annual Conference was held Sunday, October 5, 1930, at 2 o'clock, President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The Tabernacle was crowded to capacity and thousands of people listened to the radio broadcast of the services, in the Assembly Hall and upon the Tabernacle grounds. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

Elder Henry H. Rolapp offered the opening prayer. The Choir and congregation sang "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Canadian Mission 

It has been a pleasure to share with you, my brethren and sisters, the instruction and inspiration of these Conference meetings. Some of the meetings have not been broadcast, some of the best. Last evening, for instance, we had very wise and rich instructions from the Presiding Bishop of the Church and from the Presidency of the Church, each of those four individuals, and again this morning at the Assembly Hall at the M. I. A. gathering where our President spoke under the inspiration of the Lord and was very greatly blessed. 

I had the opportunity of attending the Canadian missionary reunion last evening, and I was a bit late in getting around to the Assembly Hall meeting this morning, but did get there in time to hear President Grant. He spoke of the wonderful instruction contained in the Era, particularly some of the short editorials. I read one a short time ago entitled "The Disappearing God." That title is one that had been used in an article published in Scribner's for June, in which the author, Mr. Henswood Ward, in his concluding sentence said: 

"The God that used to hear my prayers is disappearing, is being nebulized out of existence by the Holmes, the Ameses and Millikins." 

Mr. Ward refers to a book written by a former minister and now the editor of a Christian magazine and says : 

"After I have read it I can think of nothing but the massacre of God that is being made by the best religious thought of the day." 

The editor of the Era goes on to say that a great educator from California, standing near the Seagull Monument and listening to the story of how the seagulls saved Utah, remarked : "I can believe that the Almighty intervened to save a people as prayerful as were the pioneers." 

Then he went on to say : 

"The trouble with the world today is that to be considered educated a man must know all about the gods of mythology, but he need know nothing whatever about the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the true and living God." 

And so the world today does not believe very strongly in a personal God, although there are some Christians who are coming to believe in a personal Deity. There are too many of them that believe in that God expressed by the Russian poet Derzhaven : 

"O Thou Eternal One whose presence bright 

All space doth occupy, all motion guide; Unchanged through time's all devastating flight! 

Thou only God — there is no God beside! Being above all beings! Mighty One, 

Whom none can comprehend and none explore, Who fill'st existence with thyself alone — 

Embracing all, supporting, ruling o'er; 

Being whom we call God, and know no more." 115 

Not the God of the Old Testament, nor the God of the New Testament. Not the God of John, as recorded in his first chapter: 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 

"And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us," etc. 

It is not the God of Paul, as described in the first chapter of Hebrews, first three verses : 

"God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, 

"Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds; 

"Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high." 

Paul is considered even a little "off" by some modern Christians. It was an eye specialist to whom I took one of our missionaries for special treatment who characterized Apostle Paul as a neurotic — Paul, of whom it was eloquently said by Bossuet: "He went into polished Greece, the mother of oratory and philosophy, and there established more churches than Plato had acquired disciples, by an eloquence that was thought divine. He pushed his conquests still further. Rome even listened to his voice. He brought the majesty of the Roman fasces to the feet of Jesus in the person of a proconsul;" then the declaration is made that the day would yet come "when her citizens would deem themselves more honored by an epistle of St. Paul addressed to them than by all the far-famed harangues delivered in the forum by Cicero." 

In stopping at the home of Daniel Webster while passing through a part of our mission territory, in the State of New Hampshire, I found this sentiment being distributed, a declaration of the man who is voted by Harvard, the oldest university in America, as being one of the seven great orators of the world : 

"I love to dwell on the tender recollections, the kindred ties, the early affections, and the touching narratives and incidents which mingle with all I know of this primitive family abode. 1 weep to think that none of those who inhabited it are among the living; and if I ever fail in affectionate veneration for him who reared it and defended it against savage violence and destruction, cherished all the domestic (virtues beneath its roof, and through the fire and blood of seven years revolutionary war, shrank from no danger, no toil, no sacrifice, to serve his country, and raise his children to a condition better than his own, may my name and the name of my posterity be blotted forever from the memory of mankind." 

So if our Brother Kimball takes just pride in doing honor to his distinguished father, we can understand that that is a sentiment which the American people approve as shown in purchasing at a high price the few lines from the great orator which il have just read to you. 

Joaquin Miller, the poet of the Sierras, paid one of the finest tributes to the Latter-day Saints that has been paid to them, in his GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Roundelay of Salt Lake," and apologized for some disparaging words that he had written against them in earlier years. He said of the pioneers of the middle west : 

"But I say to you there is nothing in the pages of history so glorious, so entirely grand, as the lives of these noble Spartan fathers and mothers of Americans, who begot and brought forth and bred the splendid giants of the generation that is now fast following the setting sun of their unselfish and all immortal lives." 

I thought this morning in the M. I. A. gathering when I witnessed those splendid young people coming forth from that meeting, and 1 knew there were many thousands more in the Church of like people, of what Professor Roswell H. Johnson said concerning us. Among the many good things that were given to us during the past year or two, he said this in reference to our Church : 

"The eugenic situation in Mormonism is better than in other cults, because the Church has made, in its young people's organizations, a definite and systematic effort to teach better mate selection. This effort is superior to that of any other cult known to me. 

"The Church is extraordinarily solicitous to provide buildings largely for the joint social use of the young men's and young women's societies, and to promote outdoor activities, to foster such companionship. In fact, in the Mormon Church every young person is provided a wider acquaintance with eligibles of the other sex than is to be found in any other cult known to me." 

So last evening in meeting those splendid young missionaries I thought what a happy mating it would be if some of those young people, now that they had completed their missionary work, would begin mating. The young men would be assured of very noble and pure women and the same thing on the part of the young women, they would be assured noble men. I have congratulated some of those young people who have married since they returned. 

We in the Canadian Mission are happily very close to the real shrines of the Church. I have often thought what other sects would do if they had a spot where the prophet of the living God was born and one where a sacred record was delivered to him, his boyhood home and the sacred grove where the Father and the Son appeared to him. 

These young people in assembling at Vermont where we met in conference for the first time this year were very greatly exhilerated by the beautiful spirit of peace and of love which pervaded those places which are recorded as sacred precincts. The grounds are very beautiful and well kept by Brother Smith and his family, and the neighbors from surrounding places came there and listened attentively and respectfully to the things that were presented. The reactions that we got from our missionaries in having the privilege of going to the place where they realize that the prophet of this dispensation was born, the grove where he offered the prayer that brought to him the Father and the Son, the sacred hill where a volume of scripture was brought forth, and the place where that record was translated, all those things help to impress the testimony of the Gospel upon our young people. 117 

I must not talk longer. I might read you some of the expressions of these young people who had the privilege recently, of visiting some of these places. We held conference for the first time at the monument in Vermont. They all testify of the strengthening of their testimonies and thank the Lord that they have had the privilege of standing on what they regard as sacred ground. 

I know there are other shrines of other denominations within the limits of our territory, but I know of none of them that claims the distinction of having a place where a prophet of the living God was born or where an angel of God appeared or where God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared. May we treasure these sacred memories, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I asked for a list to be furnished me of people prominent in the Church who had passed away since our last Conference. I am surprised to find that the name of P. Rulon Christensen, president of the French Mission, was omitted. He filled a very splendid mission and we are grateful for his fine labors. We extend our sympathy to his family. 

I am also surprised that I myself did not think of one of the general officers of the Church, one of the assistant historians, Brother Junius F. Wells, the instrument in the hands of our Heavenly Father, by direction of President Brigham Young, of traveling all over the Church and establishing the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. It fell to my lot to be one of the officers of the first Mutual Improvement Association of the young men, organized by Brother Wells. Three of the four officers are living today, Counselor B. Morris Young, Hyrum H. Goddard, the Secretary, and myself. Henry A. Woolley, the President, has passed away. 

I was intimately associated as a partner in business and in a church capacity with Junius F. Wells, nearly all of my life. I never heard him speak an unkind word of anyone. If he could not speak good of people he said nothing. He did us honor and credit wherever he traveled at home or abroad. He was a worthy son of a worthy father. His heart and soul were wrapped up in Mutual Improvement work. He gave to that work the very best that was in him. It is a source of regret to me that I could not be present at his funeral. May the blessings of the Lord attend his family. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in \the First Presidency 

Before beginning my remarks I desire to express the gratitude I feel this afternoon that my life has been prolonged and the privilege granted me of meeting again with this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints, these people of American birth, people of English birth, people from the 'Scandinavian countries, people from that wonderful nation, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Germany, people from France, and from the islands of the sea. It is a miracle of the ages that these representative people are gathered together, baptized into one faith, bound together by a single brotherhood where the prejudices of the past may be forgotten, and they have become one in the service of the Lord, looking steadfastly forward for the coming and establishment of the kingdom of Christ his Son. 

I have opened the Bible at the scripture to which Brother J. Golden Kimball called our attention at the beginning of the Conference. The Lord here tells us that when a man speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not nor come to pass, it is evident that the man spoke presumptuously and without authority. It conversely follows that if a man prophesies and the words which he uttters come true he is a true prophet. 

NEWSPAPER HEADLINES 

A few weeks ago, unfolding the morning paper, as it is my custom to do before going to my daily tasks, I read the following headlines : "Jobless Fire Idaho Forests; idle men start blazes in order to procure work; one thousand acres of timber on fire." "Rebels begin rule in Argentina, after battle in streets. Government quits after rebellion takes many lives. Argentine Army and Navy mutiny." "Santo Domingo made shambles by storm. Deaths near two thousand. Damage set at twenty millions of dollars." 

The following morning the paper reported four thousand bodies, victims of the tornado which had swept the city, had been cremated. The same paper contained a map designating the parts of Brazil, Argentina and Peru which were in open rebellion to their governments, in South America, and told us that nearer home, in Illinois, a party of American men and women, returning from an evening spent at a theater were held up and robbed of one hundred and thirty thousand dollars. 

On my desk, at the same time was a local paper which gave notice to the people of the city and state that a defaulting employee who had been arrested, charged with having embezzled one thousand dollars from his employer, was released by the police department, after the gamblers of the city, to whom he had lost the embezzled money, had been assessed and returned the money which the defaulter had lost to them, with the threat that if they refused their gambling dens would be closed. It logically follows that if they complied with the demand made they would receive protection and be permitted to continue their nefarious occupation. 

signs of Christ's coming 

Contemplating these occurrences and those of the past six months, since the last General Conference of the Church was held, my mind reverted to the words of Christ our Lord uttered just prior to his betrayal, trial and crucifixion. As Jesus came out from the temple at Jerusalem his disciples called his attention to the manner of construe119  of the buildings and the great stones which the workmen had placed in the walls. The Redeemer answered them saying: 

"Seest thou these great "buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down." 

Passing on to the Mount of Olives his disciples spoke to him privately saying: 

"Tell us when these things shall be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the World? 

"And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. . "For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many." 

And then he went on to tell them that it would be at a time when they would hear of wars and rumors of wars, that nation would rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; that there would be famine and pestilences and earthquakes in divers places. 

He declared that Jerusalem would be trodden down by the Gentiles and her people scattered, but with the assurance that at a period designated as the latter days, when the times of the Gentile nations would be fulfilled, they would be gathered again and restored to the heritage promised by the Lord to their father Abraham. 

He declared that prior to his coming to assume dominion over the earth upon which we dwell the fulness of the Gospel which he taught and exemplified in his life, would be restored to earth and carried to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people; that those whom he would call would go into all the world, calling the people back to faith in a livingGod, and service to him who created the heavens and the earth, the sea and the fountains of water, and warning them that the hour had come when the righteous judgments of an offended God, whom they had ceased to serve, whom they defy, and whose holy name they blaspheme, had come.; 

He declared that after testimony of the restoration had been borne by the faithful witnesses whom he would choose, he would speak to the people of the world by the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and of tempests and the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds, and earthquakes which would cause men to fall to the ground and not be able to stand. It was to be a time of commotion which would bring perplexity and distress to the nations, such as the world had never known. "And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in power and great glory." 

Nearly twenty centuries have passed since the declarations to which I have referred were made. It cannot be claimed by critics, as is so often the case, that there is an error in dates, and that the declarations were made after the events referred to had occurred. 

FULFILMENT FOLLOWS 

Now, what of the fulfilment ? 

The spot upon which the temple of Solomon was to be erected GENERAL CONFERENCE  designated by the Prophet Gad. It was built at Jerusalem, upon Mount Moriah, said to be the place where Abraham built the altar upon which Isaac was to be offered a sacrifice to the Lord. At least 150,000 men were employed in the construction of the temple. It was without doubt the most expensive, elaborate and richly adorned edifice erected up to the time of its construction, about a thousand years before the birth of Christ. Gold was used lavishly in its adornment, at least seven million dollars' worth as we count values. 

The temple was desecrated and a large portion of its priceless adornment carried away by the armies of Egypt and the kings of Israel, after the Ten Tribes had revolted. It was finally destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, the great king, at the time the Jews were carried into captivity to Babylon, about 600 years before the birth of Christ. The Bible tells us that he carried away all the treasures of the house of the Lord and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon the king had made in the temple of the Lord. 

It was about eighty-seven years later, after the fall of the Babylonian kingdom to the Medo-Persian armies, that Cyrus, the Persian king, issued a proclamation granting permission to those of the Jews who desired to do so to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple which had been destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar. 

A large number of Jewish families availed themselves of this opportunity and under the leadership of Zerubbabel and others returned to Jerusalem, rebuilt the temple and restored the ritual which had been established there by King Solomon. 

After the conquest of the Medo-Persian kingdom by Alexander of Macedon, known as Alexander the Great, the Greek general Artiochus Epiphanes, took the city of Jerusalem by storm, put many of the inhabitants to death, profaned the temple, and dedicated it to the idolatrous worship of Jupiter Olympus. 

Forty years before the birth of Christ, Herod the Great became king of Judea. He was an Idumean or Edamite by birth, a descendant of Abraham through Isaac, being descended from Esau, his eldest son, and was not in sympathy with the Jewish people, or their religion, but through the influence of Rome had become the titular king of Judea. It was this man who ordered the slaughter of the children, after the birth of Christ, in order to remove one whom he feared might seek to succeed to the throne which he occupied. 

He undertook the restoration of the temple on a far more elaborate plan than any builder who had preceded him in so far as size and substantial construction were concerned, but not with the priceless embellishment which Solomon had lavished upon it. He declared that he would build it so strong that it would never again be destroyed. This construction was in progress at the birth of Christ, and was finished during his ministry. 

During the war of the Maccabees, when the Maccabaeus brothers, Jonathan, Judas and Simon sought to throw off the yoke which the government established by Alexander the Great had fastened upon 121 , ambassadors were sent to Rome with a petition to the senate asking for support in their wars with the Greeks. 

The petition was regarded with favor, and a treaty entered into by which Rome pledged herself to come to the aid of the Jews, and the latter agreed to assist Rome against her enemies in case of need. Rome notified Greece that if her oppression of the Jews did not cease at once she would make war upon her both by land and by sea. The text of this treaty, which is available, was written upon plates of brass, and sent to Jerusalem. One of the few instances where a message was written upon metal plates in ancient times. As a result of this treaty Palestine became a Roman province, and remained so until after the birth and crucifixion of our Lord. 

This was the condition at Jerusalem at the time Jesus made the statements regarding the destruction of the temple to which I have referred. 

Jewish and Roman thought were incompatible, and in A. D. 66, thirty years after the crucifixion, a general revolt against Rome occurred, and the Jews took possession of Jerusalem. 

Vespasian and his son Titus were sent with a Roman army to bring them back into submission, and after a siege which continued about four years, one of the most frightful and atrocious sieges of history, characterized by unspeakable horrors, the city was taken by Titus, who burned the temple, leveled the city to the ground and scattered the Jewish people to the four corners of the earth. Historians tell us that the very foundation stones were dug up by the Romans in the hope that treasure might be found buried there. 

THREE CENTURIES LATER 

It is said that the Roman emperor, Julian, three centuries later, in his hatred of Christianity, which had become the dominant religion of his country, seeking to restore the pagan worship, sought to rebuild the temple at Jerusalem, but met with so many obstacles, some of which appeared to be supernatural, abandoned the undertaking and returned to Rome with the statement: "The Nazarene has triumphed." 

I have gone briefly over the history of the past in order to bring before you, my brethren and sisters, the undeniable evidence that the words uttered by Christ our Lord, in which he declared the destruction of the temple at Jerusalem and the scattering of the Jews have been literally fulfilled. 

SIGNIFICANCE OF SCRIPTURE 

You may ask, what relationship to us has this scripture to which I have called attention? We who are assembled here, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, gathered in conference nearly two thousand years after the events referred to occurred. 

It has very great significance, my brethren and sisters, and it is for that reason that I have called your attention to it. It tells us how unchangeable and certain is the fulfilment of the words of the Lord as he has uttered them through his servants the prophets. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The fulfilment of prophecy came in the past and generally comes through such natural means that we hardly observe it or know that it is coming. And so I feel that there are many others of the declarations of the prophets to which I might turn, the fulfilment of which is before our very eyes, and almost without our knowledge or attention. 

LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE 

Seventy years have passed away since I became a member of the Church by baptism. During that period of time there has radiated from the presence of God our Father a dispensation of light, increasing knowledge and intelligence, which is the glory of God, to a degree never before known, nor even dreamed of by our fathers. 

WHth these increased conveniences and blessings which have come to us, there should have been manifested in our lives both by example and precept, greater faith in and service to our Father who is in heaven, who is the author of all these blessings. 

I ask you, my brethren and sisters, and with you I ask the Christian world at large, has this been the case? Are we a better people in our morals ? Do we observe with greater reverence the Sabbath day to keep it holy? Do we revere the name of the Lord and hold it more sacred because of his increased blessings? Have we become less selfish and grasping after wealth? Do we think more of the poor and unfortunate, or do we in our hurried struggle of life forget them and leave them to suffer while we live surrounded with abundance? Do we love and serve our country more, and more devotedly honor its laws ? 

I leave you to answer these questions. 

VISIT TO ST. GEORGE 

A short time ago, in company with President Grant, I visited my old home at St. George. Early in the morning before it was light, I rose and walked out to the little cemetery and stood by the graves of my parents. As the light increased I walked down the narrow streets and read the inscriptions on the tombstones. I remembered every one of the men and women whose names were inscribed upon them. T thought of them all and could remember something in their lives — every one from the humblest to the most honored — which had led me to love and honor them. 

I knew these men as I have known no others. I knew the sacrifices which they had made, that they had given all they had to give- for an ideal. I had seen them face danger with the courage of Spartans, and perform acts of mercy with the gentleness of women, and when their mortal race was run and they were face to face with death, meet it with the sublime resignation of martyrs. 

They had been my teachers, the guardians of my youth. They taught me faith in a living God, that he is the same good Heavenly Father that he ever was, and will watch over and bless all those who put their trust in him. They taught me that birth into this life was not the beginning of my existence nor death the end of it. They taught me to defraud no man, though the thing may be small, They taught me to love virtue and refrain from any habit which, when my record is read from the house top, as it will be, would bring the blush of shame to my cheek. They taught me to love my country and honor and obey its laws; that the government under which it is my privilege to live is a God-given heritage, and that it was my duty to defend it against all enemies, be they foreign or domestic, if necessary at the cost of life itself. 

A SILENT PRAYER 

As I stood there in the gray dawn, in that silent city of the dead, I breathed a silent prayer of thanksgiving to my Father in heaven that my lot had been cast with these humble, God-fearing men and women, and prayed that as I had been with them and served them in mortal life, so might I be with them for service in the life to come. And I knew that if I proved my devotion to the truth as they proved theirs that my prayer would be answered. 

I desire to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that had I been brought into any other cemetery within the boundaries of this state and walked there and communed with the people who have given their lives for this same ideal I would have found exactly the same condition. 

EARLY DAY FIDELITY 

I could not refrain, and that was what led me to quote from these daily papers as I did in the beginning of my remarks, from drawing the contrast between the conditions which existed at the time when the example and influence of these men dominated the politics of this State and those which exist today, if we are to believe the reports which come to us through the daily press of the country. 

I do not remember an instance where an innocent man was convicted of wrongdoing, or where a known criminal escaped punishment. There were no men in the State prison who had violated the trust reposed in them by their fellow citizens who had elected them to office, nor men out of prison who, if justice were administered, would be inside. Men were taught that public office was a public trust and must be administered with fidelity and honor, and they did it. I wonder what their reaction would be if they were here today to witness the changed conditions which exist in this modern world of ours, a world so different from that in which they lived that it can scarcely be recognized as belonging to the same planet upon which they lived. 

GOOD MEN NEEDED IN OFFICE 

I have no desire to go back to that day, to exchange automobiles for ox teams, which I have driven, nor to exchange our wonderful harvesting machinery for the cradle with which I have harvested grain, and the flail with which I threshed it. But I do appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, to return to the old paths of virtue, honor and integrity which your fathers trod. No matter what the development of science or of invention may bring to us these virtues remain the GENERAL CONFERENCE . They are eternal truths and the advancement of our so-called civilization cannot change them. 

No one will deny that we are living in perilous times. No one who is familiar with the Scripture will deny that we are living at. the time when our Lord says his glorious appearance is near. 

Only the day before yesterday the press advised us that one million dollars was being subscribed by the lawless element in Chicago for the purpose of removing from office the Commissioner of Police because of his activities in the suppression of crime. 

If it is true that organized crime has fastened its tentacles upon our own city and state, as reported in the quotations which I made in the beginning of my remarks, is it not time that we arouse from the lethargy of indifferent citizenship and demand reform and see to it that good men and wise men are selected to control our public affairs? 

There are such men, equal to any of the past. They are to be found in all political parties. They are not confined to any religious organization, but are all around us in every vocation of life. Such men now represent us in political life, in national, state and city affairs. As I know many of these men I cannot think of others for whom I would desire to exchange them. I regret that I cannot feel so toward all. 

I make no plea for any candidate, for any political party, or any church. But I do plead with all the people, and particularly the church, and I refer to all Christian people, to unitedly resolve that the sacred heritage bequeathed to us by our fathers be sacredly preserved, that this country of ours may continue to be a light to the world, reaching out its hands to all people, guaranteeing to all men liberty under the law, but license to do wrong to none. I regard it as my duty and the duty of every other professed Christian to assume this attitude if our country is to be rescued from anarchy, violence and chaos. 

My brethren and sisters, I have studied the history of the past. I know the story of the rise and fall of Rome, of Babylon, of Egypt, and of other great nations, and the one outstanding thing that brought that about was the corruption of the officials who were placed in charge of affairs of state. I do not wish to continue to quote scripture in order to demonstrate that we are living in a time when the Lord has said that these very things shall exist. But he has warned us against them. He has declared the destiny of this nation and of all other nations. I wish simply to say that if they are to persist, if they continue, it will be when the people return to the Lord God of heaven and in justice and righteousness serve him, both in civil and ecclesiastical affairs. And if this shall fail these very elements that have resulted in the destruction of the civilizations of the past, if they shall be permitted by us to persist, will eventually bring to us perplexity, confusion and final chaos. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may he help us all to magnify our callings, to stand righteously for that which is right and immovably opposed to that which is wrong, is my prayer, and I ask it through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen. 125 

The Choir rendered the anthem, "That Sweet Story of Old," solo part by Cannon Lund. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have as usual — and this you have heard before — more speakers than we have time. We would like to hear from all mission presidents. We have the authorities to present, and we would like to hear from our sisters. But there is only one way we can do it, and that is to pull the coat tails of those who do not look at the clock, as we will have to limit each of them to five minutes. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central State's Mission 

I have been greatly impressed during the past summer in reading the History of the Church which has recently been compiled by President Brigham H. Roberts, and in finding therein the expressions of the leaders of our Church who have long since passed away. 

I commend to the men and women of this Church, especially the youth, the reading of that history. I hope that it may be found in all the homes of the people. 

Those men bear witness, and the history of them gives evidence, that they were in reality servants of the living God. No one could accomplish what Brigham Young did, and those mighty pioneers who were with him in the beginning of this great work in this western country, unless God had been with. I think we ought to become more familiar with the work of our people, that we may realize what it cost to establish the Church of God in this land. The Lord has provided a background of history that will refute any charge that could be brought against this people. The historical record is wonderful and the doctrinal record is just as certain. The Lord selected mighty men, and according to the Prophet Joseph Smith, they were chosen before the foundations of this earth were laid, to establish his work in the day and age in which we live. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that things do not happen by chance; but that the Lord provides for all the things that have come to pass. Then he has placed the responsibility on his people to do their best to carry out his purposes. He gave a revelation in which the free agency of man is referred to as follows : 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the men who have stood at the head of this Church in this land from the days„of Brigham Young until now have been men of God and have exercised the privilege that God gave them, and that the Church has been stabilized and led just as though our Eternal Father had been here. For GENERAL 'CONFERENCE 

I am convinced that Jesus Christ, who gave his life for the children of men, has never at any time since the organization of this Church been very far from it. I bear my testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am pleased to say that the missionaries in the Eastern States are in exceptional good health, and are performing a splendid work. 

There is probably nothing that indicates this more, in view of the distressing shortage of employment, than the fact that the number of tithe-payers has materially increased, with about twenty-four per cent increase in the amount of tithing paid. In confirmation of what has been already said, none, so far as I know, of those who pay tithing, is unemployed, with one exception, and he lost his temper and quit his job. 

In confirmation of what President Grant has said, I can testify to the fact that there is a marked change taking place in the sentiment of the people of the country toward our people. The Church is really, as he said, coming into its own, and I can conceive of nothing, unless it be the providences of God, that has made the marvelous change that has taken place. Naturally, no doubt, for I believe that is the way the Lord works. I am sure that the organ recitals from this tabernacle have performed a marvelous work in softening the minds of the people and helping to bring them to a realization of the fact that such music does not come from a low, uncultured and base people, but rather those with high, noble and pure conceptions. The work too on this temple block, at the Bureau of Information, I believe is being very helpful in changing the attitude of the many travelers and tourists who come to Utah. They meet our people and become acquainted with them and their accomplishments. They constitute a great auxiliary force in refuting the scandalous stories that have been so frequently circulated about us. These people frequently manifest their friendliness toward our missionaries, as they very frequently report in our conferences. 

One of the most notable developments in the Mission is the changed attitude which has taken place toward us, particularly since the Centennial celebration. We have comparatively little trouble in getting notices into the papers. They treat us well. Many of them will publish much that we want them to do. We gathered something over a thousand clippings and some of them splendid, lengthy articles, dealing fairly with our people, concerning the Centennial celebration. 

I am sure the periodicals and daily newspapers are ready to publish, if prepared in the right way, the most important and interesting facts relating to our organization, the culture "Mormonism" is developing, our accomplishments in matters of health, superior methods of training, 127  and developing the young; our unparalleled missionary system and method of developing preachers which enables the Church to carry on without a paid clergy, and which insures the highest percentage of all church-going attendance without a paid preacher; a charity system, which is equally unique, not only in its completeness, but which is carried on so as to insure one hundred per cent of the money contributed gping to the charity for which it was contributed, without anything being deducted for collection or distribution. I know of no other organization in which that is accomplished. 

These are of the utm,ost interest to all thinking people interested in the development and progress of human welfare, and when once understood arouse interest in learning what is behind it all; in other words, the material benefits or "fruits of Mormonism" once known arouse a desire to know why and from whence they come, and induce a study of the principles of the Gospel. 

During the last five months we have developed preaching the Gospel, as predicted in the Book of Mormon, from the house tops, or more literally over the radio free of charge in a number of large and prominent cities in the Mission. This is being done by young inexperienced missionaries. They write their own addresses and deliver them, first submitting 'them to us for revision. But in only a few cases has there been any substantial revision. Young men coming to the Mission at nineteen and twenty years of age. One, and I think the one who has led most successfully in obtaining this privilege, came to the Mission only twenty years of age. At first we were given only ten or twelve minutes in which to speak, the balance of the half hour to be devoted to music. Oh, if we could have more missionaries who, could sing! If you will furnish us with singers we will secure the radio for preaching the Gospel free. It was not long before the time was extended to a full hour in some cases, a half hour for preaching and a half hour for singing and music. And in all cases the time to preach has been extended. 

I would like to call attention to one other very interesting development. We are now exhibiting Mormonism in the fairs and large exhibitions, in which we lay special stress upon the. Word of Wisdom and its benefits upon our educational system, our training of the young; and our charity system. We are calling attention notably to the fact that not a dollar is expended in collecting and distributing" funds for charitable purposes. 

This affords unexampled opportunities for Gospel conversations and the distribution of tracts by the tens of thousands. More than five thousand were distributed by half a dozen missionaries in one day from our booth in the great Eastern States Exposition recently held at Springfield, Massachusetts. 

The best feature of it all is the presentation of a few of our finest missionaries, whose very presence attracts attention and radiates the spirit of the Gospel of our Redeemer. 

My time is up. May the Lord help us to appreciate the great work in which we are engaged, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the F<ast Central States Mission 

I am very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to have the opportunity of visiting with you upon this occasion. I have had the privilege of attending every session of the Conference and I have enjoyed them to the fullest extent. 

I heartily endorse what was said by President Grant and President Moyle, also by President McMurrin, in regard to two or three items. President McMurrin referred to the shortage of missionaries. I was asked today by one brother if volunteers would be accepted. I want to say, brethren and sisters, if you have volunteers they should be recommended and called in the regular way. We can use one hundred of them in the East Central States Mission. 

President Grant referred to the wonderful work that is being done by the Choir. I can bear testimony to that because in passing along the streets of Louisville and other cities we find every Monday afternoon that those programs are being broadcast so that even the people in the streets are able to hear them; and they are doing a wonderful amount of good because they make many friends for us and give us an opportunity to talk upon the principles of the Gospel. 

Just a few days ago we held a series of meetings in one of the cities close to Louisville. The next morning after holding these meetings, as my wife and I were leaving the city, we met one of our local brethren who remarked that he had just been talking to one of his neighbors who belongs to another denomination. In the course of this conversation he said: 

"In our services last night our minister referred to a certain class of people in this manner : 'There is a little community of saints here that meet together as a family, and they are the best people in all the world, and they have a prophet to lead them'." 

I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is a community in Bath County that meet together as a family. They are among the best people in all the world, and they have a prophet to lead them. And in practically every county in this nation there are similar communities, and they are led by a prophet of God, even President Heber J. Grant, who stands at the head of this Church today. I know of his integrity. I have traveled with him, I have eaten with him, and I have slept with him. I know that his heart and his soul are wrapped up in this work, and he is God's mouthpiece upon the earth. 

May our Father's choicest blessings ever abide with each and every one of us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the No^th Central States Mission 

My Brethren and Sisters : I bring you the greetings of the missionaries and saints of the North Central States Mission, all of whom 129  well and enjoying their work. That the drouth, unemployment and the low price of wheat have produced a lean year in the semi-arid states of Montana, the Dakotas, and the wheat producing Canadian provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba, you need not be told. Minnesota has fared better. But our people are not complaining. They are holding their own. So far we have not fallen off in tithing paid nor in number of converts baptized. We hope our people will continue their good work until times shall mend, and everything be all right again. 

We are glad to testify of the changed conditions of friendliness toward our people already spoken of in this Conference. An illustration of this friendly interest, arising largely, no doubt, from attention given tourists on this block, from radio sermons of leading brethren, and from the broadcast of Tabernacle Organ and Choir recitals, may interest you. Within the recent past two of our capable and charming lady missionaries have been entertained at the home of the Governor of one of our States, where they were graciously and cordially received by "the Governor's wife, for whom they sang some of the songs of Zion, and at whose invitation they joined in prayer before leaving her home. This good woman was full of praise for leading brethren and sisters with whom she and her husband's party had been associated here. The more people know about you, the better they receive your missionaries abroad. To be a Mormon missionary from Utah is no longer a reproach, but a distinction. 

It must not be inferred, however, that this friendliness implies a very general acceptance of the Gospel as we teach it. Not so. Men applaud the perfection of our Church organization, the fact that "it works," and that it puts tens of thousands of its people to work. The financial system of the Church, tithing and fast offerings, are the admiration of some and the envy of others. Our missionary system, and the Word of Wisdom, etc., receive commendation of intelligent people everywhere. But there they stop. That God the Eternal Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, are real personages, capable of appearing to men as we affirm they did to Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove in western New York in 1820, few men of the world believe. If Latterday Saints were willing to abandon Joseph Smith and his claims to seership, throw overboard the first great vision with all that it implies as to the actuality, and the' reality of the personality of God, the rest of Mormonism could  be popularized over night. Stand by these declarations of divine origin for our religion, and the doctrine of Deity inherent therein, and you stand alone, your only consolation, if such it be, that you stand alone with God. 

Your missionaries in the field believe in and love to testify of "God the Eternal Father, and of his Son, Jesus Christ, and of the Holy Ghost;" and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God. They also believe in good men everywhere, and are grateful for their growing friendship. Of you, here at home, they like to think as "The salt of the earth." "By their fruits shall ye know them" is a text they love. To you they look to vindicate what they proudly boast as "The fruits of Mormonism." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Oh ye that embark in the service of God," your missionary would say to you if he could, "See that ye serve him with all your heart, might, imind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

God bless the youth of Israel and the missionaries of his Church everywhere in the world, we humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NOAH S. POND 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I pray in my heart that we may be able to take to our homes in the wards and stakes and in the mission fields the spirit and instruction of this great Conference. 

Sister Pond and I are happy in the work in the Northern States Mission. The auxiliary organizations and the Aaronic Priesthood, I believe, are being properly supervised and more than ordinary progress is being made. As a Church and as missionaries representing the Savior in the mission field, we cannot but acknowledge the eternal fitness of these men, times and occurrence of things, just as Columbus was led to discover the new world, although his reward was the return to the old country in chains. Just as John Milton was led to the steps of the palace of Whitehall Chapel three hundred years ago with his plea for "Liberty of the press," although diplomacy drove him into seclusion and exile. A courtier at the court told him that one of two things would happen, he would either be locked up in the castle or lose his head. But the intellectual germ of Milton's "Plea" fell into the hands of Englishmen, Frenchmen, Germans, Scotchmen, Yankees, Turks, Japs and Russians; and liberty and freedom were born and realized. Galileo, Luther and Washington are further examples of the eternal fitness of men and messages. 

Joseph Smith, God's great prophet, came in the right century and to the right nation and country. He could not so successfully have delivered his message in an earlier century or in another country. And these things are marvelous in contemplation, but we see our Father's regulatory and supervisory guidance of time and events for the benefit of his people. 

I am happy to testify of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I am happy to have the privilege of testifying to the people of the earth. God bless our leaders today and all who follow. May we have that testimony of the Gospel, the richest gift of God, that will ultimately lead us into the kingdom of our Father and bring us eternal life, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

Since our last Conference it has been my happy pleasure to go on the streets of Portland one evening and witness a street meeting 131  held by the missionaries there. Sister Ada Strong of Salt Lake City was speaking and gave a most excellent discourse on the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. A well-dressed gentleman walked into the crowd and stood right near my side. He said in an undertone voice, loud enough that I could hear what he was saying : "There they are, telling the same old story, and there is nothing to it." 

I wish that gentleman were here today. I wish that he could witness this vast gathering of men and women, the cream of the earth, and I wonder if he could then make such a statement. I wish that he might hear this wonderful choir that we have listened to today with so much pleasure and interest, I wish he could hear this world-famed organ of ours; and I wonder if he then could say there is nothing to this work. 

Is it possible, brethren and sisters and friends, that a young man such as Joseph Smith was, with five colleagues, one hundred years ago — these boys as they were, all under thirty-one years of age, six of them together in a room — could effect and establish an organization out of which has grown a Church that today stands the marvel of the world? It is ridiculous to think that, brethren and sisters, in the light that this man thought of it. So I want to give you that thought today. 

I am happy to contemplate the words of men like the grand old man known as the Dean of American Education, Dr. Winship, who said that Utah stands positively in the forefront of all the States of the Union in her activities for the saving of the youth. He said that he had praised Utah and the Mormons in every State of the Union, and had never had anything to apologize for. 

Dr. Nixon Carver said : 

"I have never found more sound and wholesome personal habits than among the Mormons; I have never mingled with a people who showed fewer signs of dissipation; I have never studied groups of people who seemed better nourished and more healthful; I have never known of a people who took greater pains to educate their children." "This gives a clue to the success of the Mormons as colonizers and Nation Builders." "I have studied the philosophy of the world, both ancient and modern, but the greatest of all philosophies is the philosophy of Mormonism." 

George Wharton James, an American writer, said: 

"The boy Joseph Smith was but a hundred years ahead of his time. Yet, he being dead yet speaketh. The work he began has never ceased. Who can explain Joseph Smith? What is their test? Is it not beyond all reason that a lad, born of poor parents, devoid of any save the commonest education, too poor to buy books, should have accomplished what he did in less than forty years, unless there was some great reason for it?" 

"Let anyone, even a literary genius after forty years of life, try to write a companion volume to the Book of Mormon and then almost daily fpr a number of years give out 'revelations' by the score that internally harmonize one with another, at the same time formulate a system of doctrine for a new church, introduce many new priniciples, resuscitate extinct priesthoods, and formulate a system of church government which has no superior on earth." 

"To deny to such a man wonderful power over the human heart and intellect is absurd. Only fanatical prejudice can ignore it. However he may be accounted GENERAL CONFERENCE  by the reasoning mind, Joseph Smith the Mormon Prophet was one of the wonders of his time." 

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the great novelist and spiritualist, said he believed that Joseph Smith was a true medium. 

Many of the notables whom I could mention are just as loud in their praise and have a true appreciation of this wonderful Church and its organization. 

I remember a year ago listening to the words of President Nibley 1 when he said among other things, "Brethren, make sacrifices for missions." I would like to tell you just one instance that has come to pass in my own observation. 

Two boys from a nearby Stake, brothers they were, both received calls to go on missions. Their father was in poor circumstances and had a heavy mortgage on his property. He was unable to even pay the interest that had accumulated for a number of years. These boys willingly accepted the call and came to Salt Lake City. One of them was called to the Southern States and the other to the Northwestern States. After they had attended the mission school for two weeks the older boy said : "Brother, we have only twenty dollars between us, not enough to take us both to our fields of labor. You take this money and go to the Northwest, and I shall go back home and help father on the farm." 

The younger brother said : "No, brother, you are the older, you go." But the older remonstrated, and said, "No, you shall go." And finally the younger boy took the twenty dollars and came to the Northwest. The first thing he knew his brother had not gone home, but had gone to the Southern States. And these two boys are in the field today. Last year that good father not only was blessed by having two sons in the mission field, but his finances were such that he paid all of the back interest on the mortgage, and he was able to make a substantial payment on the principal of the mortgage on the property. 

God bless you. The missionaries in the Northwest, I think, are as happy as young men and young women could be. I want to say that the Lord has greatly favored me and blessed me in my association with the leaders of this Church, and I love, respect and admire them. And I am blessed in the wonderful companionship that I have with one of the sweetest companions in all the world. She too is enjoying her work in the mission. I pray God's blessings to be with you and with us, that we shall continue onward and upward with this work unto the perfect day, which I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

SISTER LOUISE Y. ROBISON 

President of the Relief Society 

In an address given by our dear President Grant in Relief Society Conference last Thursday afternoon, he said, "I have no fear for the Church .of Jesus Christ as long as the women of the Church are devoted to its principles." This implies a great responsibility, also a 133  to Us to analyze ourselves and find if we are meeting the requirements. 

Attention has been called most forcibly by speakers in this Conference to the disregard of law by the people of the United States. This should be the concern of every mother, and she should ask wherein she can help correct this situation. 

A simple suggestion would be to avoid criticism of any person in authority, either civil or religious, before our children. It is an easy matter to cause distrust in their minds. They have not the philosophy to reason things out and the world is insecure to them. Unfortunately when we break down the confidence of our children in those holding authority, it is not long before the advice of parents is questioned. 

The cause of prohibition, in which we are so interested, is often weakened by the comments made in the home. If a parent, in whom the child has confidence, criticizes an enforcement officer or expresses the opinion that the law can never be enforced, the effect it must have on young people is soon apparent. Wje must remember that the men and women of the future will be only as strong as we help our boys and girls to be in our homes. 

Speaking of prohibition, only last summer I heard the Commissioner of Education of Idaho, speaking in defense of prohibition, declare that it is a mistake to say there is more drinking among business men now than formerly. He referred to a group of Union Pacific men who met in Nebraska less than twenty years ago, and before the first evening was over there were few men who had not been drinking. Approximately this same group met in Denver within the last two years. Mr. Gray, the president, heard there were four men who were drinking. He found them, put them on the train and sent them homej dismissed from the company. 

I have a testimony that this is the Church of God, that the Prophet Joseph Smith really did have his mission given him by our Father in heaven. May all mothers have the Spirit of God to be with them that they may never say anything unlovely or unworthy! May we, as Latter-day Saint mothers, ever be true to the covenants we have made, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

SISTER RUTH MAY FOX 

President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association 

My brethren and sisters, last Sunday evening I attended a missionary farewell. The young man was quite bashful and while he was getting up he heard a dog bark on the outside. So he opened his remarks by saying, "How I envy that dog!" 

I have been feeling that to be in a comfortable chair by the radio at home would be a very happy condition. However I realize that I am not standing before you because of any merit of my own, but I am here to represent my counselors and the young ladies of my board and GENERAL CONFERENCE  twelve thousand splendid officers in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. 

I am very proud and happy to stand here and represent them. In that capacity I would like to remind the audience that one of the books on our reading course this year is "The Life of the Prophet Joseph Smith," written by our late Brother George Q. Cannon.;We feel sure that if you will read it and encourage your family to read it your sympathies will be renewed for the founders of this Church and your faith will be increased. 

This morning as I sat in this great congregation I felt that it was a very great privilege and blessing to be one of the ten thousand who were here assembled. I testify to you that the words that have fallen from the lips of the brethren who have spoken from this stand have been verily the words of God, given to us by the voice of his servants, and so I think I cannot do better than to remind you of the Savior's words when he said : 

"Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock; 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded upon a rock. 

-"And everyone that heareth of these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand; 

"And the rain descended and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell; and great was the fall of it." 

My brethren and sisters, you and I are building our houses upon the rock. May God help us to build them so strong that no matter how hard" the winds may blow or the rains descend our houses shall never fall. God grant it in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

SISTER MAY ANDERSON 

General Superintendent of the Primary Association 

This splendid Conference would not be entirely complete without reporting that the children of this Church are being cared for, that the children's organization, the Primary Association, has about one hundred thousand members, with about ten thousand women who are all striving to help in the work of prevention rather than the work of cure. 

The Church asks us to teach the children the principles of the Gospel, to take care of their leisure time activities, and to bear in mind that every boy and girl born in the Church has the right to a strong body, that he and she may make their way in the world as fairly as possible. 

For the religious instruction we are using the Articles of our Faith, and we think it the greatest code of moral conduct that was ever produced. As we are using it we shall probably send into the homes of the people of the Church thousands of little cards bearing the Articles of Faith. 

For the supervision of the leisure time activities of the children 135  are providing safe and sane activities that will give them joy and pleasure, that will help them to be happy and good. 

In our labors for the health of the children of the Church we use that wonderful blessing, that divine revelation, that has been given to us, the Word of Wisdom. In our health program we include a hospital where we hope to take care of any boy or girl who needs medical or surgical aid and whose parents are not able to provide the necessary care. 

Now, how shall we connect up with you, my brethren and sisters, to put this thing over splendidly? I am happy for this opportunity to say that we hope the Bishops will stand with us in helping to get the boys ready for the Priesthood. We hope the Mutuals will stand with us in getting the boys ready for Scouting. We hope that every home in this Church will stand with us to provide the right foundation. We shall plead, and we hope not in vain, that there will foe no home in our Church where boys and girls will know anything about liquor. We hope there will be no home-made wine in any home in our Church. We hope there will be no coffee, no tea, no tobacco. We plead with you, my brethren and sisters, to make life safe for the fooys and girls. Prevention is eminently better than cure. There is nothing that is more favorable nor better than the home. We can only add to what you do. 

One other thing that we are doing and have been doing for a long time is to persuade the people of our Church that activities for boys and girls should be in the daytime and that there should not be any inducement offered to our youngsters to be out at night. Night is dangerous, and when boys and girls go out on the streets away from their fathers and mothers no one can tell what is happening. We hear some strange stories, and we are saying to you with all the ardor of our beings that we want you fathers and mothers to stand with us to make this world safe for our boys and girls. 

Let us live the Word of Wisdom in what we eat and what we drink and also in the way in which we take care of the time God has given us. That you will stand for the finest homes in the world, for the finest children from such homes, and that the Primary Association may be indeed a real help in the Church, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. GENERAL 'CONFERENCE 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant David O. McKay 

Anthony W.- Ivins Joseph Fielding Smith 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Joseph F. Merrill Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 137 Joseph F. Merrill Henry H. Rolapp Orval Wl Adams Anthony C. Lund, Conductor David A. Smith, President 

B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor George C. Smith, Secretary Edward P. Kimball Frank W. Asper Joseph Anderson NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor Julia F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer  all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, First Asst. Superintendent Edna Harker Thomas, Second Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The time has expired, but I cannot refrain from saying a few words. I am grateful for the splendid attendance we have had here today. 138 It has been remarkable. I am thankful for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. I am grateful for the splendid singing that we have listened to and for all of the inspired remarks that have been made; particularly am I thankful for the splendid testimonies averaging from three to five minutes — all kept within the time. I am very grateful indeed for these testimonies. I wish we had time to hear them at greater length, but the simple declaration of a knowledge of the divinity of this work from the men and women who stand at the head of the missionary work and the auxiliary associations in this Church is a source of great satisfaction, and these testimonies cannot be denied. No matter whether people believe them or not, those of us who have the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord know that they are true, because we have that same testimony ourselves. 

I did not make any remarks at the close of the last Conference because the time had expired. But I have made up my mind that in the future even if the time has expired I am going to say a" few things that are in my mind. 

APPRECIATION OF ELDER ROBERTS' WORK 

I want to express my gratitude, my thanks, my love and my blessing to Brother Brigham H. Roberts for the marvelous and inspiring energy that he has put forth in producing the six great volumes of the history of this Church. It is a monumental labor and he has worked at it day and night. I know of no man who has been more diligent in his labors for the Church, day in and day out, than Brother Roberts has been preparing this great history, and he has the gratitude of all the brethren of the Presidency and the Apostles for the diligence, the great care and attention that he has given to the production of these volumes. He is still busily engaged, more perfectly arranging the indexes, etc., for the history. I rejoice in this wonderful accomplishment. 

GRATITUDE FOR WORK OF CHOIR 

I was thrilled by the United States Marine band concert that was held in this building recently. I enjoyed it very much. But the real thrill came when I heard the two selections that were rendered by our Choir. I have never heard our sweet singer, Sister Laurinda P. Brewerton, who sang the solo part in "Inflammatus," sing better at any time than she did on that occasion. It seemed to me that she was inspired. I know that the band must have been inspired. 

I rejoice in the broadcasting. I repeat the gratitude of the General Authorities to the employers of the members of our Choir who are excused each week in order to participate in this broadcast. 

BLESSING AND TESTIMONY 

I wanted to say this much, and I want to leave my blessing upon all the General Authorities, the General Officers, the Presidents of Stakes, the Bishops of Wards, the Presidents of Branches, Presidents 139  Missions and all men and women in any place of responsibility in this Church. They have my love, my confidence and my blessing, also the blessing of my Counselors. I leave my blessing upon all Israel, and upon all honest people the world over. I thank God that I know he lives, that I know that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and all the doubt of all the world cannot change the knowledge that God has given to me and to the Latter-day Saints by the hundreds of thousands. May God's blessings attend you all, I ask, in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen. 

The anthem, "Worthy the Lamb," was rendered by the Choir. President Anthony W. Ivins pronounced the benediction. Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing at all of the sessions of the Conference. Edward P. Kimball and Frank Asper played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. 
