Morning 
10 05 1930

Every seat in the great auditorium and galleries of the Tabernacle was taken, and every available space in the aisles was occupied Sunday morning, October 5, 1930, when the hour for beginning the fifth session of the Conference arrived. Many people who could not get inside the Tabernacle found seats in the Assembly Hall and others remained on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the services as they were broadcast by radio. 

President Heber J. Grant called the meeting to order promptly at 10 o'clock, and announced that the Choir and the congregation would sing the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

After the singing, prayer was offered by Elder Arthur V. Watkins, President of the Sharon Stake. 

A duet and chorus, "An Angel From on High," was rendered by Cyril Martin and Ida Hepworth, and the Choir. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I want to express my thanks to my Heavenly Father for the privilege I have of attending this great Conference. If the people of the world, who think that Mormonism, so-called, is losing its force or its membership, could but stand upon this platform and look into the faces of this magnificent audience, their doubts or apprehensions — or wishes, in many cases — would be expelled. 

I know that this is the Church of the living God. I know that the Church, as established in this latter day, is the Church spoken of by the prophets of old, and I know that the destiny of this Church shall be as prophesied, and all the requirements made of the people belonging to this Church will be fulfilled. Men holding the Holy Priesthood, men holding responsible positions, from the President of the Church down, will fulfil every requirement, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ shall be preached to all peoples of the earth, before the end shall come. 

INDIFFERENCE OF THE WORLD TOWARD RELIGION 

There is an indifference manifested, I think, throughout the world, toward religion. That indifference, it seems to me, is growing; I am quite sure it is among many of the people that I am called to associate with. They deny the power of God. They deny the power of the Priesthood. They deny even the work of the Savior and his mission here upon this earth. 

My brethren and sisters, when we think of the fact that the Gospel has been established upon this earth for a hundred years, and thousands and tens of thousands of missionaries have been sent to nearly all parts  the earth, bearing testimony that God has revealed his mind and will and has established his Church again upon earth, the headway that we have made in that one hundred years may seem small to some, but the seed has been planted, the authority of God has been conferred upon man, and his Church organized; and I haven't the least doubt that every revelation that has been given concerning it, concerning its work, concerning the peoples of the world, will be fulfilled. 

Many times in my conversations with public men, they deny, without hesitation, that there is a God. They deny that it is possible to receive a revelation from God, the source from which we claim to receive revelations. 

"believe the works" 

I often think, my brethren and sisters, of the time when Jesus himself was upon the earth, and of the statements that were made by him to the Jews as to his coming, his mission, his authority. They were ready to stone him; and we find the Savior answering, upon an occasion of that kind, as follows : 

"If I do not the works of ray Father, believe me not. "But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works : that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him." 

So say I to the world. If you don't believe that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the authority to speak for God or for man, believe in the works of its members; see what they have accomplished; see what character of men and women the Church is composed of. 

If it were possible I would like to have such men upon this platform today and let them look into the faces of this magnificent audience, see and hear the faith expressed by the servants of God. I would like them to understand that every one within the sound of my voice will say "Amen" to the testimonies that have been given during this Conference, and have faith that the predictions that have been made will be fulfilled. 

Have you noticed — I certainly have — that active members in the Church seldom apostatize? That is natural. They are interested in the work. They know that it is God's work, and being active in it, they obey the commandments. They never cease to pray themselves. They never cease to have family prayers. They never cease endeavoring to live so that men, seeing their works, can at least believe that the Gospel of Jesus Christ has an influence upon their lives. 

One of the best ways in the world to preach the Gospel is by example, and many times you can reach people in that way of preaching that you could not in any other way. So we boldly say to the world : If you do not believe in the professions and testimonies made by us as to this being God's Church, his power made manifest in the organizations and through the individuals of the Church, believe the works of this people; compare their labors and works with those of any other people upon earth; compare their honesty with that of any other body of people on earth; compare their loyalty to our government, with the loyalty of any other people on earth. SOMETIMES A LACK OF FAITH 

My brethren and sisters, we believe and we know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, when it is manifested in the life of an)' man or woman, makes him or her a better citizen, and makes him or her more loyal, no matter where it may be. Sometimes some of us may lack faith. I think perhaps that is rather natural, for as I read the scriptures I find that men in the favor of God himself sometimes waver a little in their faith. 

May I call your attention to the case of Gideon. Gideon, a servant of God, holding the priesthood of the living God, having a mission to perform, knowing it to be a mission, had doubts; for don't you remember he asked of God, so that there could be no doubt in his mind, that a sign be given to him, namely, that a fleece of wool which he would place upon the floor, should upon the morrow be wet with dew and the earth all about it be dry. And through the goodness of God the manifestation was made to him. Even then Gideon was not satisfied, for in order to be sure that the requirement was one for him to undertake, he then requested : "Please, Heavenly Father, let the wool be dry and upon the ground let there be dew." And with all patience it was so granted unto him. "Oh ye of little faith!" 

OUR GREAT MISSION 

I want to say at this time, my brethren and sisters, that I feel just as sure as I live, that every requirement made by our God has been made for a purpose, and it is our duty to live to the requirements made by this Church; and I am positive that the God of heaven will bless those who fulfil these requirements. 

Of course, we all know that there is a change in attitude toward our people. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father that this is the case, but I do want to warn the people that if, through the goodness of God, that change has come, and we, through that fact, become slackers in his Church, it would be a great loss indeed. Oh, how little interest there is in religion today! I mean a religion such as the Latter-day Saints possess. How many people are there in all the world, outside of the Church, that will testify that there is a living God, and that Jesus is the Christ? Not many of them. 

So, my brethren and sisters, we have a great mission to perform. The time must come when this Gospel will be preached to every kindred, tongue and people upon the earth. I have often wondered how that could be done, but modern science has solved that. President Grant can stand upon this platform and testify and his voice will carry to the farther ends of the earth. Who knows but that God will provide that means of transmission of the testimonies regarding God and his work upon this earth, in order that the Gospel may be preached to every living creature. God never made a requirement of any people in any age of the world, unless he provided a way for the fulfilment of that requirement. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH OBEDIENCE 

The greatest gift of God is eternal life. Is it worth living for? Is it worth sacrificing some of the pleasures of life for? To me it seems that it is worth everything — eternal life! 

God has established his Church in this dispensation. He has made promises to his people, and among them is the one that if they obey his commandments, if they live according to the teachings of the Master, if they fulfil all the laws of God while living upon this earth, they are entitled to the promised blessing's of God. 

May God's blessings ever attend his Church. May it grow and increase in power and in numbers, and may our lives be such that people who come in contact with any member of the Church will know at once that there is something in Mormonism different from any other religion. A thorough investigation will reveal that this difference lies in the fact that we are members of the Church, that we believe in its principles; and those principles are the ones that will give us eternal life if we will live them. 

May the people of the Church live in such a way, and may we all labor to the end that every prediction made by the prophets of God, as to this last dispensation, shall be fulfilled. God grant us eternal life, God grant us wisdom while we remain upon this earth, and God grant that his Church may grow in power and in strength and in influence, and reach the hearts and souls of all honest men and women in the world, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

'Second Counselor in the Eirst Presidency 

I rejoice in the work of the Lord. I know that every commandment that he has given to this Church, through the Prophet Joseph Smith makes for righteousness, for right living, for better citizenship; makes better husbands, better wives, better children. There is not a single thing, a single thought or idea, in all those commandments, but what is uplifting and for the bettering of humankind. 

I would like to read a few verses from (Solomon, the wise man, contained in the first chapter of his Proverbs, commencing at the twenty-fourth verse. These verses of scripture seem to cover the situation today as though they were spoken concerning this generation : 

"Because I have called, and ye refused, I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded; 

"But ye have set at naught all my counsel, and would none of my reproof; 

"I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; 

"When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you. 

"Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me; 

"For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the Lord. 

"They would none of my counsel; they despised all my reproof. 

"Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices. "For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them. 

"But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil." 

IN A CHANGED WORLD 

The old order changeth; the new world is upon us. We live today in a changed world from even thirty years ago. At the beginning of this century — take, for example, one item — there was scarcely an automobile seen anywhere in the United States at that time. Only thirty years, within the memory of all of us, and yet today the building of automobiles, the opening of gas stations, with stores upon every street for accessories and equipment, employs, I suppose, probably four or five million men. That is to say, the old order has so changed, just in thirty years, that four or five millions of men are employed in a new occupation, which was not known, or scarcely known, thirty years ago. So rapidly do we move in these days. Necessarily all that affects our conditions of life. It affects our expense account. Automobiles have now become necessities. We are almost compelled to have them. Indeed, the working man goes to work now in a cheap automobile and can well afford it to save time going from his home to his work. 

These changes affect employment. Especially do they affect employment when an industry of that kind, going at full blast, stops all at once, or practically stops; the demand ceases. It is a great calamity come upon the nation — maybe it isn't a calamity at all, but a providence of the Almighty to stop our mad rush of speculation, in which stocks go tumbling to the bottom, and men who were rich, almost beyond compare, yesterday, are practically penniless today. And so industry stops, and men are thrown out of employment. They are not idlers. I would not plead for the idler, for one of the revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith says, in these words : 

"The idler shall not eat the bread nor wear the garment of the laborer." 

THE UNEMPLOYED NEED HELP 

We do not approve of idleness. In our Church industry is one of our principal doctrines : "Work out your salvation in fear and trembling before the Lord." But I do plead for those who are out of employment at this time. There is not time to go into a discussion very fully regarding these changes that come about so quickly, but here they are; they confront us; they demand solution. The best we can do, temporarily, is, as the President of the United States has pointed out, for our municipalities, our counties, our states, and civic organizations, to do everything they can to put in motion some work, that men who are willing to work may find employment. 

The Lord tells us, in another revelation, that men ought to be diligently engaged in a good cause, without being commanded. We ought not to wait till the bishop asks us, or till the President of the Church asks us to do something to help relieve this situation, to try to help our neighbors and our friends. 

Whoever can do anything in the way of providing employment for this poor person who has no work, ought to do it without waiting to be asked; for "He who waits," the Lord says, "to be commanded in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant." 

Let every man and every woman who can do anything do so. We nearly all can contribute something towards relieving this situation; and let me say, even the poor can help, for after all is said and done, it is the poor who help the poor, generally speaking; it is not the rich. Brethren and sisters, let us try to do what we can to see that employment is furnished for those who are out of employment, and who perhaps are in absolute, abject need. They should be taken care of some way. 

NATIONS PERPLEXED 

Now, I have probably spoken as long as I should. I feel a great concern in respect to this matter. I see changes coming upon the face of the earth. I see the perplexities of nations. England is perplexed today over this situation; so is Germany; Our own country, too. War is still extant; there is one at this moment in China; an uprising in India, and also in Turkey. Wars are going on upon the face of the earth. We may think that wars have ceased, that peace is here. But not so. There is perplexity of nations. This is one of the signs of the end, of the coming of the Son of Man. The warning is that "Nations should be in commotion and perplexed" because of the situations arising which the wisest of statesmen can scarcely solve. 

The scripture I read at the beginning says: "The prosperity of fools shall destroy them. But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely and shall be quiet from fear of evil." 

However, we can help to solve our own little affairs by keeping the commandments of the Lord, by being kind to each other, by considering our neighbors. My brother, my sister, I have sympathy, and we should have sympathy, and do have, I am sure. 

HOW TO HELP THE POOR 

The Lord help us to build up the kingdom of God, to sustain it, to pay our tithes and our offerings. If we would just pay our fast offerings once a month, if the five hundred thousand of our people in the United States would only pay thirty cents a month per capita on fast day, that alone would be $150,000 a month, or in ten months $1,500,000. With that we would have abundance to give to the poor whose necessities are demanding attention. 

Now let us, my brethren and sisters, keep the commandments of the Lord, and build up his kingdom. Let us love the Lord our God, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all things needful shall be granted unto us. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We will be pleased to hear next from Elder J. Reuben Clark. Brother Clark has just been appointed Ambassador to Mexico. All Utahns are proud of the honor that has come to one of our citizens. ELDER J. REUBEN CLARK 

My brethren and sisters, it is indeed an honor to be asked to say a few words to you this morning. I recall a statement that was made by the great Dr. Karl G. Maeser. He said : ''There are two occasions in a man's life when it becomes him to say little. The one is at the beginning of his work, and the other at the end of it." I stand at the beginning of my new work. 

I am proud and grateful for my ancestry. I am proud and grateful for my association with you. I am grateful for the testimony which has come to me of the truth. I pray that always there shall be with me the Spirit of God. 

As President Grant has said, I am to be appointed American Ambassador to Mexico. I have had some residence in that country, and I have come to have for that people a sympathy and a love I have not felt for any other people. 

Mexico is our neighbor. We should treat Mexico as a neighbor. The great Mosaic law which had in it the doctrine, "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," taught also : "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." On that great day in the Temple, during the last week of the Savior's mission on this earth, when they were trying to tempt him into some kind of a confession upon which they could base a prosecution, a lawyer asked him what were the great commandments, and he replied: 

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself." 

James, in his epistle, speaks of the law, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself" as the "royal law" and while we are accustomed sometimes to think that nations do not deal one with another on such a basis, I may be permitted to say that the fundamental principle of international conduct, international relationship, and law, is that you shall ask the other nation to do nothing which you are not yourself willing to do, and that you shall complain about nothing which the other nation does and which you yourself do. 

When John Adams went to Paris to assist Franklin and Jay and Lawrence in the negotiation of the treaty of peace with Great Britain at the end of our Revolutionary War, he found them involved in a discussion as to whether or not they should pay the debts that were due to the Tory colonists. When the matter was presented to him he said that he wanted the Tories paid, that he had "no notion of cheating anybody." 

What we thus said in our pride as a young, new-born nation surely we can say now that we have the power and the strength that has come to no other nation during the whole history of mankind. 

God grant that there comes to me in my work — for I go to it with something of a knowledge of what it means — his Spirit to guide me, that I may represent the people of the United States adequately in my life,  my attitude, in my work. God give to me the faith and the prayers of you, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to perform my mission honorably, I ask this in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

Upon request of President Heber J. Grant the Choir and congregation arose and sang the first and last verses of "America." 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of tthe Church 

I regret, my brethren and sisters, that through some trouble that is not yet discovered, the amplifiers on the public address system are not serving satisfactorily this morning. The technicians are working actively to try to discover just what the trouble is. Apparently, the cables leading from this building to the panel have been affected by steam in the tunnel, and there has been some short circuit which has interfered with the effective transmission of the energy. 

I rejoice with you in this splendid Conference, and I am tremendously impressed with the sight of this magnificent audience. 1 hope that I may be able to speak in such a way that I can be heard. I rejoice in my membership in the Church. I appreciate the consideration and kindness shown me by the First Presidency, the other General Authorities, presidencies of stakes, bishoprics of wards, mission presidents and the members generally in my labors. 

DESTINY OF THIS WORK 

I have absolute confidence in the destiny of this great work. What is that destiny? It is, as I see it, to bring to the people of the earth, everywhere, living faith in God and to promote righteousness, truth and peace. Yet there are people who, for some unknown reason, seem to fear that the fulfilment of the destiny of the Latter-day Saints would threaten the welfare of other peoples. Can there be any question as to the fact that, if the destiny is as I have stated it, it is only for the advancement of mankind generally? There is in the heart of every Latter-day Saint nothing but the best of feeling toward all men. For we are all desirous that, as we have received the light and message of the Gospel, others also may receive it; even as many as are willing to listen thereto, and to receive of the blessings which follow acceptance and observance thereof. 

WELFARE OF CHURCH MEMBERS 

We have been favored with splendid instructions by all those who have spoken in Conference thus far. There have been discussed various problems that affect the welfare of this people; and not only of this people but of mankind. I want to say to you that I am sure, because I have occasion to have some contact with them, that the First Presidency are vitally concerned with the welfare of every Latter-day Saint, and, for that matter, of mankind everywhere; and that they GENERAL CONFERENCE  concerned, not only with the spiritual, but also with the temporal and material progress of the Latter-day Saints. 

MATERIAL AFFAIRS, PART OF OUR RELIGION 

Understanding, as we do, that we are eternal beings, and that we have come upon this earth for an important purpose, and that in our mortal state we must live, eat, wear clothing, and partake, to some extent, at least, of the comforts and conveniences of life, we appreciate the fact that material and temporal, as well as spiritual, things are a part of the Gospel. This is particularly so if we cultivate in our hearts the idea that all that we obtain, all that we have, all that we do, we are doing and using with an eye single to the glory of God, and to the advancement of his work. If we can get that spirit in our hearts and minds, we shall realize the fact that material and temporal things are a part of our progress and development, while here upon the earth in preparation for eternity. 

INJUNCTION TO WORK 

One of the problems that is confronting us at the present time, in common with the rest of mankind, is that of unemployment and the decrease in industry. From the earliest history of mankind, we learn that in the days of Adam the Lord gave him this injunction : "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Later on, in the time of Moses, the Lord declared to his people, in regard to the Sabbath Day: "Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work." 

WORK DAYS PER WEEK 

So, since there was one day for rest, there were six days for labor. In the meantime, with the growth of industry, many of those engaged therein have gotten the idea at times that seven days per week are necessary for work. Consequently, many industries have been working regularly seven days a week, and preventing their employees from enjoying the fruits of the Sabbath Day, when, as a matter of fact they could, in many instances, limit their work to six days. But nowadays, with the increased development in mechanical appliances and equipment, men are coming back to the realization that six days a week is sufficient, and that even a five-day week may be advantageous. Thus, men may be able to earn enough in five days per week, due to improved conditions in industry, when they are working properly; so that they would have two days for leisure and for worship. 

NECESSITY OF WORK 

Now, I say, the importance of work has been stressed not only in previous ages of the world's history, but, also, more extensively in this period. The Lord has revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, the instruction that labor is necessary for mankind, as one of the fundamentals in our progress in this life and throughout eternity. The Lord has specifically declared: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." That involves physical and mental labor, and it involves also labor in a spiritual sense. 

VALUE OF WORK 

Thomas Carlyle declared: "Blessed is the man that has found his work. Let him ask no other blessedness." Again, J. H. Patterson says : "It is only those who do not know how to work that do not love it. To those who do it is better than play; it is religion." A certain artist says, regarding success: "The greatest single element in any one's career is work. This is the despot that escorts you to the winning post." Another writer declares — "Work! Thank God for the might of it, the ardor, the urge, the delight of it. Thank God for a world where none may shirk, thank God for the splendor of work." I am sure that every one of us who has labored, and does labor, has appreciated the value of work and the importance of it; that it is a part of our lives; that it develops us. It develops our physical strength. It develops our mental keenness. It gives us courage. Stimulates desire for achievement. It inspires in us consideration for our fellow men. Every one of us is expected to labor, to learn the value of labor, to appreciate the joys of achievement, and the benefits that come therefrom. 

RESULTS OF LABOR 

When we consider the tremendous results that have occurred through the ingenuity of mankind, and through the application of that ingenuity to the production of commodities that make for progress and development, and provide comforts and conveniences, we can appreciate the wonderfully beneficial results of labor from the material standpoint. I am reminded, by the way, when we speak of ingenuity and inventiveness, that we, in America think we are in the forefront. I noticed, however, recently, that America stands only about seventh or eighth in the matter of inventiveness. The little country of Switzerland stands first of all the nations in inventiveness, Germany next, France next, and so forth. 

RIGHT TO WORK 

Now, as it is necessary that men should work, and as they have been enjoined to labor, as idleness has been condemned as being unfruitful and tending to degradation and demoralization, at the same time, it follows that there ought to be the opportunity to work. Every man has the right to work, and some provision should be made whereby he can obtain work. In earlier days men were able largely to provide their own employment. In ancient days people lived simply, choice land was freely available, men had their flocks and herds, and they cultivated the land to the extent that they found it necessary in order that they might draw therefrom a sustenance. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

SPECIALIZATION 

Nowadays, with the complexity of civilization, it is not so easy always for men to secure employment. With this increase in complexity of industry and of civilization men are learning special trades and professions. It is a day of specialization. One of the Brahmanist proverbs says, with regard to trades and the importance of them: "The parent that does not teach his child a trade, teaches him to be a thief." Whether that be true or not, the fact is that with present conditions the learning of trades and the application of those trades to industry is of great importance. 

man's stewardship 

If those who labor have in their minds appreciation of the fact that that which they do and the opportunity that is given to them to work is, in fact, a blessing from God; that of the things that they acquire, since they are only tenants here upon the earth, part at least really belongs to the Lord; and if they cultivate that appreciation, they will then be willing, if they are taught the principle, to observe the law of tithing which has been discussed this morning, and at other times during this Conference, which means the giving of one-tenth of the product of one's labor and of one's increase to the Lord, for the promotion of righteousness, truth and faith. Where people observe that principle they receive blessings. 

TIT HEPAYERS AND EMPLOYMENT 

In connection with that, and this question of unemployment, I am reminded of a statement made by President William R. Sloan, of the Northwestern States Mission. He stated, the other day, that through a careful investigation made in his mission, it was shown that in the case of every full tithepayer, there was not one who had lost his job in the midst of this depression. Every one of those who were paying full tithing has been able to retain his work. Is that, to you, any evidence of the benefits that come through the observance of tithing? That is not, however, the primary purpose of tithing. The primary purposes are to train us in obedience, to help us to overcome selfishness, to give of our service and our means to the building up of the work of God, and to the extension of these things which make for the welfare of mankind. 

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

I need not discuss with you in detail the present economic conditions. We realize what they are. Our staple industries in this state and in other parts of the country are depressed tremendously because of the low prices of those products. Wheat, wool, sugar, and the metals, which affect us directly, are low in price. They are affected by over-production, decrease of demand, and lack of proper distribution. The result is depression and resulting unemployment. It has been suggested, and it seems to me a very desirable thing, that there 103'  be provision made by the government for the registration of all those who are not employed, and special efforts made to try to provide employment for them. There are positions and jobs open, in some instances, that might be filled by those who are most worthy, if their names and the kind of work that they are able to do were available. 

STIMULATION OF INDUSTRY AND CONSTRUCTION 

It is, of course, a very desirable thing that industries should be stimulated in this locality and other localities, where possible, to take the raw materials and to produce manufactured goods therefrom that are in demand. In connection therewith, any possible construction that can be done at this season of the year and during the winter time, in order to save trouble and suffering to those who are out of employment at the present time, would be very helpful. I want to indorse the recent editorials in the Deseret News and in the Salt Lake Tribune, with regard to the urging of construction work that can properly be undertaken during this fall and winter, by the cities, counties, and states, to the end that those who are out of employment may be able to get some help, at least, in that direction. 

HOW THE CHURCH CAN HELP 

How can the Church help in this respect? The Church has been charged with being materialistic. Now, the Church is not in a position, as it used to be when it practically occupied this community entirely, to undertake public works. But it can help in trying to put members of the Church in contact with opportunities for jobs. There can be no objection, surely, on the part of any one to that. We should not undertake to open employment offices for people generally, because that is not our function, but we are justified in trying to contact with those who need employment, among the members of this Church, and to help them. 

HELP MEMBERS TO HELP THEMSELVES 

It is our business also, as bishoprics of wards, to see that no one suffers. The Church is carrying a heavy responsibility to see to it that none of the active members of the Church suffers for the necessities of life. But in all of this, the effort of the Church authorities, the bishops, presidents of the stakes, and relief societies, is to help people to help themselves. The policy is to aid them to become independent, in order to be able to serve and to help to build up the Church, as well as the community, rather than to have to depend upon the Church for assistance. Yet in times of need, — and there are such times that come to many people — the Church properly steps in and undertakes to help them, and to bring into action other agencies which can help to promote better conditions and the avoidance of suffering. 

EMPLOYMENT BUREAU 

I want to call your attention to the fact that there have been suggestions made whereby, in every community throughout the Church GENERAL CONFERENCE  there is unemployment, conditions can be improved. In this city the presidencies of the six city stakes, and the bishoprics of the wards have organized the Deseret Employment Bureau, — a central head — where members of the Church in these stakes can come to seek employment. They are first registered and the necessary information obtained regarding their addresses, qualifications, references, and membership, and then those in charge seek to find employment for them. The result has been that out of about 1800 men who have registered there for the nine months of this year, about 1200 have secured some employment. Also, the General Board of Relief Society, which has an employment bureau for women, has done at least as much in the way of getting employment for women and girls during the same period. Surely, that is a very helpful thing. 

EMPLOYMENT PLAN 

But that is not all. These six city stakes and the wards included therein have undertaken not only to provide a control employment bureau as a place of final reference after local efforts have been exhausted, but they have undertaken to organize in each ward an employment committee, consisting of a high priest, a seventy, and an elder, together with a relief society member, under the direction of the bishopric. This committee's function is to seek out those in the ward who are out of employment, list their names, addresses, and qualifications, and then in connection with all the priesthood members in the ward, to try to place them in contact with employment. If the priesthood are unable to get employment for them, then they are recommended to the control bureau, which represents the stake agency. 

RESULTS IN MAR VISTA WARD 

In this connection, I want to just briefly tell you what is beingdone in one of the wards in California, which is carrying out this very thing. Brother Orson Hewlett told this story of the Mar Vista ward in Los Angeles. They have a committee of this kind. Every Tuesday evening, when they hold their priesthood meeting, those who are out of employment are asked to raise their hands, their names and addresses are taken, and the kind of work they can do noted. Then if there is any one there who can suggest any opening for them — and there are often opportunities that men know of right there in that meeting — they are referred to those places. After these names are taken, this committee and others of the priesthood undertake to try to find them employment. The report is that splendid results have been obtained. Not only that, but the complete census of that ward has been taken and, in connection therewith, there have been listed, in type-written form, the names, addresses, and kind of work that those who are out of employment can perform. The result is that they are making headway and helping in that way to relieve suffering and avoid trouble and distress. I am sure that, if the priesthood quorums throughout the various wards of the Church will carry out 105  plan wherever unsatisfactory conditions prevail, a great improvement will be manifest. 

BENEFITS TO THE PRIESTHOOD 

We notice from the Deseret Employment Bureau reports that the applications for employment in the last few months have decreased somewhat. Whether or not that is due to the fact that employment conditions are improving, I am not prepared to say. However, I want to say to you that if all the wards and stakes, where any unemployment is found, will organize these priesthood committees for welfare work and for employment, and if the relief societies will also organize for this purpose, as is being done in many of the wards, that a great deal of trouble will be overcome. The priesthood quorums throughout the Church will help materially in putting the man in contact with the job, thereby providing gainful effort, and overcoming the necessity of providing charity. In addition thereto, the indirect benefits accruing therefrom to the various priesthod quorums will produce a finer social atmosphere, develop a greater cooperative spirit, promote brotherly love and fraternal fellowship, increase attendance at priesthood meetings, increase tithes and offerings, and produce splendid brotherhood. 

I appreciate the blessings and privileges of the Church. I realize the fact that there is divine guidance through the inspiration given to those who lead this Church. I pray that we may sustain them, and labor together diligently, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There are four brethren who have returned from missions who have not yet reported — Brother Andrew Johnson from the Swedish Mission, Brother J. A. Cahoon from the Tongan Mission, Brother Hyrum W. Valentine from the German-Austrian Mission, and Brother Edward P. Kimball from the German-Austrian Mission. We will ask these brethren if they are here to come to the stand and address us, occupying not more that ten minutes each in their remarks. Brother Valentine will be the next speaker after the Choir sings the first hymn in our hymn book, entitled, "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." 

This hymn occupies a place of honor in our hymn book, and I think, justly. Brother George Careless, a former leader of the Choir, composed the music. As there are only twenty lines to the hymn, I am going to take the time to read it all. 

"The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day, Majestic rises on the world. 

"The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"The Gentile fulness now conies in. And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand. 

"Jehovah speaks! let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive. 

"Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To bring her ransomed children home." 

The Choir then sang- the hymn, "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." 

ELDER HYRUM W. VALENTINE 

Former President of the German- Austrian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I can assure you that I feel that this is a very signal honor for me, but I feel tremendously weak and most humble in this responsible position. 

I have enjoyed exceedingly the spirit of this Conference. I have been thrilled with the messages that have been borne in upon us, and I give myself willingly over to the inspiration of the Lord, that I too may be the means of adding to or emphasizing the messages that we have already received. 

I thank the Lord for my membership in this Church, and I have been made to say frequently and recently that I believe the time has long since passed when we should speak of the duties and obligations that rest upon us, as members and workers in this great and glorious service; for I believe that it is not so much a duty, and not so much an obligation that is resting upon us, but it is a divine privilege and opportunity to be a member of this Church; and the greatest blessing that can ever come to us in this world or in the world to come, is to be called upon to render service in this great and glorious cause. I thank the Lord for such a testimony in my heart, and I pray that he may give me the power to take advantage of the opportunities and blessings that are afforded me in this divine work. 

We will not know the divinity of this work except by participation therein. I have often said, and I desire to repeat, that of all people in the world we are the six or seven hundred thousand who, if the opportunity were given, and if it were made possible for all to speak with one voice, would be able to rise upon our feet and say, "I know this is the work of God" — a literal fulfilment of the promise of the Savior of the world, when he said: "They that. do the will shall know of the doctrine." And I say the six or seven hundred thousand people that we have as members of this Church can rise and say that they know of themselves that this is the work of God. May we press on, and may we realize that there are specific things that we must do, and not only be members of the Church, in order to realize the growth, the progress, the opportunity, the blessings that are ours in this great work, through our activity and participation. Where in all the world is there such an opportunity for work and service for boys and girls, little children, adults, and those who are advanced in years, as in this the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? 

This organization has sometimes been compared with the German army. It should not be compared with any army or any navy, but it should be contrasted. This is the Church and Kingdom of God, the perfection of an organization for growth, for progress, for development, for construction; whereas an army, a navy, is an organization that may be effective, it may be efficient, but if it is it is effective and efficient for destruction and disintegration. And for that reason the two cannot be compared, but contrasted. 

Thank God for our membership! Thank God for our leaders! Thank God for the divinity that is characterized in every activity of this work! May the Lord help us to be faithful and true and diligent and energetic, grasping our opportunities, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD P. KIMBALL 

Former President of the German- Austrian Mission 

I am deeply appreciative of this honor, although I face this responsibility with timidity, realizing that the time of the General Conference is so valuable. However, if I may have the Spirit of the Lord to aid me in expressing some of the things that have been in my heart during the sessions of this Conference, I sincerely hope that the few minutes I occupy will not be wasted. 

Naturally, when one returns from the mission field, his thoughts are on missionary work, and mine are on missionary work, particularly during this Conference. I have rejoiced in the admonitions that I have heard the brethren give with regard to better missionary work. 

I should like to make a plea this morning in behalf of the at least thirty-eight thousand Saints who are in the European missions. These are the only people I know in the mission field. I realize that if we could take our charge more seriously, if we could begin earlier in the preparation of our missionaries, we could bring a great blessing to those people. This thought was never brought home to me as directly and emphatically before as it was about one year ago, in a city in Germany. 

In the German-Austrian Mission we are doing missionary work in ninety-one fields. In these ninety-one fields there are seventy-two organized branches, and thirty-three of these organized branches are entirely in the hands of the local priesthood. President Widtsoe is laying great stress upon the desirability and the advisability of giving our brethren and sisters in those missions the same opportunity for GENERAL CONFERENCE  which has been given to us by activity in the quorums and organizations. He is pointing out to the missionaries and to the Saints that all the officers and the leaders of this Church have been men and women who have come up from the ranks, who have come up from the common people. 

W!e are beginning to realize in those missions that it is not possible for all to come to Zion. I rejoiced when a letter went out from the First Presidency of the Church a year ago, urging the mission presidents and missionaries to encourage our people to remain in the missions, to develop themselves there, and to build up the Church. In reading the revelations of the Lord I have been thrilled to find that it was never the intention that the Saints should all come here. I have come to a conclusion that it is not intended by the Lord that there shall be two types of Latter-day Saints — one type in the missions, who are under certain restrictions, and a different type here at home. 

I maintain, my brethren and sisters, that when a group of men and women who have accepted the Gospel in the same way we have are ninety per cent faithful in the payment of their tithing; when they are more than that faithful in the keeping of the Word of Wisdom; when they are ninety-five per cent faithful in attending their meetings, the promise which was made by the Lord in the 133rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants will become operative in their behalf, namely, that in the days when the missionaries should be sent out, the people of the world should hear the fulness of the Gospel in their own tongue, by those who are ordained to this work — not necessarily men who are sent from the center stakes of Zion. 

About a year ago we called one of our fifteen young, full-time German missionaries upon a mission. He comes from a large branch. His father has been in the Church about thirty-five years, and has borne the Melchizedek priesthood for probably twenty-five years. The young man was born in the Church. I had the opportunity, six months after he went into the field, of visiting a conference in the branch from which he comes. His father naturally was interested to know what kind of a record his son was making, and when I told him that the boy was measuring up in every manner to the responsibility of missionary work, he replied something like this : "Why shouldn't he? Before you call our boys on missions they must have a testimony of the Gospel. They must keep the commandments, including the Word of Wisdom, the law of tithing. They must attend all their meetings." 

Now, my brethren and sisters the day of the make-shift, temporary, front trench organization in the missions is past, at least it is in the European missions, and the mission from which I come is moving rapidly toward permanency. We desire soon to put before the Authorities of the Church a building program. We desire that our Saints there shall have the same privilege of worshiping in desirable places that you have. I don't believe that the Lord is a respecter of persons, either in or out of the Church. I don't believe that he intends that you, here in the shadow of the temples, shall worship in marble palaces, 109  that our brethren and sisters over there shall always worship in stables and vacated factory buildings. 

The thing that we are trying to do now is to develop them along the lines of self-government, and I am proud to testify to you that in the thirty-three branches where the local brethren have charge of the work we are making marvelous progress. I say to the credit of my predecessor, Brother Valentine, that we have built upon the sure foundation which he laid. 

 The Doctrine and Covenants says : "To some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world; to others it is given to believe on their words." And I believe that if the members of this Church went down into their own experiences, into their own hearts, they would find that their testimony has come to them more through believing on the words of those who do know. I maintain that it is possible for every man and woman to have a testimony. I don't believe that we should allow our young people to be converted to this Gospel through the flesh. It cannot be done. Give them all the education we want; give them all the logic and the science it is possible to get, the same as Paul; but even Paul, when he was left merely to the workings of the flesh, was not a servant of the Lord. It was only when the finger of God touched his heart that he received his testimony. 

I believe that missionaries are made in the homes. I believe that our brethren and sisters should, in their lives, set an example of righteousness before their children, so that by the time these children reach the age when our young people are ordinarily called on missions, they may not only know according to the flesh, according to the mind, the principles of the Gospel, but that their hearts shall be touched with a testimony which will lead them to go out into the world, seeking first the kingdom of God, desiring to know whether God lives and whether this work should come to all,_and knowing when it is given, that it is going to transform the lives of those into whose lives it has come, as it has done in hundreds of thousands of cases. 

I bear my testimony to the Saints that there is no desirable or honorable profession or business in this world in which a man cannot reach the utmost heights and still remain a Latter-day Saint. I thrilled when I heard that a full-souled, converted Latter-day Saint had been appointed Ambassador to Mexico. I thrill when I think that an Apostle of the Lord, on an equal footing with every other citizen in this land, stands at the head, practically, of the influence in the Senate. 

I tell you, as I look over the Church and as I look at the missionary work today, the work of the Lord needs the best brains, the best heart, and the best testimony that can be had. If we are gaining in respect in the eyes of the world, there is a greater responsibility upon us. Roosevelt spoke a powerful truth, a few years ago, when he said : "The greatness of the fathers becomes to the children a shameful thing if they use it only as an excuse for inaction, instead of as a spur to effort for nobler aims." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we of the younger generation, let us not sell our birthright for a mess of pottage. Let us rise, and raise the standard, and show those who have gone before us that even in our days of affluence, even in our days of plenty, even in our days of ease, it is still possible for a testimony to burn within the heart of a Latterday Saint in this day, as in the days of the other generations that have gone before us. 

Let us not live in the past. That is what is the matter with the nations and the churches of the world today. They are living in the past. We have done wonders in the last hundred years, but if we want to know what the Church is going to arrive at in the next hundred years, I can give you the key : Look now into your own hearts; look into the lives and the testimonies of your boys and girls, and you shall see what the Church is going to accomplish in the next hundred years. 

God give us the power and the disposition to train our boys and girls into a knowledge that the work of the salvation of mankind has been committed to the Church of Jesus Christ as an organization God grant this, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to have the Spirit and blessings of the Lord, to express my gratitude for your faith and prayers, and for the mercy and blessings of the Lord that I am able to be present upon this occasion, to enjoy in a degree the blessings of health and to enjoy the teachings and testimonies of my brethren. I am pleased to see this house filled with those who are not here to be seen of men, but to serve the living God, and to receive further strength and enlightenment to honor him in the work that is sacred and important in this day and time. 

HAPPINESS THROUGH BLESSINGS OF THE GOSPEL 

For some reason or other there has never come into my life that happy privilege which has come to many of the missionaries of going into the world and seeing people hearken unto their testimonies and come from a world of darkness into a new world of light and understanding. But it has come to my heart to be happy when I hear the testimonies of my brethren, for I realize that joy has come to their hearts through the blessings of the Lord upon their humble words in defense of truth and righteousness. So I share with them the great joy of seeing our brethren and sisters accept the truth and come out of the world — all the nations and kindreds and tongues of the world — fulfilling the great promises of our Lord in gathering his children to the truth. 

STRIVE FOR PEACE 

I am grateful for the peace that exists in the Church today. It has always been my pride to he a peacemaker, and to abhor contention 111  strife. I would like to bespeak for the Church a greater degree of peacemaking. Wje should all be peacemakers, every one of us, first with ourselves, in our homes, and then with our neighbors. I bespeak for you, my brethren and sisters, a further degree of energy and diligence in the preparation for peace in our own homes and in our own hearts. Then the strength of our testimonies, through our works, will continue to grow and bear fruit, even in spite of the fact that war and contention may be around us. 

MAKING A PROPER USE OF OUR AGENCY 

I realize also that it is our right to do as we please; in other words, we have our agency. The Lord has never taken it from us, and I am of the opinion that he never will, so long as we do as we please in a manner that will not interfere with any one else in his right to do as he pleases. Yet we should be wise, prudent, and careful in the use of our agency. We are naturally prone to do the things that we know how to do and the things that we like to do. We get into the habit of doing things, sometimes in spite of the fact that we know better than we do. We know 'we should do better. We know we should do differently than we do, yet we know we have our agency. Therefore, I sincerely admonish my brethren and sisters to strive more diligently to do the thing's they know best to do, and then strive to do better all the time the right thing. 

I have heard it said and preached that there are many among us who pray: "Oh Lord, help us to be right, for our minds are already made up." That is largely due to the fact that we are in the habit of doing about as we please. I hope, my brethren and sisters, when you go to your homes, after this Conference, that you will do very much as you please, but please be more careful, more prayerful, more humble, and more willing to do the things you have been taught, the things you know are better than your own way, even better than you have ever done in the past. By this means we will all grow in the spirit of brotherly love, in the spirit of the Lord, and in the spirit of peace. 

THE WORK OF THE LORD 

I realize that the time is well spent, but this is a glorious privilege to stand here and look into the faces of thousands of my brethren and sisters who 'I am sure know as well as J do that this is the work of God, a marvelous work and a wonder. There is nothing in all the world today more wonderful than the work of the Lord, especially the work which has been entrusted to the hands of the Latter-day Saints. 

Every part of my body, every bit of strength that I possess, every atom of my being, bears testimony that this is the work of the Lord. In fact, I know nothing else in all the world so well as I know that this is the work of God. I pray for greater strength, greater courage, a  greater degree of obedience, that I may go forth with you, my brethren and sisters, and live in such a manner as to enjoy the blessings the Lord has in preparation and in store for us. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

BLESSINGS THROUGH KEEPING COMMANDMENTS 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, through the spirit of testimony that fills my soul, that the Lord is not going to leave us, nor this people, without his blessings. If you will use your agency in honoring him, through keeping his commandments, he will bless you in your homes, in your stores, in your fields, in your places of business. He will bless your herds and your cattle and your folds. He will bless you in all your righteous endeavors to do good; he will open up the way before you, that you may have a greater desire to share with others, and to prepare your sons and daughters to go upon missions in defense of his work, in a spirit of true unselfishness. I know that the blessings of the Lord are rich in preparation for the faithful of Israel, both scattered and gathered, and I pray that his Spirit and blessings may continue to grow in your hearts and be at your hand, that you may serve and honor him and be in very deed what you profess to be. 

I bless you and promise, my brethren and sisters, that in whatever capacity you are called to labor, whether at home or abroad, peace, contentment, and a greater degree of courage will come to you in your work. 

THE NEEDY AND UNEMPLOYED 

I pray also that the Lord will bless those who are unemployed, that through a spirit of willingness to work and to share they may enjoy the spirit of peace and the opportunity to provide their necessities. I pray the Lord to bless all the needy, and leave none to suffer unjustly or unnecessarily. As his servant, I bless the Church to this end, that in the Church, through using the powers which God has given us, we may not suffer nor allow our neighbors to suffer unjustly, nor unnecessarily. 

May the Lord bless us all and continue to inspire those whom he has called to lead Israel, from his servant, the President of the Church, down to the least and last one called, whether in the priesthood, in the auxiliary organizations, in the temples, in the schools, in the fields or shops, in the offices, or wherever they are called to labor. 

I bless the Church and those who are working honestly and willingly to honor and serve the Lord in righteousness and truth, that in their hearts peace may abide, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There appeared in the Deseret News last night, occupying nearly an entire column, a list of influential citizens who are engaged in marking Utah Pioneer trails — landmarks along the trails. We would like all of our people to take interest in this matter. It is something" that every citizen of Utah should be interested in, without regard to creed or religion. We are pleased to see many of the most influential men of the City and State engaged in this movement. 

We would like every one to remain in this building after the 113  until the Choir has withdrawn and become stationed in the place where they are to sing for the Movietone News. Their singing is to be heard probably by about thirty million people through the instrumentality of the talking pictures. The Fox Movietone people are here to take the picture. 

I wish to say that we are obtaining most marvelous and wonderful response from the broadcasting by radio of the singing of the Choir and the renditions on the Organ every Monday afternoon. We have received letters from all oyer the country giving expressions of delight regarding these recitals. The broadcasting company that has charge of this work has written to us expressing delight and appreciation. It is no small thing for our Choir and our Organ to be heard all over the United States. This advertises Salt Lake City in a most remarkable way. We are grateful to the radio broadcasting people for giving us this privilege. We are grateful for the loyalty of our Choir and our organists for giving their services in these special recitals. We are thankful to the employers of Choir members for releasing them to come here and give those broadcasts, and I say without fear of contradiction that they are one of the greatest advertisements for Salt Lake City that could possibly be had. In fact we know that other cities (I won't mention the names of any of them) are complaining and asking for the same privilege, but they do not happen to have the Mormon Tabernacle Choir nor do they have the great Tabernacle Organ. But they would like to advertise their own towns. 

An anthem, "The Song of the Redeemed," was rendered by the Choir, led by Evan Stephens, the former leader of the Choir and composer of the music to this anthem. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder John F. Bowman. 

Conference adjourned until 2:00 p. m. 


