Morning 
10 04 1930



ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Ninety-nine years ago, about a year after the Church was organized, among other instructions that the Lord gave to his prophet for the guidance and comfort of the Church, were these words, found in the sixty-fourth Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great." 

THE FOUNDATION OF A GREAT WORK 

Later in the same revelation : 

"For, behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish, and the glory of the Lord shall be upon her. 

"And she shall be an ensign unto the people, and there shall come unto her out of every -nation under heaven. 

"And the day shall come when the nations of the earth shall tremble because of her, and shall fear because of her terrible ones. The Lord hath spoken it." 

As we listened to the review, as given by the President yesterday morning, of the changed conditions that have occurred in the attitude of the world toward the Church, and as we see the hundred years of progress that has been made, we have every reason to believe that the Lord is fulfilling these wonderful promises; that insignificant as was the beginning, those words of promise are fulfilled; that they were laying the foundation of a mighty work, and that out of small things great things will proceed. Evidence of that is clearly shown in the- accomplishments of the past. 

AN ENSIGN UNTO THE PEOPLE 

But this promise goes farther than the foundation — it extends into the future, for "Zion shall arise and flourish, and the glory of the Lord shall be upon her; and people shall come from every nation." They have come from every nation. How could the prophet know, except he were inspired of the Lord, that this gospel message would touch  hearts of the children of men in all nations? They have fulfilled that prediction, and here they are assembled; and now comes a new charge to the Church : This Church "shall be an ensign unto the people." 

My brethren and sisters, as we look at the future there seems very clearly, to me, in the Lord's program a definite purpose, that his work shall arise and shine. This is an age that is full of theories. Many churches have solutions for the present problems. There are many societies and organizations being promoted in the world for the solution of our present troubles among the nations, and dealing with individuals. 

TRUE CHRISTIANITY"' S OPPORTUNITY 

It does seem to me that after these many years we have come to the place where we have an opportunity to be heard, and the world is willing to listen, and prejudice is so far removed that they are willing to give credit where credit is due. We have been more or less contending, for these hundred years, for the right to exist, to be heard and understood, and yet we have been drilling; we have been rehearsing. We are ready to come on the scene in a great drama, to demonstrate before the world that there is virility and strength and power in the Gospel of Jesus Christ to solve the problems of the world. 

For all these centuries Christianity has been in the world, and has been helpless, very largely, to solve these problems, until the skeptic has concluded there is no power in Christianity, there is no virtue in the Gospel of Christ to solve these difficult problems that bring war and bloodshed and wickedness among men. 

The Latter-day Saints recognize that there has been, during all these ages, some little truth, and many honest souls have struggled towards the light; but the world has been in a state of apostasy. The power of the Gospel has not been among men. The form of it, yes. So that true Christianity has not had a real test. It has not had a chance to demonstrate what it really could and will do. 

POWER TO SOLVE THE WORLD'S PROBLEMS 

This Church was established for the express purpose of proving to the world that there is power in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, power to solve the problems of the world, power to change the hearts of men, and bring to a distressed world its golden age, its peace, its prosperity, and its happiness. The dream that Daniel saw is to be realized, when the God of heaven is to establish a work that shall stand forever and fill the whole earth. 

The prediction of the modern prophets has been to the effect that this was but the beginning of that great movement, and now that we are being given the opportunity to be heard, now is the time for the Latter-day Saints to rally to their standards, and demonstrate to a world that is in doubt and uncertainty, and full of skepticism, that there is power in the Gospel of Jesus Christ to change the hearts and the lives of men, and to influence the destinies of the nations towards that dream tof the prophets of the past that a golden age would come, when all the distresses that have afflicted men would pass, and universal brotherhood would come, and peace be in the world. 

Let me just touch one or two of the problems that this Gospel is solving and can solve — setting a pattern for the world. 

THE LORD'S PLAN FOR HELPING THE POOR 

Here is the problem of the world's poor. The Lord's plan for its solution, without humiliation to the poor, and a blessing to those who offer relief — the fast offerings given by the membership of the Church once a month, following abstinence from food for two meals. Fasting is a blessing in itself to the physical being, and a blessing to the spiritual being, because it tends, in its very nature, to give spiritual control oyer the physical being. Gratitude for the goodness of the Lord in providing food and life comes from that fast, also sympathy for the poor who are without food, and then too we are giving that which has been saved. 

I know that there are many who do not seem to clearly understand what ought to be given — the equivalent of the meals saved. I should say that certainly ten cents a meal would be the minimum, or twenty cents per individual, per month. I wish that were the standard maintained by the membership of the Church. It is not up to that point, but even as well as the Latter-day Saints are performing that service, it is creating a large fund, and if we would observe it strictly it would create ample funds to care for the needs of the poor, and industrialize them. 

The method of the Lord's plan is excellent, the giving to the bishop, who distributes to the poor. It is not my business to give to the poor. It is the business, in the Lord's Church, of the bishop to give. I give to the bishop, and he dispenses to the poor. Those who receive it do not know from whence it comes, and those who give it do not know to whom it goes. That is not letting your right hand know what your left hand is doing. I know of no other scheme by which the Lord's plan could be carried out better than that established in this Church. This plan would perpetually solve the problem of the poor, and I say industrialize them and make them independent economically. 

The Lord's plan does not contemplate the pauperization of the poor. I remember my father being a bishop for forty years, and it was my privilege, as a boy, to carry the charities to the poor of, that ward. I was impressed, when I went to the home of a widow who needed help, and found her knitting stockings; and when I went to a poor man who needed help, I discovered he was cutting the widow's wood, while she knitted stockings for the poor man who needed help. Everybody was encouraged to do something to help somebody else, even though they received charities. 

I am told that on the tithing yard here east of us, when there wasn't work for worthy poor, there was a pile of rocks in one corner of that yard, that the worker that wanted a job was set to carry into another corner of the yard, and he received his pay at the end of the day. If on the following day there was a worthy applicant, but no work for hitn, he might be given the task of carrying the rocks back into the  corner, and he came to get his pay at night with the feeling that he had earned it. 

That is the spirit of industrialization among the poor of the Church that has been with us from the beginning, and is to be carried on. 

A SOLUTION FOR CAPITAL AND LABOR PROBLEMS 

The problem that exists in the world between capital and labor can be solved in the Lord's plan of tithing. The struggle for the maintenance of one class over another is not the Lord's way of solving this problem. Let me read to you, from the fifty-sixth Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, what the Lord himself has to say upon this subject : 

"Woe unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation — the harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! 

"Woe unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, who will not labor with your own hands! 

"But blessed are the poor" — yes, and the Lord could have added, blessed are the rich — '"whose hearts arc broken, and whose spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance." 

The deliverance of the poor shall not be through any legislation. It will come through the Lord's plan, for they shall see the power of God coming in glory unto their deliverance, for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs. 

"For behold, the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice. 

"And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever." 

That is the plan that will succeed. Neither in the control of the affairs of the iworld by the rich, nor by the poor as in Russia; neither element will succeed, from its own selfish point of view, but they must be brought together in the spirit of brotherhood, in the spirit of union of interest, and that will never be accomplished, only under the Lord's plan. Tithing is the first step toward that plan, where both the rich and the poor contribute according to their means, for the common welfare of each. There is no pew in this Church for the rich to sit in, and denied to the poor; no blessings extended to the wealthy in the temples of God, and denied to the poor. They share alike, and the rich man gets no more than the poor man. Tithing the Lord designated as a schoolmaster in this Church to bring us to the more perfect order of things that obtained in the days of Enoch, and every man that will come into the celestial kingdom of God will have to learn the lesson, to live not only under the schoolmaster, but ultimately to come to the United Order, or the Order of Enoch, wherein there shall be community of interest, and yet individual responsibility and opportunity, but such combination as will eliminate jealousy and hatred and envy in the hearts of men. 

This Church is a hundred years nearer the solution of that problem than any other community in the world, and the Latter-day Saints should rally to the law of tithing and be prepared in time to demonstrate before the world the real genuine solution of this question. 

A STANDARD FOR THE PERFECTION OF MEN'S LIVES 

So with the Wlord of Wisdom, dealing with the perfection of men's lives by living up to a Gospel standard. Oh, it may be true that we do not maintain the prohibition law that has been enacted into the Constitution, but I hope it shall be preserved. If we abandon it we shall see worse times than we are seeing today. I believe that if this nation could persevere under the prohibition law for twenty-fjve years, we would raise a generation of men and women that would easily subscribe to that law, and that problem would be solved. But if this nation is not able to do that, and shall return to the old conditions, what of us? 

The Lord gave to this Church a plan that will succeed when all the schemes of men shall fail. I recognize that you cannot legislate men into righteous living. That must come from the heart. Our plan contemplates the conversion of the hearts of men to an obedience to the Lord's plan, and to the strict observance of that revelation that enjoins upon us the obligation not only to refrain from the use of liquor, but from tea and coffee and tobacco, that are injurious to the physical being. 

The Lord knew the needs of this fast-moving age, that we need the power that comes from observing the Word of Wisdom, if we shall endure under these strenuous conditions that are around us. Now is the opportunity for the Latter-day Saints to rally to that standard, and demonstrate, though the world may fail, through its legislation to correct this evil, that we will correct it by the conversion of men, and demonstrate the way for the world to follow after in the solution of that problem. 

FOR THE ESTABLISHING OF PEACE 

So with all the other problems. In this Gospel is the plan and the way by which peace can come, and war be abolished. If every person in the world had in his heart today the spirit that is in the hearts of these Latter-day Saints, you would not need a League of Nations, you would not need a court to limit armaments. It would be solved, because into the hearts of these Latter-day Saints has come the power of God, the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, that takes envy and malice and hatred out of the heart, and puts the love of men there. You could not think of one stake of Zion going to war with another. No. Although they come from the ends of the earth, the men of all nations live here in peace and in love. If that spirit could be extended to the ends of the earth, our problems would be solved. 

Now is the opportunity for the Latter-day Saints to arise and shine. 

As we enter into this second great period of the Church's history an opportunity comes to us, since we have the stage, and since the people of the world are willing to listen and give credit. Now is the time for us to rally to our standards and demonstrate the power there is in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

God help us to see our opportunity and embrace it, and carry forward gloriously the Lord's purposes, until his work shall be consummated and become the glory of the earth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Anticipating an invitation to speak during this Conference, and realizing that the speakers would be heard by a large number of people outside of this building, I prepared some notes that I might speak from, but I don't know that I shall use them. 

GRATITUDE FOE BLESSINGS OF LORD 

I want to say to the brethren and sisters that I am very happy in my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in the blessings of the Gospel which I enjoy in common with you. I am happy in your fellowship and association, and in the work that I have been honored to do in this Church. 

The Lord has been good to us as a people, and he has been good to me as an individual. As I look back over my life and its experiences, I can see where the Lord has held me by the hand, as it were, and led me along the path of duty, shielding me from evil and wickedness that I might have indulged in to my everlasting sorrow and condemnation. I feel that it is as little as I can do to seek to know what the will of my Father in heaven is concerning me, and to> do his will to the best of my ability. I believe that every member of this Church should feel the same. If we turn our thoughts back over our past lives, I feel sure that all of us will have occasion to rejoice in the fatherly care that has been given us, and the many blessings that have been showered upon us. 

TESTIMONY REGARDING THIS WORK 

I have passed the period of question or doubt, which comes into the lives of many people, and I do know of a surety, and have proven over and over again from the scriptures and by the application of reason and good sense, to my perfect satisfaction, that this work is true, so that I have no fear of any man being able to disprove it. I have lived the Gospel, in part, at least, so as to have the witness of the Spirit of God, and I do know, by the power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and the Redeemer and 'Savior of this world. I know that our Father in heaven lives, a glorified and immortal being, with all power — power to bless and power to save. And I know that this work is true, that in it is the saving power of God to those who will accept and obey it. I know, by sense of reason, that he who was the instrument in the hands of God in restoring this Gospel to earth, must have been and is a prophet of God. 

NOT ACCEPTED IN THEIR OWN DAY 

It is hard for the people of this day and time to accept Joseph Smith as a Prophet of God. It was ever so that the prophets were not generally accepted by the people of their time. The Scriptures relate that when Jesus was preaching in the synagogue in his own country, the people were astonished, and said : 

"Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? 

"Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James and Joses, and Simon, and Judas ? 

"And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? 

"And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house. 

I have often wished that he had added, which I think he could have done with equal truth, "save in the day and time in which he lived." 

"And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief." (Matt. 13:54-58.) 

I firmly believe that the time will come when all men, as universally as they accept Jesus Christ to be the Savior of the world, will acknowledge Joseph Smith to have been a great prophet of God in these last days, in the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

Brethren and sisters, that which I feel and know to be true, I believe that you, also, who are living your religion, feel and know to be true, by the same means. 

THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS 

An impressive thought came to me this morning while we were singing the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

"We'll find the place which God for us prepared, 

Far away in the West; Where none shall come to hurt or make afraid — There the Saints will be blessed. * * * 

"And should we die before our journey's through, 

Happy day! all is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow too; 

With the just we shall dwell." 

These words express the feeling of our pioneer fathers and mothers in their deep trial when their faces were turned, as it were, from civilization toward the great unexplored West, bringing with them practically nothing but the Gospel, which was the dearest thing they had on earth; and with the hope that the Lord would inspire his 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS S5 

leaders that they might find a place of refuge, safety and liberty, where they could worship the Lord according to the dictates of their consciences. They endured much sorrow and tribulation, and many died in the effort to make for us what we have here today. 

OUR OBLIGATION 

.We are their successors in this work. We have inherited the blessings that they finally were able to enjoy. We are indebted to this work for all that we have, all that we hope to obtain. Are we going to carry on the work as faithfully and devotedly as did our pioneer parents, or are we lying down on the job? Are we fainting by the way? Or are we living our religion, and by so doing setting an example to the world worthy of their emulation, such as will cause them to glorify our Father in heaven by an investigation of that which has made us what we are, that is commendable, and perchance, by their embracing the Gospel and engaging with us in the furtherance of the Lord's work? 

Do we ever consider that we are under obligation to our fellow men, that we are under obligation to the Church, as well as to ourselves? Do we consider that we are under obligation to our fathers and our mothers, who have suffered and endured so much for us? If we will not live our religion for our own soul's salvation, then we ought to do so for the sake of others, including our children, and our children's children who are coming after us. 

PERTAINING TO OUR KINDRED DEAD 

We have a responsibility pertaining to our kindred dead. The Prophet Joseph tells us, and it is on record, that the greatest responsibility that God has laid upon us is that of looking after our kindred dead. Until the Church was organized, and there were temples built, and an opportunity for the living to do something for the dead, there seemed to be no occasion for our forebears to look to us. There was nothing we could do for them. But with the introduction of the Gospel, and the building of temples, the Lord sent his servant, Elijah, as predicted by Malachi he would do, who conferred the keys upon Joseph and Oliver of the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers. From that day, the 3rd of April, 1836, when in the Kirtland temple that wonderful manifestation was had, there has been a spirit and a desire among the children of men on the earth, not only those in the Church, but those outside as well, to know of their kindred dead. Men and women of education and wealth are expending their fortunes and their time in the search for knowledge of a genealogical character, and in the printing of histories of their families. Governments have made provision for the keeping of records, just such statistics as we need in order to perform this temple work for our dead. Genealogical libraries have been established all through the land, and these family histories, and other genealogical information, are accessible to the Latter-day Saints. 

The Lord is using those who are not of us in the furtherance of his purposes and in helping us, that we may more fully do our duty by our kindred dead. 

SERVING A TWO-FOLD PURPOSE 

Are we making use of this information, and are we going into the temples of the Lord to do this work? Or if we are not able ourselves to go, are we expending some of our means in the employment of others to go through the temple for our dead? 

All the ordinances administered in the temples are performed without any charge to the individual. Those who come there can attend to those labors without any charge whatever. If you cannot come it will be necessary for you, in the endowment work of the temple, to have some one represent you. 

In these temples we have some of our aged pioneers who have worn themselves out, as it were, in helping to make this country inhabitable, beautiful and prosperous as we find it today. Their bodies are broken but their spirits are alive and awake as much as ever, and they find in the temples a work that they can do just as well as can younger people, who are more vigorous in a physical way. Some of these people have nothing to live upon except the mere pittance which is given them in compensation for the work they do for others in the temples. If you cannot go to the temple yourselves, send to the temple a little money with a record of your dead and these good people will do the work for you, and you will not only be redeeming your kindred dead but you will by so doing be helping to support the worthy poor of the Church. We had a letter come to us a few days ago from a man here in the city who is interested in genealogical and temple work, and he suggested that in these times, when there are so many of our people out of employment, men who are worthy to go to the temple, it would be an opportune time to make known to the people of this Church that if they would furnish some means now to get their temple work done, these unemployed people would receive a great blessing in being employed to do that work. That, I think, is a suggestion worthy of consideration, as we are looking about us for something to do to alleviate this distressing condition of the unemployed. 

ACCORDING TO OUR KNOWLEDGE 

Brethren and sisters, are we living our religion to the best of our knowledge? I want to say to you that no man can be saved in the kingdom of God without knowledge, knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, of the way of salvation, and no man can be condemned without a knowledge of this Gospel. The Lord has made provision that every child of his that comes to maturity in life shall hear and have the privilege of accepting the Gospel either here or hereafter. When the ordinance work is done for those who died without a knowledge of the Gospel, it becomes effective for their salvation upon their acceptance of it. 

Are we, brethren and sisters, who know the truth, living according to the light which we have received, so as to not fall under condemna? I think I can promise the Latter-day Saints, in truth, and in the name of the Lord, if you, my brethren and sisters, will live up to the light of the Gospel as you have received it, you will obtain a salvation in the kingdom of God. If you shall be disappointed and condemned in the end it will be because you have not lived up to the light and knowledge which you have of the Gospel. I wonder if our Father in heaven is going to be disappointed in some of us, his children, when we return, having had the opportunities the Gospel has afforded us* here in life. I wonder if we will be disappointed in ourselves, if our parents will be disappointed in us, or our children who come after us. 

This is something, brethren and sisters, that I think we should consider most seriously. Our time is brief at longest here in which to prepare for the life which is to come. Wle cannot afford to waste our time. We cannot afford to trifle with sacred things and sacred duties. The sin of neglect is unjustifiable. "He that knoweth to do good and doeth it not is in sin before the Lord, and he that knoweth to do right and doeth it not is in sin." 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO TEACH OTHERS 

Our obligation is not only to ourselves but to our fellow men here in the world. We mustn't overlook that. If we be not called to go abroad and preach the Gospel, there is plenty for us to do at home. The spirit of this work is, every man to his neighbor; he that is warned, to warn his neighbor. Our responsibility to teach the Gospel to others is set forth in Ezekiel, 3rd Chapter, 2'0th verse: 

"When a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumblingblock before him, he shall die: because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine hand." 

Every man and woman that in sincerity has received the Gospel was at the time of entering the Church a righteous man or woman. Have we held them in righteousness? 

The ministry of the Church at home has a responsibility of completing the conversion and holding these men and women. Are we doing it in an organized way, as effectively as we can? Are we, as individuals, doing our part to our neighbors within the Church? If we see men and women neglecting their duties in the Church and we know that they are in danger of losing that which would be more precious to them than life, do we give them a note of warning in the spirit of kindness and brotherly love, and reach out a hand to help them, and bring them back and put them in the way of religious duty? Are we doing our full duty by our fellow men? 

Brethren and sisters, these are questions that we may well ask ourselves, and then answer them to our satisfaction, by living up to our obligations and to the light and knowledge of the Gospel which we have. 

We cannot accomplish this alone, but if we seek the Lord with desire in our hearts to live our religion, and to do his will, he will help us so that we will be able to come off victorious, conquerors of ourselves, conquerors of evil, devoted adherents and advocates of the truth of God. May he so bless us and save us in his kingdom, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the request of President Grant the congregation arose and sang, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I intend to be reminiscent in what I shall say on this occasion. 

I have frequently called your attention to the fact that under President John Taylor I was permitted to fill a mission in the Southern States, in 1883 and '84, under the presidency of Elder B. H. Roberts. They were trying times, and the elders, as a whole, traveled without purse and without scrip. 

In 1892 I was again appointed, under President Wilford Woodruff, to preside over the Southern States Mission. It was during that period of time that I found God; as my father said: God answered my prayers, and isn't that a pretty good evidence that God lives? My testimony was fixed and fast, and what I knew I learned by obedience and through suffering. 

I take the position that knowledge cannot be knowledge without experience, so that what I know through the influence of the Holy Ghost — for I have heard that still, small voice — I know to my perfect satisfaction. There is no question of a doubt in my mind as to the truth of this work, and any time in my life that I can be convinced that Joseph Smith was not a prophet of God, then I will question the truth of this work. But Joseph Smith to me is a prophet, and there is hardly a Kimball living in the flesh today — of the first generation — notwithstanding we were very young when our father died, that did not have burned into his soul as a child that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God: that Brigham Young was his successor; that he too was a great prophet. 

Now, it is along that line that I desire to occupy your time for a few moments, and to do so I expect to forecast from dead prophets. I shall not undertake to quote from memory as it is very difficult for me to quote correctly. 

The prophet Joel said — we elders in that day on many occasions quoted this prophetic saying: 

"And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out ray Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; your old men shall dream dreams; your young men shall see visions." 

I think one of the greatest pieces of philosophy in the Bible is: "Where there is no vision the people perish." And the Prophet Joseph Smith left with us this statement : "Where there are no gifts there is no faith." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 59 I further read in the Bible : 

"When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken; but the prophet has spoken presumptuously, Thou shalt not be afraid of him." 

Jesus himself testified that "a prophet hath no honor in his own country." 

I claim not to be a prophet, but I am a son of a prophet, and I expect to give you evidence — whether you question the truth of it or not — that shall be left with you — that Heber C. Kimball was a prophet of God. President Brigham Young on more than one occasion said : "Heber is my prophet, and I love to hear him prophesy." 

In May, 1868 — that is sixty-two years ago — he said: 

"After a while the gentiles will gather in Salt Lake City by the thousands, and this will be among the wicked cities of the world,." 

He said : 

"A spirit of speculation and extravagance will take possession of the Saints, and the results will be financial bondage." 

He said : 

"An army of elders will be sent to the four quarters of the earth, to search out the righteous and warn the wicked of coming events. 

"All kinds of religions will be started, and miracles performed that will deceive the very elect, if such a thing were possible. 

"Persecution comes next, and all Latter-day Saints will be tested to the limit. 

"Many will apostatize, and others will stand still, not knowing what to do. 

"Before the temple reaches the square our brethren will be imprisoned, until the penitentiary shall be full, and some of them will be removed to other penitentiaries. 

"Mothers would weep for their husbands, and children would cry for their fathers. Some would die, and sorrow would fill the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. 

"When the temple roof is on, the persecution will lessen, but when the temple is completed the power of the Evil One will be shut out." 

"The prayers of the Saints will then be heard. The sick will be taken there and healed." 

"The Spirit of God will rest upon the people, and work for the dead will be continued night and day." 

"The judgments of God will be poured out upon the wicked, to the extent that our elders from far and near will be called home; or in other words, the Gospel will be taken from the gentiles, and later on will be carried to the Jews." 

"The western boundaries of the State of Missouri will be swept so clean of its inhabitants that as President Young tells us, 'when we return to that place there will not be as much as a yellow dog to wag his tail.' 

"Before that day comes, however, the Saints will be put to the test that will try the very best of them. 

"The pressure will become so great that the righteous among us will cry unto the Lord day and night until deliverance comes." 

In 1856— that is seventy-four years ago — a small group of friends convened in the house of the Lord, called the Endowment House. The conversation was about the isolated condition of the Latter-day Saints. "Yes," said Brother Heber, "we think we are secure here in the chambers of these everlasting hills, where we can close the doors of the canyons against mobs and persecutors, the wicked and the vile, who have always beset us with violence and robbery, but I want to say to you, my brethren, the time is coming when we will be mixed up in these now peaceful valleys to that extent that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy against the people of God." 

"Then is the time to look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time, and many will fall. 

"For I say unto you there is a test, a Test, a TEST coming." 

He further said: 

'This Church has before it many close places through which it will have to pass before the work of God is crowned with glory. 

"The difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who does not possess a personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got this testimony, you must live right and call upon the Lord, and cease not until you obtain it. 

"Remember these sayings : The time will come when no man or woman will be able to endure on borrowed light. Each will have to be guided by the light within themselves. If you do not have the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, how can you stand?" 

Do you believe it? 

President George Q. Cannon said, after Heber C. Kimball's death : 

"Heber Chase Kimball was one of the greatest men of this age." 

He continued : "No man, perhaps, Joseph Smith excepted, who has belonged to the Church in this generation, ever possessed the gift of prophecy to a greater degree than he." 

On the morning of the 22nd of June, 1868, he died. 

At the funeral President Brigham Young said: "Heber was a man of as much integrity, I presume, as any man who ever lived on the earth — a man of faith — a man of benevolence — a man of truth." 

On the evening of January 12th, 1862, the Lord made it known to Heber C. Kimball that he should not be removed from his place as First Counselor while he lived in the flesh. 

Now my brethren and sisters, I am here to testify that the spirit of prophecy is in this Church. Any man who has a testimony that Jesus is the Christ has the spirit of prophecy, and I know that we have living prophets. Whenever the Lord desires, and it is his will to speak through his prophets, I have no fear and no doubt as far as I am individually concerned that they have the courage and the faith to speak the words of God. At a time when the people were suffering, when the people were almost naked, when everything looked desolate, as if they were forsaken — 

"Heber C. Kimball, filled with the spirit of prophecy in a public meeting declared to the astonished congregation that within a short time States goods would be sold in the city of Great Salt Lake cheaper than in New York and that the people would be abundantly supplied with food and clothing." 

" T don't believe a word of it,' said Apostle Charles C. Rich; and he voiced the sentiment of nine-tenths of those who had heard the astounding declaration." 

"On resuming his seat he remarked to the brethren that he was afraid he had missed it this time. But they were not his own words and He who had inspired them knew how to fulfil. The occasion for the fulfilment of this  prediction was the unexpected advent of the gold-hunters on their way to California. The discovery of gold in that land had set on fire, as it were, the civilized world and hundreds of richly laden trains now began pouring across the continent on their way to the new Eldorado. Salt Lake valley became the resting place. Thus as the Prophet Heber had predicted, States Goods were actually sold in the streets of Great Salt Lake City cheaper than they could have been purchased in the city of New York." 

Now, brethren, that is how I feel about it. I take pride in being a son of my father and as long as I live I shall never fail to honor my father and his successors, and try to be as loyal and true and steadfast in the faith as they have been. I am the only one that can destroy my faith in this work. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric After one hundred years, and then what? 

During the past year we have been dwelling largely in the past, and it seems to me that when we look upon the work of our fathers, our mothers, our grandfathers and grandmothers, and view their great accomplishments, there can be no question that this Church has grown in a wonderful manner. No organization could make such a growth other than through the help, inspiration and leadership of an all-wise Father. As I view these accomplishments I wonder if we are not, to a certain extent, living now too much in the past, and not enough upon the past, for the experiences and accomplishments of the past should be a tower of strength to urge us on to greater individual effort. 

I heard a brother who was preaching a sermon on tithing say that his father overpaid his tithing and some of his children were drawing on it to this day. Surely such action cannot be considered as a growth. How can we use the past to help us build for the future? Truly they showed the way. Are we doing our part to carry on? If so, there need be very little concern for the future. If we have a clear picture of the struggles of the past one hundred years, and understand the principles that made it possible for them to build such a foundation, we should go on with a sincere desire to build for our future welfare and salvation. 

One of the writers in the Book of Mormon tells us: 

"For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors. And now, as I said unto you before, as ye have had so many witnesses, therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed. Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world. For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance even until death, behold, ye have become subjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his; therefore, the Spirit of the Lord hath withdrawn from you, and hath no place in you, and the devil hath all power over you; and this is the final state of the wicked." 

And so I say we should be gravely concerned with today. If so, tomorrow will take care of itself , and the work entrusted to us will be nobly done, and our reward assured. 

Brother McMurrin made a plea for more missionaries. Our mission presidents are constantly doing that. There isn't a month that their reports do not contain pleas for more help. It is marvelous what this people are doing, many even sacrificing the comforts of life to provide for their children who are engaged in missionary work, but how many make an equal effort to prepare them for this service before they leave for the mission field. I am sure better preparation which must come through active service will go a long way to meet the demands made upon us. 

Yesterday, sitting in a group in this tabernacle, we had eightyseven young men and women who next week will leave for the mission field. They are young and inexperienced. They have a testimony of the Gospel, but they are not altogether sure of themselves at the present time. They are anxious to be engaged in a good cause. Last night at seven o'clock I met with them, this being the last period of their day's work. Their first class yesterday was at nine o'clock in the morning. They were excused at nine forty-five and came here in a body to attend this Conference. They were here in the afternoon, and went from that meeting to another class; had a luncheon period, and then to another class. At the close of their class at eight o'clock last night I asked them to select a song to close, for we always begin and close our day's work with song and prayer. The song first suggested seemed to me, for the moment, a bit of irony. It was announced as "Do not wearyby the way." As we sang the song, I stood facing that group. I tried to detect such a feeling on their part. I found everyone singing — not just the words, for all were singing as we can sing only when touched by the Spirit of God. When the prayer of dismissal had been offered after nine hours of religious service, these young people, whom you have sent from your homes to go into the mission field, gathered around me with more questions, untiring in their effort to gain more information. 

We shall not be greatly concerned for them while they are in the mission field, for they are going out with a purpose, and God is with them and watching over them, and will hear and answer their prayers and our prayers in their behalf, and as long as they continue in that service in faith, his blessings will rest upon them, and they will return home to bear testimony of his goodness, and to the truth of the Gospel. 

Then is the time when we should be gravely concerned for them, for we find many times these young missionaries come home and find themselves in the condition, in a measure, that the Savior found himself in, as related to us by Brother Richards today. Speaking of Jesus : 

"And when he was come unto his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works ? Is not this the carpenter's son ? is not his mother called Mary? and his hrethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house. And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief." 

Let us compare the faith of these, his own people, with the faith of one who was despised by the Jews. 

''So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son : for he was at the point of death. Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. Jesus saith unto him Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth. Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth : and himself believed, and his whole house." 

I am wondering if in Israel today we are not lacking just a little bit in faith. During the last summer we received many reports saying : "We have been unable to do anything with our priesthood work. It is vacation period, and everybody feels that they should have a vacation from church work." 

I do not feel to criticize any who have a desire to take a vacation, for a change and rest is necessary at times, but even then they must have food if their physical welfare is to be preserved. But I have yet to find a good reason for taking a vacation from spiritual work, and from that association which comes to those who are humbly seeking spiritual food. On the contrary, as I view the situation, I find that those who feel that it is necessary to take a vacation from church work seem to forget that spiritual food is necessary to preserve the spiritual body and without it the spiritual body begins to die for lack of nourishment. That death may come slowly or, if sin overtake them, it may come quickly, and I believe one of the greatest dangers that we have confronting us is the sin of indifference which surely leads to spiritual death. 

There is no time for vacation in this service. God is working constantly. He requires that his children upon whom the priesthood has been conferred labor in spirit constantly, for the spirit of God will not always strive with man. We cannot lay this work aside and take it up as we feel inclined, for if we hope to succeed we must work daily, hourly and every minute. We must so live that these temples which God 'has given to us and which we call our physical being will be kept clean and a fit dwelling place for his spirit. That can best be done through associations provided through our gatherings, such as priesthood and sacramental meetings where spiritual uplift is engaged in. This condition is manifest in our missionaries who, after having devoted all of their time to the spiritual, come home strong in spirit. 

We should be concerned for these young people who return from the mission field, because I find, or I think I find that sometimes we do not have a full sense of responsibility regarding their future welfare. It can be pictured to you in this statement. I heard a father say to his boy, who had just returned from the mission field : "Come on now, son, get off your good clothes and get into your old ones and get to work. You have been loafing long enough." 

Most of them don't loaf in the mission field, but we force them to loaf sometimes when they come home, because we fail to feed them, to give them that spiritual food that kept them active while in the mission field. And so they die spiritually, and we wonder why. Don't blame them. It isn't their fault. It isn't their choosing. They would have it otherwise. 

Now, what of the future? I must not talk longer, but let me give just a little illustration that perhaps will show you what can be done. After the close of the past year, when bishops were sending their annual reports to the Presiding Bishop's Office, one bishop came with his, and as he turned to leave the office, he waved his hand to me. I returned his salute and beckoned him to come into the side office where I was, for he had a broad smile on his face and seemed unusually happy. He stepped to the door, and stated that he had no desire to disturb me. He just wanted to say "hello." I suggested that he seemed happy and asked how he managed to get that way, for it is unusual to find a bishop in that frame of mind at that time of the year. He answered that he was happy because the people over whom he was presiding were helping him. He stated that he had been bishop two years. He said : 

"When I started in to get acquainted with the people of my ward I found it was very difficult to make much headway with the older people. They were fixed in their habits. They were doing some church work, but not much. Most of them were willing to let someone else do the work. Their activity record was on a par with their spiritual condition. We decided to take up a labor with the younger people. We reorganized the Aaronic Priesthood quorums, conferred with those who were active, and they helped us outline a campaign to encourage greater activity. We sent them out to bring in those who were inactive. They responded with such a spirit of good will that soon every boy who held the Aaronic Priesthood was in attendance at meetings. We decided to take up as our first major activity a campaign for the year on tithing. Our first duty was to convert ourselves. Every phase of the subject was discussed. All agreed to work with a desire to have every person holding the Aaronic Priesthood a full tithepayer. We gave quorums credits based on numbers. Some complained that we were bribing them, in offering credits for the payment of tithing, but nevertheless it was a means of encouraging them. They brought in their five cents, their ten cents, their twenty cents each week as they earned money. After a while the parents gave more thought to their tithing, and last year t when I came in with my tithing settlement, we had double the tithing of the year before and more than double the number of active members, due largely to the activity of these young men whom we taught to observe this principle. And this year we have increased the tithing of our ward just as much as we increased it last year and the ward members are responding to every call, and that is why I am happy to come in here with my final report." 

I could mention many such experiences. 

My brethren and sisters, what of tomorrow? Tomorrow may never come, to some of us; but may the blessings of God rest upon us today, that we may be touched with the power and influence of his Holy Spirit. May we have power to see clearly the purpose of this great work; may we see clearly the niche in which we belong, that we may fit in and do that which is required of us to the best of our ability, for there is work for all to do. We belong to the most wonderful organization in all the world. Men are called to positions of responsibility, and after a time are released, and take their places in the ranks that others may gain experience through leadership. There are no hard feelings, jealousy, or contention, for men serve wherever they are called to serve. They do not seek honor, and serve with fear and trembling, happy to be engaged in such a noble cause. 

May we continue in that spirit. May we have love in our hearts for each other. May we work for each other, and to the end that God's purposes shall be brought about, and when the time comes for us to lay down the part we are called to play, I sincerely trust it will be said of us: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Enter into my rest." May God bless us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I trust that the few moments I occupy I may enjoy the Spirit that comes from our Heavenly Father, that gives to us power to think, to reason, and to teach. 

This Conference has been one of great interest to me. My mind has been directed toward so many things that pertain to our work. I have been making notes during the entire period of our meetings, up to now, notes that I trust I may use to refresh my mind when I am in the conferences of the Church, because very many times a suggestion or an idea directs to a portion of the scripture, and when we read it it sounds a little different from what we thought it did, because it has been a long time since we read it, perhaps. 

A BLESSED PEOPLE 

We are a blessed people. I know of no other people in the world who have more reason to be grateful than we. We have all that the world has in the way of information, education, culture, refinement; and besides that we have an understanding of the purpose of life: we have the privilege of being identified with the Church of the Lamb of God. 

We are wonderfully blessed in the assurance that the Lord gives to us of eternal life, and when we compare the information that we have obtained with that which many of our Father's children in the world have, we are made to realize that much will be expected of us, because unto us much has been given. It is unique these days to belong to a church, wherein those who are members believe that the Lord speaks through their leaders. When we are instructed by the President of this Church, we believe he tells us what the Lord would have us do. To us it is something" more than just the advice of man. We believe that, and it searches our souls, and we are prompted to renew our determination to be what God would have us be. 

I have rejoiced in the fine testimonies that have been borne, in the instructions that we have received. I have had pleasure in shaking hands with many of my brethren and sisters here. These things give me joy, and help to make my life worth living. 

While Brother Kimball was speaking of the prophecies of his father, I thought how many men there have been in this Church who have listened to the voices of the prophets of God, and who have lived to see the fulfilment of those prophecies. No other organization that I know of, in the world, lays claim to any such gifts or blessings. 

INVESTIGATORS IN THE MISSIONS 

I have just returned from the Northern States Mission where I had the pleasure of visiting a number of our larger branches. The development there is very pleasing to me. I have never been in the Northern States before when we had so many comfortable chapels as we have now that have been dedicated to the Lord, and I have never been there before when there was as great a percentage of investigators in the congregations as at this time. 

The people of the world are becoming alarmed, but the alarm is only just beginning. Unless the men and women of this nation, and of all nations, turn unto the Lord and keep his commandments, they cannot hope to continue in his favor; and if his favor is removed from them, then the adversary will do his work. I rejoiced in my visit in the East, to find so many people investigating the Gospel, people who after meeting would say : "I have never attended one of your churches before, but I thought I would like to come, and have enjoyed the service." I have in mind a woman and her husband, who came up after the meeting in Detroit. They had never before attended a Latterday Saint meeting. This woman was delighted to find that there were people on the earth who believe as we do. She listened to the humble missionaries bear their testimony and preach the Gospel, not with great learning, but with the power that is more potent than university training, the witness of our Heavenly Father that they spoke the truth. 

We cannot hope to convince the world of the truth of the Gospel if we depend upon the book-learning that we obtain in schools, but we can obtain all that they possess, and then if the Lord continues to bless us we can go on, reaching higher points, understanding greater things that are not understood except by the power of the Lord. 

THE PARABLE OF THE WEDDING FEAST 

I have opened to the twenty-second chapter of St. Matthew's account of the Savior's teaching, and will read this particular parable : 

"And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, 

"And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding : and they would not come. 

"Again he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. 

"But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise : 

"And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them. 

"But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth : and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. 

"Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. 

"Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall' find, b|id to the marriage. 

"So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good : and the wedding was furnished' with guests. 

"And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment : 

"And he saith unto him, Friend, how earnest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. 

"Then saith the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 

"For many are called, but few are chosen." 

OUR MINISTRY 

How much this is like the world today! God has restored his Gospel. He has sent his servants into the world. They have called all men to repentance, as far as they could reach them; have not reviled them or been unkind, but have invited them to come into the wedding feast that the Lord has prepared, and in many cases they have been ignored. People have been too busy to hear the message. The invitation meant nothing to them. They didn't believe in what was being done, and in some cases they have ill-treated those who had come to them in kindness and love. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of peace. It is not a gospel of contention. We are instructed by the Savior to go into all the world and teach this Gospel unto every creature. That commandment has been given to the Church in this day. We do not go out in our own name or in our own strength, but we offer to our Father's children these precious truths, that are essential for them to understand in order that they may gain the blessing that our Heavenly Father intends. 

Thousands of our sons have gone into the world. Many have been kindly received, and they have explained the truth, and this mission is still going forward. The feast has been prepared. Our Heavenly Father has provided what is necessary: it has not been done by the wisdom of man. He has sent us, his representatives, into the world, not to drive or coerce, but to invite. "Come follow me," is what the Savior said, "And I will give you peace." That is what the Gospel teaches, and that is our ministry. 

WITHOUT A WEDDING GARMENT 

But I am thinking of another group. Here was a man who came into the wedding feast, and when the time came the king or the master saw that he didn't have a wedding garment on. He had ignored the importance of it, apparently. He had come in, not prepared, expecting to participate. He had come to the feast — they had all been bidden to the feast, but I assume that they were supposed to know that only those would be admitted who were properly clothed, and this man was amazed when the question was asked him why he was there in that condition. 

The world seems to think that they can come whenever they are ready. Our Father's children do not understand that there is some preparation to be made. The adversary has so deceived them as to make them believe that no preparation is necessary, anything will do, but in this message that the Savior gave in a parable to his associates we are informed that there must be some preparation, and without that preparation no one will be permitted to partake of the more precious gifts of our Heavenly Father. That applies to the membership of this Church who have an idea that because they have been invited, and because their names appear upon the record among those who have been called, there is nothing more for them to do; men who have been blessed in a financial way; women who have become prominent in social life. They have forgotten the Lord and are not preparing for the feast to which he has invited them. 

NECESSARY PREPARATION FOR THE FEAST 

Our Heavenly Father intends that we shall prepare for the wedding feast or we will be excluded. He expects us to continue to store our minds with the truth, and to disseminate that truth as opportunity offers among all his children. The fact that our names appear upon the Church records is no guarantee that we will find our place in the celestial kingdom. Only those who live worthy to be members of that kingdom shall find place there. 

In the midst of the unsettled condition, the uncertainty that is in the world, if there ever was a time when we should examine ourselves, to find out if we are doing what the Lord would have us do, it is today; if there ever was a time when we should be sure that we are in the pathway of eternal life, it is now. We can't slight these opportunities. God will not be mocked. When he has offered to us a gift, when he has placed within our reach a blessing, when he has invited us to partake of a feast and we ignore it, we may be sure that we shall suffer the distress that will come to those who refuse the blessings of the Lord when they are offered. 

ONLY BY KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS 

This is a good time for the membership of this Church to be  to all the world, for the humble among us to seek the Lord, and for those who lack humility to cultivate it. It has been made very plain to us, and there was no distinction made whether men were in the Church or out of it. It was the Savior who taught that, "Unless you are as humble as a little child ye shall not see the kingdom of God." We desire to see that kingdom, don't we? This group of men and women here today, who represent the Church, desire to see and to inherit the kingdom of our Lord, and there is only one way whereby we may obtain that priceless gift, and that is by keeping all the commandments of our Heavenly Father. He does not differentiate; he does not select any particular group of commandments; but he teaches us that we must keep all of his commandments. 

I say that there is need in all Israel today — there is need for this man addressing you to examine himself — there is need for every one of us to look about ourselves and see wherein we are neglecting our privileges and our duty, for tomorrow may be too late. Today is the acceptable time of the Lord. Let us set our houses in order. Let us love one another. Let us sustain these men whom God has raised up to preside over us. Let us bless them, not only by our lips, but by assisting in every possible way to carry this burden that rests so heavily upon their shoulders. Let us honor these presidents of stakes and these bishops of wards. Pray for and bless them and help them. Let us love one another, that our Heavenly Father may be able to bless us, and he will bless us if we love one another and do good to all his children. 

TESTIMONY 

I know that God lives. I know that our Heavenly Father has spoken in this day and age of the world, that his Gospel is upon the earth, and while I would not compel any soul to accept it, I pray that we may have power and wisdom and strength to reach out after these neighbors of ours who do not understand the truth. Let us do our duty, and draw them into the fold of the Master, that they, with us, may know that he lives. 

Again, I bear my testimony that I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord. I know that the Gospel for which these gave their lives is the power of God unto salvation, and the only means whereby we shall obtain a place in his celestial kingdom. 

That we, with those we love, and as many as we can contact with and influence, may take advantage of our blessings, and accept the invitation to the marriage feast, and when we arrive there be properly clad, that we may go in thereat, that we may rejoice with those who have kept the commandments of God, and enjoy eternal life in his celestial kingdom, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I failed to read one brief statement of statistics in my opening remarks. There have been two changes in Stake Presidents : Elder David I Stoddard has been chosen to succeed Brother William D. Hanks as President of the Union Stake; and Brother William O. Bentley has been chosen to succeed Brother Joseph K. Nicholes as President of St. George Stake. Brother Stoddard opened this meeting with prayer, and Brother Bentley will offer the benediction. 

Elder William M. Waddoups has been released as President of the Hawaiian Mission, and also as President of the Hawaiian temple, and Brother Castle H. Murphy has been appointed to succeed him. 

Elder Edward P. Kimball has been released as President of the German-Austrian Mission, and Elder Oliver H. Budge has been appointed to succeed him. 

There have been two new wards organized — the Fourth Wiard of Richfield, Sevier Stake, and Helper Ward, Carbon Stake. Bishops who have passed away during the past six months : 

Rulon M. Jensen of the Basalt Ward, Shelley Stake. 

Karl N. Snow of East St. George Ward, St. George Stake. 

We now have 104 Stakes of Zion; 933 Wards; 71 Independent Branches, making a total of 1004. There are Dependent Branches, 41; Missions, 29, Branches in the Missions, 835. Total Wards, Branches and Missions, 1909. 

All of the brethren who have been honorably released are released with the love and blessing and thanks of the General Authorities for the splendid work that they have done. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Our Mountain Home So Dear." Benediction by Elder William O. Bentley, President of the St. George Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock this afternoon. 


