Afternoon 
06 04 1931

The (Closing session of the One Hundred and First Annual Conference of the Church convened at 2 o'clock Monday, April 6th. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O Ye Mountains High." 

Elder George H. Brimhall offered the opening prayer. 

The hymn, "The Time is Far Spent," was sung by the congregation. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

Never in my life have I felt more humble and dependent upon the Spirit of the Lord than I do at this time. I was just as positive as of anything in the world that I would be the first speaker this afternoon. Something seemed to whisper that to my soul. You brethren who have never had this experience will probably never know with what feelings of timidity a man stands in the presence of these holy men to edify those present and say the things that should be said to this great body of priesthood, servants of the Lord. 

It seems to me that the great burden of this Conference has been the burden that is incumbent upon us as Elders in Israel, namely, the proclaiming of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the world. As we were singing the last hymn, my mind reverted to a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph to Peter Whitmer, June, 1829. I should like to read it. 

"Hearken, my servant Peter, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer. 

"For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth. 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone — 

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of most worth unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given unto you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." 

I am honored, my brethren and sisters, in' being called to preside over the Northwestern States Mission, one of the grandest missions of GENERAL CONFERENCE  Church. Millions of people live within the boundaries of this great mission. Their attitude towards this Church is changing rapidly. Hundreds of them are seeking for the truth. They are reading the truth .as your sons and daughters are delivering it to them from day to day, in the various parts of that mission, so far as our force will permit us to visit. Wle are limited in man power and in the strength of our women who have been doing missionary work and are doing missionary work there today, as is no doubt the case in all missions. Obviating that handicap we are calling a number of our local brethren and sisters within the immediate confines of the mission, to the service, and they are spending some time — some of them part of their time, others all of their time — and thus helping in overcoming the great shortage of missionaries today. 

I realize the sacrifice that you parents are making. I appreciate the hard times that we are going through financially; yet I realize too that God can overrule all things for the good of his people and for the promulgating of his work. 

Not long ago one of the Elders laboring in the Northwestern States Mission was worried over financial conditions at home, although his father had never mentioned finances to him. Yet, away up in Alaska he felt that all was not well. So, one evening he went out by himself to pray and he asked the Lord to remove this feeling from him that he might know of conditions at home. To his astonishment, that night when he retired a vision as it were came to him. Just as plain as the noonday sun he saw his good father going away from home and in seclusion kneeling in prayer, telling the Lord that he had a son in the mission field and his finances were such that he was worried as to whether he could retain him there longer or not; and he asked that this condition be overruled if it were the Lord's will. 

The next morning the son wrote a letter to his father and outlined in detail that which he had seen in vision. A few weeks later came a letter to the son, and he in turn sent it to me. That good father said : "Son, the very night that you had that vision, I was out there in seclusion away from home, praying, telling my troubles to the Lord, and he heard me. The next day as I went along the street I met a man, not a member of the Church, who voluntarily asked me if I did not need a little money, that he had some with which he could help me. His letter said, "Son, you remain on your mission as long as you are needed." 

These things, my brethren and sisters, are happening to the missionaries in the Northwestern States. They are kind, sweet, honest, willing young men and women. They are acquitting themselves admirably of the responsibilities that rest upon them. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Oh, may he bless these men who preside over Israel! May we, brethren and sisters, stand back of them, every man and every woman, that Zion may grow through the united efforts and support we give these noble servants of God. I bear witness to you that I know this is God's work. Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and this work will never be overthrown 113  given to another people. This I do in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NOAH S. POND 

President of the Northern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, the spirit of this Conference I am sure will extend to the extreme portions of the world, farther perhaps than missionaries or the representatives of the Church may be able to travel. 

While all these glorious truths have been presented for our consideration I have thought how wonderful that God, the great Creator, the Engineer, the Architect, knew the material from which he would create this earth, and the material from which he would create his sons and -daughters to become inhabitants upon this earth. He knew Adam and selected him as the progenitor of the human race. Our Father knew Abraham and selected him to be the father of the faithful. He knew Noah and placed him as the replenisher of the human race after the deluge. He knew Moses and selected him as the great law-giver. He knew the Son of God as the Savior of the world, as his Beloved Son, upon whom he could place the responsibility for the redemption, salvation and exaltation of the inhabitants of the world. 

God knew the prophets and apostles, the inventors and discoverers, and he called them each in his day and time. God knew the Prophet Joseph Smith and he knew you and me, and this is proven by the fact that we are here. 

To Latter-day Saints it isn't so much a matter of chronology — when these goodly men and servants came or when these things occurred — as it is to know the actuality of them and to know that they did occur. These men came in their dispensations and accomplished their work. 

The Northern States Mission is doing its work as creditably as it is within the power of the humble servants of the Lord who labor there to do it. The incident related by Brother Sloan might be duplicated in the experiences within our observation, but it was a goodly mother instead of a father who knew her son was upon the operation table — he needed her. She prayed and she heard his voice 'calling her, and he heard his mother's voice. In checking the time both mother and son knew of the prayers of each other and that they could be together in spirit although three thousand miles apart. 

We have 77 organized and partially organized Branch and District Sunday Schools, in which there are enrolled 4,845 out of a membership of 7,000 in the mission. We have twenty-three Relief Societies over which Sister Pond presides, and nearly one hundred per cent of our, good sisters are maintaining their Relief Society Magazine in which the lessons for the mothers are presented. Sixteen thriving Mutual Improvement Associations, with an enrollment of 741, participated recently in contest work in a way that would be creditable to any of the Wards or Stakes of Zion. We have 23 Neighborhood Primaries taught by local people and our sister missionaries. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I bear to you the testimony of my heart of the truthfulness and beauty of the Gospel of ijesus Christ that has been so forcefully preached to us during the sessions of this Conference; and say to you, brethren and sisters, that your missionary sons and daughters are doing true, active missionary work and enjoying the spirit and calling of their missions. 

May our Father's blessings be upon the leadership of this great work, those that we, hold in respectful remembrance of the past, and the Presidency and Apostles and other presiding authorities who guide and direct his work today, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

Ihis Conference has been a very profitable one for me. I have listened with deep interest to the speakers and enjoyed the beautiful music. I hope that I may be able to recall many of the things that the brethren have said, so that I may use them in His service. We have been admonished and advised regarding our duties and responsibilities, and no doubt we shall return home determined to take advantage of all this counsel, so that we may become more firmly established in the Church. 

Many testimonies have been given to me. I have a testimony of the Gospel. I have been blessed with the knowledge that this is the work of the Lord; that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world; that he came in the meridian of time to redeem us from the fall of Adam and laid down a plan of redemption through which we may obtain eternal life. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God; that he came and established the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

I deeply appreciate my brethren and sisters with whom I labor. I appreciate my presiding brethren, the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy, and my Presiding Bishop, Sylvester Q. Cannon, and his counselor, Bishop David A. Smith, both of whom labor diligently. No one could labor harder it seems to me, than does our Presiding Bishop, for the welfare of the youth of Zion. He utilizes his time, talents and energy for the building up of the kingdom of God, giving special attention to the Aaronic priesthood. I sincerely appreciate the feeling of mutual helpfulness and confidence of my brethren in the Stakes and Wards, particularly the bishoprics, for upon them rests so much of the labor of developing the youth of vZion, administering in temporal things, receiving and handling the tithes and offerings, caring for the poor, and many other duties connected with their calling. I also appreciate the close association with the Relief Society. Sixty-five thousand devoted women, presided over by an able presidency, have zealously labored during the past winter to relieve suffering and poverty in all of its phases. President Grant said that large sums have been paid out for charity. Some people say we waste it. 115 

I hardly think so. , We treat our brethren and sisters who are tese fortunate than ourselves, as our neighbors, in harmony with the spirit of the Gospel. 

The subject 1 of tithing is very near to my heart. I have been delighted during this Conference to hear Elder Orson F. Whitney and some of the other brethren discuss this principle. I feel that it is important for us to get into the habit of right thinking along this line. We are flooded with magazines and newspapers, so much that many of us spend a great deal of our time in reading and thinking superficially. We should train ourselves to think straight, and when we think straight we shall be in harmony with the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The world is passing through a crisis. How long it will last none of us knows. The time of the coming of the Savior is near at hand. Whether we shall entirely recover from this serious business depression, we shall have to leave in the hands of our Father. But I appeal to you not to let these hard times and misfortunes be an excuse to neglect the payment of your tithes and offerings. We must discipline ourselves to meet these situations and in spite of our misfortunes to pay the Lord hfe one-tenth first and trust that his blessings may rest upon the 90% left. 

In one of the Stakes of Zion, a few years ago, after I had spoken on the subject of tithing, a group of young men waited for me after the meeting and asked, "How are we to know how much tithing to pay when we don't know what our living expenses will be?" , I said, "If you wait to pay all your living expenses first, you may then not have enough left with which to pay tithing." 

Now, my brethren, when the Lord gives us means, monthly or otherwise, why not sit down with our conscience, alone if necessary,! and find out on the first or last day of each month what the Lord has given us, and then and there tithe it and not wait until the end of the year or the end of the season. Give the Lord an opportunity to bless the 90%. This is what I call straight thinking in relation to the law of tithing. 

What are we doing with the 150,000 young men and women in this Church between the ages of 12 and 20? Are we, as parents, teaching these children the importance of the law of tithing ? Are we impressing upon them that this is a fundamental principle of the Gospel; that it will add to their joy and satisfaction in the Church; that the payment of tithing will give them greater faith and greater interest in the work of the Lord? We should teach our children from the time they ajre baptized that whatever the Lord gives them, whether dimes or dollars, it should be tithed monthly. The bishops in this Church are happy and glad to see these young people come with their tithes and offerings. When a boy is ordained to the office of a deacon, he should be taught to obey this important law, so that it will become a habit 1 of his life. Good habits fixed in childhood or early youth are dominating factors of the lives of men and women. We owe it to the Church to teach them this principle. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The great prophet and statesman, Joshua, succeeded Moses. The book of Joshua records that after the land of promise had been occupied and when Joshua had become old, he called upon the chiefs of the tribes of Israel to meet him in the land now known as Samaria. There, on the hillside, he recited to them his labors and what the Lord had done for the Israelites to bring them into that goodly land. He called attention to the worshiping of false gods, and then closed with this statement: 

"Now therefore fear the Lord and serve jhim in sincerity and in truth : * * * Choose you this day whom ye will serve : * * * but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." 

Now, brethren, heads of households, give heed to your families, and may this counsel of Joshua be our motto. Let us serve the Lord. May we remember him with our tithes. 

I pray that we may grow in spirituality and in the service of the Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I certainly feel my weakness this afternoon, my brethren and 'sisters, in attempting to report the activities of the missionaries in the East Central States Mission. 

I rejoice exceedingly in having the privilege of laboring with your sons and daughters and your husbands who are engaged in the work of jthe Lord in that part of the Lord's vineyard. It is pleasing to me to meet with those who have returned from the mission field and hear them express themselves to the effect that they would like to be back in the service of the Lord again; showing that they had been imbued with the spirit of their work and that they still have that spirit with them. 

I would like to say to the Bishops of Wards and to the Presidents of Stakes of Zion where these young men and young women reside that I would appreciate it very much if you would find something for them to do to keep them active in the work, because they are active while in the mission field and have endeavored to do their duty to the best of their ability. 

About a year ago a message came from the mother of one of our missionaries, who is still laboring in the field, to the effect that his father had passed from this life. In that message the mother expressed the wish that her son remain in the field and complete his mission, and he chose to do so. Just a short time ago, two years, which is the usual term of missionary service, had passed, and learning of the financial condition at his home, I wrote to this young Elder and told him that his labors were acceptable" to the Lord, and that he would be honorably released, to return home so as to be in attendance at this Conference. In answer to my letter he said : 117 

"President, I have been very careful with my means. I have practiced economy and have saved enough to maintain me for another two months, or more. While I do not like to suggest it, if it would be permissible and agreeable I would like to remain for at least that length of time." 

It is needless for me to say that that Elder is still in the field. He has work ahead of him and prospects that he wants to see consummated before he returns to his home. 

Just two or three weeks ago a message came from President Grant and his counselors to the effect that the father of one of our very able lady missionaries had met with a serious accident and was taken from this life. The message was forwarded to her. Her companions rallied to. her support, as did also the good Saints in that district, and comforted her. I received a letter in answer to one that I wrote to her just a few days afterwards in which she too expressed herself as wanting to remain and complete her mission before returning home. She is still in the mission field. 

My brethren and sisters, it fills my heart with thanksgiving when -I see the faith that is exhibited by the young men and young women who go into the mission field. They are interested in the work. They want to accomplish their work in a way that the Lord will be pleased with their efforts, and I am sure that they are succeeding. 

My brethren and sisters, encourage the young people to prepare themselves for the mission field, for as President Nibley said yesterday, "there is a famine in the land, not for bread nor a thirst for water, but for hearing the words of the Lord." The harvest is great and the laborers are few; the time is far spent and there is little remaining. 

I pray God to bless you with every needful blessing. May he bless President Grant and his counselors, the quorum of the Twelve and all those who are engaged in this great latter-day work. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, very greatly at the speeches and the music we have heard at this Conference. We have been truly fed the bread of life and by the spirit thereof, and I have felt to thank the Lord for the gift that each of our brethren has possessed at this Conference in being able to give us the measure of the word of the Lord that has been given. 

It was a strong indictment against intemperance that was read at one of the sessions, and yet after experience in each of the three great departments of government I am persuaded that that indictment is not overdrawn. I have in memory the picture of a man indicted and convicted of murder being arraigned for the judgment of the court, and when I asked him if he had any legal cause to show why the sentence of the court should not be pronounced upon him, in a solemn and dramatic manner which I shall always remember, he declared GENERAL CONFERENCE  he had killed the best friend he had on earth and did not know it until he was awakened the next morning from his drunken slumbers. He appeared to be sincere. A little later he had to be committed to the insane asylum, he worried so over the fact that he had taken the life of his dear friend and left a widow and children to mourn the loss of a husband and a father who was providing for them. 

I think that what we need in this country is more regard for* law, constitutional law and laws passed in accordance with the Constitution of the United States. I frequently have had an opportunity to speak on the Constitution of the United States as a divinely inspired instrument, and have brought forward the testimony of such disinterested witnesses as William E. Gladstone, Premier of England, and Sir Thomas Bryce, the author of the monumental work on- American . Commonwealths. 

There are other great Americans who enjoyed inspiration in framing the institutions of this country, and in saying this I am not denying the room for inspiration in the formation and guidance of other countries. We pray for their guidance and the guidance of the officials of not only our own nation here in America hut the rulers of other nations. I have thought sometimes we have neglected some of those great characters who were instrumental in shaping the foundations of our country and those who have made comments upon them. I know that we are familiar with the work that 'Franklin, Jefferson and others did in connection with the framing of the Constitution of our country, but we are less familiar with the work that the great Chief Justice John Marshall did. The formation of the Constitution of the United States is really spoken of as the greatest single achievement of the eighteenth century. There was that about it that inspired Daniel Webster to love it, "to have a profound passion for it," "to cherish it' day and night," "to live on its healthful saving influence," and "to trust never to cease to heed it until he should go to the grave of his fathers," "to earnestly desire not to outlive it." 

Judge Marshall of Wisconsin in the case of Borgnis vs. Falk County, in a decision written by him for the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, said: 

"At no period has appreciation of the great work of the fathers been more important than now. We need to sit anew at their feet, revive knowledge that the result was wrought by a body of men, representatives of the great seat of learning of the English speaking races of two hemispheres, and otherwise men of broad exjperience, many of whom had been students of all federal governments of all prior ages in preparation for the special task — as the historian declared, 'the goodliest fellowship of lawgivers whereof this world has record,' a body dominated by specialists, inspired by ennobling love for their fellow-men and the thought that they wrought, not for their age alone, but for the ages to come, and so sought to avoid the infirmities of previous systems of government by the people, by carefully providing that no change in letter or spirit should occur except in a particular and most deliberate and conservative way." 

John Marshall, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the 119 

United States, performed an inspired work in the framing of the Constitution of our country. 

You read the 101st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. I will not take time to read it here, the seventy-ninth and eightieth verses, and then consider the work that Marshall did in connection with the interpretation of this great document. 

Marshall was not only a great man in his own age and country, but he would be considered a great man in any age and clime. Webster, in 1814, in a letter to his brother Ezekiel, said : 

"There is no man in the court who strikes me like Marshall. I have never seen a man of whose intellect I had a higher opinion." 

Again Webster said of him that if there was ever a human being who did not argue from the obscure to the more obscure it certainly was Chief 'Justice Marshall. 

George R. Peck of the Chicago bar said of 'Marshall : 

"Take him for all in all, he was the greatest judge that ever lived. By the common and unfettered judgment of the bar, lay the unanimous voice of statesmen, jurists aind scholars. He was the oracle of our Constitutional law, the interpreter, the expounder and in a certain sense the maker of the Constitution. * * * Our profession looks upon him with a somewhat idolatrous feeling, but I do not think it excessive. When we consider what might have been our fate if another and not he had occupied that great seat we may well believe that providence watched over the republic." 

Justice Joseph Story, a very great justice of that Supreme Court of the United States, who knew Marshall very well spoke of him and said : 

"His life speaks its own best eulogy. It had such a simplicity, purity, consistency and harmony that the narrative of the events in their natural order invests it with an attraction which art need not seek to heighten and friendship may well be content to leave with its original coloring. He learned to love the Union with a supreme unconquerable love, a love which was never cooled by neglect or alienated by disappointment; a love which survived the trials of adversity; and still more dangerous trials of prosperity; a love which clung more closely to its object as it seemed less dear or less valuable in the eyes of others, a love which faltered not, fainted not, wearied not, on this side the grave. Yes, his thoughts ever dwelt on the Union as the first and best of all our earthly hopes. The last expressions which lingered on his dying lips breathed forth a prayer for his country. Such in that moment as in all the past, 'O save my country, Heaven,' was then his last. * * * He was one of those to whom centuries alone give birth, standing out like beacon lights on the loftiest eminences to guide, admonish and instruct future generations as well as the present." . It has been truly and forcibly said pf him : 

"Marshall found the Constitution paper and made it a power; he found it a skeleton and he clothed it with flesh and blood." 

I remember hearing a great orator and judge once express the hope that he might have the leisure sometime before he passed away to read one great decision each day from the Supreme Court of the United States. If one were going to do [that he might well select from the great decisions of the Supreme Court such cases as Marbury vs. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Madison, Gibbons vs. Ogden, and McCulloch vs. the State of Maryland. All these are great landmarks showing the growth of the Constitution of our country. 

What we need most in this country is more respect _f or the Constitution of the United States and its laws and la deep conviction of the necessity of being law-abiding. 

I rejoice in the testimonies that have been given in this Conference. I want to add my testimony to that which has already been given by s'o many in such a splendid form at this Conference. I ask the blessings of the Lord upon us in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

I rejoice in the work in which we are engaged. For some reason I am impelled to say — though it is manifestly unnecessary, as President Grant needs no defense from me, but I think it 'is proper — that I am not only in hearty accord with his declarations relative to the enforcement of, and obedience to law; but that I have known him for nearly half a century, lived in the same Ward, associated with him in business, socially, religiously and even politically, and there has been nothing more characteristic of him than his frankness and above-board expressions. Any man who knows him will not say to the contrary. May God bless him,- and may he live long to continue the splendid work which he is doing, and those also who are upholding his hands. 

The Eastern States Mission is in a very healthy condition, especially the missionaries. Our winter was as open and mild as it was severe here. Branches of the Church are in a very healthy condition. I know of no better evidence of that fact, than that last year there was paid something over thirty per cent more tithing than was ever paid before in the mission, and the amount paid the preceding year was largely in excess of that of any former year. If there is anything that tests honesty and sincerity, it is the payment of tithing. iWell may the old prophets have said : "Will ye rob God in tithes and offerings?" We can account for the maintenance of the payment of tithing to some extent, if not largely, because our people are generally employed by large institutions with many employes; and although hundreds of thousands, even millions, have 'been thrown out of employment, the honest tithepayers, I testify, as a very general rule, have not. Their sincerity, their honesty, have been so reflected, I am sure, in the stability and value of their characters that their employers have recognized the same. 

The Mission has been exceptionally blessed during the past year. Indeed, I think a marvelous work has been done through the providence of God, which was commenced in this building, by broadcasting sermons and organ recitals. The hearts of the people of the East have softened marvelously in the last two years. The press has materially changed its attitude. A different atmosphere very largely prevails. We were 121  impressed with the importance of utilizing modern agencies in the dissemination of the truth. 

We organized three new departments of our activities. The first and most important, broadcasting of sermons over the radio; second, exhibiting Mormonism in a practical way in exhibitions and fairs. The largest of these exhibits was at the Eastern States Exhibition where all of the states in our mission meet annually. They have permanent buildings at Springfield, Massachusetts. Our exhibition was in a booth in the main building over which was displayed in large letters the name of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in still larger letters, "See what God hath wrought." In the rear of our exhibit we had a small replica of the Salt Lake Temple. The booth was appropriately decorated. Streamers were used leading to the Temple, on which pertinent data were displayed concerning the Word of Wisdom, our system of educating the young, and our unequalled charity system. On a table at the entrance was an ample supply of tracts. There we distributed in eight days over 25,000 tracts. A half dozen missionaries distributed thousands of tracts daily, making friends, having conversations, and reaching people who would not permit them to come into their homes. They could not get past the butler, or the servant, ordinarily. 

Then we went to the country fairs. The young artist, for such Elder Carl E. Olson (whom we made Director of Exhibitions) proved himself to be, skilfully designed, out on the green, an old oaken bucket well, over which he had written in large letters, "The well of living water," with the name of the Church above it. It attracted a great deal of attention and thousands of tracts were again distributed. 

Time will not permit more on that line. I should like to tell you more about other things. We are desperately in need of missionaries and especially singers. If we are not supplied with some singers soon to take the places of those who are leaving, we shall have to give up some of the stations over which we are broadcasting the Gospel every Sabbath day. The prediction of Isaiah is fulfilled, wherein it says that " A little child shall lead them," and that the Lord would take "the weak things of the world to confound the mighty," and accomplish his marvelous works. Also the prediction in the Book <^f Mormon that the Gospel will be preached from the housetops is being literally fulfilled. 

The first missionary who broadcast for us over the radio was Elder Carrol D. Parkinson of Preston, Idaho, a nineteen year old missionary We had to pay for the privilege so gave it up temporarily. That was on the 11th of April last, and immediately following the great Centennial celebration in this city. We sent President Grant over a thousand clippings from newspapers; some of the largest, like the New York Times, had lengthy articles. 

This great organ has been making us friends. The intelligent realize that such music can come only from a people of intelligence and elevated ideals, and not from ignorance and bigotry. And thus 1 interest has been aroused in our people. It is certainly marvelous that GENERAL CONFERENCE  we found an opening we had without previous thought the best talent available. 

The first real opening was at Wilkesbarre, Pa., a city of nearly one hundred thousand population, where two of our young elders were laboring — Elder D. Glen Brown of Provo, twenty years of age, who has been with us only seven months, and his companion John M. Anderson of Logan. They did the real pioneering, persisting in their efforts to obtain the privilege of speaking over the radio without cost. Finally the station, the oldest in the city, and the largest, was in need of something to fill in with, and the privilege was given to these young men. Notwithstanding the short notice, they met the occasion splendidly. A quartet of our missionaries sang some of our hymns which with the address was so pleasing, that they were invited to continue, and every Sabbath evening since the 18th day of May last, we have had a half hour, during which we sing the hymns of Zion and preach a sermon. 

On September 10th, Elder Brown, with only two years education at the Brigham Young University, was made editor and director of radio work for the mission. 

The next opening was at Wilmington, the largest city in Delaware. Sister Mary Wioozley, from Malad, had won the friendship of the members of a Scottish society, partly by her piano playing; and ever since the 31st of August we have likewise broadcast there, Elder George F. Williams, of Ogden, another nineteen year old missionary, being the principal address writer and speaker. That station is the largest in the State of Delaware. It has a population of over two million within a radius of one hundred miles. 

They say that there are more than thirty million people in our mission. It is the great center of wealth and of the leading educational institutions of the nation. It is singularly appropriate that in the very section where the Gospel was introduced, the most modern and effective methods should be utilized in proclaiming the Gospel. We have only about three missionaries to a million of people to preach the Gospel in this mission, but they can and are doing a marvelous work over the radio. 

The next opportunity came in a still larger city, Syracuse, which has a population of more than two hundred thousand. There, another young man, Elder Earl H. Martin, was located, the only solo singer in the Mission. He won the hearts of the radio listeners by singing for several months without doing any preaching. Finally, we decided to use him elsewhere unless they permitted us to also preach. Then they gave us an hour on Sunday evening and called it a vesper service. Sometimes we deliver two sermons during the evening, with music intervening. This so aroused the other churches that they demanded the same privilege, and now we have to take turns with them. 

There is no place in the Mission, where an opportunity has been given us to preach over the radio, that the privilege has been taken from us. If you will give us the missionaries, especially those who can sing, we can accomplish a great work. We have thus, in ten 123 , delivered 212 Gospel messages over the radio in the Mission in important and prominent cities of the East, without cost to the Church; and the work has been splendidly done by youths generally under twenty-two years. To me it is nothing short of marvelous. For some time, as we contemplated and discussed this matter, I thought that unless we could have Dr. Talmage, President Roberts or some such speaker and writer, it would be useless for us to try. They could not come to our aid. The desirability of attempting this work was pressed upon us so strongly that we concluded to utilize the material that we had at hand. If the Lord ever blessed missionaries he has those in the Eastern States Mission who have participated in this work, for they were all young and inexperienced. Some of our indifferent missionaries who could sing or write have been aroused to greater activity. Forty-one of pur missionaries, some of them quite uneducated, have written addresses. Twenty-eight of them have spoken over the radio. Young ladies have written splendid addresses. Two of them have spoken over the radio. I say it is marvelous. But more marvelous and important — and more do I value it above all else — is the knowledge that I have of the divinity of this work, that God lives, that his servants, when in the performance of their duty under the call of the priesthood of God, have the inspiration of the Lord with them. He is with us, and there is a joy, a happiness and a consolation in the performance of duty, in the service of the Lord, that is inexplicable. 

May we appreciate our opportunities and blessings, and may you send us missionaries who can sing, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The nationial broadcast of the tabernacle choir begins at 4:15 this afternoon. It is important, therefore, that this meeting close promptly ' at four o'clock, in order to permit those who desire to leave the building to do so before that time, so that the doors can be closed and absolute quiet prevail during the broadcast. 

The national broadcasts of the tabernacle choir number to date approximately ninety. These have covered practically this entire nation as well as Canada. They have been transmitted to some extent at least, by short waves, to Europe. Many thousands of letters have been received expressing appreciation for these broadcasts. Some such letters have come from England. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission 

I sincerely hope that the blessings of the Lord may attend me during the few moments I occupy this position. 

Some of the other brethren have referred to the sensations they have had during the past three days. I have passed through all of GENERAL CONFERENCE  sensations and some I think in addition. To sit for three days not knowing what moment you are to speak is an anxious time. 

I desire to read a few words given by way of revelation at the opening of the great Gospel dispensation in which we now live. The Lord says : 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled." 1 

And the Lord says further : 

"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven and gave him commandments; 

"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets — 

"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh — 

"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

"That faith also might increase in the earth; 

"That mine everlasting covenant might be established; 

"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the ,weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

* * * * 

"And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth : I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; 

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. 

"And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens andi the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever." 

I would like to call the attention of this congregation to the fact 125  in this very first revelation in the book of Doctrine and Covenants the Lord has said that the weak things of the earth should be chosen to accomplish this marvelous work to which reference has been made. It may seem a little ridiculous in the eyes of those who do not believe that the Lord God of heaven has placed his hand to bring to pass in these latter times that marvelous work which has been sung about by all the prophets, that this revelation should say, "Fear and tremble, O ye inhabitants of the earth," because of the weakness of the men and women who are called to represent the work of God in the preaching of the Gospel. 

In my mind's eye I see standing in a little river, just fifty years ago this year, one of those weak missionary boys who had been appointed by hfs traveling companion to administer the ordinance of baptism to one who had been convinced of the truth. As he stood there in the river and thought of lifting his hand to make the declaration, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost," how weak that poor instrument was; and in his soul he cried out to God, "Father, if there be aught wrong in this act that I am about to perform, forgive thy servant, who believes that he is possessed of divine authority." 

There could not be a weaker instrument, it seems to me, on the face of the whole earth, and that humble and frightened instrument was Joseph W. McMurrin. 

I have met a great many of these weak men right here in Salt Lake City who have been assigned to the California Mission, and sometimes as I have hearkened to them and have noted their weakness, they could hardly make answer to simple questions because of the fear that was in their souls. I have thought, "What can this man or this woman do in the mission field?" I am a witness that shortly after meeting them here I have met them in the mission field changed and improved. I would not want to convey the thought that they had suddenly become strong, educated, powerful men and women. No. But there had something come into their souls that had driven out fear; they had learned to know for themselves concerning the divine authority they possessed, that they had actually been called by the Lord God of heaven to represent him in the preaching of the holy Gospel, and that they were of a surety servants of the living God. Men may well tremble at the authority and power of God that has been given in this dispensation to mortal men. 

I want to tell you that when men and women become possessed in their own souls of this thought, there is a strength about their presence, and about their testimony, and about their faith in God, that is marvelous and beyond my power to describe. I thank God that the promises are being fulfilled. No matter how weak we are we do bear divine authority, and through the help and blessing and power of God, and the companionship of his Spirit we are making our way, little by little, among those with whom we come in contact; and God is convincing us in our very souls that we represent him. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

This is my testimony concerning the ministry that is being carried on by these weak vessels in the California Mission. We are perishing because of the lack of help. One of the First Presidency has made a declaration that has been referred to : "There is a famine in the land." He made it especially to the bishops, stake presidents and presiding men, and he' said, "You are not meeting your responsibility." In attestation of the truth of this declaration I would like to say that the California Mission has been operating with ISO to 200 missionaries in years gone by, and we are now reduced to about eighty-five. We would like you brethren who select missionaries to take this declaration with you, and! hope it will ring in your ears — eighty-five. There is a famine in the California Mission because of the lack of men to proclaim the glorious Gospel of the Son of God. I hope the necessity will be" met. You presiding men can change it, if you will. 

God bless all, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and (sisters, to be present at another Conference of this Church. The great testimonies that have gone forth from the speakers will add, I know, to the stability and strength of the membership of the Church, and men and women will become more convinced that the Spirit of God is with these men. who stand at the head and have the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ to administer in the ordinances of the Gospel. 

When President Grant was addressing this congregation at the opening session the words of Solomon came to my mind : "Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he." It is through obedience to this principle that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has advanced and prospered. For a century of time it has maintained a steady growth because its people have kept the laws of God. 

I was more than happy to hear the President say that (the Church is out of debt. It maintains a great army of men both at home and abroad who give their time unselfishly, paying their own way, for the building up of the Church and kingdom of God. They are taken away from the great earning power of its membership for years at a time; yet (we find the Church strong, strong in faith, wonderful in power, out of debt, paying its way. There is nothing else like it under the shining sun. 

I draw the attention of the people of the world who have known this Church for many years and who have not been obedient to its teachings to the fact that they need the gospel of repentance, and unless they do repent they cannot inherit the glory that was promised by the early leaders to those who would accept the truth. 

I know the Gospel is true. It never was so wonderful as it is today. 127 

There never was more to do. Surely there is a famine in the land. , There has probably never been a time when there was more money or more food produced, or more clothing manufactured, than at the present time in this land of America. But there is a great famine, not for bread nor if or water, but for the hearing of the word of God. Elders are needed everywhere. The missionaries are working hard and doing perhaps twice the amount of work that ever was done before. We need more missionaries. We have but sixty-eight in the Central States Mission, which is one of the very oldest missions of the Church. We wish that more could come, but we will have to leave that in the hands of the Lord and with those in authority. 

I endorse all that has been said in regard to the strength of the leadership of our Church. It is the Church of God in the earth. It will win, it will lead, because God our eternal Father has not forsaken it, and the power of his Spirit has been felt among our leaders, as each president has come and gone. And this Spirit has been with the membership, too, as is evidenced in the testimonies they have borne in all parts of the world, from the inception of the work until now. 

I pray our Father's blessings upon us in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I asked all the Mission /Presidents jwho have just addressed us, with the exception of Brother Moyle, to occupy only ten minutes each. Every one of them complied with my request. They spoke from three and a half to eight and a half minutes each, and for the first time in four lor five years there is a little spare time at the closing session of Conference. 

GEMS FROM THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS 

I felt impressed that the splendid things contained in Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants ought to come before this Conference. I had several passages copied and intended to read them, but I was very pleased to hear nearly every word of them quoted by Brother Rulon S. Wells. There is, however, in that section something further which I think it well to read to you : 

"For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light; mercy hath compassion on mercy and claimeth her own; justice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things. 

"He comprehendeth all things, and all things are before him, and all things are round about him; and he is above all things, and in all things, and is through all things, and is round about all things; and all things are by him and of him, even God, forever and ever." 

And this from ^Section 84: 

"And any man that shall go and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

fail not to continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed." 

President Grant then presented the General Authorities and Officers and General Auxiliary Officers of the Church who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and 'Revelator and President of the Church of [Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF ,THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding (Smith 

Reed Smoot Jiames E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day FIRST .COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING IBISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 129 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

. CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding 'Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion Joseph F. Merrill 

Arthur Winter, Secretary land Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Orval W. Adams John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; David A. Smith, President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball , Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

'Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor Julia F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. 'Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edna Harker Thomias, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice exceedingly in the testimony of Brother James H. Moyle. He pleaded, oh so hard, for Brother Talmage or Brother Roberts or someone else to come to his mission and speak over the radio. We could not yield to his pleadings. We rejoice that during the last six months the Lord has seen .fit to magnify the young men and the young women in the Eastern States Mission and that he has inspired and blessed them in the marvelous way he has done. 

OBEY THE LAWS OF GOD 

We hear a great deal about obeying the Constitution of the United States. What is the matter with our obeying the constitution of the Church of Jesus Ghrist of Latter-day Saints? What is the matter with us being honest in obeying the laws of Almighty God by paying our tithing? There are a great many people who are very active in preaching this Gospel who fail to obey it themselves. Let us obey it, and then we shall find that there is no power on earth or beneath the earth that can stop us in good works. 

LOYALTY IN PREACHING THE GOSPEL 

I do not believe that one missionary in every twenty that are sent into the mission field has had previous experience in missionary work. It seems to me that there should be more loyalty in preaching the Gospel than exists at the present time. I remember that when I was a young man the IChurch.did not send boys on missions as it' has to do today, but men of experience made sacrifices to go into the mission field. Men laid down almost anything that they were doing when the call came to go upon a mission. But now, if there is any excuse under heaven that we can make to stay home many of us are staying. 131 

I want to endorse all that has been said that is calculated in its nature to inspire the leading men of this Church, all over the Church, and the members, to make sacrifices and prepare themselves to proclaim the Gospel. 

THE BEST CONFERENCE 

I am very happy indeed over all that has been said and done in this Conference. I pray earnestly and sincerely that the Lord will sanctify to our blessing all that we have heard. I rejoice in the fact that I have heard on all sides as far back las I can remember, "Well, we have had the finest Conference ever." It shows that the people have the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that when they are fed the bread of life their hearts are warmed. Tears of gratitude come into their eyes for the authority of the living God, for the power that comes to the people, and it does seem as though the last Conference is always the best.! 

May God help us each and all to live in such way and manner that his Spirit may be our constant guide and companion, I ask in the name of Jesus and in the authority of the priesthood of the living God that I hold. May God bless the people; may he bless the General, the Stake and the Ward .authorities and the officers of the auxiliary organizations throughout the Church. May he bless the misssionaries at home and abroad, and may he inspire the people to do missionary work. 

TO WARN OUR NEIGHBORS 

I would like to call the attention of President Joseph W. McMurrin to the fact that there are three (Stakes of Zion in California, that there are residing in California today probably twenty thousand members of the Church. We should remember that the Lord has told us that it is our duty to warn our neighbors and to preach this Gospel — that duty is upon all of us — we should be missionaries. There are very many men in the Church who are devoting nearly all their time outside of their daily vocations in an endeavor to bring people to a knowledge of the Gospel, although they have not been called Upon missions. There are some of our Bishops who; not only do their duty in their Wards, but when they find someone whom they can interest in the Gospel they preach it to him. II think one of the best preachers I have known ever since he came home from his mission as a young man is Bishop Thomas A. Clawson of the Eighteenth ,Ward. He is zealous in keeping his returned missionaries at work. 

Let us all realize that this work belongs to each and every one of us, and let us do all in our power for its advancement. 

"the song of the heart" 

May the Lord bless our singers, not only those who belong to this great tabernacle choir, but our singers throughout the entire Church. There is no other people in the world who take greater interest in music, in singing, and in advancement along those lines than do the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Latter-day Saints. Why ? Because we realize that the Lord has given a revelation wherein he has said that his soul delighteth in the song of the heart, that it is a prayer unto him, 'and that it shall be answered with a blessing upon our heads. Let us remember the kind of songs the Lord likes, songs with the IGospel in them. I have gone to conferences where I have heard three or four anthems, with the words of which I could not agree. They were sung to good music but they were not good doctrine. 

May the Lord guide us by the unerring counsels of his Spirit, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer, Amen. 

The congregation sang, as a closing number, the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

Elder John W. Hart, President of the Rigby Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the meetings on Sunday was conducted by B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor of the Tabernacle Choir, and at the other sessions of the Conference by Edward P. Kimball. 

Accompaniments and interludes were played on the great organ by Edward P. Kimball and Frank Asper. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 128 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 36 

The gift of God within us, 36— Lest ye be deceived, 36— Seek spiritual guidance, 37 — Deceptions of the adversary, 37 — Using new methods, 38 — A period of growth and development, 39 — Men of God, 

140. 

Barnard, Dr. H. E 56 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 126 

Bluth, Elder John V 90 

Callis, Elder Charles A 106 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q h 14 

Easter celebration, 14 — Resurrection and life, 14 — Power in humility, IS — Humility leads to faith, IS- — Contriteness of spirit leads to God IS — Humility — a divine gift, 16 — Spiritual effects of depression, 16 — 

Pride leads to destruction, 16 — Dangers in high places, 17 — Instances of power through humility, 18 — The spirit of the priesthood, 18. 

Clawson, President Rudger 19 

God's greatest gift, 19 — What salvation is and how obtained, 19 — The reward of the faithful, 20 — Testimony, 20. 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 24 

Gaeth, Elder Arthur 107 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 128 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 129 

General Officers of the Church 129 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Financial statement, 2 — Statistics and other data compiled from the  reports for the } r ear 1930, 3 — Decries propaganda, S — Punished when found, S — To protect the unwary, 6— Widely circulated, 6 — False and slanderous statements, 6 — President Widtsoe maligned, 7 — Absolutely forbidden, 7 — The position of the Church, 8 — The people's welfare, 8 — Denies Church in debt, 8 — Contrary to law, 9 — Statement sustained, 9 — Quotes Prophet's prayer, 9 — Reads from scriptures, 10 — The Barlow case, 10 — Faith and works, 11 — Quotes former speech, 11 — Pledge kept, 12 — Counsel from the Lord, 12 — Not necessary to be commanded, 12 — Grateful for knowledge, 13 — Priesthood properly exercised, 13. 

Grant, President Heber J 45 

Greeting from Hawaii, 45. 

Grant, President Heber J 56 

Introducing Dr. H. E. Barnard, 56. 

Grant, President Heber J 67 

The duty of parents in Zion, 67. 

Grant, President Heber J 79 

Washington's farewell address, 79. 

Grant, President Heber J 123 

Tabernacle Choir radio broadcasts, 123. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Grant, President Heber J 127 

Gems from the Doctrine and Covenants, 127— General Authorities of the Church sustained, 128 — General Officers of the Church sustained, 129 — General Auxiliary Officers of the Church sustained, 129. 

Grant, President Heber J 130 

Obey the laws of God, 130 — Loyalty in preaching the Gospel, 130 — The best Conference, 131 — To warn our neighbors, 131 — The song of the heart, 131. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 117 

Ivins, President Anthony W 46 

Easter, 46 — A Redeemer promised, 47 — "He who was to come", 47 — The witness he bore, 48 — King though he was, 48 — He was not there, 48 — He lived again, 49 — It was a revelation, 49 — "No more death", SO — A man of sorrow, SO — The earth is happy, 51. 

Jones, Elder Miles L 116 

Kimball, Elder Jonathan G 87 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 72 

The world's great need, 72 — Assignment of work, 72 — Attitude of college men, 72 — Importance of religious thought, 72— Faith is the basis, 73— Happiness the aim, 73 — Honesty means progress, 73 — Nobility or honor, 73— Why America has prospered, 74 — Sobriety indispensable, 74 — The High virtues, 74 — A pledge to our country, 75— What one individual may accomplish, 75— A whole convention responds, 75 — A call to patriots, 76. 

McKay, Elder David 79 

The Lost and found, 79 — The importance of such a mission, 80 — Two pictures, j80^-The cost, 81— What the Church can do, 81— Personal influence, 82 — Seeking the lost one, 82— Accounting for every one, 83. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 123 

Moyle, Elder James H 120 

Nibley, President Chas. W 51 

On strange times, 51 — As a young missionary, 52 — Trouble and distress, 52 — In effect an increase, 52 — i" After your testimony", S3 — A famine in the land, 53 — Sacrifice and saving, 54 — Worth everything, 55 — "Give us faith", 55. 

Pond, Elder Noah S 113 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 89 

Richards, Elder George F 40 

Men of God, 40 — Seeking salvation, 41 — A strong argument, 41 — War in heaven, 41 — The will of the Father, 42 — Other reasons for observing Word of Wisdom, 42. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 21 

Gratitude for blessings, 21 — Joy that passeth understanding, 21 — The inspired of God, 21 — Consideration for one another, 22— The fruition of God's purposes, 22 — The supreme charity, 23. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 84 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr 98 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 46 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 67 

Sloan, Elder William R Ill 

Smith, Elder David A 100 

Smith, Elder George Albert 31 

Humble but great men, 31 — Upheld and sustained by righteous mem135 , 32 — Experiences of early leaders, 32 — Tools of the adversary, 33 — While in a dungeon, 33 — Marking the trails, 34 — Gratitude for blessings, 35. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 76 

Blessings through sacrifices of others, 76 — Helped by patriarchal blessings, 77 — Answers to prayers, 77 — A striking example, 78 — For comfort and benefit, 78 — Blesses the people, 78. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 68 

An opportunity for all, 68 — To avoid deception, 68 — Branded as false by President Joseph F. Smith, 69 — False spirits in the earth, 70 — A key for guidance, 70 — By the spirit of truth, 70— "Whoso treasureth up my word", 71. * 

Smoot, Elder Reed 24 

Not ashamed of the Church, 24 — Prohibitionists, 25 — Ingersoll's views regarding alcohol, 25 — Eastern States Mission accomplishments, 26— God at the helm, 26. 

Talmage, Elder James E 26 

The evil gift, 27 — From God or from satan? 28 — Beware of deception, 28 — False prophets, 29 — Spurious imitations, 29 — Satan a living personage, 30 — Latter-day warning, 30. 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 87 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting Ill 

Welling, Elder Arthur 109 

Wells, Elder John 114 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 92 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 61 

The Spirit of the Lord, 61 — God's greatest gift, 61 — A spiritual feast, 62 — The source of life and light, 62 — Letter and spirit, 62 — The Word made flesh, 63 — John's true meaning, 63 — Spiritual things spiritually discerned, 64 — A case in point, 64 — When thanks are out of place, 64— A spiritual dividend, 65 — The law of consecration, 65 — Why we fast, 66 — Body and spirit, 66 — The sick world's panacea, 66. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 57 

The same spirit and purpose, 57 — Greetings from the European missions, 57 — A new day, 57 — Spiritual indifference, 58 — Man-made gods, 58 — The true God, 58 — Joseph Smith's first vision, 59 — Authoritative leadership, 59 — Teachers of the world, 60 — The search for eternal truth, 61. 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 97 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 43 

All Students ot the Book of Mormon 

"WILL FIND THE BOOK 

An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon 

By J. M. SJODAHL 

To be mighty interesting and illuminating 

"Some of the contents of the book has appeared in the IMPROVEMENT ERA and other Church publications during the last ten years, and friends have been good enough to say, repeatedly, that they wojuld be glad to have those contributions in some form more convenient for reference. Acting on their suggestion, I have collected some papers previously published and others that now appear for the first time, and respectfully submit them in this form to the public. In doing so, it is my sincere prayer that the testimony here offered may be of benefit to the reader, and especially to honest seekers after the truth." 

Price $3.50 

Sunday Night Talks by Radio 

In answer to an insistent demand the 1930 series of L. D. S. Radio Addresses given by Dr. James E. Talmage has now been issued in regular book form under the title of "Sunday Night Talks By Radio." It is printed on a good grade of book paper from type especially set for this edition, and durably bound in beautiful marblex cloth. 

This book will make a beautiful as well as practical and useful addition to the library of any member of the Church. It will be especially valuable to missionaries or prospective missionaries. 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

Send your order now to the 

Deseret Book Company 

"The Home of Good Books" P. O. Box 1793 A veritable epic of empire-building 

The Life Story of Brigham Young 

By SUSA YOUNG GATES AND LEAH D. WIDTSOE WITH A FOREWORD BY HONORABLE REED SMOOT 

"This book presents the life story of a New England cabinet-maker, who, well into his thirties, entered upon a career that made him an empirebuilder of the West; the founder of a hundred cities; the governor of one of the territories of the United States; and one of the outstanding figures of the nineteenth century." 

Thus does Senator Smoot begin his enthusiastic foreword to this notable biography. "A graphic, gripping story," he terms it, and every reader undoubtedly will agree with his definition of this life of the indefatigable, indomitable Brigham Young, which was written by one of his daughters and her daughter. The entire record of the great Mormon leader is unfolded from his birth in a little Vermont town to his death at the age of seventy-seven as head of the church, the success of which was due to his courageous and arduous leadership. 

380 Pages, 46 Illustrations, Bound in Dark Brown Cloth with Gold Titles. 

Price $5.00 

HAVE YOU EVER READ 

THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM 

as contained in the Pearl of Great Price? A vivid story of the creation of the earth, and a wonderful description of the constellations in the vast expanse of the heavens. 

Buy the Pearl of Great Price now, and read what Abraham wrote. 

Price 50c 

Dcserct Book Company 

44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 







