Afternoon 
05 04 1931

The fourth session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m. 

The attendance at this meeting was similar in number to that at the'mormng meeting. 

President Heber J. Grant, who presided, in calling the meeting to order announced that: the Tabernacle Choir and. the congregation would sing the hymn, "Praise to the Man Who Communed With Jehovah." 

After the singing, Elder 'Henry W. Henderson, President of the Pocatello Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir then rendered the anthem, "Send Ye Swift Messengers." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I believe that I realize as much as I ever did the responsibility which is upon me in standing here to address this assembly. It is a great honor to have this privilege. It is also a great responsibility, for I realize that those who occupy this position at a General Conference of the Church should have something to say that will be edifying, strengthening and encouraging, that will build up the members of the Church in their faith. 

I pray that I may, have the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord, and your faith and prayers, for the few moments that I stand here. 

AN OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL 

I have rejoiced in the admonition, the testimony, and the presentation of the principles of the Gospel, as they have been declared by our brethren who have spoken. In my heart I feel thankful that I have the opportunity of living in this day, when the Gospel in its fulness, its simplicity and jts power, is on the earth. Today all men have the opportunity of receiving the truth, for the Gospel is being proclaimed among the nations of the earth and the privilege is granted to those who repent and accept the Gospel of receiving the remission of their sins, through the ordirfance of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, through the laying on of hands of those who have the authority of the holy priesthood. The Lord has made the promise to all who will repent and remain faithful, exercising a spirit of humility and diligence, that they will be entitled to the guidance of the Spirit of God. Tthis Spirit will lead them and direct them throughout their lives. 

TO AVOID DECEPTION 

We are living, as it has already been stated, in a day of trouble, of tribulation, when men's hearts are failing them. The Lord pointed out this day while in his ministry, and admonished by prophecy those living now to watch and pray, that they might not be led astray, that they might not be found unprepared, should they be so fortunate as to be here at the great day of his coming. 

Much has been said by way of warning and for the guidance of this people by the previous speakers, so that we may be prepared to discern between truth and falsehood, and that we may detect those who speak falsely and do not love the truth. I would like to present another phase of this matter, because I feel that it is timely. Several times 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 69 

within the past three months I have been approached by individuals and have received communications through the mails, making inquiryconcerning a certain purported revelation said to have been given many years ago to President Joseph F. Smith, in which he saw the destruction of many great cities and many countries of the world and other very unusual things. Inquiry has also been made regarding a purported vision given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in relation to the same things, and which has been in circulation for many years. It is evident that these things are again being circulated and many of the people are becoming agitated over them wondering if they are true or not, and some of the people have been deceived. 

BRANDED AS FALSE BY PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH 

At the October Conference of the Church in the year 1918, which was the last General Conference attended by President Joseph F. Smith. I made some remarks in relation to these two so-called visions and pointed out the fact that they were not true. At the close of my remarks President Smith arose and also spoke of them. Let me say that this communication that has come into my hands recently, and about which I have been asked for advice, was being circulated very extensively at that time. It is a purported revelation given to Joseph F. Smith many years ago. 

As I have said, at the close of my remarks at that General Conference of the Church, President Smith arose and said : 

"Again I feel that it is an opportunity for me to say a few words. This wonderful, mysterious revelation, that I have been said to have received a great many years ago, was given in French, and I never knew but two or three words in French in my life. Consequently I could not have been the originator of that revelation. I want you to understand that I have denied it, I suppose a hundred times, when people have inquired about it. It was gotten up by some mysterious person who undertook to create a sensation, and laid the responsibility upon me. I am not guilty. When the Lord reveals something to me I will consider the matter with my brethren. When it becomes proper I will let it be known to the 1 people, and not otherwise. 

"The ridiculous story about the red horse, and the black horse, and the white horse, and a lot of trash, that has been circulated and sent around as a great revelation given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is a matter that was gotten up, I understand, some ten years after the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by two of our brethren, who put together some broken sentences from the-Prophet that they may have heard him utter from time to time, and formulated this so-called revelation out of it; and it was never spoken by the Prophet in the manner in which they have put it forth. It is simply false, that is all there is to it." 

Now, I think we are, fortunate in having President Smith's own expression in regard to these purported revelations. It seems strange to me that now, some twelve years later, we still find them in circulation. But the thing that astonishes me more is the fact that members of the Church seem to be bewildered and in wonderment whether or not these purported revelations were indeed given to the Prophet Joseph and to President Joseph F. Smith. 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

FALSE SPIRITS IN THE EARTH 

In a revelation given to the Church in May, 1831, when matters of a similar kind were being circulated among the people, the Lord said : 

"Hearken, ye elders of my Church, and give ear to the voice of the living God; and attend to the words of wisdom which shall be given unto you, according as ye have asked and are agreed as touching the Church, and the spirits which have gone abroad in the earth. 

"Behold, verily I say unto you, that there are many spirits which are false spirits, which have gone forth in the earth, deceiving the world. 

"And also Satan hath sought to deceive you, that he might overthrow you." 

Then the revelation goes on further to give instructions in regard to the receiving of revelations, and the duty of members of the Church in regard to matters of this kind. 

A KEY FOR OUR GUIDANCE 

I would like to say, for the benefit of the members of the Church, that we have a key given us by revelation, by which false spirits may be known, by which false revelation may be known. There is only one man in this Church, at a time, who has the right to receive revelation for the Church. The Lord has said that his house is a house of order, not a house of confusion, and therefore one is appointed to speak. One has the right to receive the word of the Lord and give it to the Church. We all have the right to receive revelation for our own guidance. A president of a Stake has the right of revelation for the guidance of his Stake. But no man has the right to receive revelation for this Church, except the one whom the Lord has called. If he receives a revelation it will be declared without question, if it is intended for the Church, in a manner by which we may iall know the) source from whence it comes. And when we find people secretly distributing what are said to be revelations, or visions, or manifestations, that have not come from nor received the approval of the Authorities of the Church, we may put it down that such things are not of God. 

We do not need to write to ask questions in regard to these things. We do not need to question them for a moment, because the Lord is not going to give a revelation to any high priest, any elder, or seventy, for this Church. It will come through the one who is so appointed. And if the Lord is not going to choose those who have standing in the quorums of the priesthood, you may be certainly assured that he is not going to choose some one who does not hold the priesthood at all. So our minds may be at rest in regard to matters of this kind. 

BY THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH 

Furthermore, in this same revelation to which I have made reference, the Lord also says : , 

"Therefore, why is it that ye cannot understand and know, that he that receiveth the word by the Spirit of truth, receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth? 



ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH  71 

"Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together. 

"And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

"That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day." '  

Now, think of that. If we will follow the spirit of light, the spirit of truth, the spirit that is set forth in the revelations of the ,Lord; if we will, through the spirit cff prayer and humility, seek for the guidance of the jHoly Ghost, the Lord will increase our light and our .understanding; so that we shall have the spirit of discernment, we shall understand the truth, we shall know falsehood when we see it, and we shall . not be deceived, j 

Who is it that is deceived in this Church? Not the. man who has been faithful in the discharge pf duty; not the man who has made himself acquainted with the word of the Lord; not the man who has practiced the commandments given in these revelations; but the man who is not acquainted with the truth, the man who is in spiritual darkness, the man who does ^not comprehend and understand the principles of the (Gospel. Such a man will be deceived, and when these false spirits come among us he may not understand br be able to distinguish between light and darkness. 

But if we will walk in the light of the revelations of the Lord, if we will hearken to the counsels that are given by those who stand in the councils of the Church, empowered to give the instructions, we will not go astray. 

"whoso treasureth up ,my word" 

In the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, as the Lord revealed it to the Prophet Joseph Smith, not as you find it in the Bible, but as you find it in the Pearl of Great Price, we find this expression: 

"And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived, for the Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his angels before him with the great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together the remainder of his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." 

I repeat : "And whoso treasureth up buy word shall not 'be deceived." Therefore let us go to with our might in the labor of this Church, and ( in the study and understanding of the (principles of the 'Gospel, these principles of light, and as we study them the Lord will reveal to us further light, until we shall receive the fulness, in due time, of the perfect day, and we shall not be under the necessity of being subject to doubt and seeking for advice when confronted by matters of this kind, because the Spirit of the Lord itself will teach us. 

The day is coming, so Jeremiah says, when it will not be necessary for one man to teach his neighbor, saying, "Know the Lord," for they all know him, from the greatest to the least. And that will come when we, in all full purpose of heart, are willing to serve the Lord and keep his commandments and hearken to the counsels that come to us from those who preside; which I pray we will do, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

THE WORLD'S GREAT NEED 

The greatest need of the world today is religion. The greatest need of the people ,of the United States is religion. At this moment mankind needs most the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The heavens have been opened, the voice of the Lord has been heard, the angel spoken of has flown through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." 

To supply this vital need, the Department of Education, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, has prepared a course in religious instruction to be given side by side with the training of the public schools. 

ASSIGNMENT OF WORK 

To the Primary organization has been assigned the task of giving this religious instruction to the children of the first six grades. In the junior seminaries, religious education is given to the children of the 7th, 8th and 9th grades; in the seminary, to those who attend high school; and institutes are being established to give a proper appreciation of religious truth to our sons and daughters who go to college. 

ATTITUDE OF COLLEGE MEN 

The indifference, if not the actual antagonism, toward religion on the part of many who are college-trained, is due primarily to the fact that their religious education has been neglected. Their religious ideals and motives have not been developed along with the growth of ideas and ideals in science, literature, and the arts. Our aim, therefore, is to produce a generation of college men and women who will understand, appreciate, and enjoy Gospel incentives, motives, and ideals, with the same interest, enthusiasm, and devotion that they develop for the new ideas they acquire in science, literature, and art. 

IMPORTANCE OF RELIGIOUS THOUGHT 

To any who regard training in science, language, and mathematics as most valuable, I put these questions : Is not religion more weighty than other subjects? Is not character of more consequence than a knowledge of science? Honesty of greater moment than a knowledge of mathematics? Dependability more important than a knowledge of languages ? 

Give your children all the training you can in these other subjects, but see to it that along with their school instruction they are given this most valuable branch of education — a study of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a study of the life and teachings of our Lord and Savior. For  prime purpose of this line of Gospel education, this training in religion, is to make people happier and better. 

FAITH IS THE BASIS 

Let me make it clear and definite that religion is not founded primarily on logic; religion is founded on faith. Faith, like electricity, is hard to define; but, like electricity, it has tremendous power. Faith is that satisfying something which comes into humble human hearts as a result of prayerful life and righteous living. 

Affection, like faith, is not based on the logical operations of the human mind. It does not obey the dictates of the will, neither is it controlled hy the rules of logic. 

HAPPINESS THE AIM 

We are endeavoring to teach faith — faith in our fellowmen, faith in God, faith in a life beyond ,the grave. 

It is said that the most lonely, lonesome, and unhappy individual is he who says he does not know — the man who has no faith in God, no faith in a life beyond. We are aiming so to bring up our young folks that they will escape the unhappiness of unbelief. And while the faith of which I speak is not often created by reason, nevertheless reason can justify this faith, and can ward off attacks which may be made upon it. In the language of the scripture (Heb. 11 :1), "Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." 

. HONESTY MEANS PROGRESS 

Outstanding among the elements in the Gospel plan is common, every-day honesty. "Wie believe in being honest." 

Men who do not keep their word, who fail to fulfil their contracts, or who can scarcely do business without cheating, are men who obstruct the progress and prosperity of the country. 

Imagine a community made up of such people. However gifted they might be mentally, they could not prosper; one man could not trust another. Nothing could be bought or sold without the closest inspection. There could be no cooperation. Everyone would have to spend a great deal of time watching his dishonest neighbors. Honesty, therefore, when it is practised by an entire community, is a great laborsaving device. 

Lincoln's chief trait, sail his life long, was honesty. Pervasive honesty was the outstanding mark of his personality. From the beginning to the end it stayed with him. "When other traits seemed to be changing, this universal honesty w&s always there." (Morse.) 

NOBILITY OF HONOR 

Our nation is united in teaching Boy Scouts the value, the nobility, of honesty and of honor. "On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God and my country." This is their chief lesson. 

"I .cannot do so in honor." With these words — words which will be remembered forever — King Albert of Belgium refused to let the German army pass through his country. As long as there are mothers' tongues to teach their children, just so long will mothers hold up with pride and commendation the honor, the honesty, the integrity, of the Belgian people, who, against Itremendous odds, "stood to their guns and maintained their honor, intact and immortal." (Van Dyke.) 

Our own Karl G. Maeser had the highest regard for honor. Though a great teacher of science and literature, he was most of all an instructor in the Gospel, a builder of character. He used to say: "'Place me behind prison walls ever so high, ever so thick, ever so strong, yet in some way, at some time, I may escape; but draw a chalk line around me and have me give my word of honor not to cross it, can I ever escape ? No, never! I die (first!" / 

WHY AMERICA HAS PROSPERED 

Our country has had a growth and prosperity no other country has ever known. These unusual blessings have come because of honor, honesty, dependability — qualities which religious training brought into the lives of the people. 

While many of our countrymen who are rich ridicule religion, a wise man (Babson) has said that these same prosperous Americans are indebted for all they possess to the family prayers once held daily in the homes of their fathers. 

SOBRIETY INDISPENSABLE 

Next to honesty, one of the most important elements in the Gospel is sobriety. 

"In the rudimentary state of society," says Carver, "where each individual worked and acted most of the time alone, and where, therefore, there was little interdependence, drunkenness was not so vicious as it has now become. But in our interlocking civilization, no personal habit or vice, except lying, so unfits a man for useful service as does drunkenness. If you had to take your choice between riding behind a locomotive engineer addicted to drunkenness, and addicted to any other vice, there is not much doubt as to which you would choose. 

"Apply a similar test to anyone in any other responsible position, and you will reach the conclusion that the person who is addicted to drink is about the least dependable, and the least desirable, citizen you can name. There are fewer places where he is of use and more places where he is a menace than is the case with the victims of almost any other vice." 

THE HIGH VIRTUES 

Honor, honesty, dependability, sobriety — these rank high among the virtues. Living in accordance with them has brought to our country a growth, a prosperity, unknown to other nations. 

Before taking public office in state or nation, every official is required solemnly to swear that he will support, obey, and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of his own State. 

It is said that among our public officials there are some who hold their hands toward high heaven and take this sacred oath of office one day, and break their solemn pledge the next. The story of Washington and the cherry tree told to every American child, the honesty 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 75 

of Abraham Lincoln told to every American youth, the OBoy Scout oath, the honor of King Albert of Belgium, the sterling worth and character of our own Dr. Maeser — these in the past have been the standards of our country. Have our ideals changed ? Have we given up these old-fashioned virtues? Do some public officials have no regard for the most solemn oath that public men can take ? Are there officials who regard the Constitution of the United States as only a scrap of paper,? Can this nation — the land of Washington, Franklin, Lincoln, Roosevelt, Wilson — the nation founded on honor, honesty, and dependability — can it endure if this undermining of its very foundation continues? I say it cannot. Nothing enduring can be built upon falsehood. Without honor, without honesty, without dependability, no nation can stand. 

A PLEDGE TO OUR COUNTRY 

I have personally made a solemn public pledge not to participate in any function, social or otherwise, where the law is broken — I refer particularly to the prohibition law; and furthermore I am working on a program whose purpose is to seek out those who also are willing to invite good citizens to come to the support of the Constitution of the United States. 

You who are willing to cooperate are invited to get signatures to the following pledge : 

I hereby pledge to the Republic of the United States and to myself : 

1. Not to participate in any function, social or otherwise, where the law is broken. 

2. Not knowingly to cast my vote for any candidate who does not live in accordance with the law. 

WHAT ONE INDIVIDUAL MAY ACCOMPLISH 

The influence of a single person who will live in accordance with the law and who will work to get others to do likewise is effective and far-reaching. 

A few examples : 

"Mr. Chairman, since I stand with Abraham Lincoln for the law," said one committee member, "and, further, since I have pledged myself, as have President and Mrs. Hoover, not to participate in any function iwhere the law is broken, if you are going to serve liquor on this occasion, I shall ask to be excused from this meeting." 

The liquor was not served. 

"But just a minute," said one of those who had been invited. "I do not desire to create a scene at your fine;dinner, nor do 1 i.wish to make myself appear ridiculous or non-appreciative; therefore, if liquor is to be served, I shall ask lyou now!to excuse me, since I cannot in honor participate in a function where the law is broken." 

No liquor was served. 

A WHOLE CONVENTION RESPONDS 

At a convention recently, where nearly a thousand delegates were registered, wine was served in unlimited quantities. Before the next convention, one member wrote the following to the officials of the organization: "I am for the law. I appeal to you to recommend to the Society that at our next meeting we pass a resolution informing the people of the United States that this Society stands for the Constitution and the laws of- our country; and that, while some of our members may not like the Prohibition law, yet while it remains on our statute books we pledge ourselves to live in accordance with its provisions and to assist the President and other officials in their efforts to enforce it." 

No liquor was in evidence at the next convention. 

If one prominent business or social leader who breaks the law were placed behind prison bars, this one act would create for the law an immediate respect so strong that it would reform a whole city. 

A CALL TO PATRIOTS 

Thus, "in these last days," and "from the top of the mountains," as a representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I appeal to the people of the country to come to the support of the Constitution of the United States. 

And in accordance with the motto of our nation may we in God so trust that "government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth." 

At the request of President' Grant, the Choir and congregation arose and sang the first verse of the hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to be present upon this occasion. I don't remember having ever attended a Conference that was more blessed of the Lord. I have been thrilled with the testimonies and remarks of all the brethren, and with all the songs that have been sung. The Spirit of 'the Lord, and the spirit of the Gospel have touched my heart in testimony of their divinity. 

I am thankful for the wonderful privilege of associating with men who the Lord has chosen to stand in the leadership of the Church in this important time of the world. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH SACRIFICES OF OTHERS 

For several months past, about the most important meetings of a public character which I have attended have been funerals. I have attended a number of them of late, due to the fact that a great number of my relatives have recently passed away. . At these services, of course, the addresses and the remarks of the brethren have been largely tempered with the spirit and teaching relative to the resurrection, the  mission of life, and the great blessings that have come to the human family through the atonement of Jesus Christ. 

I am always impressed with the spirit of devotion and humility when I hear my brethren and my friends speak in remembrance of the great experiences, sometimes called sacrifices, which our parents and forefathers endured, that we, as younger members of the Church might enjoy the multiplicity of blessings and privileges of the present time, for many faithful souls gave their, lives for the cause of this Gospel. 

Personally, I am grateful for the blessings which have come to me, because of the sacrifices of others. I feel my unworthiness of the great blessings that have come to me, the great privileges and opportunities, especially the responsibilities. I do not say this in any manner of boasting, but I wish to say it by way of reporting the growth of the Church as seen from my particular viewpoint. 

HELPED BY PATRIARCHAL BLESSINGS 

I think my predecessor, the late John Smith, holds the record in point of time for any officer holding one position in the Church. He was Presiding Patriarch for over fifty-six years. During that time he was instrumental in administering to members of the Church something over twenty-one thousand recorded blessings. During the last nineteen years nearly twenty-one thousand recorded blessings stand to my credit in the office. 

A great many faithful Latter-day Saints are struggling with their responsibilities in life. Many times they have come to the office, fasting, with a prayer of faith and a keen desire for help to guide them in handling those responsibilities. And in their patriarchal blessings many have received the desired consolation. 

ANSWERS TO PRAYERS 

I am grateful for the faith and the prayers of the members of the Church. I believe in prayer. I know that the Lord hears and answers prayer. I have heard little children pray, and almost immediately have seen the answers come. I have seen adults and older people pray with faith, and have seen immediate and soul-satisfying results. I am converted to the devotion and the practice of prayer. I believe in it, and I practice it myself. I teach my children to pray. They pray for others as well as for themselves. My children, all of them, pray for the President of this Church, and for his associates, for the members of the Church, for the missionaries, for the sick and for all who need the favors of the Lord. 

Through the kindness of the Lord, a great many testimonies have come to us in our home relative to the answering of our prayers. I will not take your time to tell these stories, but our family history is replete with testimonies that are soul-satisfying, relative to the answering of our prayers. So I believe in prayer. 

I thank you for your prayers, my brethren and sisters. I have felt the benefit myself. I am very grateful to you personally for your faith and prayers. , 

I regret very much that I am physically unable at the present time, and have been for some time past, to visit with the people, and to carry on my duties as I would like to do. However, I feel very grateful that my strength is returning, and I hope to be able soon to discharge my duties in full. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you, my brethren and sisters, throughout the Stakes, Wards, and Missions, and in the auxiliary organizations. My heart is filled with blessings for your success, for your happiness, for your peace in carrying on the great work. 

A STRIKING EXAMPLE 

I realize that we are living in a peculiar time, when conditions are not just as we would like to have them : many are out of employment. 

A very striking example came to me only a few days ago. A convert to the Church, a well educated man, who was trained for the ministry in one of the religious organizations of the land, left his family at home in Canada, .and came here to Salt Lake City, where he received his patriarchal blessing. After searching in vain for employment he decided to "hike" back home, a distance of two thousand miles, which he covered in eight days, he reports. He found his patriarchal blessing of great value in overcoming his despair. He acknowledged the hand of the Lord in his blessings, for he realized that he had been spared and blessed; and that he and the Church were still good friends. 

This example is only one of thousands who manifest faith in their blessings and who acknowledge the Lord as the Giver of them. 

FOR COMFORT AND BENEFIT 

I commend to you the faith and the devotion of the good men who are authorized, in the Church, to administer the ordinance of patriarchal blessings. These blessings are for those who understand them and who have a knowledge of their use and value in the Church. They are indeed valuable instruments for the comfort and benefit of faithful members of the Church. 

My heart is filled with sympathy and a desire to bless the entire membership of the Church, to see the Lord's work prosper, and to see faith increase in the hearts of our fellow members. 

I pray the Lord to magnify, bless, inspire, protect, preserve, and spare those who preside over the Church and who stand as its leaders today. 

BLESSES THE PEOPLE 

In the name of the Lord, I bless you all with peace and with prosperity, notwithstanding the uncertainty of things at the present time. You will go to your homes, and plant, cultivate, and reap, but not in vain, for the harvest will be satisfying and satisfactory; the blessings of the Lord will be upon your lands, and upon your possessions, and upon your faithful labors. Therefore, be honest with the Lord in your  and in your offerings; that the great promises concerning this land and its people may be fulfilled. 

I pray God to grant these blessings, that they may be upon the Church, its leaders and its members, and all the organizations in the Church, to the honor and glory of the Lord and his work, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In his farewell address to the American people George Washington 

said : 

"Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest props of the duties of men and citizens. _  

"Whatever may be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in the exclusion of religious principle. 

"Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion." 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

"Simon, sou of Jonas, lovest thou me?" "Lord, thou knowest that I love thee." "Feed my lambs." 

"Jesus said to him the second time : "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me ? * * * Feed my sheep." 

This was one of the last and one of the most important injunctions that Jesus gave his apostles, following the resurrection. The Savior's charge to watch over the flock and to feed the lambs is as applicable at the present time as it was in the days of Peter. The Church of Christ must particularly accept this responsibility. 

During the few moments that I stand before you I desire to direct your attention to the work that the Church can do in this regard and at the same time co-operate in the great national movement of Child Health and Protection. 

THE LOST AND' FOUND 

In the fifteenth chapter of St. Luke there is recorded a very significant message from Christ, relative to the lost and found. That message is embraced in three remarkable parables, one the parable of the lost sheep; another, the lost coin; and a third, the prodigal son. 

In the first the straying one seems to have become lost through stupidly wandering away for the necessary things of 'life. Perhaps the wandering was prompted by just a desire to seek the necessary things of existence. 

The second, however, relates to a different kind of lost one — -one that seems to be wholly unconscious of having wandered away; and the third, to another class, one who deliberately and wilfully becomes estranged from- God. 

I am not sure that I have applied these parables properly, but certainly there are just such classes of young men and young women who wander away and become lost. There are those in the world who become so absorbed in gaining a livelihood, and so interested in the material things of life, that they lose;sight entirely of the religious ideals, the significance of which President Grant has just called to our attention, as other speakers have during this important Conference. 

Of the second class, those who are unconscious of being in the dark, there are many such — speaking of the nation at large. It is admitted that in the United States there are twenty-seven million children who, though nominally Protestant, are not receiving any religious instruction. There are eight million children, if I remember rightly, less than ten years of age, who receive absolutely no religious instruction. I think we may consistently place this large group in the second class named, — little children growing up in darkness, unconscious of the light. They are like this Easter lily before it blooms. They have an existence but are struggling out of the darkness of humanity. They may never Hoom into the sunlight of the Holy Spirit. Now, that is a tragedy. 

Of the third, we see around us every day young men who wilfully and deliberately choose the pathway of indulgence, which leads them away from the Holy Spirit, and leads them away from the testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is a great mission, the greatest in the world, to reach out after these young people, to extend a hand to the child, following Jesus' injunction to Peter to bring the lambs into Christ's fold. Indeed, there is nothing greater. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF SUCH A MISSION 

I think the President of the United States expressed the importance of such a mission most impressively when he said : 

"These questions of child health and protection are a complicated problem, requiring much learning and much action, and we need have great concern over this matter. Let no one believe that these are questions which should not stir a nation, that they are below the dignity of statesmen or government. If we could have but one generation of properly born, trained, educated, and healthy children, a thousand other problems of government would vanish. We would assure ourselves of healthier minds in more vigorous bodies, to direct the energies of our nation to yet greater heights of achievement. Moreover, one good community nurse will save a dozen future policemen." 

TWO PICTURES 

In accordance with the spirit of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, Elder Fielding K. Smith, a local artist, at a suggestion, drew two pictures which I have in my office. One is the picture of a home out of which comes a young man, a youth just entering his teens, but he doesn't follow the pathway that leads to good citizenship, through the school, the church, supervised recreation, etc. 

He wanders back and forth until he comes in contact with a roughlooking character, with his cap pulled down over his face, who entices him to the "easy way." Standing a short distance away is a policeman, ready to take the two of them into custody, and back farther in thte picture stands the prison: Over that scene is written the cost to the country of that kind of supervision, necessary, it is true. 

In the other picture another young man is coming out of the same home, walking straight along the pathway until he meets his day-school teacher, who leads him into the path of learning. He meets a Sunday School teacher, and other officers in his church. You see him in supervised play, developing into a good citizen, and over in the back ground is the school-room, the church, the playgrounds, trips to the woods, association with older people. 

THE COST 

The first is costing the United States Government today $16,000,000,000 annually. Mark O. Prentice who organized the National Crime Commission in 1925, says that when we include all the cost of crime the figures come close to $20,000,000,000. "Every year the United States loses more money in its war on crime than the $11,000,000,000 advanced to Europe during and since the war." It is stupendous. 

The cost of training the child, if we can reach him properly and in time, is less than one-fifth that amount annually, and yet the cost of punishing the criminal is centered upon only about one million of our citizens; this other, upon the other hundred and nineteen million, if we take the entire population; and the majority of the one million are at an age that averages less than twenty years. 

Here is a real challenge to America! I rejoice with you that the chief executive has accepted the challenge and determined to call the attention of the nation to the prevention of crime, rather than to its punishment. ,: 

WHAT THE CHURCH CAN DO 

Now, what can the Church do? Much. iAs I stand before you today my heart is filled with gratitude to God for having revealed this organization. When I think how easily we may reach every child within our domain, when I think that we can go to him with the assurance that we can lead him into the presence of God, if he will but live up to the principles of the Gospel, I feel a spirit of appreciation overwhelm me. Thank the Lord for his revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith! When we realize that the Church, almost in its entirety, was given before Joseph Smith was twenty-five years of age — a few other revelations came later; when we think of the utter dependence of that youth upon God for his wisdom, not having the learning of man, it seems to me we are forced to the conclusion that he received light from a higher source than any man could give him; and we know that is true. 

How may we reach these youth ? In some of the organizations of the Church every boy and girl should be enrolled. His name or her name should appear on some record, if not on several records, throughout the Church, and some teacher or some officer has the obligation of coming in contact with that individual boy or girl. 

PERSONAL INFLUENCE 

There are two ways to stem criminality. One is by united, concentrated public opinion. The other, and more effective, is by personal contact. There are many in this audience who can look back with gratitude to the visit of some kind man, somebody who put his hand on your shoulder and said : "Don't do that," or "I commend you for not doing this, my boy." Some word of commendation, some gentle hand led you back into the path that has given you the success to which you have attained. Personal influence, — we must not lose sight of it. That organization which can supply that personal influence with the least waste of effort, and with the highest degree of efficiency, is the most potent organization in the world. 

You have before you, bishops, the following means in your hands : the Priesthood, Relief Society, Sunday School, Young iMen's and Young Ladies' and Primary Associations, not to name the Church schools and seminaries. I say bishops, because the bishop is the head of these organizations, and if the bishop will accept the responsibility of formulating and of assigning the list, as I am going to outline it, there need not be a boy or girl who within two months may not have had a personal visit from an efficient officer or teacher. 

For example, we have in the Priesthood quorums of the Church approximately 10,411 officers. 

We have in the Relief Society 10,000 teachers. That excludes the ' 20,000 visiting teachers. I am naming only the others. The Sunday Schools, over 27,000. 

The Young Men and Young Ladies, combined, 25,000. The Primary, 13,500. 

Now there are some duplications in this, of course, for which we should make allowance. That makes a total of over 86,000 officers and teachers; and I haven't included the instructors in the Priesthood. These are just the officers — 86,000. If we assign to each of these but five persons, you can see at once that that army of officers and teachers could come in contact with over 430,000 men and women, boys and girls. 

SEEKING THE LOST ONE 

But many of those 430,000 need not the personal visits. The ninety and nine are safe within the fold. It js the one that is ljotet whom we should seek. 

The Chief of Police of Berkeley, who visited this city recently, 

said: 

"Our investigations reveal the fact that we have four hundred in our schools 

ELDER DAVID 0. McKAY 83 

who need personal visiting. The others are going along without much concern, but these four hundred are the potential criminals in our city." 

So we find in each group there are one or two, three or four, who need special care, special guidance. How best can we reach them? In this way : Let every teacher in the quorums, every teacher in these auxiliaries, have before him the list of these potential delinquents. Be not satisfied with the good class you have Sunday morning or Tuesday night, but feel that the work is not done until you have carefully considered that other list which you hold in your hand, in regard to which you will report to your bishop at least once a month your success in reaching those whose names are found thereon. \ 

We know you can't bring them all in. We have tried it. But you can bring some, "and if you labor all your days," says the Lord through the Prophet, "and bring, save it be one soul unto a knowledge of the truth, how great shall be your joy in the presence of your Father!" And who knows what that soul may be in that kingdom? Through loving effort you might discover some "inglorious Milton." 

"I passed a stagnant marsh that layBeneath a reeking scum of green, 

A loathsome puddle by the way, No sorrier pool was ever seen. 

I thought, how lost to all things pure, And clean and white, those foul depths be! 

Next day, from out that pond obscure Two queenly lilies laughed at me. 

"I passed a hovel, round whose door 

The signs of penury were strewn. I saw the grimed and littered floor, 

The walls of logs from tree trunks hewn. I said, 'The gates of life are shut 

To those within that wretched pen.' But lo! from out that lowly hut 

Came one to rule the world of men!" 

ACCOUNTING FOR EVERY ,QNE 

I have touched upon only one phase of this great national movement, which is one of the cardinal activities of the Church of Christ, and that is the duty of accounting for every one. God inspire us as we go from this Conference, to bring into the fold every child, every youth, and as : far as possible, every man and woman, for there isn't one who is not God's child. And when we are thus working we are carrying out the great purpose of the Almighty, the very purpose for which he established his Church on earth, namely, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. 

I bless you, my fellow workers, that you may be inspired to cooperate, not only with the officers who preside over you, not only with the President of the United States, but with the Savior, who said of old, as he says today : "Lovest thou me ? Then feed my lambs." 

God help us to follow that injunction, 1 (pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I am laying aside the remarks that I had prepared to deliver during this Conference, should I happen to be called upon, and this for special reasons that have occurred to me during the last few minutes. In the first place, I realize that this congregation has been together for a long time. It has been a strenuous day throughout, and according to the announcement of President Grant, I am to be the closing speaker of this meeting. 

It has been, to me, a glorious day. Many great and important themes have been developed. I was thrilled with the beautiful discourse of President Ivins on the subject of the resurrection, and pleased with the reassertion of our faith in that simple story that he developed chiefly from the New Testament. And in all the other addresses there has been more or less of. intensity of thought in reference to organized effort to achieve righteous ends. All through, I repeat, this has been a strenuous day in our worship.  

It seems to me that if I could get the spirit of it, it could be a fitting close to proceed in a manner that would permit us to relax a little the intensity of our intellectual effort. So I am going to proceed an a way that perhaps may have that effect. I trust it will. 

To begin with, there is no reason on earth that I know of why I should refer to the opening address of President Heber J. Grant, on the first day of our Conference, because that was a complete thing in itself as he delivered it — in the introduction of it, in the development of it, and in the closing admonitions of it. From my youth I have been delighted in the defense of the faith and of the Saints, and have made some efforts, humble ones, of course, in that direction. I was pleased beyond all expression that at this time, when falsehood had reared its head, and slanders would spread their baneful influence to hinder the progress of the Church, the Church itself was able, through its President, to make a complete and comprehensive denial and denunciation of all those things. I am sure President Grant has created for the Church, at this Conference, a permanent document that will be useful in all time to come as a standard to which we can refer in denial of false charges, now and hereafter on the points treated; because I do not suppose that the enemies of the Church will cease their efforts; and others will arise — even if these present ones were supposed to be crushed — others will arise to perpetuate their evil work. 

Yesterday afternoon, as I entered the building, you were singing that wonderful hymn of Montgomery's on "prayer" : 

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Uttered or unexpressed." 

I presume that it is inconvenient, and perhaps hardly tolerable to sing all the eight verses of this beautiful hymn, though each verse is in itself a gem; but if we may not sing all the eight verses, I have often thought that I would like to see the Church adopt the practice of singing the last verse of that hymn. If we could put that in with the others usually sung, I should be happy over it. It runs as follows : 

"0 Thou by whom we come to God, The Life, the Truth, the Way! The path of prayer Thyself hast trod; Lord, teach us how to pray." 

One of the sweetest incidents related in the New Testament is that one where the disciples gather about the Christ and say to him : "Master, John taught his disciples to pray. Teach us how to pray." And it was in answer to that petition of theirs that the Christ gave bis very wonderful instructions on prayer, and then introduced that classic of devotional exercise, the Lord's prayer; and then continued his comments upon it. He taught them how to pray, and moreover, he set them the example of prayer. 

The prayer known as the Lord's Prayer may not be the prayer that would be suitable for all occasions, although it is so comprehensive and covers such important matters. I think he intended that it should be rather a sample of prayer, in simplicity, in brevity, in spirit, and you will note perhaps that it was a universal prayer. It was not a strictly Christian prayer, in that it was not offered in the name of Christ, but was an address unto the "All Father," and has become a universal prayer, given to the world through which every cult, sect or division of religion could express its attitude towards God. It is valuable chiefly for the very universal spirit that is in it. 

But I call your attention to this great request, "Lord, teach us how to pray." I want to call your attention to the fact that this New Dispensation has not been left without instruction on that subject. You will find in the history of the Prophet Joseph Smith a rather singular declaration. Speaking in the early part of October, 1831, the Prophet Joseph said: "I received the following prayer, given through revelation." But it is more than a revelation to be called a prayer. It is in reality a revelation on prayer, and that is quite another matter. , Very little has ever been said of it. It just seemed to drop out of the clear is)ky, into the record of the Prophet: but as I said, it is not only a revelation called a prayer, but it is a revelation on prayer, in that the Lord outlines for us the things, I think, he would have us hold nearest to our hearts and comprehend in our deep and earnest desires concerning the work of God in the earth. 

Because it has been so infrequently referred to and used by the Church, I thought that we could now just relax our tense nerves, and could close this meeting, on the accepted anniversary of the resurrection of the Christ, by the reading of this wonderful prayer, and go hence, influenced with the spirit which I am sure it will leave; and let us indulge in the feeling of divine worship while we consider the beauty and grandeur, and express the desires that are given through revelation to this New Dispensation Church on the great theme that God would have our minds dwell upon. During my short experience in the army I learned to appreciate the psychology of standing at attention before the officers of the army. -There was a wonderful spirit that went with that custom of the army, and it tended much to improve the corps d' esprit of the companies and of the battalions and regiments and divisions into which the army was divided. 

Now, what I am going to suggest is that in our spirits, at least, we here assembled draw our minds to attention to these great things that God revealed, through his prophet, to the Church. I read : 

"Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one sent down from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men." (The foregoing, of course, has reference to the Christ.) "Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. 

"The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth. ( 

"Yea, a voice crying — Prepare ye the way 'of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the Bridegroom." 

Here the scene shifts, and this revelation on prayer becomes a commandment to pray: 

"Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people. 

"Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet 'the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth. 

"Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen." 

So pray we, in thy words given to thy Church through the revelation of thy servant Joseph on prayer, and ask thee, O God, to accept these divine expressions concerning the going forth of the kingdom of God on the earth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, and the two be joined, to the glory of God and the salvation of the world. We so pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

As a closing number the Choir sang the anthem, "The Lord Now Victorious." , 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Jesse W. Richins, President of the Twin Falls Stake. 


