Afternoon
07 10 1938

The second session of the Conference convened promptly at two o'clock p. m., with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The musical exercises for this session of the Conference were furnished by the Woodruff Stake Choir, under the direction of Elder John Nielson. The Choir sang as an opening number "The Song of the Redeemed." 

Elder Spencer Kimball, President of the Mt. Graham Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang "In Our Redeemer's Name (Stephens). 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I feel that I would like to bear my testimony to this congregation of Latter-day Saints. It seems to me that it is our duty, if we have a testimony of the Gospel, to bear that testimony, not only occasionally, but frequently, and if we fail to do this we are "hiding our light under a bushel." 

A testimony of the Gospel is very precious. There are millions of people, children of God, on this planet that have no such testimony, and that perhaps have never heard a testimony such as we have, and such as many of our children have received. 

JOSEPH AND HYEUM SMITH 

I have been laboring fifty years in the ministry. I did not know the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum, but I am acquainted with the stupendous work that they accomplished under divine help, and to me that is a testimony of the truth of the Gospel, because I do not think it is humanly possible for any individual to accomplish the work that Joseph Smith, the Prophet, accomplished without divine help, and I feel as if I know the Prophet and his brother Hyrum about as well as if I had lived in Nauvoo at the time of their martyrdom. 

BRIGHAM YOUNG A PROPHET 

I was acquainted with President Brigham Young. I rode with him by invitation on a trip through Southern Utah and felt that it was a great distinction to ride with the prophet of God. I was deeply impressed with the importance of myself on that occasion. 

He was a great man; he was a leader of men; he was a pioneer, but above all he was a prophet of God, a servant of the Almighty, and I am happy to say that I knew him fairly well, and knew of his work and of his life, and that is a testimony to me. 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 FIVE OTHER GREAT LEADERS 

I was acquainted with President John Taylor who is designated as a champion of the truth. He was a valiant man, an able president, a man of great firmness of purpose, and who exerted an influence for good throughout the Church and throughout the world. 

President Woodruff won great distinction in the mission field. He was certainly an energetic man and a successful missionary. He found the field white and ready for harvest, and brought many, many souls into the Church, both in the east and in the west, as also in Great Britain. He was a humble man, but that rather added distinction to his greatness. I always admired President Woodruff. His life was a testimony to me. 

President Lorenzo Snow, under the inspiration of the Almighty, brought the Church out of financial difficulties and stress. He was a cultured man; he was a wise counselor, a great leader and prophet. To me his life and labors are a testimony of the truth of the Gospel. 

We are all acquainted with the life of President Joseph F. Smith, a man of great strength of character, a man who stood firm and steadfast to the truth. He advocated powerfully the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Though dead he lives in his testimony and his writings. He was much beloved of the Latter-day Saints, and I loved him. 

And now we come to our living prophet and leader, President Heber J. Grant. You are as familiar with his life and testimony as I am. He is a very active man and has already accomplished a great work. 

EXPERIENCES IN THE MINISTRY 

In my ministry during the past thirty-nine years I have traveled 601,000 miles preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ and bearing testimony of its restoration to earth. I speak of this modestly because my experience is simply the experience of the Twelve. They are all just as active, perhaps more so, than I have been. They may not have noted it down, but it is so recorded in their behalf. 

Now, you see, my brethren and sisters, by my experience, that the Twelve are a traveling high council. They are so designated in a revelation given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet. They are constantly upon the road, so to speak, and are contacting presidents of stakes and counselors, high councilors, bishoprics of wards and other prominent officials in the various Stakes of Zion and throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. They are contacting to some extent the missions on the isles of the sea, and also have contacted to a greater extent the European missions. That is our life's job, that is the responsibility that is upon us. In addition to all this we have many home duties and many meetings at headquarters. Well, I pause to say we have time to eat a little and sleep a little and then we are on the go again. 

My experience among the members of the Church and the officials in the Stakes of Zion has been very happy and my testimony of the 

Gospel has been strengthened by having made these contacts and by observing the good works and faith of the Latter-day Saints. 

TESTIMONY OF THE HOLY GHOST 

Now, brethren and sisters, the greatest testimony that has come to me in all my life time is the testimony of the Holy Ghost, the gift I received at the time of my baptism. That will be an unfailing testimony as long as I am faithful in magnifying my calling and in keeping the commandments of God. I will have that testimony in my very soul, and it is my solemn duty to bear it before the saints of God and before the people of the world. 

There may be some young people among us who haven't got the testimony that I speak of. They may say, "I do not know the Gospel is true, but I believe it is true." That is a good testimony. It is a fine thing if they believe it. There are hundreds and thousands and millions of people who do not believe it. So if our children believe it is true we surely should be thankful for that, and if they will hold on to their belief and cultivate the Spirit of the Lord in their hearts the testimony will come later. With some young people in the Church and perhaps with some older ones too, they know the Gospel is true, but they do not know that they know it. They have not yet made the discovery, but they feel it in their hearts. They are almost afraid to testify to that effect, but let them cling to their belief and be faithful, and the Lord will give them a testimony. 

Now, I would like to say in conclusion, that what I am and what I may have accomplished in the world is what the Gospel has done for me, and what you are and what you have accomplished the Gospel has done for you. What is the Gospel of Jesus Christ ? It is the power of God unto salvation, and if we persist in that testimony and magnify that power in our callings it will be our salvation. Much more might be said upon this subject of salvation. To obtain salvation in the presence of God is the very aim of our life in mortality. By that I mean we shall triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet and reign with the Lord Jesus Christ. That is an end much to be desired; that is a consummation that can be accomplished and will be accomplished by the Latter-day Saints. 

CONTACT WITH THE ADVERSARY 

The Lord bless you. I might add a word or two respecting my testimony which has been greatly strengthened by some personal experiences. I have contacted the enemy, I have met the adversary under peculiar circumstances. I realize that he is a very shrewd fellow. He is seeking our destruction. I have met him when he was operating through the spirit of mobocracy, and have been placed in some rather uncertain and dangerous situations. I was, however, preserved and delivered from the power of the evil one, and I attribute this to the mercy of God. I have come to the conclusion that, in life or in death, 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 7 First Dag 

I must cleave to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in order to be saved, and I'm sure that is the conclusion of every faithful Latter-day Saint. "What doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world and in the end lose his own immortal soul ?" 

So the Gospel should be everything to us. It is most precious indeed. I humbly pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will continue to bless me and qualify me for the work that he wishes me to do, and I humbly pray that the Spirit of the Lord will rest upon each one, that you will strive to do His will, that in the end you may have this precious gift of salvation, because, as the Lord says, "there is no greater gift" 

May the Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters : It is my privilege in standing before you to present a very old doctrine and one that has come down through the ages, but one that has not been very well observed and is not being observed today. To fortify my position I am going to present my authority. 

THE COMMAND TO REMEMBER THE SABBATH DAY 

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work. 

But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates : 

For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it. 

That is the law, a law that was pronounced by Moses, but it is much older, it was in existence from the beginning of the earth. 

THE LAND TO OBSERVE THE SABBATH 

Again, the Sabbath for the land was to be observed as well as for man, and also for the beasts. You will find that recorded in the 25th chapter of Leviticus. 

Again, failure to observe this law would bring suffering, the people would be scattered, and the land would then observe its Sabbath. You will find that in Leviticus 26th chapter. 

The Lord says : And I will scatter you among the heathen, and will draw out a sword after you; and your land shall be desolate, and your cities waste. 

Then shall the land enjoy her sabbaths, as long as it lieth desolate, and ye be in your enemies' land; even then shall the land rest, and enjoy her sabbaths. 

As long as it lieth desolate it shall rest : because it did not rest in your sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it. (Leviticus 26.) 

Thus saith the Lord, keep ye judgment, and do justice; for my salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed. 

Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man that layeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing any evil. (Isaiah, 56:1-2.) 

If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honorable; and shalt honor him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words : 

Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. (Isaiah, 58:13-14.) 

Thus saith the Lord : take heed to yourselves, and bear no burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem; 

Neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath day, neither do ye any work, but hallow ye the sabbath day, as I commanded your fathers. 

But they obeyed not, neither inclined their ear, but made their neck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction. 

* * * * 

But if ye will not hearken unto me to hallow the sabbath day, and not to bear a burden, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalem on the sabbath day; than will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched. (Jeremiah, 17:21-27.) 

Thus saith the Lord God : In the day when I chose Israel, and lifted up mine hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, and made myself known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up mine hand unto them, saying, I am the Lord your God; 

In that day that I lifted up mine hand unto them, to bring them forth of the land of Egypt into a land that I had espied for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands; 

Then said I unto them, Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes, and defile not yourselves with the idols of Egypt : I am the Lord your God. 

But they rebelled against me, and would not hearken unto me; they did not every man cast away the abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt; then I said, I will pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. 

But I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be polluted before the heathen, among whom they were, in whose sight I made myself known unto them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt. 

Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness. 

And I gave them my statutes, and showed them my judgments, which if a man do, he shall even live in them. 

Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sisn between me and them, that they may know that I am the Lord that sanctify them. (Ezekiel, 20:5-12.) 

38 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 7 I have a good many more passages of scripture here, but I am not going to take time to read more from the Bible, for this will suffice. 

THE COUNSEL OF LATTER-DAY LEADERS 

On the 25th day of July, 1847, the day after the pioneers entered this valley, it being the Sabbath day a meeting was held, President Brigham Young spoke to the assembly as follows: 

He told the brethren that they must not work on Sunday; that they would lose five times as much as they would gain by it. None were to hunt on that day; and there should not any man dwell among us who would not observe these rules. They might go and dwell where they pleased, but should not dwell with us. 

The same day President Heber C. Kimball, first counselor in the Presidency said : 

I advise you to keep the sabbath day holy, whether others do or not. If you wish to go hunting or to see the country, seek a week day for that purpose. Do not let us get giddy and light-minded, as the Nephites did of old, but strive to work righteousness in the beginning. 

And on other occasions these brethren spoke on this subject. Again from President Brigham Young, this time at a conference of the Church, April 7, 1850: 

There is not the first man who has gained by laboring on the sabbath day; necessity does not drive a man to do it, no such thing, but it is their own dispositions, and the spirit that is in them. There is no more necessity to go to the canyons or to hunt your cattle on the sabbath day, you might as well plow. But some feel that they cannot spare the time on a week day. We have tried it in traveling since we left Nauvoo, and not one time having traveled on that day have we gained by it, but we have lost a day or two the next week to pay for it. What is the harm? It proves that we treat lightly the rules of the God of Nature — the God we serve. The God that organized the elements knows that we can endure. He said to man, When you have labored six days, rest one. To refresh your bodies; let your horses and cattle rest; your men and women, let them rest * * * Now you gain nothing by transforming the ordinances of nature to your own desires. Let them all rest, and when the earth has brought forth six years let it rest the seventh. You will not make anything by transgressing any rule of the God of nature. 

Much has been said by the brethren in the day in which we live. I have a quotation here from President Joseph F. Smith that I want to read to you, mainly because it has never been put in print. I copied it from a letter that he wrote to one of his daughters who was out in the mission field : 

All things should be done with prudence and in moderation — [and then he quotes from the book of Exodus, and comments, as follows] : This is the command. It is binding upon all. There are sound religious reasons for it and physiological reasons not less sound. Indeed it is a physiological as well as a divine law. Those who heed it will reap the reward of obedi to divine law, and enjoy the benefits of the physical law. It is not less needful to the human being than sleep — although not so speedily felt. No one can live without sleep, neither can anyone survive long without rest. The result of sleep is no more potential to prologation of life than the sabbath rest, although we may survive longer without the latter than the former, speaking from a physical point of view. From a spiritual point of view the wilful violation of the law of sabbath rest is as deadly to moral growth and faith, as is the sleepless eye to the mortal being. But the great point is, God has said it! and not for his own but for man's well being; he therefore should obey. If he does not he will have to abide the consequences both temporal and spiritual to himself. 

Again : 

For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the most high. (Doctrine and Covenants 59:10.) 

We learn to do by doing. Never can we learn to do by not doing. One who closely shuts his eyes, is more blind than those who are blind indeed. The things of God are discovered by the Spirit of God, not by the spirit of man or of the world. Those who seek shall find, and to those who knock at the door it shall be opened, and those who ask shall receive, and not otherwise. He that has the spirit discerns by the spirit and loves the works of the spirit, for they give delight and joy. Who gives himself to good works finds beauty and reward in them; and he who sows to the wind will reap the whirlwind. Not now, perhaps, for that which we sow must first take root, then spring forth and leaf and then bear fruit. The fruit will be after the kind of it sown seed. We learn a principle by coming in close contact with and studying it, and admitting it into our minds and hearts. There is no house that was not built, no tree that did not grow, no knowledge that was not or is not acquired. But truth is eternal — it was not created or made, it is as a precious gem. It lies hidden from us and we must find it, and apply it, and make it ours. 

To those who love human pleasures and pursue them, the duties of life, the essential parts of life, are irksome, dry, pleasureless, seemingly valueless. But their pleasures will fade away, and their joys will perish and leave them but the ashes of their treasure, with hopeless regrets. "Honor the sabbath day and keep it holy," and you will know more about it. 

This letter was written May 10, 1897. 

At the October General Conference in 1912, President Smith said : 

"Thou shalt honor the sabbath day and keep it holy." Do we do it? Is it necessary to do it? It is absolutely necessary to do so in order that we may be in harmony with God's law and commandments, and whenever we transgress that law or that commandment we are guilty of transgressing the law of God. And what will be the result if we continue? Our children will follow in our footsteps, they will dishonor the command of God to keep one day holy in seven, and will lose the spirit of obedience to the laws of God and his requirements, just as the father will lose it if he continues to violate the commandments. 

PRESENT DAY CUSTOMS DECRIED 

Now, I am going to be bold enough to say something. In the Monday newspaper I found this : 

The fifty-eighth annual exhibit of the Utah State Fair association — popularly known as the state fair — proved a magnet Sunday to draw thousands of visitors and home folks to the exposition grounds. First Dan 

Apparently anxious to get a close-up of the production picture presented in the thousands of exhibits displayed in the score of fair departments, men, women, and children kept the turnstiles clicking from early morning until late at night. The stream of visitors from 3 p. m. to early evening indicated a close-to-record Sunday crowd. 

That was the Sabbath day. Judges of horses, cattle, sheep and swine predicted that it would require additional days in which to pick the winners, and so on. 

In that same issue the same day another report said : 

Stunt and exhibition flying, accompanied by educational explanations, Sunday, graphically demonstrated progress in air transportation to a crowd of 10,000 assembled at Salt Lake City's municipal airport. 

The program, including a talk by Governor Henry H. Blood, marked the opening day ceremonies locally of National Air Travel week and set in motion a daily round of events calling attention to speed and safety of plane travel. 

Particularly attracting attention of the huge crowd were the antics of three United Air Lines army birdmen, who put their ships through rolls, loops, and dives and brought gasps from watchers. 

Now, this is not the only evil; there are many others, but time will not permit me to speak of them. Brethren and sisters, where are we going? I think it is a disgrace to the State of Utah, the home of the Latter-day Saints, the home of Brigham Young, who gave the counsel the day after we came into this valley that we should observe the Sabbath day, and now today the authorities in State and city and village everywhere throw the doors open for the violation of the word of God. How many of us were guilty of being there ? We have got to repent and turn from this evil lest the same troubles come upon us that came upon old Israel, as I have read them to you. 

Time will not permit me to say more. May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to stand before you this afternoon in the semi-annual conference, and to add my testimony to those to which you have already listened. 

I want to tell you that I miss some familiar faces, especially the face of President J. Golden Kimball whom we had with us so long. We were told this morning that he had passed away. We shall miss him in our Council for a long, long time, I am sure, because his counsel was wise and good, and we had learned to love him. We wish also to welcome a new member into our quorum whom you voted this morning to support. I assure him that he will have our love and confidence and that we expect to be able to work together in peace and harmony in the furtherance of the work of God. 

I am glad that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Latter-day Saints. I am glad that this Church was established by our Lord and Master. We are told in the third Article of Faith: 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

Some of our mission presidents, in reporting their Missions in the temple the other day, said that in their districts there are some people who refuse to take their literature and read it because they say they are already saved, and they have no more to do. They are sure that they are saved and will be glorified in the presence of God. I suppose that gives them some comfort, but really I am rather glad that I do not have that assurance. I think it would be rather a bad influence in my life if I could sit supinely by and feel that I am saved. 

I remember one time that on a trip my wife and I made between San Francisco and Honolulu a certain minister in conducting Sunday services on the boat told us how sorry he felt for his friends when he got back from divinity school to realize that they were not saved, and how glad he was that he was saved. 

Now the atonement of Christ has done a wonderful thing for us because it has opened the door to salvation. Through that atonement a certain debt and obligation was paid and the door was opened, Christ himself being the first man to go through, and giving us all the privilege of following. Now, the door is not a widely opened door, in a certain sense, and in another sense it is wide open, because every man and woman of us should be able to pass through that door, and then if we do certain things and live in a certain way we shall be able to go on far past that door to an exaltation in the presence of God. 

Salvation has more than one meaning to me. It is general in the sense that all of us will be raised from the dead and be judged by our Heavenly Father. Exaltation means more than that; it means that if we live as we should, in harmony with the teachings of the Gospel, we shall not only be resurrected, but we shall be resurrected to the privilege of exaltation in the presence of God. 

The other day I had occasion to look into this third Article of Faith just a little, and was very much interested in what I found. In the first place I find that the word "atonement" which is the crucial word in that Article, only occurs once in the New Testament, that while the life of Jesus Christ was devoted to that especial purpose, those who labored with him did not quite understand it in its fullest meaning, at any rate they did not talk a great deal about it, or if they did the translators of the Bible did not see fit to translate his remarks into the word "atonement." That word, however, occurs many times in the Old Testament. I found it in forty-seven different places where it was translated into Spanish. I have found also, of the places where it occurs in the Old Testament, twenty-three had been translated into Spanish by the word "reconciliation"; twenty-two by the word "expiation"; one by the words "to cleanse"; and one "to appease." 

Now they have a very interesting significance to me, that while God did expiate the sin of Adam, and gave us access to the presence of God, 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

there is a sense of reconciliation in that; he opened up the way for us to reconcile our lives to Him and to his service. I like that word reconciliation very much because that depends very much upon us and the things we do. 

I find that in the New Testament the men who testified of Jesus Christ and his mission did use the word "reconciliation" a good many times, and some of the very finest of the references there to the life of Christ are to the effect that he did reconcile us to God, he gave us that wonderful opportunity. I wonder, then, if the atonement of Jesus Christ does not depend for its efficacy very largely upon our own actions, our own lives. 

I remember one time in the Mexican Mission that a certain very excellent brother who pretended to some rather intimate and inside knowledge of the workings of the Church because he had been baptized here in Salt Lake City and had lived some time under the droppings of the sanctuary, insisted that we are saved by the grace of God, and that alone. I had occasion to look into the scriptures and search out a few instances where they insist that we are judged according to our works, and I found three or four long pages of closely type-written quotations, which I submitted to him, all stating that man is to be judged according to his works. 

Now, if we insist on limiting salvation to the word resurrection, then we must all admit that by the grace of God we are saved, and it is also true that it was a very gracious act on the part of Jesus Christ to give us the privilege of working out through good deeds an exaltation in the presence of God. And if we limit it to those two senses, then by the grace of Jesus Christ alone, we are saved; but I have never felt like limiting it to that significance alone. I feel that salvation moves over into the realm of exaltation, and that before a man is completely saved he must be exalted in the presence of God, and to be exalted his deeds must justify that exaltation. 

Then, brethren and sisters, am I not justified in assuming that the atonement of Christ for its efficacy depends somewhat at least upon us here, and that we are able through good deeds to make that full and complete, or through bad deeds to make it fail in its ultimate purpose. I believe it, and that is the testimony that I would like to leave with you this afternoon, that what we realize out of the Gospel of Jesus Christ depends upon us very largely, and that if we insist on saying that we do not gain salvation for ourselves we must grant that our exaltation does depend very largely upon our acts. We cannot expect to attain the highest glory if we go through this life in petty bickerings, in jealousy, and selfish acts. Love is the genius of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and love and jealousy are hardly bedfellows. We must, before we can love our neighbors, take them into our confidence, eradicate from our souls the jealousy that we may feel towards them. If we are jealous of our neighbor and of his success, how can we fully love him, and vice versa ? If we love our neighbor as we should how can we be jealous of his success, and if we love him we will not be too jealous of our own pre, and our own relationship with him. We will be willing to grant to that friend and that neighbor a part of the privilege that is ours, if by doing so we can benefit him and bless him and carry him on to a more perfect state of service. 

That to me is the greatest principle in the Gospel — the love of one for another. The love that Jesus Christ had for us impelled him to come to earth to go through the trials and the troubles of mortality, to lay down his life, and walk through the door of the resurrection into eternal life, holding ajar for us that door, that if we love him and if we keep his commandments we may follow through after him into eternal life and exaltation in the presence of God. And that this may be our happy lot, is the prayer I ask for all of us, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Grant Us Peace" (Stephens). 

ELDER CARL F. EYRING 

President of the New England Mission 

My beloved brethren and sisters : Once more I am back to General Conference as a mission president. Once more I feel the grandeur of your presence. Our congregations in the mission field are small, and to come here where crowds throng into this spacious building makes me feel that I have truly come from the outer fringe to the very center of Mormonism. 

More than you may realize, we of the missions look to you for our standards and patterns. As we come home we find you zealous for the cause of righteousness. We find you struggling with your might against forces which debase the young and old. We find the various organizations within the Church alert to their duties and responsibilities. We rejoice that your religious life is so dynamic and real. 

But we are interested in the stakes of Zion not only because we belong to the same great organization, but because these stakes are the nurseries in which our missionaries are reared. You furnish us missionaries who have been reared in true Latter-day Saint homes, who have been active in all the classes in the Sunday School from the cradle roll to the missionary training department, who have moved steadily through the Primary and Mutual organizations from the beginners in Primary to the M Men and Gleaner Girls in the Mutual Improvement Associations; who, through their mothers, have had a real contact with the Relief Societies; who have faithfully attended sacrament meetings; who have studied in Seminaries, Institutes and Church schools; who have had teaching experiences in Sunday Schools, Primaries, and Mutual Improvement Associations, and finally you send us missionaries who have a love of humanity in their hearts, and a real desire to give of their talents in service. When you do this, you send trained missionaries, missionaries with the type of training most needed in the mission field. Friday. October 7 First Dtg 

To your training we add the laboratory for missionary service and additional help in the Mission Home and the mission field. But we cannot do our best without the years of background which you furnish — you the parents, you the ward and stake officers. 

As parents and officers in the Church do we fully sense the power of our system of religious education, the unique religious environment in which our children may grow up? Many students, the world over, recognize the uniqueness and strength of this phase of our Church. Let us truly appreciate the value of our ward and stake units as instruments for religious training. 

The restored Gospel is more than a set of theological doctrines, printed with patches of lifeless printer's ink in some gilt-edged book. The Gospel becomes enlivened only when its principles operate in human living, and then not completely animated till these principles operate in the life of a community. Too often we forget the community aspect of religion, and overlook the difficulty of putting dynamics into the restored Gospel without the Mormon community life. Mission presidents soon sense the difference between wards in the stakes and tiny branches in the missions. The difference is not one of doctrine, nor lack of faithfulness in the living of the principles of the Gospel, but the Mormon community life is absent, the religious education program of a completely organized stake is missing. 

In the early days of the Church we gathered the converts to Zion, and here we built the world-famous Mormon community. With forty per cent of the membership of the New England Mission scattered as isolated families, we sense the need of a Church-wide gathering suitable for this day, a sort of nucleation which centers throughout the world. 

In Section 29 of the Doctrine and Covenants we read: "And ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine elect; for mine elect hear my voice and harden not their hearts; wherefore the decree has gone forth from the Father and they shall be gathered into one place on the face of this land, to prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked." 

I am pleased to report that your sons and daughters, the missionaries of the New England Mission, are safe and well. With very few exceptions the members of our Church passed through the hurricane and floods of New England without loss. For all this we are indeed grateful to our Father in Heaven, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER FRANK EVANS 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

I am much pleased to be here again after another very busy six months period — and it has been indeed a busy period. I know that every mission president can testify to that, so far as his work is concerned. So could all others who are engaged in promulgating this Gospel, for there  such need in this day for what the Church has to offer that those who are carrying the responsibility of this message find plenty to do. However, an observation of George Klingle reminds us that, 

God broke our years to hours and days, That hour by hour and day by day, Just going on a little way, We might be able all along to keep quite strong. 

Should all the weight of life Be laid across our shoulders, and the future rife With woe and struggle, meet us face to face At just one place, We could not go; Our feet would stop; and so God lays a little on us every day, And never, I believe, on all the way 

Will burdens bear so deep Or pathways lie so threatening and so steep But we can go, if by God's power We only bear the burden of the hour. 

We have had in our mission some very interesting experiences of late, some of which I would wish might be known by the strong and valiant men who have gone before us. We are endeavoring to teach the same things they taught even a century ago, (for our mission is more than a hundred years old) but their teachings are being differently received today. Truths that our predecessors offered were rejected and ridiculed, and for their offerings they were persecuted. The same truths are today being received with favor. That is not to say that more converts are being made, for not all are interested as yet in the spiritual phase of our message, but they are interested in us and in the fruits of our doctrines. Principles do not change. We shall continue to teach these century-old doctrines. Our health standards are the same as those given to the world when the Word of Wisdom first came forth. The Book of Mormon has not changed. In the early days it was accepted on faith. Today it is read and praised even by those not of the Faith. Often times this praise comes from the distinguished and the learned. A short time ago a man who is well known throughout this nation and abroad, speaking not from our standpoint but addressing himself to the subject, "Books of the 19th Century," said in part that, 

Of all the religious books of the nineteenth century it seems probable that the Book of Mormon was the most powerful. 

The Doctrine and Covenants is the same as of old. Our interpretations of the Bible, I imagine, are the same as those learned and taught by our grandfathers in the School of the Prophets. We are taught the same principles of thrift as of old, that thrift is not mercenary, that although it has to do with material things, it has a moral and even a spiritual aspect. 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

We have always been taught this doctrine which involves prudent giving and judicious spending as well as intelligent saving. It is the wise application of resources, whether they be energy or talents, or material means; it is the antithesis of waste. We have always been taught that it is evil to commit waste. 

Our social standards are very much the same as when the Articles of Faith were first published to the world, and we are practicing those principles which are expressed in that remarkable Thirteenth Article of Faith. Only a short time ago a man whose opinion carries much weight in his own community (in the city of New York) said to me: "I have been contacting your Elders for many, many years," and he turned to his card index and pointed out the names of many whom he had seen and talked with, particularly upon business matters, and said : "In all those interviews I have not heard one word, nor have I seen a single act that was not in accordance with the highest standards of ethics and good morals." And what interested me more was his statement that "There is something behind it all." 

"Yes," I said, "there is something behind it. Men do not gather grapes of thorns nor figs of thistles. A good tree bringeth forth good fruit, it cannot bring forth evil fruit. An institution which has made history may be approached by the investigator to determine upon its validity from two sources, first, by an examination of its fundamental principles. That is the approach that our fathers had to make. It is the spiritual approach, if you please. It is the approach which requires faith. We may all be thankful that they made that approach. If they had not, there would have been no Church history. The other approach is to examine into its achievements, to determine what it has done. Many people are doing that today. As to how many of them go farther than that remains to be seen." But this we do know, that the Church is being accepted as never before. We have seen the period of birth, of youth and of maturity. We have seen the period of resistance and persecution. I sometimes wonder if we are not now approaching a period which may sometime be known as a period of expansion. 

We are thankful that some, even though they may be humble, even though they may be unlearned, some still have the faith to appreciate the first principles, to approach this great body of truth from the first viewpoint, that of faith in its divine origin. You know when the disciples said to Thomas, "We have seen the Lord," he wanted a physical demonstration of the fact, he would not believe it, and he said, "Except I shall see in his hands the prints of the nails and put my finger into the print of the nails and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe." He was making his approach from the second standpoint. Later, when the Lord appeared again and said, "Thomas, reach hither thy finger and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side and be not faithless, but believing," Thomas answered, "My Lord and my God." Then Jesus said unto him, "Thomas, because thou hast seen me thou hast believed, blessed are they who have not seen yet have believed." 

My brethren and sisters, I believe we feel the responsibility of the message which we are endeavoring to carry to the world. I appreciate those of your sons and daughters who are in my care for a time. I praise them for their sincerity, for their energy, for their obedience, and I bring this message to you, that they are doing well and that we are making progress. 

I pray that we may be able to uphold the high standard of those valiant men who have gone before us, who never compromised, and who knew no surrender or defeat. This I do, in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, in standing before you today. I am grateful for my membership in this Church; I am grateful for the opportunities of service which I have enjoyed. I am grateful for a testimony, and that there never comes into my mind the shadow of a doubt as to the divinity of this work, and that the Spirit of God is directing its destiny. 

A MARVELOUS WORK 

When this work was first instituted the Lord had in mind the achievement of great things. The prophets had seen and foretold them many, many years before, and when the Prophet Joseph was called in his youth, the Lord made a great assignment unto him, and he was told : "Now, behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." On the first visitation of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph he quoted many passages of scripture, among others the eleventh chapter of Isaiah where Isaiah said : "And he shall set up an ensign for the nations and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth." And Joseph was told that this day was at hand. 

Two years after the Church was organized in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph, the Lord said : 

For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments. 

THE POWER OF GOD MANIFEST 

The Lord, as I have said, had a great work to accomplish, and he proceeded to set up an organization to accomplish that work, and it has been my experience and my observation, because I have been privileged to work in all the organizations of the Church, in the mission field, and in the wards and stakes of Zion, that those who are on the inside and know 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 7 First Dag 

what is actually being accomplished know that the power of God is in the organization and direction of this Church. 

This morning we voted to sustain the Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve and the acting Presiding Patriarch as prophets, seers and revelators, and I want to bear testimony to you today that they are that, so far as my faith is concerned. The evidence of divinity in this work is in the accomplishments of the Church, that which is being done by the organizations the Lord has set in the Church to bring about the things which he had in mind, and when we analyze this inspired organization it would not be consistent to attribute to mortal man that which has been brought forth for the achievement of these things. 

When we think of the general organization — the General Authorities, the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Seventies, the Presiding Bishopric — when we think of all the auxiliary boards, and follow the same organization through in the stakes with the stake presidencies and high councils, a similar organization, and then into the wards, with the bishoprics and their helps in government, the auxiliary organizations, and then when we think of the work that is being accomplished by these organizations, we must admit that the power of God is in it. It is not an uncommon thing for people who come into our midst to tell us that our Sunday Schools are superior, that our Relief Society excels other such organizations. It is not an uncommon thing for people to comment on the work of our Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations and recognize in their achievements, the leadership of youth, the like of which cannot be found elsewhere in the world. 

A CHURCH FOR THE YOUTH 

A short time before I left Los Angeles a prominent minister of that city, in delivering a radio address, said : "What we need today is a church for the youth of the land. We have been preaching to the old folks and letting the children go to the devil. That is why our churches are empty today" (and, incidentally, there are some twenty thousand empty churches in the United States today.) 

I could not help but thank God that we have a church that has a program for the youth of the land. We entertained in our beautiful tabernacle in Los Angeles, the Deseret Club from the U. C. L. A., and Mr. Evans, the man who was in charge of all the religious clubs on the campus was there, and while some several hundred couples were engaged in the dance he turned to me and said: "Mr. Richards, I wish the other churches of Los Angeles could see what I can see here tonight." 

Then following these auxiliary organizations we have the great organization of the Priesthood quorums, and I shall not take time to name them, but from the time a boy is twelve years of age right through until men are laid away in the grave they share with God divine authority, the right to officiate in his name, the right to speak for him, the right to direct as officers in the Church. 

I was greatly impressed by a statement made by one of my boys when he was twelve years of age. He came to me one day and said : "Daddy, I have more authority than the President of the United States, haven't I?" 

I said : "You surely have. The President of the United States receives his authority from the people, and when his term of office ends his authority is gone, but the authority you have is from God, and if you live properly you will enjoy it forever and ever." 

OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL 

What a glorious thing when one understands the great organization of this Church, to know that instead of a community of a thousand people in which one man is selected to do all of God's work, every boy and every man who is willing to bear responsibility is given the opportunity if he will only live for it. 

I have come to believe that only those who bear the burdens of the Church, those who labor in the Church, know how to appreciate it, and know of its worth and its value. 

ACHIEVEMENTS THROUGH GOSPEL'S RESTORATION 

Then we have other great achievements that have come to us from the restoration of the Gospel — the Book of Mormon, to which Brother Evans has referred; the Word of Wisdom; the law of tithing; the law of Fast offerings. Nowhere in all the world can you go and find an institution so marvelously sustained as this Church in financial and other ways. 

I attended a service in Atlanta, Georgia, where a minister of the Gospel was attempting to introduce the law of tithing, and after the service I was introduced to him by a member of his congregation, and I said to him : "I would like to bear testimony to you that you are on the right road, but instead of asking your people to pay tithing for ten months, why don't you ask them to pay their entire lifetime ?" 

He said : "Oh, Mr. Richards, we cannot go that far yet." And he probably could not in a man-made institution. But when you are in an organization that has been fashioned by God the" Eternal Father, there is life, there is power in it, just like there is life in the human body. 

POWER OF REVELATION CONTINUES 

Some among us today say that there is no more revelation in the Church, that all revelations came in the beginning. It may be true that the major revelations that were to be written to be a guide to this people and to this Church came in the days of the Prophet Joseph. If you go into the orchard and plant a tree, the planting of the tree may be more demonstrative than gathering the fruit, but as long as that tree remains alive it yields its harvest, year after year, without replanting. When God organized this great Church and put his power in it, the power of the Holy Priesthood and the power of the Holy Ghost by which we might 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Dag 

know the truth of all things and by which he makes manifest unto his servants all things, things which were, things which are, and things which are to come, it was not necessary that he should continue to reveal himself from heaven. The program had been revealed and a living organization established for its accomplishment. 

I want to bear testimony to you today that the power of revelation is with this Church, that these men whom we voted this morning to sustain as prophets, seers and revelators, are prophets, seers and revelators. If there is one thing I know as well as I know that I live, it is that God, the eternal Father, has sustained me and blessed me with power of leadership far beyond my ability, in the positions of presidency I have held in this Church. I know it so well that I would not assume to undertake the responsibilities that are mine at present if I did not know that the spirit of revelation and inspiration and divine guidance were in this Church. 

ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF WELFARE PROGRAM 

I have only mentioned a few of the things that the Church has accomplished. Since our appointment as the Presiding Bishopric six months ago yesterday, we have had the privilege of meeting the executive officers of eighty of the stakes of Zion. We have met in a regional capacity and in these meetings we have had the executive officers, the presidents of stakes, their counselors, the high councils, the bishoprics of wards, and the men upon whom the responsibility of the leadership of this Church rests, and we have felt impressed by their power. In a few instances we have felt that there was a lack of understanding, we have felt that some of our leaders were on the outside and had not a full grasp of the importance of their work. These meetings have been held particularly in the interest of our Welfare Program, and I want to bear testimony to you today that it is my conviction that this Welfare movement that has been introduced by the leaders of this Church is one of the great undertakings of the Church, and the further we get into it and the clearer our vision becomes the more important we will realize this to be. It will do more than feed the hungry and clothe the naked. It is bringing together in a common cause the hearts of men and women so that should the time come that shall be darker than we have yet known they will know how to stand shoulder to shoulder. We have heard some fine reports, we have seen some fine work being done. We learned in one place that in a ward of 200 people 65 of them turned out one day to thin a beet patch. In another place so many turned out that they were through before the day was over, and turned to weeding the streets of the city. We learned in our last meeting at Idaho Falls that in one stake each quorum of the Priesthood consisting of eleven quorums of Elders, four quorums of Seventies, one High Priests quorum, and the High Council and Stake Presidency — each had a work project for the welfare of this new movement, and the thing about it that impressed us was the type of men who are turning out to work shoulder to shoulder in the field. Representing the Stake Presidency and the High Council, were the mayor of  city, the city land appraiser, the editor of the Journal, the president of a college, a seminary teacher, a probate judge, a college professor, chairman of the county commissioners, two high school teachers, two city councilmen, a rural mail carrier and the State water master. Now, can you imagine what it is doing for that type of men when they are out in the field together as a quorum, bearing the Priesthood of God, and laboring together for their less fortunate brethren and sisters ? 

EFFECT ON CHURCH MISSIONARY SYSTEM 

No doubt one of the great benefits of this movement will be the effect it will have on the missionary system of the Church. I was in the mission field when the "March of Time" was shown and I know something of the value that it will be to our missionaries. I said to the missionaries in the South that I was convinced that in the not far distant future we would cease to ring door bells and ask the privilege of delivering our message, but we would go to the doors to answer the calls that would come in to know more about our people. Incidentally, in closing may I add, that of all the great achievements of this Church that are far beyond the wisdom and the power and the ability of mortal man, that would indicate that the Spirit of God is in this work, is the great missionary system of the Church. 

I pray God to bless us, and to enable us to use the means that are ours, to press on to the end, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

Through the kindness of our great-hearted and benevolent President, many of the mission presidents are permitted to come to General Conference, to bring their problems here, to discuss ways and means of promoting the missionary work, and of course to be inspired to a renewed dedication to the great task which is theirs. 

You will pardon me if I make some reference to missionary work. Before I left for a mission I talked with a man in this city of reputed wisdom, who argued that if the Church continued to maintain its missionary system it would become impoverished, broken down, and driven into bondage. The answer I made to him then was in broad terms something like this: If this Church or any other organization can, by some process, translate money into character and manhood and build faith in the hearts of people, and establish in their minds the great ideals that go with a settled faith in God, they have done something that will perpetuate them in the earth. 

I asked a man today how many years he and his family had given to the missionary work — and he is not an old man. He said: "Forty years, and members of my family have labored in sixteen different missions." If the men who are before me were to compute the years they 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 7 Firtt Day 

have given to missionary service, and the money it has cost them, it would in the aggregate amount to something colossal. I am safe in saying that no other people of like number have ever made a contribution of this kind to the world. I do not believe the people who have done it are distinguished for their poverty. I do not believe the men and the women who have contributed to the great missionary cause walk as inferiors among their neighbors. 

It may seem as if the cost per baptized convert is great, and it is. But the missionary service has contributed to the Church much more than numerical strength. It has added numbers. There are people sitting in front of me who owe a debt of undying gratitude to some humble missionary who visited their homes or the homes of their parents, perhaps in a far-off land, and brought the Gospel to them. 

I should like for a moment to refer to one other phase of this work : What does it mean to the missionary ? Much in many ways. He very soon discovers that it is impossible for him to answer the demands of his mission unaided and unsupported by the Almighty, and in great sincerity and deep humility he seeks Him, and he finds Him. When the fire of the Holy Ghost blazes on the altar of a boy's heart it shines in his eyes, rings in his voice, purifies his life, refines and elevates his thoughts. A great transformation takes place in his soul. Under these circumstances he learns that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, just as Peter learned it, and he comes to know it with the same certainty that Peter knew it. 

Fundamentally, this is the chief contribution which missionary work makes. It plants in the missionary's soul an implicit faith in the living God, which is the great principle upon which this Church is built, and the source of its enduring achievements. This faith in God is the foundation upon which the peace and perpetuity of society rests, and missionary work makes this contribution as nothing else in this Church makes it. 

This is my testimony, and I bear it to you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I would like again to call your attention to automobile accidents. Be careful, please. Do not try to go unless you have the right to go according to the signals. I hope that this building will be crowded tonight at the performance of Elijah. It is one of the finest things that has ever been here. If it were given in New York, you would have to pay about $5 to see and hear it, and you would not complain, either. 

I have heard some people complain that we ought to have a twentyfive cent price. It is mighty hard to give a $5 entertainment for twentyfive cents. 

If this were a picture show, you could stand it two hours and a half, but being a religious service, I suppose you are tired. 

THE MISSIONARY SYSTEM AS AN EDUCATOR 

But I want to say a word or two in confirmation of what Brother Bryant S. Hinckley has said. A man who had been around the world a number of times, to whom I referred in my remarks here once, his neighbor's boy was called on a mission to Germany. This man was living at the time in Soda Springs, Idaho. He laughed and laughed at the idea of that "clod-hopper" as he called him, being called on a mission to preach and to learn another language. "Why, it is a joke," he thought. 

After the boy had been away a year and a half, a letter came from the boy saying: "I have found some of your relatives living here in Berlin. I did not tell them that I used to work for you. Kindly send me a letter of introduction." This man told me that when he received the letter, he laughed and said to his wife : "My dear, that young man won't know how to behave himself in polite society. I am not going to humiliate him by giving him a letter of introduction." But he said : "After I had slept on it, I thought it was none of my aflair if he wanted to be humiliated. So I sent him the letter." 

"Some time later I received a letter from my relatives saying, 'Your young Mormon friend called on us. He is a very intelligent young man, and we have thoroughly enjoyed our visit with him.' Another year and a half rolled round, and I heard that he had returned home and was going to preach in the ward. I thought it would be a joke for that boy to preach a sermon, so I went to hear him, and I heard one of the cleanest-cut, finest arguments in favor of your Church and its doctrines that I had ever heard. Why, Mr. Grant, your missionary system through which you call young men to perform missions is the greatest educator and the greatest developer of young men of any system. It is superior to any university, or college, or seminary."! 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The Choir sang the "Hosanna" anthem, the congregation singing in connection therewith "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I personally thank this choir for singing Evan Stephens' anthems. I think they are full of spirit, as well as music. 

Benediction by Elder Levi S. Udall, President of the St. Johns Stake. Conference adjourned until Saturday morning, October 8 at 10 o'clock. 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Dag 


