Morning
08 10 1938 

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 8, at 10 o'clock. 

The musical exercises for this session of the Conference were furnished by the Moroni High School Choir, Ray Anderson conducting. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn "Now Let Us Rejoice." 

Elder H. Roland Tietjen, President of the South Sevier Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "For the Strength of the Hills," (Stephens). 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am sure it is pleasing to the Lord, as it is to his servants, the Presiding Authorities of the Church, that so many of the Latter-day Saints and their friends have come from far and near, and assembled in a General Conference of his Church, to be fed upon the bread of life, to be renewed in their faith and determination to serve the Lord. 

As an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and a special witness for him in the earth, I conscientiously, humbly, and sincerely testify that I do know that this work in which we are engaged as Latter-day Saints is the work of God. I would like, if I could, to bear this witness to all the world. 

FRUITS ARE EVIDENCE OF THE WORK OF THE LORD 

The Savior said on one occasion, "Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits." 

The fruits of the Prophet Joseph Smith, of those who associated with him in the early days of this Church, and of those who have succeeded to the Presidency of the Church, from the days of the Prophet Joseph to the present time, are evidences that should be convincing and conclusive that this work is the work of the Lord, that those who are at its head are divinely inspired, for no mortal man, or men, could have accomplished what is being accomplished and has been accomplished in this Church up to the present time. 

TESTIMONY AS TO DIVINITY OF LATTER-DAY WORK 

I do know that the story told by Joseph Smith, that the Father and the Son appeared to him, is a true statement; that the world's greatest need was supplied by that visitation, for the people of this world are in gross spiritual darkness pertaining to the existence, the personality,  the power of God, the Eternal Father, and the relationship which we sustain to him. 

I do know that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, the Son of God. I think I know it as clearly and as fully as did Peter of old; and that a belief in him and the efficacy of his atoning blood is necessary to a man's salvation; that in this work in which we are engaged there are all the principles, ordinances, power and authority, in connection with the atonement of our Lord and Savior, to effect the eternal salvation and exaltation of mankind, by being obedient unto the principles and ordinances of the Gospel. And I know that this cannot be truthfully said of any other organization in this world, for this is God's plan, instituted in the council of heaven before the world was. 

LEADERS OF CHURCH HAVE CARRIED ON THE WORK 

The organizations of this Church, as we find them today, were not in existence in the days of the Prophet Joseph. True, he established the Church, and the Lord through him made provision for its growth and development. But it remained for Presidents Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith, and Heber J. Grant, as the Lord's mouthpieces unto this people, to carry on this work and give direction thereto, with the assistance of those men who associate with them. And the work has grown and developed, as we are the witnesses; and the auxiliary organizations of this Church have won the admiration of men and women who have given proper consideration to these organization and their accomplishments. 

There was but one auxiliary organized in the days of the Prophet Joseph — that of the Relief Society for our sisters. In the days of President Brigham Young the Church school system was inauguarated, the Sunday Schools of the Church, the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church; and under later administration — that of John Taylor — came the Primary organization, in itself a wonderful organization, of wonderful accomplishments, as in all these other organizations. And these are evidences that those who succeeded Joseph Smith as the presidents and leaders of the Church were inspired of God. 

I bear testimony that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and that those who have succeeded him in the presidency have been and are prophets of God, including our present President. And under his administration other wonderful organizations have been inaugurated — that of the welfare work of this Church, the stake missionary work, added stakes and wards, etc. And the work will continue, of this I am also assured. 

And I want to say to this large congregation and to the world, that to me the witnesses whom God our Father raised up to the Book of Mormon, the Three and the Eight witnesses with Joseph Smith, the Prophet, associated are witnesses of all these truths of which I have been speaking. 

The Gospel has been revealed in its fulness; the Church and king56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

dom of God established in preparation for the coming of our Lord, the ushering in of the millennial reign of peace upon the earth, when Christ our Lord shall be the King of kings and Lord of lords, and all powers, kings, and dominions will be subject unto him. 

If we as members of this Church will just live up to the precepts the teachings and the standards of this Church, the favor of heaven will be upon us in life, and we will attain to the blessings of eternal life and exaltation, and no mortal man can comprehend the magnitude and the greatness of the blessings in store for us. 

At the beginning of this conference, in the opening prayer offered by President Marion Romney yesterday morning, he told the Lord that we had assembled in General Conference to learn his will concerning us. It is one thing to know the will of the Lord, and another thing to do the will. The Lord has said : 

He that knoweth the will of the Lord and doeth it not shall be beaten with many stripes. 

Christ's part in the rebellion in heaven 

And we read in the Pearl of Great Price, how that in the controversy in heaven, before the world was, Christ our Lord stood upon the platform of principles. "Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." A war was waged against sin and rebellion, and a third of heaven's host were cast out. 

We have reason to believe that we fought in that battle with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ as our captain, and with Michael and other great characters, and that we kept our first estate through being valiant in that fight. We are here upon the earth with a promise of the Lord that if we will be likewise valiant here and keep this, our second, estate, we shall have added unto us glory and honor forever and ever. The Savior's declaration that whatsoever the Father desired of him, his will should be done, referred not only to the spirit life, but to the life here upon this earth, for when he came here upon many occasions he made the declaration that he had come to earth because he had been sent by the Father, that he came to do the will of the Father, and he did the will of the Father under all circumstances and at all hazards, even to the laying down of his life, and all that He endured in life, in fulfilment of his mission. 

And after his resurrection he appeared to the people on this American continent, and addressing them upon the principles and plan of salvation, he made the declaration that he had come to the earth, having been sent of the Father, to do the will of the Father. 

Proceeding further, he said, "What manner of men ought ye to be?" And answered it for them, "Verily I say unto you, even as I am." This is found in the 27th chapter of Third Nephi, in the Book of Mormon. 

To me that means that not only those Nephites, but all the children of men are here upon the earth because we were sent, and we are here to learn what our Father's will is concerning us, and to do his will under all circumstances and conditions. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM GIVEN AS THE WILL OF GOD 

He has given us the Word of Wisdom as a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom he raised up to be the mighty prophet of this dis pensation, and in that revelation he has said that it is his will that w* abstain from the use of tobacco, intoxicating and strong drinks, and some of our people have taken the ground that it is no commandment of God, therefore they are not under the obligation to observe it as they would be had it been a command. 

I want to call your attention to what we find in the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where the Lord by direct revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith said that we are to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. And that is given as a commandment; the Word of Wisdom did proceed from the mouth of God to us as a people, and as the will of the Lord, and therefore we are under command to observe it. 

Some of our people quibble over the matter of tea and coffee, and say there is no mention of tea and coffee in the Word of Wisdom. I want to say to you that from the beginning of this Church, in the days of the Prophet Joseph, down to the present time, the leaders of this Church have interpreted that Word of Wisdom to include tea and coffee and all drinks that are habit-forming because of the caffeine and drugs they contain. We, as Latter-day Saints, who by our uplifted hands sustain the prophet in our day and time, President Grant, are under obligation to accept the interpretations that are made by him and by his predecessors with respect to this matter, that the Word of Wisdom that has come to us from the Lord includes tea and coffee among- those things which we should not partake of. This is the will of the Lord. 

Brethren and Sisters, may God help us to live by the word and will which he has expressed in various revelations, then will we be happy, and we will be saved and exalted, and what more can the Lord say, what more can he offer us as inducement. 

God bless us, brethren and sisters, and help us to be faithful I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MARVIN O. ASHTON 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I do not think I feel as calm as a summer's morning as I occupy this position. If humility were the only requisite at this particular moment, I would not be worried at all about what I was going to say. The fact of the matter is that when I thought of this responsibility I mentioned to President McKay that I thought there were certain meeting houses that should be examined and that it was very important that the investigations, be made the latter part of this week. He reminded me of what took place with Jonah when he disobeyed and failed to be in the proper place. 

I want to repeat in part what has been said by Bishop Richards, 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second £>ay 

and that is, that I have appreciated very much the last few weeks of visiting the different stakes, in a regional capacity, if you please, throughout the Church. And lest I forget, I want to express my deep appreciation for the kindness which has been bestowed upon us brethren who have been visiting in the Bishopric capacity. I want to say further, I have appreciated very much the faith of these people. By your outward expressions I know what you want to think of us, and the courtesies given; but I want to emphatically say to you that we appreciate your kindness. Your faith and your integrity builds us up. I am not forgetting, by any means, the good sound judgment of you men who are leaders in the stakes of this Church. And I do not want to forget for one minute the kindness of the wives of these men, who open their homes, let their other work go while we are entertained. 

I believe that sometimes to test anything you must have something happen of an unusual character. Now I think that peculiar thing has happened to the Church so far as this welfare work is concerned. I think that this thing coming upon us has been the means of testing us. 

One man wrote this little story : A certain king years ago stretched some wires over his castle, and the only time that the tunes would play and the chimes sound on those wires was in times of storm. I believe that we play the best tunes individually and collectively when the storms come. This storm has not been as severe as it might have been, or maybe as severe as we may face later, but it has been a test to us. I wonder sometimes — and I am not forgetting the fine work that has been done by the bishops and by the presidents of stakes, and people of the wards, and I am not forgetting by any means, last but not least, the Relief Society and what valiant people they have been in this work,— but I have noticed this, that some of our people have not taken this thing as seriously as they might. They simply have not functioned. 

When we were going up to Canada we noticed on the road that a certain washout had hit a mountain side, and there was, hanging from the air, a telegraph pole suspended by the wires of the system. I said to Bishop Richards, pointing to the pole hanging up there : "I wonder if some of us are not just like that pole, instead of sustaining we are being suspended." I have thought of that many times since. 

I am afraid sometimes we get in ruts and some of us who have been the most valiant sometimes are most susceptible to ruts. Some one has said the only difference between a rut and a grave is that one is a little deeper than the other. Now I say this respectfully, but sometimes men who have won their spurs, who have cut their furrows, rest while the world goes on. The Church is of such a nature and such magnitude that whether you do your duty or not, it pretty near sustains you. And you stay there, and you just hang on by virtue of the tremendous system that is over your head. 

Now I believe this : We play our best tunes when the storms rage, but we ought to be vary careful that the storms do not get under us and lift us up so that we hang there. I believe that some men get it into their heads that they ought to be original, and they can not be original  they stand off and criticise. It reminds me of a story that I learned in Scotland of a man speaking on the street to some people. He said : "The only trouble with you is that you are like the fellow who is running a relay several times around the race track. You actually get so far behind at times that you think you are ahead." 

You often hear the expression, especially by the Genealogical Society people — and by the way, I saw this particular phase dramatized, and it impressed me very much — you hear them speak of people as being in prison, and the doors will not be unlocked if someone fails to do his duty. I wonder sometimes if there are not thousands and thousands of living people here on the earth who are locked up and cannot get through because somebody lacks leadership. It is the saddest thing in our Church sometimes to go to a ward or stake and find a lack of leadership. People are behind the bars, trying to get through, — and I am not forgetting our young people at all — and because of lack of leadership they simply do not get through. 

Now, as far as I am concerned, somebody has something to answer for in leadership. I do not care if a man has won his spurs or who he is, if he is dead on his feet, it is just a sad situation. Sometimes you can go to a ward or a stake and just as soon as you step over the threshhold you can feel that death, or slumber, or something of that nature, stalks thereabouts, because they are standing on a reputation, and fail to function as they should. No truer philosophy is in the scriptures than that you cannot put new wine into old bottles. 

One of the most notable things in our Church as I see it — -it has been mentioned many times before — is the dilapidated condition of our buildings, not forgetting our meeting houses and not forgetting our homes. It is a sad situation. We sometimes speak of the "outward signs of an inward grace." Now, if our homes are the outward sign of an inward grace, we are in awfully sad shape, it seems to me. Now, I am not losing sight of the people who are struggling to keep out of debt, and building a shanty temporarily to bridge over. I think we ought to respect them; I take my hat off to that kind of people. But I am not taking my hat off to the people who through laziness and indolence live in a shabby, barn-like abode until "kingdom come." We must not be too severe, but people who come into our midst notice these things, and we are judged accordingly. I am not overlooking the item of charity and kindness to others who are making a struggle. It seems to me the biggest thing in our lives is charity. "Though you give your body to be burned, if you have not charity, it availeth you nothing." 

I want to say here that I hope in this system of welfare work where it is our purpose to organize ourselves, rather intensely, a little pocket for this situation, a little "pigeon hole" for that circumstance, that in all this setting up of a system we do not forget honest-to-gaodness charity and kindness to one another. That man is still taking a trip from Jerusalem to Jericho. That man may be sitting next to you right now. He may pass you as you go out. You may meet him on the street, but he is still here. We need charity in our souls. He is begging for a tear 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Dag 

of sympathy and a kind expression from you — not altogether your money, but the milk of human kindness. Some people who build up nice bank accounts and shake hands with themselves for the wonderful position they are in financially; the ray of charity sometimes fails to get through for them. I wonder sometimes (to play on someone's expression) if that same fellow who always wants the spiritual blessings to come to the other fellow, how he would appreciate it if, when he got around the table Thanksgiving Day, he would have a spiritual turkey, that was "without body, parts, or passions." 

Some of us are just naturally — as one man puts it — "tight." Our pores are closed, and we do not let charity break through. 

I must not say very much more. But I do want to say this in closing. Across the street from here to the east some of those men who are sweeping up the leaves in these paths are executives. I have yet to be convinced that all the virtues are inside of a white collar. Just as often they are in a flannel shirt as they are in a white shirt. Sometimes a man who has been a clerk or an executive will come on his hands and knees and beg for a job at three or four dollars a day. He may bring his little kit of clothes in a satchel lest he meet some of his friends in his overalls. He will go through this humiliation and live on bread and water to keep a boy or girl on a mission. This is something some of us do not dream about, and we forget all about the man's sacrifice. 

May the Lord help us to keep charitable and kind, to be on our toes, and as someone has expressed the "eleventh commandment," — '"If there is anything going on, be thou in it." May the Lord bless us. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

If there is anything that I am grateful for it is for my standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that I have fellowship with the Saints of God, that I have part in this glorious work which the Lord has established for the salvation of mankind. I am always conscious of the fact that the Lord is carrying on a great work, that he has stretched forth his hand to perform a marvelous work and a wonder, and that we are among his chosen people, the chosen people of God. 

I rejoice in this fact. The people who have embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ, who have been members of his Church in the various dispensations of the past have always been designated "his covenant people." Why should we be called a "covenant people?" For this reason : That we have entered into covenant with God, in the new and everlasting covenant. 

The everlasting covenant has been so frequently referred to in the scriptures that I marvel that people do not interest themselves sufficiently to find out just what that covenant is. Have we made a covenant with the Lord ? Has he made a covenant with us ? What is a covenant ? If we will examine our dictionaries we will find that a covenant is "an  entered into between two or more persons or parties." When we enter into a covenant with our fellow men, we draw up an instrument setting forth the obligations and promises of the contracting parties to the covenant. We sign it in our own handwriting, and seal it in the presence of witnesses, and then go before a notary public or a justice of the peace and make oath to the same. 

If so much formality is deemed necessary in the ordinary affairs of life which men make with their fellow men, what must we think of a covenant where God himself is the party of the first part ? 

When we enter into a covenant with the Lord will it be any less formal or binding on the parties to the covenant? The Lord has made just such a covenant with his children; but does he sign it with pen and .ink, or do we subscribe it in our own hand-writing? No! indeed! The Lord has a much better and more impressive way for us to enter into covenant with Him. Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins is the formality of entering into the covenant. We do not need to sign it with pen and ink. We do not need to go before a notary public or a justice of the peace. But when we enter into the waters of baptism, we go in company with a servant of the Lord who has been commissioned of Jesus Christ to perform that sacred ordinance. In performing this ceremony the duly authorized servant of God will take the candidate's hands into his left hand, and raise his right hand to the square, saying this: 

Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. 

He then immerses the convert in the water in the likeness of the burial of our Lord and Savior who died upon the Cross, and then raises him up out of this watery grave in the likeness of His glorious resurrection. What could be more impressive than this ? 

This is the formality of entering into the covenant with God. And those who do thus enter into that covenant do so with a full understanding that they are to keep his holy commandments, that they are to walk in the light, that they are to "do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them." Brother George F. Richards in his conference talk referred to a certain event that took place in the heavens before the world was made. It was here, in Heaven, that the covenant was first made. This is undoubtedly the circumstance to which the Lord referred when he asked his servant Job : "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding When 

the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy." (Job 38:4-7.) 

This event was made known unto Abraham in a glorious revelation which I find recorded in the Book of Abraham — Let me quote : 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers-; for he stood among 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him : We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. ( Abr. 3 :22-36.) 

In these paragraphs the terms, and obligations required of us as the children of God, and the glorious promises or agreement which the Lord makes if we will only do our part are clearly stated. This covenant relates to both estates. We who now live upon the earth, or ever have lived upon it, or ever will live upon it in bodies of flesh and bone have kept our first estate in heaven before our coming to live upon the earth, and hence we have been added upon, or in other words there have been or will be added to our immortal spirits these bodies of flesh and bone, and although we shall all surely die we shall all be made alive again, and thus the Lord fulfills his agreement to all who keep their first estate. God keeps his covenant. 

What concerns us now, however, relates to our present or mortal life, our second estate, wherein we are to be proven the second time, and if we enter into this covenant or agreement with the Lord through the holy waters of baptisms and keep it inviolate, then the Lord is bound under the terms of the covenant to add glory upon our heads for ever and ever. This means a never ending glory in the Celestial Kingdom— the power of eternal increase — to become the sons and daughters of God, and heirs of God, even joint heirs with Jesus Christ, and with him to inherit all things that the Father hath. 

In this revelation we see just why the children of Abraham are known as the chosen people of God, for Abraham was one of the great and noble ones among God's spirit children — one of the Morning Stars that sang together and was chosen before he was born. 

The carrying out of' this Covenant involved the creation of this planet and the sending of someone with almighty power to create the earth and establish the covenant with the children . of men in all the various dispensations of this world's career. And the Lord said : 

"Who shall I send?" 

"And one answered like unto the Son of Man, Here am I. Send 

me." 

And He also said : "Father, thy will be done and the glory be thine forever." 

This was our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, the First Born in the spirit. 

And another one arose, a mighty spirit, but an evil one, and he said : "Here am I. Send me. I will be thy son, and I will redeem all man, that one soul shall not be lost. And surely I will do it. Therefore give me thine honor." This was Lucifer, or Satan, or the Devil, as he is severally, known. * 

He proposed to abolish the free agency of man. He proposed to save every soul, no matter what they might do. And he arrogated unto himself the honor which belongs to God alone. And when God said : "I will send the first," Satan became angry and rebelled against God and many followed after him, even one-third of the hosts of heaven. 

Here, then, is a very comprehensive and satisfying explanation of the everlasting covenant — first made in heaven before the world was made and then established on the earth in each dispensation of God's providence beginning with Adam after his expulsion from the Garden of Eden. 

The two parts in this everlasting covenant are made so plain that "the wayfaring men though fools shall not err therein." (Isa. 35 :8.) Namely : 

First: Our part is to do all things whatsoever the Lord, our God, shall command us. In other words, keep his commandments. This we can do and the Lord expects us to do it. 

Second : The Lord's part is to add glory upon our heads forever and ever if we do our part. 

In other words, it means salvation. We cannot save ourselves. All this is the Lord's part in the everlasting covenant. 

It will therefore be seen that our souls must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness that they "may be prepared for Celestial glory." (D. & C. 88 :18.) Obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ provides the necessary preparation and if we render this obedience by "doing all things whatsoever the Lord our God commands then he is bound under the terms of the everlasting covenant" to save us and bring us back to God. All this, of course, we are utterly unable to do. All we can do about it is to prepare ourselves to receive it. Hence we need a Savior. 

Salvation in the presence of God comes to persons as a gift of God to those who keep their second estate. May the Lord help us, then, to be faithful in our second estate by keeping his commandments, by walking in the light, and by so living that we may call down his blessings upon our heads, I pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "The Lord's Prayer." 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

THE ARTICLES OF FAITH 

Ninety-six years ago, the editor of a Chicago paper asked the Prophet Joseph Smith for a brief sketch of the history and beliefs of the Church he had founded. The Prophet complied. His statement of beliefs he compressed into thirteen one-sentence paragraphs, except for 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Dtg 

the tenth which contained three sentences and the thirteenth which comprised two. These succinct paragraphs have since come severally to be called articles and collectively they are known as the Articles jof Faith. From the thirteenth Article I take as my text this declaration : "We believe in being honest." 

HONESTY A REQUIREMENT 

It will at once be said that there is nothing distinctive about that. Everybody believes in being honest. But by the very implication of this profession of belief we are required to be honest, and so is everyone else who makes a like profession, for a profession of belief which does not manifest itself in terms of actual performance is of negligible if any value. 

It was Jesus who likened the man who heard his sayings and did them to a wise man who built his house upon a rock and because thereof it withstood rain and flood and tempest. 

BUSINESS MEN'S OPINION 

I am influenced in my selection of the text by the report that a prominent minister in an eastern city had submitted to twenty large employers of men this question : "What is the greatest need of the business world today?" Each of the twenty gave the same answer: "Personal honesty." If these men were right in their conclusion (and their surprising unanimity weighs heavily in favor of the correctness of their opinion) then personal conduct lags lamentably far behind profession, if we assume that substantially everyone as a matter of profession believes in being honest. 

From the nature of the discussion consequent upon receipt of their answers, , I assume that the business men whose opinions were asked were thinking of honesty in terms of the eighth commandment. As used in our text, the word comprehends far more than that. To restrain one's self from taking property which belongs to another is only to evidence the quality of honesty in one of its most rudimentary stages. I should like to persuade you that honesty is as all-inclusive of the virtues as the Golden Rule, or as the commandment to love your neighbor as yourself, upon which commandment, together with the love of God, Jesus said, the whole law hangs. 

But let us for the moment consider our text in terms of the commandment, "Thou shalt not steal." 

COVETOUSNESS THE CAUSE OF DISHONESTY 

Why does one steal ? Obviously to get what one desires and might otherwise have to do without. Stealing has its inception in covetousness which is altogether an unlovely trait. If men did not covet they would not steal. If there were no violation of the tenth commandment, there would be no violation of the eighth commandment. 

The gratification of the covetous impulse betokens such lack of self and such weakness of will as renders the unbidden appropriator of other men's goods incapable of denying the demands of his own desire. 

The impulse to gratify personal desire is yielded to without any regard to the consequence to the one whose property is appropriated, who may be either greatly inconvenienced or forced to the abandonment of a projected endeavor, or even exposed to downright suffering and distress. The thief is indifferent to the suffering of others. 

Altogether he presents a sorry sample of qualities. He is covetous, lacking in self-control, indifferent, cruel. These are deep-seated flaws in character of which stealing is but one manifestation. For after all, basically honesty is a matter of character. Honesty and the highest ideals of manhood are bound up inseparably together. 

But harmful as thieving may be to the victim, it is vastly more devastating to the perpetrator of the theft. 

He robs himself of his own self-respect, which is one of the most nearly irreparable losses anyone may sustain. A man may lose the esteem of his fellows and survive the loss if supported by the consciousness of his own rectitude. It is not so important what others think of him but what he knows about himself is of transcendent importance. 

He practices of necessity the art of deceit and becomes in consequence devious in his ways. His mental processes are sinuous. He does not trust and is not trusted. 

Even though he has not been found out and moves freely in society, he knows himself to be something other than what people take him to be. To that extent he knows that he is an imposter and a fraud, which destroys his self-reliance and makes him uncertain, vacillating and incapable of realizing the fullness of his talents. 

CONSEQUENCES OF DISHONESTY 

Dread of discovery and exposure fills his soul with fear, which is one of the greatest enemies of man. It breaks his courage, it weakens and wears away his power to launch into bold and lofty endeavor. It circumscribes and limits the field of his vision and is a barrier to his pushing out to new horizons. It conjures up for him torments. It haunts his waking hours and visits his sleepless pillow in the darkness of the night. 

KEEPING OF COMMANDMENTS BRINGS PEACE 

Observance of the eighth commandment, on the other hand, never brings remorse. Instead of begetting fear it inspires confidence and courage. It preserves self-respect, encourages forthrightness and discounts deceit. It does not weaken the will. It causes no injury or suffering to another. It provides an armor against covetousness, fosters kindness jand is not cruel. Like all God's commandments it takes cognizance of the conditions necessary to a man's peace and happiness and admonishes him in the way of life that brings their realization. 

When Moses heard the voice of God declaring out of the clouds 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Day 

on Sinai, "Thou shalt not steal," he was listening not only to the promulgation of a law fundamentally important to the progress and stability of the individual, but he was hearing at the same time words of great social wisdom. Honesty lies at the very root of any stable society. If all were thieves, no society could exist. If a man should arise in the morning with the purpose of plowing his field, his plan would be defeated if he went out only to find that someone else had appropriated his team and his plow. Should he then decide to cut his hay instead, he again would be thwarted if someone had taken away his harvesting equipment. And so alternate plans might one after another go awry and his day be rendered barren of results. As the number of members in the society increased the confusion would multiply. Orderly processes would be impossible. There would be no security and no dependable means of planning action. 

A society can endure only if the great majority of people in it do not steal. 

But men were intended to live together. It is only in relationship to his fellows that man grows and develops. The very existence of the Church itself, its teachings, its hope and its promise assume the existence of that relationship and the living of life under its conditions. If there were but a solitary, single inhabitant on the earth, there would be no need for the eighth commandment nor for any of the others. He would know nothing of the virtue of honesty, just as he would know nothing of moral courage, honor, fidelity, loyalty, love, for these derive their whole meaning and significance out of the interrelations of men. These are the qualities which elevate a man and impart to him the estate of goodness. 

Honesty demands fidelity to promises. 

CIVILIZATION BASED ON HONESTY 

It has been said that on that day when someone at some inconvenience to himself, determined to keep a promise, which he was not compelled to keep, civilization was born. The statement of course is intended to make clear that the relationships inherent in civilization could not exist nor civilization itself endure if people as a general rule did not keep their promises. Certainly the business world would collapse at once if this practice fell into decay. Almost all the vast and complicated intricacies of trade and exchange are carried on on the basis of promises. 

You plant your sugar beets because the processor has promised to buy them. You put your eggs in a car destined for New York because the railroad company has promised to deliver them there. The groceryman delivers the food you eat for dinner because you promise you will pay for it. Lights are installed in your home and permitted to serve you because you promise that you will pay the service charge. You promise to pay the service charge because you are working for someone who has promised to pay you for your labor. You live in the landlord's house and he buys the coal to heat it and the food he eats and the clothes he  because you have promised to pay the rent, which he in turn has promised to pay to the coal dealer and the clothier and the grocer. 

If there were a wholesale repudiation of promises, the first man disappointed would be compelled to disappoint those to whom he had given his word. And so it would go round the circle. There would be a total collapse. Our organized lives could not go on. So important is it that promises be kept that the f ramers of the Constitution of the United States wrote into it a provision that no state could pass a law relieving people from their obligation to keep them. While the law is .here to enforce fulfillment against the unwilling, it is powerless to do anything but take away from the one who has violated his promise enough property to discharge his obligation. If he has no property, the law can do nothing, and so we have a whole host of petty little devices and intrigues conjured up to circumvent the law. The only security lies in individual, personal honesty. The law cannot make people honest. 

Men sometimes excuse their failure to pay debts upon the pretext that the creditor is a rich and strong institution and is perfectly well able to bear the loss. Frequently it is not the rich nor the strong who bear the loss but the widow and the orphan whose patrimony has been invested in these institutions. 

But whether the creditor can afford to sustain the loss or not is quite beside the point. The debtor, for the effect upon himself, for the sake of the honor of his name and his own self-esteem cannot afford to refuse payment of his debt so long as he has anything left to apply to the purpose. 

Back in the dim recesses of my earliest childhood memory there is lodged the code that a Mormon's word must be as good as his bond. Debts simply had to be paid. That made us extremely careful about contracting them. 

Incurring obligations beyond a reasonable expectancy of the ability to meet them is a fruitful source of ultimate dishonesty. Men who would scorn to steal and who would be highly incensed at the suggestion of thievery, nevertheless do not hesitate to make engagements which they have no chance of meeting. When the day of reckoning comes they will covertly put their property out of reach and otherwise preserve what they have to the deprivation of those to whom they have given their word. It puts a heavy strain upon character to see the accumulations of years of toil appropriated to the payment of debts incurred. One sees character crack under the strain. 

Buying on credit with no reasonable prospect of payment resembles taking outright what belongs to another in that both come about through uncontrolled desire to possess. The same kind of resistance is necessary in each case if desire is to be denied. The time to avoid the unpleasant consequence is before incurring the obligation. There is character-building strength in resisting. 

REQUIREMENTS OF THE GOLDEN RULE 

I have said that honesty embraces the principle of the Golden Rule. This principle forbids interference by one with the rights of another. 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Dag 

It requires that every man be privileged to pursue his lawful calling in his own way and in peace, without restraint or hindrance. The employer must give an honest day's pay for an honest day's work. The employee must give an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. Honesty condemns falsity in all its forms. It does not permit the bearing of false witness. It banishes from out its pale the demagogic art of vilifying and misrepresenting one person or class for the purpose of arraying another person or class against the first. It does not sow dissension. Trust, confidence, assurance and peace are the offspring of honesty. 

War, the disputes of nations, class conflict, the bitterness and hatred that threaten the peace of the world would dissolve by the simple process of observing these principles of honesty. 

Honesty embraces truth and requires fidelity to principle. In this realm lies what we might designate as honesty in public life. It requires that men in public office should not graft even within the law. They must set principle above expediency and the public welfare above considerations of personal fortune. The scandals that rock our large cities to their foundations could not occur if those trusted with official authority practiced the simplest principles of common honesty. Fidelity here often calls for a high order of moral courage. One hears of legislators in state and nation who talk one way and vote another. Among friends and in confidence they condemn policies and the laws projected to effectuate them, yet officially they vote the passage of those laws merely because they fear the course of right, as they see it, might not be popular and to follow it might terminate their official careers. They would rather violate their consciences than lose the glamor and power of official position. Such men constitute a far greater menace to our country'^ safety than do all the propagandists of alien philosophies put together. We need fear no invasion from without so long as we are sound to the core within. 

Nearly one hundred years ago in a stirring appeal to France, Victor Hugo said : "Sovereignty is not in dynasties, it is not in princes, it is not even in the people. It is higher; * * *. Sovereignty is in truth!" Sovereign truth demands undiluted honesty. Every act of our lives; every concept of our intellects; every yearning of our souls, to be worthy, must be impregnated with the quality of honesty — -that quality which gives integrity to the internal structure of a man and fits, him for every trust. 

ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brothers and sisters, that I might enjoy a portion of the Lord's Spirit in the endeavor to speak to you this morning. It is needless for me to say that I have a feeling of gratitude in my heart for the testimony that the Lord has been kind enough to give to me of the divinity of this great work. I know that Jesus of Nazareth is the 

Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that through him the Gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth in its simplicity and purity. 

I am grateful for the parents that are mine; grateful because they have exemplified in their lives the principles of virtue, integrity and faith. I am grateful to the Lord that he has again established upon the earth the Church organizations, for the Melchizedek Priesthood brought back by Peter, James and John; the Aaronic Priesthood, restored to the earth through the instrumentality of John the Baptist. I am grateful for the fact that I have a standing and membership in the Church of Jesus Christ. 

I think all the achievements we have made as a people have been possible through the fact that we have had in our midst the power of the Priesthood. Brigham Young said: 

Much has been said about the power of the Latter-day Saints. Is it the people called Latter-day Saints that have this power, or is it the Priesthood? 

He said it is the Priesthood, and if they live according to that Priesthood, they could commence their work here and gain many victories, and be prepared to receive glory, immortality, and eternal life. He made another statement. 

The Priesthood of the Son of God which we have in our midst is a perfect order and system of government, and this alone can deliver the human family from all the evils which now afflict its members, and insure them of happiness hereafter. 

So Priesthood to me is more than the power of God delegated unto us, whereby we may act as his representatives, it is a perfect system and order of government given to us -through which we may help the human race to solve the problems that now afflict it. One of the greatest differences between this government and the government of men is that we have no desire to take away land or natural resources from any nation or people, but we have a desire to help the human race, teach them the ways of life and righteousness as they have been revealed to us in this day and age. 

This government of the Priesthood has departments or divisions through which the work of the Lord is accomplished. One of the most important ones we might call the Department of Education; we find inscribed over the portals of this great department these words: "The glory of God is intelligence." In this department we find many workers. One of the most representative groups of workers is the great missionary corps that goes out into the world preaching the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. 

There are other workers and teachers, for we are essentially a teaching Church. The great commission given to the Prophet Joseph Smith was to teach the world of the ways and of the principles of the Lord Jesus Christ. Among our own people we have, another corps of teachers whose duty it is to go among the Saints once a month, to exhort, 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Dag 

to admonish, and stimulate them to greater activity in this work, and to protect them from the snares of the adversary. 

Through the auxiliary organizations of the Church we find a great educational project being carried out, the teaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the boys, girls, men and women of this great Church. 

There are other departments in this government of the Priesthood. There is the department of health, the fundamental law of which is the Word of Wisdom, revealed to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that we might live in accordance with the atmosphere that is created by the Holy Ghost as he comes to dwell within us. 

There is the finance department. Finances are just as essential for the carrying on of the work in this kingdom as they are in any other government or kingdom. The Lord has given us a law whereby we can accumulate the finances to carry on this great work — the law of tithing, a most equitable and just law. He has also given us another law, a law that is necessary for the taking care of our brothers and sisters who find themselves in destitute circumstances, namely the law of fast offerings. Through this law the Lord expects us to provide the means whereby we can carry on the great assignment that has come to us in connection with the Church Welfare program. A law, too, that is fair and equitable when you stop to think that all the Lord asks of us is the value of the two meals we abstain from on the first Sunday of each month. 

There is another great department in the government of the Priesthood, a department that we may now call the Welfare department, a department that has been organized for the purpose of taking care of our brethren and sisters who may be in the vale of poverty and need. We have two objectives in this great department : first, to accumulate enough food and fuel, and provide shelter for all of those who may be in need of these necessities. And the other objective in connection with this plan is to provide every man with the right to earn his bread by the sweat of his own brow. As we listened this morning to the reports of some of the stake presidents in relation to the projects that have already been provided for those who need work it was most inspirational, when you stop to think that not far distant from here three Elders quorums went to work on a project comprising some three thousand acres of land. They cultivated some nine hundred acres of it, produced a crop of sixteen thousand bushels of wheat, and in addition to that broke up another six hundred acres which are to be used in 1939. All this is being done for the purpose of providing the necessities of life and labor for our brethren and sisters who are in need. 

There are other projects in connection wih this Welfare department. Projects to rehabilitate our people in their attitude toward the government, in their attitude toward work, and in their attitude toward the Church. In this great government of the Priesthood we find that there is a recreational department represented by the Mutual organizations, that provides wholesome recreation for the people of the Church. 

We could go on and mention many other departments in connection with this great Priesthood government. But there are two relationships  I should like to draw to your attention. The first is the relationship which we have in connection with the business world. Brother Albert E. Bowen has already mentioned something in relation to it. Those of us who are members of the Priesthood government, who hold the Priesthood of God, should remember that in all of our dealings with the business world we should be honest, fair and square in our dealings. Brigham Young said upon one occasion : 

Men who are vessels of the Holy Priesthood, are charged with words of eternal life for the world and have tried continually in their words and actions and daily deportment to do honor to the great dignity of their calling and office as ministers and representatives of the Most High. ' 

It would seem to me that members of the Priesthood of God are servants and officers in this government, and should remember to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ in our shops, in our stores, in our factories, and on our farms, and every day of our lives as well as on Sunday. 

Then there is another relationship that we have, the relationship with the governments of the earth. We believe in obeying the laws of all governments. May I say that one of our Articles of Faith points out to us : 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 

We believe that, and this is the relationship that should exist between us and all nations, regardless of where we may live; as the Priesthood and the government of the Lord Jesus Christ we have a definite responsibility in connection with the Constitution of these United States. I am sure if there is a people in all the world that appreciates the Constitution it is this people, for under this divine instrument it was possible for Joseph Smith to bring into existence the Churcli of Jesus Christ, in a nation where there are equal rights, the right to worship God according to the dictates of one's conscience. 

We should at all times be willing to sustain the great Bill of Rights in our own country, to sustain and uphold the laws here. I firmly believe that Brigham Young was a prophet of Almighty God. I think that he spoke under the inspiration of the Lord's Spirit. I want to read to you an excerpt from one of his sermons, wherein he laid upon the shoulders of the Priesthood of this Church some very definite responsibilities relative to the fundamental law of our country. He said : 

I expect to see the day when the Elders of Israel will protect and sustain civil and religious liberty, and every constitutional right bequeathed to us by our fathers. 

He said these rights would go out in connection with the Gospel for the salvation of all nations, and added : 

I shall see this whether I live or whether I die. I do not lift up my voice against the great and glorious government guaranteed to every citizen by our Constitution, but against those administrators who trample the Constitution and just laws under their feet. Second Day 

We see from this prophecy, uttered by a prophet of God that there will yet devolve upon the Priesthood of this Church the responsibility of protecting the rights and the Constitution of our great country. 

This Priesthood government, this perfect system of government, as Brigham Young calls it, is headed today by a prophet of God, a man who has the right, the authority and keys to receive from our Heavenly Father his mind and will in relationship to his Church here upon earth. He in turn is surrounded by Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who have the same rights and privileges as the Apostles of old, so that the leadership of this great Church comes under the immediate and divine direction of our Heavenly Father. 

What does all of this mean to you and to me? Do we appreciate the Priesthood ? I would say to you that it is the greatest gift that God has ever given unto mankind, and if we have appreciation in our hearts let us render that appreciation in deeds of service. When the Bishop calls upon us to go block teaching let us consider that it is a high call, be glad to go and admonish, counsel and exhort the Saints. It matters not what our call in the Priesthood may be, whatever it is it comes to us because we are servants of God, and we should receive the call with gladness, and with the thought in mind that after the work has been finished we will be recipients of great blessings. 

Therefore, let us approach our Priesthood activities and responsibilities with willing hearts and without any reservations. The Lord Jesus Christ has made a promise to those who will serve willingly and gladly, for he said : 

Verily I say unto you, that there is no man that has left home, or parents, or brothers, or wife, or children for the Kingdom of God's sake who shall not receive manifold more at the present time and in the worlds to come, even life everlasting. 

May we appreciate the Priesthood of God; if we do leave our homes and our businesses for the kingdom's sake, let us remember that our blessings will be life everlasting, which I hope will be the blessing of each and every one of us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

I labor with my associates in a land made holy by the sufferings and the labors of our people in the early history of the Church. We have a great many visitors come, particularly in the summer season, wanting to see the points of interest through which our people passed, and where they lived. 

We try, as far as we possibly can, to give them proper direction and correct information, I have observed that after they have been to these points of interest in the State of Missouri, if they do return they invariably come back definitely impressed with the sacredness of these spots of President of the Central States Mission . There comes into their hearts a great reverence for the deeds of their fathers, and I sometimes wish that every member of the Church could have the privilege of going to Liberty, and Richmond, Far West, Adam-ondi-Ahman, and Haun's Mill, on their way east or west, as they come through the Central States Mission, for the impression that it gives them, for the increase in their faith and their reverence for the work that has been performed in this Church by its founders and leaders. 

One cannot stand upon the hill overlooking the valley of Adam-ondiAhman without being very deeply impressed with the sacredness of the place. When we go there we take Brother Joseph Fielding Smith's book, The Way To Perfection and read the fortieth chapter, . which tells how that before he died our father Adam came with his generation of descendants, all the righteous, and blessed them, and where he will eventually return when the time comes for him to present to the Savior his children, and to turn over the kingdom to the Lord. 

At the present time the hill upon which the old monument stands — apparently an old Nephite look-out station — is covered with large weeds, and is very difficult of ascent. Nevertheless, it is quite worth the climb up the hill to see it. I have sometimes wondered whether or not I should urge that we attempt to acquire some piece of ground there that would include the hill and part of the valley, and make it easier and more acceptable for people to look upon that valley and to attain that eminence on the hillside. 

Those spots in Missouri are very very sacred, and it is a pleasure to go there. I think our people who read the history of the Church, if I judge them by myself, do not adequately understand just what occurred or how it happened. It is a new revelation to again read the history of the Church in Missouri after you have visited those points of interest. I believe that the time will come in Missouri, as it is now fast coming in the State of Illinois, when the people of the State will become more cognizant of the tourist value of these points of interest. 

I am happy to note that in Illinois two of our cities — that is, Nauvoo and Carthage — -have become two of five points of interest to which tourists are directed who wish to see the interesting and historic parts of the State of Illinois. That feeling is growing in the State of Missouri. A number of men in Independence have stated to me at times that when it is convenient they would like to go with me and see those places. It will be a pleasure for me, of course, to take them. 

I can report to you that the work of the mission is going along, and we feel very much encouraged, because the Lord does bless us and his power is manifest as we proceed with our labors. The missionaries respond to the influence of the Holy Spirit; they try to teach the Gospel under his influence; they are prayerful and humble, and we feel that the Lord does direct our efforts, does guide us to the homes of the honest in heart, does give us utterance when we try to speak, does magnify us in the hearts and minds of people, and gives us influence as his servants, to teach them and to persuade them in the ways of righteousness and faith. 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Dag 

I am grateful for the opportunity of reporting this mission to you. I am deeply grateful for the opportunity of laboring in the mission field. I trust that I may be ever found worthy, as long as it is the will of his servants that I shall remain there, to discharge my duties acceptably. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters, that you may have reverence and respect for the traditions of the past, as well as continuing to look forward, as Bishop Marvin O. Ashton has so delightfully pointed out to you, and not live in the past, but look to the future. But the past is glorious and sacred to us. It inspires us, and has something to do with an increase of our faith. 

May God add his blessings to you, and magnify this conference to our good, I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS D. REES 

Former President of the Australian Mission 

I am very happy to be present at these services of this conference, happy to meet my friends and loved ones again. For three years I have been presiding in the Australian Mission, and I am constrained in the few minutes I have to report of the conditions in that far-off land. 

The members of our Church in that section of the world are a fine class of people. As a rule they are educated, courteous, and polite. Courtesy and politeness are the characteristics of the Australian people. Our Saints live in comfortable homes. Those who need employment have employment. Australia today is a very prosperous land. They have no depression, as far as I was able to see. Our Saints are faithful to their duties. They attend their church services. They pay their tithes. They look to us, hoping always to be led by the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I am happy to report the wonderful work that is being done by our Elders in that far-off land. I wish to endorse the words of President Bryant S. Hinckley; there is nothing that can come into a boy's life or a girl's life as fine as a missionary experience. Two years in the mission field can teach them much, and bring to them a richness of life that cannot be found in any other two years of life. 

I am happy to state that the people of Australia are very democratic in their attitude towards our Elders. There is no hate, there is no animosity. They seem to invite our Elders to explain the Gospel. The mission covers a great territory, and after an Elder has gone across the great Pacific nine thouand miles, he lands in Sydney, a city of a million and a quarter people, all of whom are of British descent. He comes to the headquarters, he is given his instructions, and is surprised, sometimes, at the distance he is required to travel after he reaches his headquarters. If he is to go to an adjoining district, it is practically as far as from here to San Diego. Sometimes we tell him : "The mission district where you are to work is fifteen hundred miles away." One of our  is as far from headquarters as Hawaii is from Salt Lake City. To find these young men carrying on in these great districts gives you such a thrill that you feel the wonderful privilege it is to be in the mission field with them. 

Those young men carry the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ with them, and I feel sometimes in their humility they approach very close to their Father in heaven. The question is ofttimes asked : "Why do you come to us? We are a Christian people, we believe in Christ, we have beautiful churches, we have our ministers, we have the Bible, what have you got that is different ?" This is an opportune time for an Elder to begin telling them the things we have that are different. He whom they call their head, even Jesus Christ, who walked by the Sea of Galilee, and preached the wonderful Sermon on the Mount, that same King has come in this day to the prophets of the living God and declared himself as Jesus Christ the Redeemer of the world. It is that message that we have that is different, and we carry it to the world, and when an Elder has that testimony in his heart he is not afraid to step up to any door; he is not afraid to speak to any man. We have the words of the Lord Jesus Christ; it is the answer in this day as to the principles he wishes the people of the world to know and live. 

It is a glorious thing when we can say in expressing our message, "We are giving you the word of the Lord Jesus Christ," and that should take precedence of the opinion of the wisest of the wise, the most learned of the learned, for thus saith the Lord to his people in this day, and that should be sufficient to end all controversy as to what the Lord means. 

My brothers and sisters, those Elders go forth with that testimony in their hearts, glorious in their belief, happy in their faith in a living God, and in humility serving him. It is the most glorious thing that can come into their lives. Ask an Elder — it makes no difference how long it has been since he has been home — about his mission, and you will see his face brighten and his eyes begin to sparkle as he tells you of his missionary experiences. 

I want to bear you my testimony that the three years that I was in the mission field gave me a richness of years that I will never forget. May God bless us and help us to understand that our Advocate, even the Lord Jesus Christ, is at the head of this work. God bless us, is my prayer. Amen. 

ELDER W. AIRD MACDONALD 

President of the California Mission 

I am grateful, my brothers and sisters, for this opportunity of bringing to you and to this conference a report of the California Mission. I bring to you the greetings of your sons and daughters who are serving as missionaries in that great mission. They are well; after some sickness which has prevailed with us during the past few months, I am happy to report that all the missionaries are enjoying the best of health, 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Dag 

and are prosecuting their work with diligence and energy in carrying forward the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I want to endorse the remarks that have been made here by President Bryant S. Hinckley and President Thomas D. Rees, as to the value, to these young men and women, of this opportunity that has come to them to serve in the mission field. This splendid group who form this choir that has rendered so beautifully for us today, I hope that in each of their lives, it shall be their plan and program to serve in the mission field. There is no experience that can come to a young man or woman that shall be of such value and interest to them throughout their lives as the experiences gained in the mission field. 

We came to this earth for experience, and that is all we will take out of it. So I hope it shall be the ambition of every young man and woman in the Church to go on a mission. I hope you mothers and fathers, you presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, will see to it that those under your care, (you who are stewards over them) shall have this privilege. See that they are not cheated out of this golden opportunity. 

I am glad to report that the work in the California Mission is progressing and growing. Nine thousand four hundred Saints in that mission, which embodies three states, send greetings to this conference. 

We are grateful to the presidency of the Relief Society for the opportunity that was given our mission to bring our Singing Mothers to the Relief Society conference. Out of the scattered branches of that mission there have come to this conference more than two hundred of these Singing Mothers who have been trained by Sister MacDonald. We are grateful also to Sister Evangeline Beesley, for her capable leadership and direction in the singing of these women. 

I have not time to give to you the remarkable experiences and sacrifices made by these splendid Latter-day Saint women who came at great sacrifices and for long distances. They are thrilled with this opportunity of attending a General Conference of the Church, and of participating in the blessings that belong to Latter-day Saints. 

The baptisms in the California Mission have increased sixty per cent over last year, which is evidence of the energetic work of your boys and girls in the mission. More than twelve thousand copies of the sacred record, the Book of Mormon, have been distributed this year. I am happy to bring you the indication that the people of the world are seeking after the very things that make the Mormon Church different. One of the interesting things that are attracting attention and unlocking the doors to the missionaries is the Church Welfare program. The fundamentals, the temporal things, about which our Church is concerned, plus the fine standards set by our people, are attracting intelligent men and women. 

I believe that we should be more concerned, and be prepared so we shall be ready to receive the good men and women when they come to accept the Gospel. There is such an indication of interest among the  who are now seeking after the finer things that the Gospel embodies, I tremble sometimes lest we shall not be qualified to uphold our standards. I would like to exhort Latter-day Saints to a re-reading of the forty-second Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which, at one of the first conferences of this Church, when the missionaries had been called in, and with the Elders assembled together, the Prophet Joseph stood before them, and in the majesty and power that was given him, spoke this great message. The Lord spoke to the Elders of the Church and outlined their duties, and then he said : "Now I speak unto the Church." Orson Pratt, that great missionary Apostle, tells us that he sat there in that great audience and wrote that great revelation as it fell from the lips of the Prophet. 

The Lord there tells the Saints what is necessary for them to do; to be true; to be honest, as has been outlined here by Apostle Albert E. Bowen today. They shall not steal and they shall not lie, they shall not commit adultery, they shall love their wives and cleave unto them and none else. The Lord here outlines the fundamental virtues that are necessary in the process of making Latter-day Saints out of converts to this Church. 

So I submit, brothers and sisters, the re-reading again of the Lord's admonition to Latter-day Saints. 

I bring you the announcement that the Book of Mormon has now been translated into the Armenian language, and that under the direction of Apostle John A. Widtsoe, Brother N. K, Sheranian, one of . our missionaries, has completed the first printing and publishing of the book into this language. The Nephite record is now to be given to the scattered Armenian people. 

I am happy to say that in all the organizations of the Church in the California Mission the work is being carried on in our small branches as nearly as possible as it is outlined by the General Authorities of the Church. I bear testimony that this is the work of the Lord, that Joseph Smith was in reality a prophet of God. I sustain wholeheartedly, and I bear record, that our leaders today are inspired men. They have the inspiration of the Lord to direct this work. I pray that the Lord will bless us as a people, that we may stand firmly together and uphold the principles that have been given us; that by our lives, and the works we do, we shall preach the Gospel to the children of men; and that the honorable men of the earth seeing our good example may be led to investigate and be brought to a knowledge of the truth. 

May the Lord add his blessings to us, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

An anthem, "Sing for the Fallen Brave" (Wheeler), was sung by the Choir. 

Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Satardag, October S Second Dag 


