Afternoon
07 10 1899




ELDER P. M. LYMAN. 

Nature of the Law of Tithing— Its Requiiememts have been Widely Ignored— Effects of Obedience to It — Forgiveness comes Through Repentance—Offerings of the Saints — The Obligation of Obedience — That which is Temporal and Spiritual Inseparable— How Eternal Inheritances are Obtained. 

My brethren and sisters: I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with us this afternoon, as it has been so abundantly with our brethren, and that we may have the liberty of that Spirit in speaking and in listening, and profit by what the Lord may please to give us. Time is very precious, and this is a very large congregation, and without the help of the Lord, it is not possible for an Elder to edify this intelligent audience. 

We have been listening to the instruction of President Snow and his brethren in the various Stakes of Zion, particularly upon the law of tithing, in such a way, possibly, as it has not been brought before the people in the past. There is a time for all things, and it appears as though the time has come when the Latter-day Saintsshould give particular attention to this important law. The condition of the people individually, as well as the condition of the Church, has made it necessary for the Lord to announce through 

His servants that we must put ourselves right with regard to this principle. Like all the other principles of the Gospel, it is vital and very important, and it is not alone that the foundations of Zion may be laid and the obligations of the Church be met, as they needed to be met in 1838, when the Lord was besought by the Prophet Joseph to know how much was necessary of the property of the people for a tithing. It is not an unusual thing for the Prophet to approach the Lord in times of necessity and when it appears plain to the mind of the Prophet that something needs to be done. We could not tell without the inspiration of the Lord what resources there were for the Church to rely upon, but how simple and Dlain it is when the Lord announces that if Israel will bring in all their tithes and offerings, that there may be meat in the storehouse of the Lord, He will open the windows of Heaven and pour out a blessing that we shall hardly be able to contain. The necessities of the people today in these valleys, the things that we are suffering, the early frosts that have destroyed quite a percentage of the crops of the people in the higher valleys, the loss in the fruit crop, all admonish us that we need a blessing from the Lord. 

It has been discovered, as the records of the Church abundantly show, that quite a percentage of the Latter-day Saints have entirely ignored this law of tithing. Twenty-five per cent have neglected it altogether. What right have we in the Church if we are not willing to obey the laws of the Church? As well might we think of being members in good standing and fellowship, if we had failed to receive baptism of the water and of the Spirit, or if we refused to gather together or to preach the Gospel. Without the law of tithing, as we heard from the President this morning, these temples could not have been built. What has been done towards the laying of the foundations of Zion could not have been accomplished without the revenue law of the Church. And it is a most reasonable law. I believe that I have discovered, as well as my brethren, why the Lord has determined that one-tenth of our interest annually should be required for a tithing. I understand it to be for the reason that that amount is just exactly what is necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Lord. Less than that is insufficient. Tithing- has been known among the people of Israel from the early ages. It has been proven not only among the people that have occupied this earth, but among people who have occupied other earths than this. It is a law that has been demonstrated in the experience of the children of God through all past ages, and it is understood that one-tenth is just the amount necessary to meet the requirements of the Lord. How much allowance the Lord has made, in His reckoning, for those who, being without faith, will be negligent and will not have the strength and power of character to endure, I am not able to say. But He has no doubt established it as the very amount that is absolutely necessary for the purposes of the Lord. It is also just exactly the amount that is necessary to try the souls of the children of men and to prove them. Men who can observe that law and live it properly will be prepared to graduate unto a higher plane, which they must do before the redemption of Zion. Before we enter upon the law of consecration, which is the celestial law of God in finance, it is necessary that we should take the training that we are now having under the law of tithing. 

Tou may be certain, my brethren and sisters, that any person who is not able to observe this law faithfully and well will never, worlds without end, be able to observe the law of consecration. The law of tithing is a stepping stone, and it is a law that will abide forever, because a great majority possibly of the children of God will not be able to reach the higher law. 

Since President Snow has been talking so plainly upon this subject, there have been a class of people who have undertaken to take advantage of his promise to the Latter-day Saints in regard to this law, that if for the future they would observe this law faithfully the past should be forgiven. There have been men guilty of breaches of the laws of morality and honesty who have claimed that if they now pay their tithing all their sins will be for them. President Snow never announced any such doctrine as that. He could not announce such a doctrine as that. But the Lord is perfectly able to say to us that if we will observe this law of finance, which we have been under now for over sixty years, for the future and keep this commandment our past negligence of the law of tithing will be forgiven. He is competent also to say that if we will repent of our sins and serve God with all our hearts for the future, our sins will be forgiven us; but not otherwise. The forgiveness of sins is predicated upon faith in God, repentance and reformation and baptism. Sins are not forgiven through the payment of tithing, nor through the partaking of the sacrament, nor observing the Word of Wisdom, or prayer. There are blessings attached to each of these important requirements of the Gospel; but if a man would have his sins forgiven, and be allowed to enter into the Church, he must have faith in God, and in His Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost, he must repent of all his sins, turn unto the Lord with full purpose of heart and sin no more. Then God will forgive him and redeem him from his sins; but not by paying tithing. By the payment of tithing the foundations of Zion are laid, and up to the present time our tithing has been paid to accomplish what we now see done in a temporal way. The offerings also have been generous enough to perform a great work, for we have paid offerings as well as tithing. We have made offerings of our time, in preaching the Gospel to the world without purse or scrip. We have made offerings for the building of temples, for the erection of meeting houses and for other public works that have been accomplished among the Latterday Saints. By our offerings the poor have been reasonably cared for, and if our offerings were as generous as they ought to be no poor person among the Latter-day Saints would ever have to cry for relief without receiving it freely. But we want our names recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life, and it is not done by the observance of a*— one principle alone, but to every principle there are special blessings promised. There are, in the records of the Church today, the names of every man, woman and child who has given of their means for tithing. Those records can be scanned and our faith and works can be understood by the Presidency of the Church. And we ought to be known; we want to be known. We want to be recognized, not alone as having a name among the people, but as being faithful, devoted, humble and obedient. 

Obedience is the first law of God. It is most important that we should be obedient to the word and will of the Lord. It was that which entitled the Son of God to be anointed above His brethren; for He was in all things most perfect and obedient. He put not forth His own will, but He submitted to the will of the Father in all things, even to the laying down of His life, in order that He might be indeed the Son of God, the Savior of the world. He has earned that important position, and through the shedding of His blood and His atonement we are redeemed. By humility and faith and repentance we obtain the forgiveness of our sins, and are entitled to have our names upon the records of the Church as members of the Church. But that fact does not demonstrate particularly any very important work that we have accomplished in sustaining the work of the Lord. By it we are entitled to enter in, but after we have been recorded members of the Church we must then work out our salvation and earn eternal life, for it is not obtained without earning it. 

The Lord is not going to give us everything without our doing something. He requires of us a broken heart, a contrite spirit, an obedience to the mind and will of the ±-fOrd. And this is reasonable. How generous the Lord is to us when He declares through His prophet, "if from this time forth you will do my will with regard to the law of tithing, the past shall be blotted out." It is not only generous, but it is reasonable and philosophical. The object of the Lord is the salvation of the people, and if He should come out with a revelation today, saying that the Latter-day Saints must square up all their back tithing, do you think they could do it? No. It could not be done, any more than a man could gather up the sins he has committed and blot them . They are committed, and we cannot change the fact that they are com mitted. We may be forgiven, we may be redeemed, they may be finally blotted out, if our repentance is genuine and we do not return to our sins again; but it is done through the atoning blood of the Lord Jesus. No man can forgive his own sins, no man can redeem himself from his sins. Neither can any man pay his back tithing, if he has been a member of this Church forty or fifty years and been paying only part of his tithing all that time, and possibly paying none at all. The Lord would not require such a thing, because He knows the Latter-day Saints could not do it. Why, it is all they can do to pay their tithing today. Sufficient for the day is the tithing thereof; sufficient for the day are the offerings thereof; sufficient for the day are the labors thereof; sufficient for the day is the repentance and reformation re quired of men. They cannot do two days in one. Yesterday has gone for ever. We cannot recall it, any more than we can bring to us tomorrow; tomorrow will always be ahead of us. Today is the day of salvation, and the day in which all our labors must btperformed. Therefore we want to remember that He hath forgiven the past, thank the Lord. But do not let you or I regret if we have been among that number who have paid their tithing reasonably well, and feel sorry that we did not keep our tithing back so that we could be forgiven. For there is an advantage, there is a blessing and an enlargement of the soul that comes to the man who obeys the word and will of the Lord. It is better that we have done God's will than that we should have need to be forgiven for neglecting it. It is better not to have been a sinner. It is better that our sins should be very light, and not of a serious nature than that they should be deadly sins. It is better that we should live without sin, and be like the Son of God. It is not necessary that we should be sinners. God has designed that we should not be sinners, but that we should live lives of purity and righteousness and walk in obedience to His will, as the Savior did. The Lord desires, just as you desire, every one of your children to be obedient, honest and pure. You do not want them defiled and dishonest, in order that you may forgive them. Therefore I say to my brethren and sisters who have paid their tithing and have little or nothing to be forgiven for in that respect, thank the Lord, and only wish that there was nothing that you had need to be forgiven for, and that you had done the will of the Lord most perfectly. 

A great many of the Latter-day Saints have done very well. Thank the Lord for what has been accomplished since last May; thank the Lord that the people have listened, and that you have had testimonies in your hearts, as well as President Snow. You are entitled to know for yourselves. Every one of these Apostles knows that President Snow's testimony is from the Lord, for He has told us. We comprehend It most thoroughly; so does every Latterday Saint who has done the will of the Lord. Every Latter-day Saint who has now detided and determined to do the will of the Lord also knows it. Those who do the will of the Lord in the future shall also know that God has spoken through President Snow. It is his particular mission and ministry to set right the Latter-day Saints in regard to this particular law — not to neglect any other and not to say that men's sins will be forgiven them if they pay their tithing. That is a mistake, and only transgressors have concluded that Bishops and the authorities of the Church have no right to handle them now for their transgressions, because President Snow has said that the past should be forgiven. He has only said that the past should be forgiven, so far as the payment of tithing was concerned. Thank the Lord that we may be forgiven for that. 

Do- you not remember when the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated in 1893, how everybody was allowed to go in there, transgressors and' all, because their names were upon the record and they had not been dealt with? The Prophet Wilford "Woodruff announced then that the sins of the Latter-day Saints were forgiven them; but who are Latterday Saints? Who are the men and women to whom President Woodruff referred? Any man who had not re? No. Any man who had not made satisfaction? No. He was only announcing that the work you and I are engaged in is genuine, and that in our repentance and reformation there was vitality and virtue, and that we were forgiven so far as we had complied with these laws. He never meant that a man who was an adulterer, or horse thief, was to be forgiven because he went into that Temple, without having made satisfaction or having repented. President Woodruff could not say that; no ProDhet could say it. The Father could not say it, only upon the principles of repentance, reformation and righteousness — not a repentance for a little season, but to obtain forgiveness for our sins we must sin no more. We must not turn like the dog to his vomit or the sow to her wallowing in the mire, but we must reform and then labor as the Lord directs, then He will gladly forgive us, just as He will now cancel our obligations in regard to tithing, if for the future we will do the will of the Lord. 

Let our names be recorded upon the book of the law of the Lord, where they can be seen and known, and let the conscience of every man, woman and child be clear and free. Why, when we look over the records now, we find men in high positions in the Church who have been very careless and censurable in regard to the law of tithing. No doubt many have entered into the Temples of the Lord who have never done a single thing to help erect or maintain them. We want to repent of these things. We need not be afraid in regard to the Church; we have no need to be disturbed or worried in regard to the obligations of the Church. What should disturb us is our individual obligations to the Lord and to one another. Deal honestly and squarely with the Lord, and you will very readily be able to deal honestly and squarely with your brethren. Let us meet our obligations to the Lord, for to Him we owe life and everything we possess. He has entrusted us with it as stewards, and we want to make good our stewardship. The talents that He has entrusted us with let us turn them ovei and double them. Do not bury them, nor hide them up, but invest them so that they will increase. The Lord re this of us. The man who pays his tithing by the thousands or by the hundreds is not the only one that is acceptable to the Lord. The one who pays his fives, his tens, or his fifties — the tithing on whatever the Lord blesses him with — is acceptable to the Lord also. The Lord does not expect a man with one talent to turn over ten. If he returned two he is doing wonderfully well. He does not expect a man with two talents to turn over ten, but four. He expects men to employ their talents and to make good use of them. He does not look with favor upon a slothful servant, because it is wicked to be slothful and idle. We want to be Industrious and persevering and see how much we can do in this life with the talents that God has intrusted us with; then we will be acceptable to Him. The widow's mite, thank the Lord, is as large as the millionaire's great amount of means that he may turn over: for out of her little she gives whatever she possesses in order to assist the work of the Lord. 

Let the Latter-day Saints remember that we have undertaken to strive for the celestial kingdom. We desire an inheritance on this earth when it is celestialized. We expect an inheritance in Zion, but in order that we may have this inheritance, we are not only required to come into the Church by baptism and confirmation and to receive our ordinations and blessings, but we are expected to be a prayerful people, a people who will observe the Word of Wisdom, who will live pure lives and keep the commandments of the Lord. We are expected to bear the burdens and responsibilities of the kingdom, temporal as well as spiritual. We are in a temporal world, and this is a church of material things as well as spiritual things. We cannot divide the temporal from the spiritual, the body from the spirit and stay here. They go unitedly, hand in hand, and will do throughout mortality, and then throughout all the ages of eternity. Men are not perfect without immortality and eternal life. They cannot meet the design of God without accomplishing what the Lord has laid before us. This is the Lord's work. It is not the work of our brethren who have passed away. They have finished their  here. They have gone to their reward, having earned eternal life. We remain, and we are to prove our faithfulness and devotion and our endurance in the principles of righteousness. The Lord will sustain us; this work will continue; and we will gain in strength and numbers all the time. We are spreading abroad and becoming more numerous in every ward, in every stake, and in every nation where we live. The Lord is working with us, and is handling the nations. He is handling this nation and directing it in its operations to extend liberty among the people of the world. The Gospel will be in the track of religious liberty, and will be carried to every people. 

I desire to read the 7th verse in the 85th Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. The preceding verses speak in relation to the duty of the Lord's clerk in Zion. At present the Lord has clerks in all the Stakes of Zion and in all the Wards in Zion and the history of our faith and works is being kept. It is important that these records should be kept and correctly kept. A singular thing that I have noticed here (perhaps you have noticed it as well) is that it is not only necessary that our names should be found of record, but it is necessary that our fathers' names should also be found of record, as well as the names of our children. It seems that when the inheritances in Zion are divided out, those whose names are recorded with the names of their fathers and of their children— three generations — are to be entitled to inheritances in Zion: 

'And it shall come to pass that I, the Lord God, will send one mighty and strong, holding the sceptre of power in his hand, clothed with light for a covering, whose mouth shall utter words, eternal words; while his bowels shall be a fountain of truth, to set in order the house of God, and to arrange by lot the inheritances of the Saints, whose names are found, and the names of their fathers, and of their children, enrolled in the book of the law of God." 

I have felt it important, not only that I should be faithful, but that my children should be faithful, and also my progenitors, as an evidence that there is stability, virtue and integrity in that line of blood; that there is fidelity and faithfulness at least in three generations, who shall he found recorded in the book of the law of God. I am anxious for my kindred and my posterity. I am not satisfied to be alone. I want my family, my kindred and my friends with me; hence I desire to be exemplary and to use my influence with them, that they also may have a worthy record, and not be cast out for apostasy or any other reason, but that together the three generations may be found recorded and be entitled to an inheritance in Zion. If, however, our names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God, we shall not be entitled to an inheritance in Zion. We want an inheritance on this earth. We want a part of the earth for our celestial home and we want to earn it. We cannot get it otherwise. As the President said today, Zion cannot be redeemed but by purchase. Let me say to you that your redemption and mine cometh only by purchase. We must earn what we expect to enjoy. We must redeem our part of Zion, and as the whole people we must redeem the land of Zion. We are promised an eternal inheritance in the land of Zion, but we cannot get it by any one law alone. We cannot get it by tithing alone. A man cannot say that he has paid his tithing generously and freely, and now he has liberty to do just as he pleases. He must not only keep the law of tithing properly, but he must also keep his repentance genuine and eternal. His devotion and faithfulness to the Lord in every other respect must be maintained in addition to the payment of tithing. We have but a little time to live on this earth. Why can we not endure just for a few fleeting years, that will be less than a day to us hereafter? Fifty, seventy, eighty, or a hundred years, we will look upon as but a span when we shall have entered into eternity, the depth and height of which cannot be known in mortality. The suffering and the little difficulties and evil which beset us in this life, and which try our very souls, will be counted as naught hereafter. We will only wonder that we were ever shaken or disturbed at all by the little things that afflicted us. Brethren and sisters, you have our  in regard to this principle. We know that it is important. It is not a new thing that the Lord should be robbed in His tithes and His offerings. It is not a new thing that the word of the Lord should come through a Prophet. It came through the Prophet Joseph when the law of tithing was revealed. It came through him when the law of consecration was revealed and on a hundred other occasions. Many revelations the Lord gave through him, and they have been written. Hundreds of times has the word of the Lord been given through President Brigham Young, the Prophet and lion of the Lord, and through President John Taylor and through President Wilford Woodruff. There is nothing that the Lord requires of His people that the Prophet of the Lord will hesitate to present when it is necessary. He is the chief man upon the towers of Zion, to warn the people, and when a warning comes there is a reason for it; there are conditions just confronting us that we know not of, and perhaps they are not told to us. We cannot tell you what is coming just now, but there are important conditions just in front of us as the people of God, and it is necessary that the Prophet should take the very stand that he has in regard to this law, for our safety, for the redemption of Zion, for the accomplishment of the purposes of God in the last days. Thank the Lord that we have a prophet; that we can approach him and learn what his mind and will is and receive it as we have received it in all plainness. And when the Lord sDeaks to His servant the Prophet, He speaks to all the Prophets. President Snow is not alone, but he is surrounded by Prophets of the Lord, and they have the very same testimony abiding in their souls. They know that this is God's work, and they have not been mistaken. They have been leading the people all the time, and the Lord has directed them. He will do so to the end. Thank the Lord that we have Prophets; thank the Lord that this congregation is full of men of prophecy and of revelation. And they are in the missions abroad, as well as at home. The world is enlivened today with men of inspiration from God. 

They speak revelation. They give forth the word of the Lord, they bear testimony, strong and powerful, to the nations of the earth. In this way the purposes of God are progressing and advancing, and His work will be accomplished. No power on earth canstay it, for it is God's work. Man has not originated it. It is the work of our Eternal Father who dwells in the Heavens. There is power and virtue in it for the salvation of men, and it is true and vital. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Let us be faithful and endure but for a little season, and our day of rest and peace and welcome into the presence of the Father and the Son will be sure. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Objects of the Law of Tithing — The same Law in Ancient Times — Duty of the Leaders of the Chuivh in Relation to it — Disastrous Effects of Neglect and Beneficent Results of Obedience. 

I desire sincerely that my brethren and sisters will exert their faith in my behalf, that I may be able to speak words of advice, of counsel and of warning, as the Spirit of the Lord may direct. We have had much valuable instruction in relation to our duties as Latter-day Saints, not only concerning the law of tithing, but also in reference to other things, which are as important in their place as the law of tithing. There is nothing, however, of greater importance to the welfare of the Church at present than the consideration of this law, by which means will be placed In the storehouse of the Lord, to meet the necessities of the people. My eye fell upon a passage in the Book of Mormon, which speaks of a circumstance relative to the payment of tithing. I will refer to it by and by. It is one of the first that we have any record of in ancient days. I have no doubt that the law of tithing has always existed when the Lord had a people on the earth. The purpose of the law of tithing is similar to that of the law of revenue which is enacted by every State, every county and every municipality in the world, I suppose. There is no such thing as an organization of men for any purpose of importance, without provisions for carrying out its designs. The law of tithing is the law of revenue  the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Without it it would be impossible to carry on the purposes of the Lord. I want to read to you one of the objects for which the law of tithing is given. It is recorded in Section 83 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph at Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, April 30, 1832: 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord, in addition to the laws of the Church concerning women and children, those who belong to the Church, who have lost their husbands or fathers. 

"Women have claim upon their husbands for their maintenance until their husbands are taken, and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the Church; 

'And if they are not faithful, theyshall not have fellowship in the Church; yet they may remain upon their inheritances according to the laws of the land. 

"All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age. 

'And after that they have claim upon the Church, or in other words upon the Lord's storehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances. 

"And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the Church, and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor. Amen." 

Here is one of the great purposes for which the law of tithing is instituted in the Church. It is intended that the widows shall be looked after when they are in need, and that the fatherless and the orphans shall be provided for from the funds of the Church; that they shall be clothed and fed, and shall have opportunity for education, the same as other children who have parents to look after them. When a child is fatherless and motherless the Church becomes the parent of that child, and it is obligatory upon the Church to take care of it, and to see that it has opportunities equal with the other children in the Church. This is a great responsibility. Have we ever seen the day since the Church was organized when we could carry out this purpose of the Lord fully, and to our heart's content? We have not! because we never have had the means to do it with. But if men will obey the laws of God so that there shall be abundance in the storehouse of the Lord, we will have wherewith to feed and clothe the poor and the orphan and to look after those who are in need in the Church. Our brethren will not have to join these secret associations that are formed in the world, for the purpose of leaving- a few thousand dollars to their widows when they die. If we will pay our tithes and our offerings we will lay up for ourselves treasure in the storehouse of God, by whicn our widows and our children will be cared for after we are dead, and far better than they will be by these associations that offer premiums on death. I mention this simply incidentally. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is good enough for me and my family, and I have no time or means to associate myself with organizations that are not of this Church and which have simply for their object the laying up of something for my wife to have after I am dead. I cannot afford to do it, for this reason: the Lord has seen fit to give me from day to day just sufficient for my needs, and if I were to join these associations for the purpose of looking after the future of my family, I would be compelled to neglect paying my tithing, and present duties, because I would not have means enough to pay my tithing and my dues for these associations. We have known members of the Church, who when they were asked why they did not pay their tithing, confessed that they were associated with organizations of one kind and another, wherein they were compelled to pay weekly or monthly certain sums of money; they had been associated with these institutions for a number of years and had put quite a lot of money in them, and now if they did not continue to pay their dues they would lose all they had put in, then in case of death their families would lose the premium. From this you can see they are in bondage to these secret organizations', and if they want to pay tithing they cannot do it. Well, if they do not they will be among those whose names will not be found recorded in the book of the Law of the Lord and who will not have inheritance in the Zion of God. Furthermore, we have called some of these men to go on missions, but they could not go to preach the Gospel to the nations  the earth, why? Because they belonged to certain secret associations, and they were compelled to be at work all the time in order to pay their dues, or they would lose what they had put in them. 

 I want to say to the Later-day Saints that Zion and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are good enough for me and my family. I do not want any of these associations for the purpose of laying up money. If there were any other object in them by which I might be able to do good in the world, that might be an inducement. But I cannot afford to join any association simply for the purpose of laying up money to be received when I am dead. I am willing to trust my people in the hands of the Lord, just as I have been in the hands of the Lord from the beginning. 

Now I will read a little from the Book of Mormon in regard to the law of tithing as it existed in ancient days. The Prophet Alma, in his 13th chapter, commencing at the 14th verse says: 

"14. Tea, humble yourself even as the people in the days of Melchisedek, who was also a High Priest after this same order, which I have spoken, who also took upon him the High Priesthood forever. 

"15. And it was the same Melchisedek to whom Abraham paid tithes; yea, even our Father Abraham paid tithes of one-tenth of all he possesed. 

"16. Now these ordinances were given after this manner, that thereby the people might look forward on the Son of God, it being a type of his order, or it being his order; and this, that they might look forward to him for a remission of their sins, that they might enter into the rest of the Lord. 

"17. Now this Melchisedek was a king over the land of Salem; and his people waxed strong in iniquity and abominations; yea, they had all gone astray; they were full of all manner of wickedness: 

"18. But Melchisedek having exercised mighty faith, and received the office of the High Priesthood, according to the holy order of God, did preach repentance unto his people. And behold, they did repent; and Melchisedek did establish peace in the land in his days; therefore he was called the prince of peace, for he was the king of Salem; and he did reign under his father. 

"19. Now, there were many before him, and also there were many afterwards, but none were greater; therefore, of him they have more particularly made mention." 

I desire now to read a few words in relation to the duty which devolves upon the men who have been speaking during this conference. I will read a portion of the 41st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"Hearken and hear, oh ye my people, saith the Lord and your God, ye whom I delight to bless with the greatest blessings, ye that hear me; and ye that hear me not will I curse, that have professed by name, with the heaviest of all cursings. 

"2. Hearken, O ye Elders of my Church whom I have called; behold I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall assemble yourselves together to agree upon my word, 

"3. And by the prayer of your faith ye shall receive my law, that ye may know how to govern my Church, and have all things right before me. 

"4. And I will be your ruler when I come; and behold, I come quickly, and ye shall see that my law is kept." 

The Lord here especially demands of the men who stand at the head of this Church and who are responsible for the guidance and direction of the people of God that they shall see to it that the law of God is kept. It is our duty to do this. We are not talking to you about paying your tithing because it is a pleasure to do so, or because we desire to harp upon that principle; but we are doing it because the necessities of the people are such that it becomes obligatory upon the leaders of the Church to say something upon this principle, that not only the people may do their duty in regard to this law, but that there may be something in the storehouse of the Lord with which to meet the necessities of the people; for the necessities of the Church are the necessities of the people. The members of the Church constitute the Church.and therefore whatever obligation the Church is under, it rests upon each individual member of the Church proportionate to his means. The Lord requires of us that we shall see that His law is kept among the people. This is one of the principle reasons why we are talking to you as we are. In Section 82 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord speaking to the Church says: 

"Verily, verily I say unto you my servants, that inasmuch as ye have forgiven one another your trespasses, even so I, the Lord, forgive you. 

"2. Nevertheless there are those among you who have sinned exceedingly; yea, even all of you have sinned, but verily I say unto you, beware from henceforth, and refrain from sin, lest sore judgments fall upon your heads; 

"3. For unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation. 

"4. Ye call upon my name for revelations, and I give them unto you; and inasmuch as ye keep not my sayings, which I give unto you, ye become transgressors, and justice and judgment are the penalty which is affixed unto my law; 

"5. Therefore, what I say unto one I say unto all, watch, for the adversary spreadeth his dominions and darkness reigneth; 

"6. And the anger of the Lord kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way. 

"7. And now, verily I say unto you, I the Lord, will not lay any sin to your charge; go your ways and sin no more; but unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return, saith the Lord your God. 

"8. And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a new commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you, 

"9. Or in other words I will give unto you directions how you may act before me, that it may turn to you for your salvation. 

"10. I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." 

Now, Brother Lyman has been talking to you about the remission of sins. When we commit sin, it is necessary that we repent of it and make restitution as far as lies in our power. When we cannot make restitution for the wrong we have done then we must apply for the grace and mercy of God to cleanse us from that iniquity. 

Men cannot forgive their own sins; they cannot cleanse themselves from the consequences of their sins. Men can stop sinning and can do right in the future, and so far their acts are acceptable before the Lord and worthy of consideration. But who shall repair the wrongs they have done to themselves and to others, which it seems impossible for them to repair themselves? By the atonement of Jesus Christ, the sins of the repentant shall be washed away, though they be crimson they shall be made white as wool. This is the promise given to you through the President of the Church today. We who have not paid our tithing in the past, and are therefore under obligations to the Lord, which we are not in a position at present to discharge, he has said to us the Lord requires that no longer at our hands, but will forgive us for the past if we will observe this law honestly in the future. That is generous and kind, and I feel grateful for it. 

I will read row a few verses from Section 85 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, commencing at the 9th verse: 

"And all they who are not found written in the book of remembrance, shall find none inheritance in that day, but they shall Oe cut asunder, and their portion shall be appointed them among unbelievers, where are wailing and gnashing of teeth. 

"These things I say not of myself; therefore, as the Lord speaketh, He will also fulfill. 

"And they who are of the High Priesthood, whose names are not found written in the book of the law, or that are found to have apostatized, or to have been cut off from the Church; as well as the lesser Priesthood, or the members, in that day, shall not find an inheritance among the Saints of the Most High; 

"Therefore it shall be done unto them as unto the children of the priests, as will be found recorded in the second chapter and sixty-first and second verses of Ezra." 

I am going to turn now to Ezra and see what is said there. We read: 

"61. And the children of the Priests; the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai; which took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name; 

"62. These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found, therefore were they, as polluted put from the Priesthood. 

"63. And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a Priest with Urim and Thummim." 

This is the position the people will be in when they come to claim an inheritance in Zion, if their names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God. And I want to tell you that this refers directly to the law of tithing. In the first place it referred to the law of consecration, but that law, as has been explained, was not properly kept, and inasmuch as people are under greater condemnation when they keep not the laws that are given them, the 

Lord in His mercy withdrew from the Latter-day Saints the law of consecration, because the people were not prepared to live it, and as long as it was in force and they kept it not they were under condemnation. The law of tithing was given in its place. 

Some people may not care very much whether their names are recorded or not, but this comes from ignorance of the consequences. If their names are not recorded they will not only be cut off from the assistance which they would be entitled to from the Church if they needed it, but they will be cut off from the ordinances of the house of God; they will be cut asunder from their dead and from their fathers who have been faithful, or from those who shall come after them who shall be faithful, and they will be appointed their portion with the unbelievers, where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth. It means that you will be cut off from your fathers and mothers, from your husbands, your wives, your children, and that you shall have no portion or lot or inheritance in the kingdom of God, both in time and in eternity. It has a very serious and far reaching effect. It is therefore the more obligatory upon me and upon my fellow-servants in the Church of God to make these matters known to the people, that our skirts may be free from their blood. I need not read to you from Malachi, but I will read something from Amos, who is called one of the lesser Prophets. The Prophet says — and he says it ironically: 

"4. Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply transgressions; and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after three years. 

"5. And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and proclaim and publish the free offerings; for this liketh you, O ye children of Israel, saith the Lord God. 

"6. And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and want of bread in all your places; yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the Lord. 

"7. And also I have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest; and I caused it to rain upon one city, and caused it not to rain upon another city; one piece was rained upon, and the piece whereupon it rained not withered. 

"8. So two or three cities wandered unto one city, to drink water; but they  not satisfied; yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the Lord. 

"9. I have smitten you with blasting and mildew; when your gardens and your vineyards, and your fig trees, and your olive trees increased, the palmerworm devoured them; yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the Lord. 

"10. I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt; your young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken away your horses; and I have made the stink of your camps to come up unto your nostrils; yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the Lord. 

"11. I have overthrown some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and ye were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning; yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the Lord. 

"12. Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel; and because I will do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. 

"13. For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, the Lord, the God of Hosts, is His name. 

"14. Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation, O house of Israel. 

"15. The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise; she is forsaken upon her land; there is none to raise her up." 

These were the consequences of disobedience on the part of ancient Israel, the same power reigns today that reigned then. 

I have referred you to some of the chastisements and promises of punishments upon those who will not hearken unto the Lord nor obey His law. The Latter-day Saints are in the midst of these mountains for the express purpose of serving Almighty God. We have not come here to serve ourselves nor to serve the world. We are here because we have believed in the Gospel that has been restored in the latter day through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are here because we believe that God Almighty has organized His Church and has restored the fullness of the Gospel and Holy Priesthood. We are here because we have received the testimony of the Spirit of God that the course which we have pursued in this regard is right and acceptable in the sight of the Lord. We are here because we have come in obedience to the command of the Almighty. 

Now let me show to you how the Lord poured out blessings upon His people anciently when they obeyed the law of tithing. I will read from the 31st chapter of II Chronicles, commencing at the 5th verse: 

"5. And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the first fruits of corn, wine and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly." 

This is in accordance with the law of tithing that was given to the children through Moses, as you may read in the 27th chapter of Leviticus: 

"And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithes of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated unto the Lord their God, and laid them by heaps. 

"In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month. 

"And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord and His people Israel. 

"Then Hezekiah questioned with the Priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 

"And Azariah the chief Priest, of the house of Zadok, answered him and said, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty; for the Lord has blessed His people; and that which is left is this great store." 

In connection with this passage of scripture I would remind you of the promise made through the Prophet Malachi to the children of Israel: 

"Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of Heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. 

"And I will rebuke the devou'f" foi your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the Lord of hosts." 

I know that the Lord will do this to those who fear Him and work righteousness before Him. 

I refer you now to the 28th chapter of Deut., and also to the 26th chapter of Leviticus. They run almost parallel. I will read from the 28th chapter of Deut: "And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all His commandments which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. 

"And all these blessings shall come on thee and overtake thee, if thou shalt hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God. 

"Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field. 

"Blessed shall be the fruit of chy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy shear"Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store. 

"Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out. 

"The Lord shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face; they shail come out against thee one way, and flee before thee seven ways. 

"The Lord shall command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses, and in all that thou settest thine hand unto; and he shall bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth chee. 

"The Lord shall establish thee a holy people unto Himself, as He hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, and walk in His ways. 

"And all people of the earth shall see that thou art called by the name of the Lord; and they shall be afraid of thee. 

"And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground, in the land which the Lord sware unto thy fathers to give thee. 

"The Lord shall open unto thee His good treasure, the Heaven to give the rain unto thy land in His season, and to bless all the work of thine hand, and thou shalt lend unto many nation-?, and thou shalt not borrow." 

God hasten the day when this people shall be in a position to lend and not be under the necessity of borrowing at all, and I believe the only remedy that is necessary to bring about this result is for the people to observe the law of tithing. If the people of God would pay their tithing honestly we would have abundance with which cc build Temples and to maintain the work of the Lord in the Temples; we would have abundance to take care of the widows and orphans and the poor in our midst. We would not have to ask you to donate this little thing and that little thing for the benefit of the poor  we would have enough to meet all of these necessities in my opinion. But as long as some people are disobedient and neglectful in observing this law, those who are willing will of necessity be called upon from time to time to show their further liberality in maintaining the poor. I want to say for the benefit of our friends who may be present that the Latter-day Saints do not ask their non-Mormon neighbors to feed their poor. We do it ourselves and we feed hundreds that are not of us besides. However, those who do not pay their tithing are not entitled to the help that they would be if they paid their tithing. When one comes to a Bishop and asks for assistance because of his or her straightened circumstances, the first thing the Bishop should do is to inquire if he or she is a tithe payer. He should know whether the name is on the book of the law of the Lord, and if not on the book, if he or she has been derelict and negligent in relation to this principle of tithing, he or she has no claim upon the Bishop, neither have their children, and if under those circumstances the Bishop assists him, it will simply be out of pure charity and not because such have iny claim upon the Church. That is why ihe widow who receives assistance from the Church should pay her tithing, so that her name may be on the records of the Church. It is not a law that is applicable to one and not to another. If the rich may not receive blessings because their names are not oa the record, then neither shall the poor receive blessings in the house of God if thMr names are not recorded. So long as a poor person receives his or her support through the tithings of the people, they should be willing to observe the law themselves in order that they may be entitled to what they receive. They should show by their observance of the law that they are law-keepers and not law-breakers. Our children, as soon as they become old enough to earn means, should be taught to pay th^ir tithing, that their names may be written in the t ook of the law of the Lord, 7 o that if perchance their fathers die and they are left orphans, their names, as weil as the names of their parents, will be f.iund unon the records and they will  God lives, be entitled to their support and to their education. It is our duty to look after these children and see that they have an equal, chance with those who are more favored with parents to look after them. 

"And the Lord shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt no 1 : he beneath; if that thou hearken unto the commandments of the Lord, thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do them." 

These are the promises that the Lord made to the people of Israel anciently, if they would hearken unto His words and obey His laws. 

Now, I want to say to you without any hesitancy or fear of successful contradiction, that the words which [ have read in your hearing are as applicable to you as they were to the children of Israel. You are modern Israel and they were ancient Israel. The same Go.l spake through His servant Moses that speaks today through His servant Lorenzo Snow. Obedience to the laws of God will produce the same results today that it did anciently. To those who know the history of ancient Israel ii is perhaps not necessary for me to say that these words were fulfilled upon Israel. As long as they hearkened to His word, God did prosper them; He did bless their land; He did send them the early and the latter rains; He did multiply them and strengthen them in the land; He did set them on high; He did make them His covenant people, and they became famous throughout the known world. The glory of Solomon reached to the uttermost parts of the earth. The kings and queens of the earth heard of his greatness anil of his wisdom. They took pilgrimages to Jerusalem to see for themselves and to verify the reports they had heard of the greatness of the children of Israel. The Queen of Sheba went and saw Solomon in his glory. She heard of the wisdom that fell from his lips and beheld the greatness of his kingdom, and she said to the king: "It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom. Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it; and behold, the half was not told The: thy  and prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard. Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom." 

I commend to you the careful reading of the remaining portion of this chapter in Deuteronomy. Time will not permit me to read it, but I would like you to read and contemplate it at your leisure, for there you will find, as if written by eye-witnesses, history of the judgments of God that subsequently fell upon the children of Israel, with an acurate account of the downfall and disintegration of the people. They became a hiss and a byword among the nations of the earth. They were broken asunder, they were carried captive into the various nations of the earth; they served under taskmasters; from that day unto the present they have been under the curse of God through disobedience to His laws, and they will remain under that curse of disobedience so long as they tail to repent of their sins and return not unto the Lord. But just as soon as they will hearken to the voice of Malachi and return unto the Lord and begin to observe His laws and ordinances, then will be fulfilled the promise of the ancient Prophet that God will open the windows of Heaven and pour out blessings upon them till they will not have room to contain them. But this will not be until they repent and turn tin to the Lord. Neither will it be with us until we repent for there are many of us who are just as guilty of disobedience to the laws of God today as were ancient Israel. Some of us, too, \\ ho have pretended to do our duty m regard to this law, and who have preached obedience to it, have not kept it. We go to the books, we see the records of men, and in a great measure we know what they have done, and I can tell you that there are men amongst us who stand high in their own estimation and in the estimation of the people, who have never paid their tithing. Yet these men ought to be examples to the \ eople. They ought to be saying to the people, "come follow me, and do the things that I do," but they have not been that class of men, though I trust they will be in the future. I hope that when they pay GEAERAL CONFERENCE.  tithing of their salaries, they will also pay the tithing on their dividends and on the increase of their flocks and herds, and thus pay an honest tithing. Thei. we will have abundance in the storehouse of the Lord to meet all the exigencies of the people. May God help Sunday, October 8th, 10 a. m. 

Singing by the choir: 

Lo! the mighty God appearing, 

From on high, Jehovah speaks! Eastern lands the summons hearing, 

O'er the west his thunder breaks. 

Prayer by Elder Benjamin E. Rich. The choir sang: 

Zion stands with hills surrounded — Zion, kept by power divine; 

All her foes shall be confounded, Though the world in arms combine; 

Happy Zion, What a favored lot is thine. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

The Saints the Saviors of Men— The Unfaithful like Sa't that has Lost its Savor — Redemption of Zion may be Deferred by Disobedience — Prophets and Apostles like other Men— Responsibility of Parents — Benign Genius of the Kingdom of God. 

I will read a portion of the 84th Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"17. Which Priesthood continueth in the Church of God in all generations, and is without beginning of days' or end of years. 

"18. And the Lord confirmed a Priesthood also upon Aaron and his 6eed, throughout all their generations — which Priesthood also continueth and abideth forever with the Priesthood, which is after the holiest order of God. 

"19. And this greater Priesthood administereth the Gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom even the key of the knowledge of God; 

"20. Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest; 

"21. And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the Priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh; 

"22. For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live.  to be faithful is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang: 

"O come, all ye faithful." Benediction by Elder William T. Jack. 





