14
Morning
07 04 1880
Bishop L. W. Hardy. 

The principle of tithing I heartily believe in, for the reason that the Lord instituted it himself, and, therefore, it is not a new thing on the earth. It is an old doctrine. Even Abraham paid his tithes to Melchisedec when he met him, because he held the higher priesthood of God. We have had many lessons on this subject, so many that it is almost useless to talk about it now. The time was, since we came to the valleys of the mountains, when the Saints had nothing to pay tithing in but labor, hence they devoted every tenth day to beautifying and building up this city and other cities. Every tenth day the Bishops called upon those that lived in their wards to go to work on the public works and streets, and the call was generally very promptly responded to. Thus when the tithing came to be made up at the end of the year, the tithing paid in this way amounted to about $48.00 each man. As time wore on, however, the people became more numerous, and as they had so much to do for themselves, they began to pay a tenth of what they raised, whatever ihat might be — say butter, cheese, eggs, or anything else they might have about their farms, and this amounted to a large sum when it was all brought in. Now, we find, in looking over the schedules for 1879, men that we know are doing a pretty good business — we find that they have paid from $3 to $5, whereas it ought to be from $300 to $500. It is a mockery to attempt to pay tithing to the Lord in this way. Had we the honest tithing of this people to-day, we would not require to ask for any donations to the temple; we would have sufficient to maintain the poor and pay the salaries of the different officers of the Church, and in addition to this, we would have so much that we would scarcely have room to contain it. This is a principle that the Lord demands of this people, and there is a blessing attached to it, for the Lord has promised that inasmuch as we will pay our tithes he will open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it. 

Elder L. John Nuttall then read the names of Elders called to go on missions. They were sustained by vote of the Conference as follows: 

Great Britain— Charles W. Stayner, Salt] Lake City; Jesse West, 6th Ward, Salt Lake City; John Donaldson, Mendon; Samuel Roskelley, Smithfield; William Henry Shepherd, Beaver; Joseph Orton, St. George; William C. Parkinson, Franklin; Thomas X. Smith, Logan; David Rees Davis, Marsh Valley, Idaho; Robert Kewley, Benson; Thomas Jackson, Glenwood; William D.Williams, Ogden; Edward Kay, Mona; J. W. Gardiner, Pleasant Grove; Thomas C. Griggs, 15th Ward, Salt Lake City; Edward King, 15th Ward, Salt Lake City, John Evans, Brigham City; Robert L. Fishburn, Brigham City; Thomas Maycock, 3d Ward, Salt Lake City; Lorenzo Farr, Ogden; Newton Farr, Ogden; James Finlayson, Payson; Wm. C. McGregor, Parowan; James Lowe, Beaver. 

Europe. — C. H. Lundberg, Logan; Charles P. Warnick, Pleasant Grove; Hans J. Christiansen, Logan; Niels O. Anderson, Ephraim; Christian Hogansen, Montpelier, Idaho; Simon Christensen, Richfield; Anders Gustave, Johnson, Grantsville; John Christensen, Brigham; Hans Madsen, Marriott; Peter Anders Lofgreen, Huntsville; Jens Iver Jensen, Elsinore; OleC. Tellefsen, Hyrum; John Dahle, Logan; Lars K. Larsen, Hyrum. 

United States. — John W. Jackson, Glenwood; William M. Palmer, Glenwood; Hyrum Jensen, Salina; Abraham R. Wright, 20th Ward, Salt Lake City; Jens Frederick Mortensen, Salina; Mads Anderson, Mount Pleasant; Joseph W. Burt, 2 1st Ward, Salt Lake City; B. H. Roberts, Centreville; Thomas Davies, East Portage; Benjamin Isaacs, Spanish Fork; David Spillsbury, Toquerville; Alma P. Spillsbury, Toquerville. 

Southern States. — Henry G. Boyle, Payson; Geo. ,0. Pitkin, Millville; Geo. T. Bean, Richfield; Wm. J. Bean, Richfield; Albert D. Thurber, Richfield; Peter A. Nebeker, Willard; Joseph B. Keeler, Provo; Walter Scott, Provo; Wm. Clark, Lehi; Nicholas H. Groesbeck, Springville. 

Germany. — Carl C. Schramm, Payson; John Alder, Manti; Ulrich Stauffer, Willard; Morris D. Rosenbaum, Brigham. 

French Switzerland. — Geo. L. Graehl, Jr., Brigham. Netherlands — S. Van Dyke, Ogden. Sandwich Islands. — Sidney Coray, Provo. San Juan.— Wm. Hyde, Salt Lake City. 

The following report was read : 6 7 

Statistical Report of the Deseret Sunday School Union, for the year ending 

December 31 st, 1879: 

No. of Stakes from which reports have been received, 21; No. of SundaySchools reported, 256; No. of officers and teachers, 4,998; Average attendance of officers and teachers, 3,405; No. of pupils, 30,768; Average attendance of pupils, 21,922; Total number of officers, teachers and pupils, 35,759; No. of Theological Classes, 133; No. of Bible and Testament Classes, 991; No. of Book of Mormon Classes, 361; No. of Doctrine and Covenant Classes, 159; No. of Juvenile Instructor Classes, 203; No. of Jaques' Catechism Classes, 187; No. of Miscellaneous Classes, 1,316; Total number of Classes, 3,350; No. of Books in Sunday School Libraries, 17,908; Amount of funds on hand, end of previous year, $962.84; Amount of funds collected in 1879, $5,742.75; Amount of funds disbursed in 1879, $5>S I 3-93'> Amount of funds in treasury, end of year, $1,198.26; No. of Schools not reported, and therefore not included in the above figures, 19. 

The above report shows an increase of about 2,000 children more than were reported for the last year; and also a proportionate increase in the number of classes and the average attendance of both teachers and scholars, number of books in libraries, etc. The rapid growth and prosperous condition of the Sunday School cause generally, throughout the different Stakes of Zion, is very gratifying and gives us abundant cause for thankfulness to God our Heavenly Father for his blessings on his faithful servants and handmaidens engaged in this good and great work. 

Geo. O. Cannon, General Superintendent Deseret S. S. Union. Geo. Goddard, Assistant. Levi W. Richards, Secretary. John C. Cutler, Treasurer pro. tern. 

PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOE. 

I do not know whether we fully understand what is meant by holding up our hands to testify that we will sustain these missionaries. I will tell you how I understand it. In the first place we select the very best men we can find, and we do not want anybody to go but those who have the spirit of their mission upon them, and who feel a desire to magnify their calling and priesthood. And when they go, we wish them to go as honorable men, and we also want their wives to be treated as honorable women while their husbands are gone, and inasmuch as they or their families need assistance or looking after — although it is not all who do — we expect the Presidents of Stakes and the Bishops will attend to such matters; that the wives of our missionaries may not feel as though they were outcasts; but as honorable women, the wives of honorable men, and more so than those who are not doing their duty. We want the missionaries' wives and children made comfortable and taken care of. The sisters have voted to let us have some of their wheat for the relief of the poor. Then on the other hand, let us do something for them. It does not matter how much we pray for them, for this is in accordance with our covenants or voting. Some people would rather pray for them than relieve them. Prayers are all well enough; but a little flour, a little pork, a little beef, sugar, store goods, and temporal comforts are a great deal better than all our prayers without this material assistance. Let us look after their welfare as we do after our own families, while their husbands are making a sacrifice in leaving their families and homes, and God will bless us. "Every one," says the Lord, "that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life." Let us make the words of the Lord true. Amen.
