17
Morning
08 04 1880
Elder Wilford Woodruff. 

"A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the Lord will hasten it in his time." This is the word of the Lord through the Prophet Isaiah. Fifty years has made this little one not only a thousand, but more than one hundred thousand, and I do not think it will take half of fifty years more to make a strong nation: and if it were not for offending the ears of the Christian world, I would quote a word or two from the Prophet Daniel, where he says : "Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out of the mountains without hands, which smote the image upon his feet, that were of iron and clay, and break them to pieces. * * And the stone that smote the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. * * * And it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." I know it becomes offensive sometimes to the Christian world to quote the Bible, therefore I think I will not quote much more of it. But I wish to say this is the destiny "of the kingdom of God which is planted here in the mountains of Israel. But I will take the liberty of asking a question; I would ask it of the Gentile world; I would ask it of the whole Christian world if I had a chance and an opportunity, and that is this: If this is the work of the Lord, and if the God of Israel has set up a kingdom, undertaken to establish a Church and a Zion, I wish to ask — can the inhabitants of the earth help it? Can they hinder it? Can they stay the hand of the Lord? I wish the world to reflect upon these things. Or will the unbelief of the world make the truth of God without effect? Judge ye. Joseph Smith, while in Liberty Jail, while in chains and imprisoned, prayed to the Lord — you will find it in the latter part of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, page 383 — he prayed to the Lord and the Lord answered his prayer. He. told him a great many things, among the rest that all things should be revealed in the days of the dispensation of the fulness of times, according to that which was ordained in the midst of the Council of the Eternal God of all other Gods, before the world was — all these things should be revealed in the latter days. Now, says the Lord, "How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri River in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pour-  ing down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints." The powers of earth cannot stay the progress of his Church and kingdom, for God has decreed it. And I wish again to say a word or two that is upon my mind with regard to my present condition. I have read the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants a good many times, and they have brought me to a condition that I love to trace these revelations like the pyramidal histories that have written to the world thatjcomes to an end pretty . And I am about in the same position as the farmer that sees his harvest ripe for the sickle. What must he do? He must go to work and cut it, or else it will go back into the ground; and that is the way I view the world to-day. It is fifty years since these revelations of God were revealed to man. Is not the world ripe? Is not the whole earth covered with whoredom, murder, blasphemy and abominations of every kind, until it rises up in the face of high heaven and before the Lord? What will be the result? The crop must be reaped; the harvest is at the door, it is ripe. The Lord said fifty years ago to Orson Pratt and others, " The field is ready for the harvest. Now, thrust in your sickle and reap, and any man who will may thrust in his sickle and reap." If we are not approaching a change, if the judgments of God are not to be poured out upon Babylon, and if there is not a change awaiting Zion, then I am at a loss concerning the fulfilment of the revelations of God; I have got about as far as I can go unless these changes are at the door. The coming of the Son of Man is near. The signs of heaven and earth have indicated this for many years; that is about where I am to-day; as an Elder of Israel, as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I can see no road before me unless I am looking for the judgment of God to be poured out upon the wicked, and the judgments will begin at the House of God, and it will go forth from them to the world. 

Now, a few words with regard to what Brother Taylor said. In the first place, these Apostles here are in the same position that Ezekiel was. The Lord said unto him, "Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the House of Israel; therefore, hear the word of my mouth and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die; and thou gavest them not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniqity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul." So I say with regard to the Apostles here, as well as the Seventies and High Priests and Elders and Priests — they are set here in these latter days upon the walls of Mount Zion as watchmen. I tell you we are under a mighty responsibility to God, and I tell you we cannot afford, as Apostles, as Seventies, as Elders, and as High Priests, to sit still and know that sin reigns in our midst, and not rebuke it; we can not do it, and be justified before the Lord. Another thing, if we as Apostles, bearing the holy priesthood, use that priesthood for any other purpose under heaven but to build up the Kingdom of God, if we do our power will fall like lightning from heaven. A good many men have undertaken this — men high in the priesthood, even the Apostleship— to build themselves up upon the authority of the priesthood. And where have they gone ? You may say amen to their power and authority. They have lost their Bishopric and Apostleship. Let us reflect on these things. I say the same to myself. I say the same to the Apostles, Seventies and High Priests. You cannot u&e the priesthood for any other purpose under heaven but to build up the kingdom and do the will of God; and when you attempt to do otherwise your power will be taken from you. 

I wanted to say so much, and now I desire to say another thing. It is our jubilee year. I want to give an exhortation. I have heard things during this Conference that have had an effect upon my mind. I want to say to old and young who have been in the habit of doing anything that is not pleasing in the sight of God, it is time for us^to lay aside these things. It is time for us to lay aside our whiskey, our tobacco, our drunkenness, and everything that lies in our path to hinder us in our duty, or we shall be under condemnation. High Priests, and Elders, and Apostles, or any other man, cannot bear this priesthood on the earth and revel and drink with the drunken. You cannot do it, it is too late in the day; if you do, your power will fall from you. I felt yesterday, while Brother Taylor was rebuking these things, to say, Amen.
