22
Morning
08 04 1880
President John Taylor. 

little^ W W k6 H P ° n ^ l0ng6r ' ° r Sha11 We 1 uit? 1 think we have a 

little time. We adjourned the first day of our meeting because it was rather cold and now it is not quite so cold, and we will stayt little longer. I have felt a desire to hear the testimony of my brethren of the Twelve, and that of our Counselor who is here. All of the Twelve are present except one he i at his post, attending to the interests of Zion. And we will pray for hi m that 

tliis p^l'e 6 h SUStain PreSerVG hIm ' - d 

There are a few things I want to speak upon, and I realize that while I and my brethren are speaking, we are not only speaking to this congregation, but to others-to the Saints throughout this and adjoining Territories - to the 

m nf T\l { Unit£d StateS t0 thG W ° rld ^ because our teSny will go forth to them. J 

There are many things which I wish to draw the attention of the brethren to, that they may not lose sight of them. One is Co-operation. We have a number of Co-operative institutions; we have one here, which may properly be denominated the parent institution; we have also many others, and we wish to sustain them, and to do it not nominally, but really in our hearts, and with honesty of purpose; and do everything we do on that principle, without hypocrisy of any kind, in truthfulness before God, and operating together for the welfare of Israel. But Co-operation is not a system only for importing goods and selling them; we want to co-operate in home manufactures. We have done considerable of that, and we desire to do more of it. The Co-operative Store here has, I presume, as much as two hundred men at work in all— about 140 to 150 making shoes, and about 50 or 60 making certain kinds of clothing; and we want to see these things increased, until we can make all our ovv'n clothing right here at home; and instead of having to employ tailors abroad to make it tor us, we want, as quickly as practicable— and I think it is practicable now— to make it ourselves. I mean the clothing which is imported here; and then, instead of employing comparatively only a few men, use all of our own labor; let our factories be run on double time and use our own wool at home, instead of exporting it, and thus increase the means of employment and be self-sustaining. And then if we could get some of the best machinery for the manufacture of hats, that would be another commendable enterprise, because we use a large number. I see there are a great many heads here,' and there are a great many more in the Territory, all needing hats— and if we should supply them ourselves it would be much better than to take the other course. 

Then there are some that are trying to engage in the United Order, up and down in different parts, especially far off in the South. They have our blessing and our prayers. I say God bless them in all their attempts to approach that order which is instituted of God. We have not got at it yet, by and by we will come to it; but in the meantime we will approach it as near as we can. God is pleased with the action of this people in their liberality towards the poor. Now be liberal one towards another, and help and relieve one another, and God will relieve and bless you. 

Speaking again of Co-operation we have what are called Boards of Trade, and it is expected that they will operate and co-operate with our central instiFIFTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE. . A meeting of that kind will be held this afternoon, therefore I do not wish at this time to say much upon that subject. 

There is a subject I wish to speak a little upon to High Councils, to Bisheps, to Bishops' Counselors and to the Presidents of Stakes particularly; but as we shall hold a priesthood meeting, what I am about to refer to can be more fully talked of then; but I will allude to it briefly here. Reference was made by one of the speakers to a revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, in which we are given to understand that the priesthood is given unto us, not for our own aggrandizement, nor to advance our own interests, but to build up the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, acting upon the principles of justice, equity and righteousness, as you are yourselves willing to be judged — and will be judged, before the Great I AM, when the time comes that we shall have to give an account of our stewardship. We want no favoritism shown to any man, or to any woman, or to any set of men, but in the administration of justice to do it as in the sight of God, with integrity of heart and uprightness; anything different from this cannot receive the approbation of God. And furthermore, this priesthood is not conferred upon men to exercise any degree of unrighteousness or tyranny, or to in any way oppress or injure anybody; but if any man use his priesthood to subserve any such purpose, God will take hold of him, as the Priesthood above him will take hold of him, and he will be removed out of his place except he repent. 

Another thing. 'The Lord has given unto us our various Courts — Bishops' Courts, High Councils, etc., and it is expected that the Saints will adjust any matters of difficulty or dispute that may arise among them, before those courts, and that they do not go to law before the ungodly; and if any do so, I will promise them, in the name of the Lord God of Israel, that they will be destroyed by the ungodly. Hear it, you Elders of Israel, and you Saints of latter days! Let us seek in the first place among ourselves to execute judgment in righteousness, and then let every man and every woman submit to them. That is God's law, and any man that acts contrary to this law cannot go into the temples of the Lord to receive the ordinances of God's house. For if we cannot submit to the law of God on the one hand, we cannot receive the blessings through his ordinances, on the other hand. Is that right? [The congregation answered, Yes.] 

Again. I have been very much interested in our Sabbath School operations, and should have been pleased to have been present at the general meeting of the Sunday School Union, last evening, but having so much labor on hand, I thought it better to rest. But I am interested in the cause of our Sunday Schools, and so are my brethren of the Twelve. God has given unto us the most precious of gifts— children, and has placed us over them as the fathers and mothers of lives. They are eternal beings, and it should be our constant care to train them up in the fear of God. And we want the Bishops and the Presidents to sustain them, which I believe they do, and all good brethren and all good sisters should take an interest in the welfare of the rising generation, and do all they can to train the children in the fear of God. And God will bless you in your labors and desires, and the youth of Zion will rise up and call you blessed. And let no man or woman shirk the responsibility of teaching the children when it is put upon him or her. IOI 

And then, our Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations are very good institutions, and the Lord is blessing them, and he will continue to bless them; and we desire to see them encouraged in their operations throughout the land, that the principles of righteousness, truth and purity may be promulgated and sustained; and that vice, evil, corruption, and infamy may be frowned upon, and the right honored and maintained; and that our youth may grow up as plants of renown and become mighty men and women in Israel, filled with the gift of the Holy Ghost and the power of God. 

Again, in regard to the Relief Societies. They are doing a great deal of good, and I say, God bless the sisters, and let all the congregation say Amen.
