10
Afternoon
03 04 1921
John A. Widtsoe
122
35-38

None

None

My brethren and sisters: I stand before you on this occasion with great timidity; partly because I am unaccustomed to speaking in this vast auditorium and before so large a gathering of people, but chiefly because I sense the tremendous responsibility that rests upon all who, at these general conferences, are called upon to address the Saints. I pray for your support and your faith now and always. 

A TESTIMONY. 

Nevertheless, my brethren and sisters, I am glad at all times to have the privilege of bearing my testimony to the truthfulness of this work, this system of thought, of doctrine, of practice, which men denominate "Mormonism," but which we know to be God's eternal, unchanging and unchangeable plan of salvation for the human family. I know, my brethren and sisters, that this work is true. I know that it has come from God and that it leads men back to God along happy and joyous paths. This testimony has been fed and strengthened, throughout these two meetings, by hearing the testimonies of the Presidency and the Apostles who have spoken. I trust this testimony may always be mine. 

THE UNIFYING POWER OF THE GOSPEL. 

As I have looked over the congregations this morning and this afternoon, no thought has impressed me more than that here we have all classes and all manner of people, men and women of different degrees of knowledge and of varying capacities; yet these people, unlike in their God-given gifts, are finding the satisfaction of their lives, after they have once accepted the gospel, in the doctrines and the life within the Church. Whether of high or of low degree, rich or poor, learned or unlearned, of quick or of slow intelligence, from Scandinavia, Germany, England or America, these people, because of the gospel and through the gospel, see alike, apparently think alike, and very largely act alike. There is something within this gospel that unifies all who accept it and who belong to it. This is not true alone of this generation and of this dispensation. It has been so in all ages, in all generations and in all dispensations. The Patriarch Enoch, in his holy city, Abraham on the Plains of Mamre, Moses in the wilderness, Samuel in God's temple, and all the other worthies of which history gives an account, gained strength and found the solace of their lives in the identical gospel to which we adhere and to which we give our allegiance. 

THE CHURCH MAKES NO APPEAL TO MYSTICISM. 

It has always impressed me that the universality of the appeal of "Mormonism" is especially remarkable in view of the fact that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints does not attempt to win support by specially devised appeals to the emotions of men, which is so frequently the case with other Churches. We have no elaborate system of ritual; we have no mystical doctrines to lead men on by the appeal of the unknown; we do not attempt to win converts by threatening a future hell. We are in all respects plain and simple in our worship; in fact, in this Church, which believes that "the glory of God is intelligence," it is difficult to establish doctrines of mysticism and in that way win adherents to the cause; and in a Church which declares that there is a graded salvation, within the ultimate reach of every human being, if he cares to accept of it, there can be no deep-seated fear of the hereafter, especially when we have been told that the lowest glory of this graded salvation is entirely beyond the understanding and wildest fancy of man. 

THE TEST OF TRUTH IS SIMPLICITY. 

I am not so sure, my brethren and sisters, but that one of the strongest evidences of the truthfulness of "Mormonism" lies in the fact that it has such universal appeal to men and women of all capacities and of all degrees of knowledge. Truth is always simple; the test of truth is simplicity. That which is dimly understood, which confuses the mind of man, is likely to be .but partly true. The scientist in his laboratory applies this final test to his work. When, after many months or years of labor, he finds that the things he has discovered can be told simply and plainly to his fellow men, he is likely to say: "Now I have found the truth." Men and women of this Church have accepted the Gospel because they have learned to understand it, because it is clear, because it is simple, because it is not surrounded by confusion or dimness of any kind. 

To enlarge briefly upon this thought, the reason why those of great mental ability, great God-given powers, may find their full soul's satisfaction in the gospel, seems to me to be that the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ is not in the form of chunks or bits of truth, isolated truths, but in the form of great general principles or laws — principles which encompass thousands and tens of thousands of single truths — principles of truth that interpret and illustrate all the phenomena that we find as we journey through life. To know that the sun shines upon the earth, and in that way gives the earth energy, is an important and interesting fact, but it does not interpret the universe. The great law of gravitation, the law of the indestructibility of matter, and other such fundamental laws, however, do interpret not only the relationship of the sun to the earth, but innumerable of the varied facts of the universe. The basic principles of the gospel are of such comprehensive nature. They may be unyielding, they may never be departed from, but they point with certainty the road that men may travel to discover all the incidental truths that may be desirable in life. The mightiest intellect will never exhaust these great laws. Many religions upon the face of the earth rest upon one isolated truth. Each has taken a great, glittering, brilliant truth, and upon it has erected an elaborate system; but because it is only one truth of many belonging to a great principle — which principle is not understood in full — the system of religion is not likely to prevail forever among men. 

DANGER IN DEPARTING FROM FUNDAMENTAL TRUTHS.

I want to bear you this testimony, my brethren and sisters, that we have in this Church the great, everlasting principles of truth, the basic laws of truth upon which we may erect the spiritual and religious structure of our lives, here and hereafter. I want to say also that it is my conviction that the greatest danger that may affect this Church at any time is to depart, ever so little, from these fundamental principles. All that we do, all that we plan to do, must be tied to the fundamental principles of the Gospel. Then we shall have no apostasy in this Church. The apostasies of past dispensations, have come ordinarily when some one has taken a glittering, desirable truth, and magnified it to the forgetfulness of the principle to which it belongs. 

Some may say that this doctrine stops all progress. If we have solid, substantial, unchanging principles which may never be departed from, then how is progress possible? Yet, my brethren and sisters, you all know that the only real progress possible in this world is that which is based upon adherence to simple, general laws of truth. When man discovers some great law pertaining to the universe, and builds upon it, then he and science both make progress. The great principles or laws of truth may be likened to the great steel structure of one of our lofty office buildings — rigid, firm and bolted together so that it may not move or change — yet within those steel beams and girders, around them, above them, below them, are built floors and walls and doors and windows and decorations until the structure meets every want of those for whom it is intended. 

WE MUST USE AS WELL AS POSSESS TRUTH. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the people of this Church may forever study and understand and adhere to these fundamental principles of doctrine and of organization which lie at the foundation of the persistence of this Church, in this time and in the time hereafter. May we also remember that to possess truth is only a part of the problem. We must use it also; and truth cannot be used properly or wisely unless we do, as has been explained here this afternoon, apply to it the authority of the Priesthood of God. The two great gifts to this Church are the gifts of truth and authority. May we Latter-day Saints remember them, treasure them, and not depart from them; and may they be with us always, I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
