12
Afternoon
03 04 1921
President Heber J. Grant 
10
42-43

None

None

ARIZONA APPROPRIATES $2,500 TO "MORMON" BATTALION MONUMENT. 

I have rejoiced in all that has been said here today and endorse most heartily the remarks of my brethren. I have a little note from Brothers J. W. Lesueur and Andrew Kimball of Arizona, the presidents of Maricopa and St. Joseph stakes. They call my attention to the fact that the Arizona legislature has appropriated $2,500 for a Mormon Battalion Monument; that the majority of all the agricultural settlements in Arizona were begun by the "Mormon" people; that the State of Arizona will issue next month the Mormon Settlement book giving an account of the settlements of our people in Arizona, a book of four hundred pages, with sixty illustrations. The state of Arizona is publishing a history of that state, and this volume is a part of it. This volume alone will cost approximately $15,000. The Governor of Arizona and the Historian of the state have devoted a great deal of time, and our friend and brother, LeRoi C. Snow, has been employed in the Historian's office there. We understand that if this volume is sold at the price at which they will sell it, the state will be at a loss of fully $10,000. I have had a brief letter from Brother Snow, enclosing a full account of the contents of the book, but I have been too busy, since I returned from the coast, to read the same. 

"THE DESERET NEWS" COMMENDED. 

After announcing the time and place of various meetings, President Grant continued, referring to the Cantata of Prof. Evan Stephens, and to the splendid editorial in the Saturday News regarding the Cantata, and said: "You should all take the News. The Deseret News is the organ of the Church, and it is entitled to the support of all Israel. Because it is an excellent paper, and also because of the announcements which are made there by the Presidency, from time to time, and other matter it contains, the paper should be in the homes of the people. Read the editorial regarding the Cantata wheln you get home. 

REFERENCE TO CHANGES IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

There is one thing I forgot — and I regret it exceedingly. In the meeting of the Relief Society yesterday, I forgot to invite all of the honored and released members of the General Board of the Relief Society, who in years past have sat there to the right of this stand to continue to occupy seats with the new mlembers of the Board. They have our love, our confidence and our blessings, and we want them to know, as we have said to our retired mission presidents, that there is always a place reserved for them at our General Conference meetings. I have been sorry this afternoon, in looking for the familiar faces, that I forgot to make this announcement yesterday. We want our sisters here, they have our love and our confidence, and our blessing for their past labors, and our prayers for their future happiness. 
