16
Overflow
03 04 1921
Charles A. Callis 
3
54-56

None

None

I humbly pray that I may speak under the power of the Holy Ghost, for only by that power can the servants of God reach the hearts of the children of men. The missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in preaching the everlasting gospel, have this thought in their hearts, which they express in their testimonies and in their discourses; namely, "Friend, go up higher," for that is the effect of the gospel, in the lives of men. It lifts them up higher, for it is the "power of God unto salvation." The Latter-day Saints are blessed with gospel ideals. We are a people with ideals. Jesus said, "Ye are the light of the world," and he also said, "For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." And by obedience to the gospel teachings we desire to be a light unto the world; we are a light unto the world; and we are, in a measure, at least, letting "our light so shine before men, that they may see our good works, and glorify our Father which is in heaven." 

We believe in the gift of healing; we cherish that as one of the most precious blessings that our Father has given to his children in the household of faith. James says, in the 5th chapter of his epistle: "Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the Church: and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; And the prayer of faith shall save the sick." You and I bear testimony, that the power of the Father is in this Church, and our loved ones who are afflicted are raised up by his power, to his glory and to the magnifying of his holy name. 

A few weeks ago, in the city of Atlanta, the Episcopal Church organized an association, the purpose of which is "to visit the sick and pray over them;" and the dean of that church, in a sermon, declared that the gift of healing was once a gift in the church, that the Redeemer and his apostles preached it and practiced it, and he said, "we must restore it." The dean continued, "the religion that does not care for a man's body as well as his soul is a ghastly joke." Is not this a testimony that Joseph Smith was a restorer of the ancient faith? And it was restored in God's way. John, the apostle, said: "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred and tongue and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is come." That is the way the gospel was restored, by a holy angel, in accordance with the mind and will of the Creator. Did not Paul say, "For I neither received it [the gospel] of man, neither was I taught it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ." And by the revelation of the Redeemer, the Prophet Joseph Smith received this gospel. By the power of the Highest he restored it to the children of men. 

No man could have restored this gospel. It is a heavenly gift; it came from heaven, and you and I bear testimony that, from the courts of glory this plan of life and salvation did come. 

The Latter-day Saints are expressing their love for the gospel in service. There are thousands of men and women in this Church who are not on the "firing line," in the mission field, but who nevertheless are doing a splendid work. "Peace hath her victories no less renowned than war." 

In this assembly hall, a few months ago, I was talking to a good sister who has a son on a mission in the Southern States. I said, "how many children have you?" "Seventeen," she replied, "but we have never been blessed with any children of our own." I said, "Sister, will you please make this more clear to me, and this is the substance of that good woman's reply: "We have never had any children of our own. We took four babies, three girls and one boy, when they were twenty-four hours old to six days old, adopted and reared them. The boy filled a mission. We reared a little girl of seven; she is adopted to us. She has filled a mission. We emigrated from Germany two boys and their sister. The boys stayed with us ten years, the girl until she was married. One of the boys filled a mission; we helped him to fill it. For five years we cared for three little boys whose ages ranged from 4 to 7 years. We took two boys, one was 7, the other 8; they stayed with us nine years. One of them served in the war. We have four orphans now at our home, two girls 12 to 15 years old, two boys, one 13, the other 10. I took the ten-year old boy when he was a year old. We have emigrated 15 children from the old country. For several years we have kept three children, from Switzerland. We don't want to stop the good work of taking orphans to bring up." There is a story of service. This woman's name may not be written in the book of fame, kept by mortal man, but in heaven angels have recorded her name. She is among those who are saving souls, who are helping young people to find their way through the temptations and tribulations of life into the salvation that God our heavenly Father hath in store for them. 

Two weeks ago, I was holding conference in Mississippi, not far from New Orleans. We had no church to meet in, so we met in the shade of the trees, because it is warm in that climate, about this time of the year. Why did we meet in the open air? Because in that settlement mobocrats have burned down two of our churches. But some of the very men who instigated this outrage, and who assisted in the destruction of our humble places of worship have asked to be allowed to donate toward the building of another house, in which the Latter-day Saints there may meet for the worship of God. God has softened the hearts of the people. Your sons and your daughters are preaching the gospel in the power of the spirit of testimony, for only in the spirit of testimony can this gospel be preached in a manner to reach the hearts of the people. Day unto day brings forth testimony, that this gospel is the work of the Lord, day unto day brings forth testimony that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, the instrument in the hands of Deity to establish this glorious work which bids men to go higher up, lifts men up, which purifies their nature through the spirit of repentance, by the gift of repentance, from evil and wrong doing. 

And now, with you, my brethren and sisters, with my brethren who have preceded me this morning, I bear my testimony that the Redeemer lives, and that he shall stand upon the earth in the latter-day; that he will come in glory to reign on earth with his Saints a thousand years. And I bear my humble testimony that the Book of Mormon has been brought forth to testify, among other things, that Jesus is the Christ, that he was resurrected, and that all men will be resurrected. 

I also bear you my testimony that President Heber J. Grant is a servant of the Lord, his mouthpiece to his people, a man of honor, a man in whom we can depend, for he is led by the Spirit and power of God. This testimony I fearlessly bear, for I know that these things are true. May the Lord bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
