24
Third Overflow
03 04 1921
Elder John M. Baxter 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
80-82

None

None

In listening to the report of President Grant concerning the progress of the Church and the increase in attendance at the sacrament meetings throughout the Church, and in witnessing the thousands of people who have come up to attend this great conference, I have had a great deal of joy and satisfaction in my heart, for I can assure you that my heart is in the work of the Lord and in the progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints upon the earth. 

There is no greater evidence of the faith of the people than the sacrifices that they make in order that they may enjoy the blessings of the Lord and the teachings of the gospel. It is a wonderful thing to me to see hundreds of people at this conference who remained in their seats from one meeting to another, in order that they might be able to hear the servants of the Lord. As a people we have manifested our faith in the Lord and in the gospel of Jesus Christ from the beginning of this Church. We have read in the good books, which we call the Scriptures, evidences of the faith of the Saints in former dispensations; we have evidence of the faith of Abraham and those of his dispensation, the faith of the apostles of our Lord in their day, in traveling throughout the earth, promulgating the principles of eternal life; but it does seem to me that there has been no greater faith evinced by any people than that of the Latter-day Saints in our own dispensation. The early elders of the Church, and in fact all of the prophets and apostles of the Church from its organization, have manifested the same great faith and diligence and labors in the cause of the kingdom of God as were ever manifested by those of ancient times. Not only these, but the Latter-day Saints generally, as referred to by the previous speaker regarding his mother, who embraced the gospel in her girlhood days, and therefore was driven from her home. Hundreds of people have done the same. The people of this dispensation have been gathered "one of a city and two of a family," and have been gathered to these valleys of the mountains under greater or less trying circumstances, and they have been faithful and true to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a great evidence of its divinity today. 

In this conference are assembled today people from all over this western country, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, and I presume that as an organized stake of Zion, we are farthest on the east; and we have also those from the ocean on the west, who have spent their means and their time, and gathered up in this great concourse of people to worship God and be instructed in the principles of eternal life, and to assist in sustaining before God, our eternal Father, those who have been called to act as our leaders in this great dispensation of the fulness of times. It seems to me that this is a wonderful testimony, for it is a wonderful display of the faith of the Latter-day Saints. 

I was thinking, while the former speaker was speaking of his mother joining the Church in her childhood days, of my own mother; and you will pardon me a moment if I refer to her, as I am perhaps better acquainted with her efforts and labors in the kingdom of God, and the training she gave me, than any other thing I am acquainted with on this earth. She was one of those who left her home, country, and everything near and dear to her for the Gospel's sake, and came across these barren deserts, and she drew a handcart with a little child three years old from the Missouri river to these valleys. She did not draw the handcart all the way. Her husband accompanied her part of the way, but he laid his body down upon the plains, and left her to continue the journey with the little child three years of age, in the handcart. She was one of those caught in the snow with a late company, in the Sweetwater country, when the teams and brethren came to meet them, and saved them all from starvation. And then she came to this country as a widow, having left a comfortable home, parents, brothers, sisters, and friends, and all that was near and dear to her upon the face of the earth, in a foreign land, and traversed these plains, and got caught in that deep snow. I have heard her say many times, that when they slept in their tent out in the snow, their campfire went away down in the deep snow, and they were above the fire. And I remember her relating a little incident in connection with the death of her husband. He became so fatigued and worn out, that he could not travel any further. They took him in a wagon, after the brethren and teams had met him; she had a little piece of candle that she had carried in some way. She could not stand to see the breath of life leave her husband in the dark, and she not be able to behold his face. She prayed to God that this little piece of candle might remain lighted as long as life remained in her husband. This prayer was granted to her, for with the going out of the candle the breath of life went out from her husband. Nine persons were buried in the same grave, the next morning. Now I just refer to this to show you the faith of those who have received the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

It seems to me that the Lord is pleased with us who have assembled at this conference today. It must be pleasing in the sight of God to see us hungering and thirsting after righteousness. I see people trying to get access to all the buildings here. I know that the time is far spent, and there is another speaker, and I do not wish to intrude upon his time. I pray God to bless you. Amen.
