26
Third Overflow
03 04 1921
Elder James E. Talmage 
41
84-85

None

None

I trust that you have gathered the spirit of the remarks made by the stake presidents to whom we have listened. Remember, this is a conference, not merely an ordinary assembly. You are entitled to know what is going on in the different parts of the Church. Those who were in this building this morning heard reports from the different mission fields, and now you have heard of some of the peculiar conditions prevailing in a few of the many stakes of Zion, four out of eighty-five now in existence. We find the same spirit prevailing wherever we meet Latter-day Saints. I have found that to be true in meeting my fellow worshipers in this country and beyond the seas. You can recognize them by their spirit, by their manifestation of feeling, by their ways and manners. There is a sort of a family likeness prevailing among Latter-day Saints, and you can readily recognize that if you meet one who is a stranger to you. There is a spirit of earnestness manifested in the spirit of the Latter-day Saints. There is a spirit of awakening at this time, as I mentioned at the beginning of our meeting, and the remarks of my brethren have borne me out. But, thank the Lord, his Spirit is striving earnestly with the people. But the power of evil is likewise aroused, and is also active among the people. Satan knows how little time is left before that day which is spoken of as being both great and blessed, and likewise terrible, which shall characterize the Coming of the Lord in his glory to take his place as ruler of this earth. With him shall come concourses of angels, the blessed ones, and many upon the earth at that time shall meet him and his goodly company, and be numbered among them. Verily, that day is near at hand. The evil one knows it, and knows his time is short, and therefore, amidst our rejoicing over the improvement that is manifest among the Latter-day Saints, we must beware of the evil powers that are at work, that we may not be led away, that our children may not be led away, but that they may be firm and true to the faith which the Lord has implanted in their hearts — the faith of their fathers. 

I am sure that all will join me in the feeling of appreciation, which I express for all, to the choir of LeGrand ward for the music that has been rendered this afternoon. 