27
Fourth Overflow
03 04 1921
Joseph Eckersley 
75
85-87

None

None

The multitude of people assembled upon this Temple Block today is an evidence of the continued growth of the work of the Lord in the earth, and of the faith of the membership of the Church. The promise made to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the very commencement of the work that he was called by the Lord to establish in the latter days, was that notwithstanding the persecution and the opposition that should be waged against the cause that he was called to advocate in the world, the work would survive; that the Church to be established or set up, and the gospel of the Kingdom that should be preached in the world as a witness before the coming of the Messiah, should never be overcome, that the Church to be established should never be given to another people. When we think of the combined opposition of the world to the work that was commenced by the Prophet, and think that notwithstanding all the trials and vicissitudes through which the Saints passed in their early pilgrimage in the Church, notwithstanding the opposition of the world, today our eyes witness upon this Temple Block thousands of people, who have assembled from the remotest parts of this state, from surrounding states, and have gathered here to worship the Lord, in evidence that there is still faith in their hearts, and that this work will continue, it is comforting, my brethren and sisters, to know that God has given this promise that if we are faithful in the keeping of his commandments, all things that have been promised and foretold by the prophets concerning the things that should happen in the latter days will be fulfilled. 

I rejoice with you this afternoon to be present at this conference, to associate with the leaders of the Church, to hear the living and burning testimony of the prophets and the apostles of the Latter-day Saints, to mingle with the men and women who have received the gospel and whose hearts are filled with faith and whose works testify of their integrity and of their devotion. 

I rejoice that the principles of the gospel are such that by yielding obedience thereto, men may obtain for themselves a living testimony of the divinity of the work which they espouse. The promise of Jesus is being fulfilled just as literally today as in the day when he made the promise to the people in Jerusalem, that if any man would obey the doctrine that he taught, if any man would do the will of God, he should know of the doctrine, whether it was of God, or whether he spoke of himself. And so today, the person who receives the gospel in a good and honest heart, who complies with its precepts, obtains that living testimony, and that leads to good works. 

I recall that on one occasion the Prophet Joseph was asked concerning the secret of his success as a leader among the people, in holding them together, and his reply was that he taught the people correct principles, and, having been taught correct principles, they governed themselves. This is the secret of the growth of the work of the Latter-day Saints. This is the secret of the faith, the unity, and the progress that is being made in the Church of Christ. This is not a work of coercion or of compulsion. The words of the poet are very applicable in the doctrines that are taught by the Latter-day Saints. God will not coerce any human mind: 

Know this, that ev'ry soul is free, 

To choose his life and what he'll be; 

For this eternal truth is given, 

That God will force no man to heaven. 

He'll call, persuade, direct aright, 

And bless with wisdom, love and light; 

In nameless ways be good and kind, 

But never force the human mind. 

Freedom and reason makes us men, 

Take these away, what are we then? 

Mere animals, and just as well 

The beasts may think of heaven or hell. 

And thus when the elders go forth into the world proclaiming this message of truth, they plead with the people to investigate, to search the Scriptures, for in them is the truth. In them, by obedience to the principles that they teach, there is eternal life. There is no coercion, there is no attempt to frighten the people, as it were, into a belief in the principles of the doctrines of the Redeemer; but it is a doctrine of love, a doctrine of persuasion, leaving to mankind their agency, the power to choose; and so we receive the gospel and become members of the Church. That same principle applies throughout our lives. We may, by obedience to the principles of the gospel, one by one, improve our lives, be of greater service to mankind; but there is never at any time an attempt to force the observance of any law that God has given for the salvation of his children. 

I rejoice in the freedom and in the liberty of the gospel. I rejoice in the truth as it has been revealed and restored. I rejoice in the knowledge that if men do the will of God, they for themselves shall know of its truth, and whether it be of God or whether men speak of themselves. I feel, brethren and sisters, this afternoon, that we have much to be grateful for as members of the Church of Christ; and I pray that we may be inclined to take advantage of the opportunities that are within our reach to grow in faith, and knowledge, and grow in the love and fellowship of our Father in heaven, and in the fellowship and love of all good people, that we may be faithful and true to the mission that has been entrusted to us — not only to seek to save ourselves and our own immediate families and kin, but that we may be willing to make sacrifice in the interest of mankind, that we may be willing, as servants commissioned of the Lord, to go forth and declare his truth and preach the gospel as we may be inspired, as we are called, from time to time. That the blessing of the Lord may continue with us, and that we may manifest our gratitude to him for the blessings that we enjoy in devotion to his service, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
