39
Morning
05 04 1921
Heber J. Grant 
10
141-142

None

Music

APPRECIATION OE STEPHENS' "THE MARTYRS." 

I want to express my unbounded approbation and delight with the very splendid cantata that we had here of "The Martyrs" last night. I am sure all who were here were very much delighted and pleased, and that all feel grateful to the Lord for the inspiration to our beloved brother, Evan Stephens, in furnishing us such a wonderful piece of music, and such a splendid tribute in poetry to our beloved dead. 

THE SCHOOL OF ART AND MUSIC. 

Perhaps you have noticed in the papers that the magnificent McCune residence, which would probably cost over half a million dollars, and which was presented to the Church at our last Conference, has been set aside by the Presidency for the use of a School of Art and Music. And I am pleased to say that this disposition of the property has met with the very hearty approval of A. W. McCune and his wife, the donors of the property; in addition to having given this imposing structure, when they learned it was to be used as a School of Music and Art, they presented to us the two magnificent pieces of statuary that are now in that home, which would probably cost something over twenty thousand dollars, as a beginning for art collections that may go there. I trust that the people will call and partake of the hospitality of the School of Music. Of course, as to this designation for the use of the place, I do not know exactly that it will always be permanent, but we are inclined to think it will be. 

There have been a great many people, of course, who have urged me to move there and use that magnificent house as the official residence of the President of the Church. I appreciate the compliment and the many expressions of good will and desire for me to occupy such a magnificent structure; but I consider it would be a vast waste of the money of the good people to maintain me in any such an elegant place, for the reason that if I went there I would want everything to be in keeping with the house, and it would be in direct opposition to what Brother Stephen L. Richards has said here today, all of which I endorse with all my heart. For the time being I shall be perfectly satisfied to live in my little bungalow, one story and a half high in about the nicest spot in all Salt Lake City. During the first six months of my residence there, I don't believe I missed a half dozen times sitting up in bed every morning and taking a view of the whole valley and singing President Charles W. Penrose's hymn, "O ye mountains high." 

I endorse with all my heart the excellent remarks that have been made here this morning, and if time would permit, would like to add a few comments, but we aim to start on time and to close on time, barring the musical selection after twelve o'clock. May the Lord bless us, and may we have a time of rejoicing this afternoon and on the morrow in our conference, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
