40
Afternoon
05 04 1921
Richard R. Lyman 
17
142-146

None

None

I trust that the inspiration of our Heavenly Father that has rested upon those who have spoken before, may be with me while I stand before you. 

I wonder if the early pioneers of Utah, the founders of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith and others, in their fondest dreams and hopes, comprehended the rapidity with which this Church would grow. With some friends of mine, relatives in fact, daughters of the late Patriarch John Brown who, with Orson Pratt, was first of the Pioneers to look into Salt Lake Valley, I say, with his daughters, I drove over the boulevard above Salt Lake City a few nights ago. There were clouds in the heavens so that the stars could not be seen. The whole valley seemed to be thickly dotted with electric lights. And as we gazed we wondered what the pioneers would have thought if in their dreams they could have seen the valley under similar conditions. 

ARE WE WORTHY SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS? 

As I have looked into the faces of the people assembled at this Conference, I have thought with admiration and wonder of this great structure in which we are assembled! Of its magniture, and of the unusual factor of safety that has been used in its construction. I have thought also of the great Temple cast of us, with its tremendous foundations and massive walls. There is an edifice like the rock of ages. What rare inspiration rested upon that great Pioneer and Prophet, Brigham Young, when, under his direction, the Lord laid the foundations for this great commonwealth! 

Are we, sons and daughters of these great Pioneers, playing our part in this great work as well as they played theirs? In this house last night a tremendous multitude listened to the music of a product of the Church and were thrilled with the stirring; strains of song and music in honor and praise of our martyrs. At the same time in the Salt Lake Theatre, another building erected under the direction of that great Pioneer, President Brigham Young, his granddaughter was the leading performer in a grand opera production. Are we, I ask, even under these conditions, worthy sons and worthy daughters of these great Pioneers? 

THE ANTI-CIGARETTE CAMPAIGN RATIONAL, NOT HYSTERICAL. 

Since the last Conference, six months ago, Mutual Improvement workers and others, in and out of the Church, have waged a rather intense campaign against the use of the cigarette in the State of Utah, and wherever else the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has members. 

In conducting this campaign I regret that we have met with some opposition. I am sorry that in these efforts we have come into rather vigorous conflict with some of the leading business men of our State. If in this undertaking, we have been in error, we have not been alone in our mistaken judgment. Doctors and educators generally encourage such undertakings. Were Andrew D. White, a great president, and an important factor in founding Cornell Lniversity, still living, I would write to him and say: "In the summer of 1902 you gave me a mission. You asked me, as I sat in Cornell University, in company with teachers from various other sections of the country, to go home and to carry to the young people I came in contact with a message from Andrew White, to call the attention of young people to the fact that the use of the cigarette is one of the most positive means of taking from people their chances of success." I would say: "President Andrew D. White. I am proud to have helped to secure the following result: The State of Utah has passed a law prohibiting the sale or the giving away of cigarettes or cigarette paper. The State of Idaho has also, by law, provided strict regulations intended to decrease the use of these two objectionable articles." 

This work has not been a matter of hysteria. With us it is not a mania. We have proceeded deliberately. We feel as if with mathematical certainty we have done something for the lasting benefit of the young people of our communities. 

WHY THE ANTI-CIGARETTE QUESTION? 

Since my life has been devoted to the study and teaching and practice of mathematics and of engineering, I think I have stamina enough not to be wafted about by mania, or hysteria. I belong to the fifth generation of members of the Church. I desire while I speak, that I may do so as a worthy son of the grand old pioneers. Have we been unreasonable, have we worked too hard in this anti-cigarette campaign? We are determined, in fact it is our mission and duty, to produce a generation of young men and women better than the world has ever known. And this is why we fight to keep the cigarette from our young men and our young women. 

I have here a copy of an article that appeared in the Denver Post, March 21, 1921. I wonder if in this state, where we have the gospel of Jesus Christ, where we have the Priesthood and the power and the authority to speak in his name; in this community where we are putting forth effort to rear young men and young women who are worthy, do the conditions described as prevailing in Denver exist here? I will read a part of the article: 

"Almost any night you may see the downtown streets crowded with boys and flashily dressed, scarlet-lipped, loose-mannered girls — moths fluttering around the searing candle of 'pleasure.' You may see them in automobiles, riding up and down the main thoroughfares of the city. You may see unescorted girls — children who should have been tucked into bed by their mothers. They appear to be without shame. They do not hesitate to trade modesty and virtue for what they think is pleasure. 

"All Denver is aroused, and rightly, too. Who is to blame for this appalling condition? Who is responsible for the absolute lack of morals in these boys and girls who are to be the men and women and parents of tomorrow? Why are boys and girls permitted to gad about the streets at all hours of the night, allowed to joy-ride in their parents' automobiles until the wee small hours of the morning, suffered to go where they will, and however they choose, to satiate a perverted appetite for pleasure? 

"Juvenile Judge Lindsey, clergy, school authorities, welfare workers —  all say the blame for this deplorable state of affairs rests upon the parents." 

It is against conditions like these that we are fighting. If we have been too intense in this anti-cigarette campaign, may we be forgiven. But I say to Mutual Improvement workers, to the Governor of the State of Idaho, and the Governor of the State of Utah, to the legislators and to all who are responsible for this anti-cigarette legislation, God bless you. I predict that thousands, yea, tens of thousands among the generation to come will rise and call you blessed. 

LIVE WITHIN YOUR MEANS AND SO KEEP OUT OF DEBT AND TROUBLE. 

I was very greatly interested in what Stephen L. Richards said this morning on the subject of economy. No man has the right to live! beyond his means. It is the duty of every man to keep accounts. He who does it will have the reins in his hands, he will be master of the situation, he will not be driven into bankruptcy. 

I visited the home of a prosperous farmer a few weeks ago. His is an unusually comfortable home. I noticed hanging on the wall a beautifully framed motto. As I looked at it he said: "Probably that motto is not quite so appropriate hanging on this wall as it was on the wall of the little log cabin in which my wife and I lived during the early part of our married life. The words were words of the late President John R. Winder: "Live within your means, keep out of debt, and you will keep out of trouble." 

NOTHING SHOULD INTERFERE WITH SACRAMENT MEETINGS. 

President Grant referred yesterday to a slogan of the Mutual Improvement Associations adopted about two years ago: "We stand for spiritual growth through attendance at sacrament meetings." It is our desire to avoid the conditions that have been described as existing among the young people in the City of Denver. One of the means of avoiding conditions of this sort is the partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's supper. A man in the Priesthood meeting, yesterday, said to the President of the Church: "President Grant, may we hold a meeting in our stake, once a month, at two o'clock on the Sabbath day? It will be interfering with our sacrament meeting but once each month?" The President very promptly replied: "We desire to have nothing interfere with our sacrament meetings." It is when partaking of the sacrament sincerely and worthily that we come into unusually close communion with our Father in heaven. It is then our hearts are filled with a prayerful spirit and we acknowledge before our heavenly Father our weaknesses. It is then and there we desire to be forgiven and firmly we resolve to be stronger and better. Oh, that I had the power to say something to induce all the people to put forth their best efforts all the time. We will not be judged by the sermons we preach or the sermons we hear. We will not be judged by the number of meetings we attend. Nor will we be judged by the prayers we utter or those we hear. If we are satisfied with these things only, we are like the tree that is satisfied with being cultivated and irrigated and with putting forth leaves but bearing no fruit. Partake of the sacrament, or in the language of Isaiah: "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found; call ye upon him while he is near." Brother B. H. Roberts said yesterday he has seen men whose hands were scarlet with sin, appeal in anguish for forgiveness, and for the days of their youth to return thus giving them another opportunity to make their lives better. Among us are thousands of young men and young women whose lives are pure, whose hearts are clean. To these I appeal, "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found; call ye upon him; while he is near." 

Wherever here or elsewhere there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, these are virtues for which we seek. 

SPECIFICATIONS FOR A MAN. 

I have before me a copy of the prayer of an engineer. Shall I call it a prayer? This man was a product of my own Alma Mater, Cornell University. The principal business of his life was to write specifications, specifications for bridges, specifications for buildings, for trestles, for railroads, etc. For preparing such specifications he was well paid. Here is his prayer or specifications he wrote for himself. For so doing he received no money. They were not prepared for publication, but simply for his own private use. They were found among his papers, after his death, and were entitled: "Specifications for a Man." 

"To respect my country," [and this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, this is the thing for which we stand] "to respect my country, my profession and myself. To be honest and fair with my fellow men as I expect them to be honest and to be fair with me. To be a loyal citizen of the United States, to speak of the United States with praise and to act always as a trustworthy custodian of the good name of my country. To be a man whose name carries prestige wherever it goes. To base my expectation of reward on a solid foundation of service rendered. To be willing to pay the price of success and to pay this price in honest effort. To look upon my work as an opportunity to be seized with joy and to be made the most of, and not as painful drudgery to be painfully endured. To remember that success lies within my own self. To expect difficulties and to force my way through these difficulties. To turn hard experience into capital to be used in future struggles. To believe in my profession both heart and soul. To carry a ray of optimism in the presence of all whom I meet. To dispel all temper with cheerfulness. To kill doubts with strong convictions and to reduce action with an agreeable personality. To make a study of my business, to know my profession in every detail. To mix brains with efforts and with system in my work. To find time to do every needful thing by not letting time find me doing nothing. To hoard days as a miser hoards dollars. To make every hour produce me dividends, either in increased knowledge or in helpful recreation. To keep my future unencumbered with debt. To save as well as to earn. To cut out expensive amusements until I can afford them. To steer clear of dissipation and to guard my health of body and peace of mind as a most precious stock of trade. Finally, to take a firm grip on the jars of life, to play the game and to play it like a man. To fight against nothing so hard as I fight against my own weaknesses. To be a gentleman and a Christian so I may be courteous to men, faithful to friends, and true to God." 

Let us, I pray, make our lives conform with these exalted specifications, and all the glorious principles of the perfect gospel of Jesus Christ, I humbly pray, Amen.
