41
Afternoon
05 04 1921
President Heber J. Grant 
10
146-147

None

None

THE NECESSITY OF THE CIGARETTE LAW. 

I believe that Brother Joseph W. McMurrin first called my attention to an article published in the Scientific American and reproduced in the Literary Digest, announcing that for fifty long years no young man in Harvard University had ever graduated at the head of his class, as the principal student, who was a user of tobacco, nothwithstanding the fact that eighty-one or two per cent used tobacco and only nineteen or eighteen didn't use it — so that, taking it man for man, for those many years, the tobacco users had not become the head students of that great institution. I don't think anybody, with an ordinary, common, every-day head on him, needs any greater evidence than that of the necessity of passing anti-cigarette and other laws of this kind. 

INTRODUCING PROF. PERRY G. HOLDEN. 

We have with us today Professor Perry G. Holden of Chicago, a man with a national and international reputation as an extension worker. I have been handed one or two statements made by Professor Holden that I will read before we have the pleasure of hearing from him: 

"Every American ought to have his own home, and every family ought to have an acre of ground. Men don't fight for their boarding houses — they usually fight in them." And we might add, with their tongues, mostly. 

"Men who own their own homes don't go out on riotous strikes." That reminds me of a man who was a socialist, over in France, working for a very wealthy man. He went out two or three nights a week to his socialistic meetings, advocating the dividing up of all the property. Finally he quit going, and the wealthy man for whom he worked asked him why he hadn't gone. "Why," he said, "at the last meeting which I attended some months ago, there was a calculation which had been made, and they read how much each family would have after we got all the property divided up, and lo and behold, I have more in the savings bank already than would be my share." 

"If the community will take care of its boys today, its boys will take care of the community tomorrow." 

To his son leaving for the army: "My son, keep your standard." 

On his return: "Have you kept your standard?" "Yes, father." 

"Money spent on education is not a tax. It is an investment." 

"Am I a better man today than I was yesterday?" 

I have very great pleasure in introducing Professor Perry G. Holden. 

