5
Afternoon
03 04 1921
President Heber J. Grant 
10
22-23

None

None

CHANGES IN CONFERENCE PRESIDENTS 

We announced here at the last conference, the changes in the Australian, New Zealand and the Swiss and German missions. At that time Brother James N. Lambert who had been to New Zealand was with us and spoke to the congregation. Since then, Brother Arnold G. Miller, from the Australian mission, and Brother Angus J. Cannon from the Swiss and German mission have arrived home. We welcome them and tender them our sincere thanks for the very splendid, long and arduous labors that they have performed in those missions. 

INCREASE IN PAYMENTS OF TITHING 

In reading a number of items this morning, I read what became of several millions of dollars of the funds of the Church during the last year, and lo and behold, I skipped the all-important item of tithing. The Saints have done remarkably well, during the past year, in the payment of tithes, especially when we consider the hard times through which we are passing. I wish to commend the bishops, and other officers of the Church, as well as the membership of the Church, in general, for the faithfulness exhibited by the Saints in payment of their tithes. I think that it is nothing less than wonderful in view of the great hardships financially, through which all sections of the country have been passing, during the year that is just closed, that there should be no falling off at all in the tithes of the Latter-day Saints. The tithes for the past year have been slightly in advance of those for the previous year, which was one of the largest years for the payment of tithes in the history of the Church. 

AN EDITORIAL IN THE "COAST BANKER." 

Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, President of the California Mission, came up and suggested that I should waive my insurance modesty, and that I should read the introduction to my speech, as written by the editor of the Coast Banker; and I shall do so. One of my insurance friends in San Francisco, president of one of the greatest companies in the United States, remarking on the photo of myself that is printed with the article, stated that he would pay a great deal if he could only have a picture taken of him that would flatter him as much as this picture flatters me. 

(The editorial, which was here read by President Grant, and the speech in full may be found at the close of this record. — Clerk.) 

THE CANTATA "THE MARTYRS," BY EVAN STEPHANS 

The sacred cantata, "The Martyrs," by Evan Stephens, and a chorus of 400 will be presented in the Tabernacle, Monday evening, April 4. I read an editorial in The News, last night, and felt that Brother Stephens was entitled to have this splendid editorial read to you here today: 

"Among other events of the approaching Conference season claiming the attention of both residents and visitors the rendition of Evan Stephens' sacred cantata, "The Martyrs," in the Tabernacle, on Monday evening next, is deserving of special notice. A year ago this gifted home composer fairly electrified a mammoth audience in the Tabernacle with "The Vision" — an appropriate precursor of the present work; and those who are in a position to speak with intelligence and authority on the question, affirm with enthusiasm that 'The Martyrs' is in all respects the equal of, and in some respects is superior to, the earlier masterpiece. Certainly in the matter of attention to detail in presentation, Mr. Stephens has allowed nothing to be overlooked — a fact upon which those who know his artistic and indefatigable nature will need no assurance. He has in conspicuous degree the talent of infusing into his performers a measure of his own zeal, so that to the most exacting demands of practice and rehearsal they yield without demur. The result is that when at length the hour for the public performance arrives, all those who have been engaged upon it are prepared to give it a rendition as nearly faultless as is humanly possible. Apart from the fame of the soloists, the heavier choral work of the great chorus of four hundred voices should prove at once a mighty attraction and inspiration. In short, it is to be hoped, and it is the probability, that, vast as is the auditorium where the performance will be given, the demand for seats will be so great that not all can gain admission, for it promises to be in all respects a stupendous and memorable occasion." 
