51
Afternoon
06 04 1921
Heber J. Grant
10
187-190

None

None

I read here last evening at the priesthood meeting some items regarding our missionary work, and I thought they would be interesting to all the Saints, so I will read these items again: 

MISSIONARY STATISTICS. 

The mission membership of the Church at the close of 1920 was 99,870. 

Tithes paid in all missions of the Church, $456,699; an increase of more than a hundred thousand over any previous year. 

Value of mission property, $1,467,571. This does not include all of the Hawaiian property. 

Spent for charity in all the missions, $34,532. 

Baptisms in all the missions last year, 5,087. This is the highest record in many years. 

There were 1,727 missionaries in all the missions on January 1, 1921, an increase of 574 over January 1, 1920; while the average expense of the missionaries of the Church was $37 per month in 1920, or $10 per month higher than in 1919, and that is the highest expense per elder in the history of the Church. 

The number of baptisms per elder in 1920 was about three. 

Calls of the missionaries were answered at 2,926,416 homes, and the elders had 2,617,345 gospel conversations. They sold 34,703 copies of the Book of Mormon, and distributed 7,023,378 tracts and held 135,532 meetings. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE REPORT. 

The report of the auditing committee was then read as follows: 

Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1, 1921. 

To Presidents Heber.J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Anthony W. Ivins, First Presidency, and to the Saints in Conference assembled: 

Dear Brethren and Sisters: The Church Auditing Committee desire to report that they have carefully examined the receipts and expenditures of the Church for the year 1920, as the same appear from the books and vouchers in the office of the Trustee-in-Trust, and in the office of the Presiding Bishop. We find them correct and fully accounted for. 

The usual care has been exercised in having the records disclose every detail of every transaction, besides which, during the past year, the auditing and examination has been emphasized by having the financial transactions of the Church submitted to a monthly check. 

Along the lines of securing Church statistics, we think there should be some consolidation of effort; and your Committee shall take an early opportunity of submitting their views upon this subject to the First Presidency. 

Your brethren in the Gospel, 

W. W. RITER, 

HENRY H. ROLAPP, 

PETER G. JOHNSTON, 

Auditing Committee. 

John C. Cutler and Albert Scowcroft, did not sign owing to being absent. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH SUSTAINED. 

The General Authorities were presented by President Grant, voted upon, and unanimously sustained as follows: 

First Presidency: Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

President of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson. 

Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard, John A. Widtsoe. 

Presiding Patriarch: Hyrum G. Smith. 

Prophets, Seers and Revelators: The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young. 

Presiding Bishopric: Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop; David A. Smith, First Counselor; John Wells, Second Counselor. 

Trustee-in-Trust: Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Church Historian and Recorder: Joseph Fielding Smith, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

Church Board of Education: Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph Fielding Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Commissioners of Education: David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman. 

Superintendent of Church Schools: Adam S. Bennion. 

Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, Heber Scowcroft, John C. Cutler, Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Asst. Organists; George C. Smith, Secreary and Treasurer. And all the members of the Choir. 

Clerk of the General Conference: Edward H. Anderson. 

TRUSTEES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY. 

In the Articles of Incorporation of the Brigham Young Academy, now University, it is provided that the presidency of the Church shall nominate the trustees for this university, and that they shall be sustained by the General Conference once in three years. This is the time to sustain those officers. The officers nominated by the presidency for your support are as follows: 

Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University: Heber J. Grant, Susa Y. Gates, Reed Smoot, Stephen L. Chipman, Lafayette Holbrook, Joseph R. Murdock, Joseph Fielding Smith, Joseph Reece, Zina Y. Card, Willard Young, Thos. W. Taylor, J. Wm. Knight. One vacancy had been caused by the death of Jesse Knight. 

ALL THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES HEARD. 

President Grant said: We have had the privilege of hearing from this stand, at this conference, from each and all of the General Authorities of the Church, without having to tell any one of them how long he could talk, which has been really a pleasure to me, because it is anything but pleasant to limit our brethren in their remarks. Quite frequently in our late conference meetings we have had to ask our brethren to speak three, five, eight or ten minutes, at most, in order to have time to hear from all of the General Authorities. We have an hour and five minutes left, and I have concluded to ask my counselors to make some remarks, and when they finish I will make some myself. 

I suppose that one reason for our having a little spare time is that we have had one extra meeting during this conference, the general sessions of the conference lasting three days and a half. 

Brother John Wells is at home sick. If he had been here, he would have been asked to speak. I forgot to mention that he had not spoken. 
