6
Afternoon
03 04 1921
President Rudger Clawson

24-26

None

Priesthood

My dear brethren and sisters: We had a glorious meeting this morning, and now are gathered again in this building, a great assembly of Latter-day Saints, members of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church under the heavens that bears the name of the Savior. It is true that he is not here with us in person, but he is here by the power of his Spirit and his authority. His authority is called the Priesthood, the holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, and this authority is held by the prophet, seer and revelacor and the president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Not only does it rest upon him, but it is widely distributed throughout the Church, and rests in some degree upon every worthy man in the Church. 

WOMEN AND THE PRIESTHOOD. 

The Priesthood is not received, or held, or exercised in any degree, by the women of the Church; but, nevertheless, the women of the Church enjoy the blessings of the Priesthood through their husbands. This emphasizes very strongly the importance of marriage. Every woman in the Church, of mature age, and worthiness, who is ambitious to attain to exaltation and glory hereafter should be married, should be sealed to a man for time and all eternity; and we trust that the young women of the Church as well as the young men of the Church realize the responsibility of this important ordinance. 

THE POWER AND AUTHORITY OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD. 

The Priesthood, my brethren and sisters, is complete in itself. Nevertheless, we know that there are two great divisions in it, namely the Melchizedek, or higher Priesthood, and the Aaronic, or lesser Priesthood, which lesser Priesthood is an appendage to the higher Priesthood. The Melchizedek Priesthood administers the gospel and holds the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. Therefore, in its ordinances the power of God and of godliness is manifest, and without the ordinances and the holy Priesthood the power of godliness is not manifest among men. Therefore, wherever the holy Priesthood of God is not found in a Church, such a church cannot be the Church of Christ. 

Moses very well understood this great principle. He held the higher Priesthood. He was a great prophet of God and he sought diligently to sanctify the children of Israel, that they might behold the face of God. But it is said in the revelation that they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence and therefore the Lord in his wrath — for his anger was kindled against them — swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is a fulness of the glory of God. In consequence of this, the holy Melchizedek Priesthood was taken from their midst. But the lesser Priesthood — the Priesthood that holds the keys of the administering of angels and the preparatory gospel — was continued in Israel down to the time of the Savior. We learn a great lesson from this incident, for we perceive that because of the hardness of their hearts and their unbelief and rebellion, at times, Moses and the holy Priesthood were taken away from the children of Israel. But it is not so with the Latter-day Saints, because you will find the authority of the holy Priesthood, the high Priesthood as well as the lesser Priesthood, throughout all the stakes of Zion and in every ward. In this is shown the mercy and the loving kindness and generosity of our Father in heaven, because it is seen that God is no respecter of persons, and that the right to the Priesthood belongs to every faithful man in the Church — I think I may say it is his by right divine. So it is. 

Now, brethren and sisters, we say to all Israel, beware of hardness of heart, and the spirit of rebellion, and the sin of idolatry, for these sins are great evils in the sight of the Lord. He requires humility of heart and diligence and faithfulness and submission to his authority. I think that there is nothing in the scriptures or in the revelations of God that emphasizes the greatness of the power of the holy Priesthood as the words which occur in Doctrine and Covenants, section 84, a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Latter-day Saints, give ear to these words and ponder them in your hearts, for the Lord said: 

"For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God; 

"And also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; 

"And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. 

"Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved." 

But now, mark you, there is a proviso, and it is significant. It is highly important: 

"But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come." 

This is the reservation, that is the proviso. Now if we shall attain to these great blessings we must be humble, faithful, consistent Latter-day Saints. 

SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS TO THOSE WHO HOLD THE PRIESTHOOD. 

Now, brethren and sisters — and I say sisters because, as I have said, the sisters participate in the blessings of the Priesthood through their husbands — do we appreciate the Priesthood of God, this divine authority? Do we honor it in our lives? Do we honor it in our file leaders? Do we teach our boys at home the importance and value of the Priesthood? Are they receiving this instruction in the various organizations? Because, I take it that the Priesthood of God is about the greatest gift unto man, for it represents divine authority. Let us give heed to this matter. Oh, I pray that the responsibility of it may rest down mightily upon the authorities in the stakes of Zion, and that they will see to it that proper and full instruction is given in respect to this matter. 

Now may the Lord bless you, the Lord bless our President, who has spoken so beautifully and so powerfully to us today, and Presidents Penrose and Ivins. We have had rich instructions already. Oh, if we could only fully receive it into our hearts, and carry it out in our lives, how blest we would be! May the spirit of the Lord continue to be upon this people and in the congregations of the Saints, and may it rest upon the authorities of the Church, and all the speakers at this Conference, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
