Afternoon
06 04 1921


ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

{Presiding Patriarch of the Church) 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of being in this gathering today, and for having the privilege of standing and bearing my testimony to the goodness of the Lord unto me, as one of the younger sons of Zion, in these the last days, and one of the younger members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I have recently had a privilege which I have dreamed of ever since early boyhood — the privilege of going over at least some of the ground, visiting some of the places visited by the prophet Joseph Smith, and by the early members of the Church. Through my teachings, from my infancy, I have never doubted in the least the divinity of the mission of the prophet Joseph, but I have often desired to visit some of the early points of history, and just recently that privilege was granted me. From that historic town of Palmyra, New York, I visited the house or place in which the first edition of the Book of Mormon was published. I also visited the old bank at Palmyra; I do not know how long it has been used as a bank, but it looks as if it had been used for many years. It is today being occupied, and business is being conducted very much, I suppose, as it was nearly a hundred years ago, without any of the so-called modern improvements. At that bank I was permitted to view what is claimed to be a copy of the first edition of the Book of Mormon, or the printer's copy. In that little town I also noticed four distinct churches, all facing one another, one upon each of the four opposite corners of an intersection of two streets; and from residents there I learned that those churches still maintain their names and their practices, opposing one another, of course, until they all unite to oppose the "Mormons" — a very impressive lesson in Church history to me, because I had always believed, and believe today, the testimony of Joseph, the prophet, that he went to those churches and saw their contentions in his day, when he was a boy. He heard them crying, "Lo, here is Christ," "Lo, there is Christ," "Come into this church, for this is the right church," and he wondered how all four of those churches, and others perhaps, could be the right church when they were all claiming it and claiming it differently. And so, I could not help but think how natural it would be for him to go back to his home, only five miles distance, and wonder in his own heart where he could find the truth, and, with the earnestness of his soul, he sought refuge in the scripture, as it had been taught to him. 

I was also permitted to go into that sacred grove where the boy sought an answer to his prayer, and I instinctively felt the very spirit that one would naturally suppose would be in that place from its sacred history, and the entire time that I was in the grove I felt the very presence of the Spirit of the Lord. It seemed to me to have a care for everything about the grove. I also had the privilege of going into the old jail where the prophet and his brother, my great-grandfather, gave their lives in testimony of this great principle and the power of the everlasting gospel. I also visited that city beautiful, Nauvoo, which today is only a very small place, but I could imagine the love that those Saints must have had for that place when they could look toward the highest point from all the surroundings and admire the workmanship of their hands as was manifest in the temple which they had erected to their God, equidistant in three directions from the river on a general slope. The river, the great Mississippi river, surrounded it in a sort of letter "D" equidistant from the temple on three sides, (north, west and south). Today those landmarks are fast passing back to their mother earth; and I was impressed with the thought that in a very few years to come, very little but history and perhaps the photographs and paintings of these beloved homes will be about all that will be left. There is no mark today of the temple, except a few of the stones that were once in the walls, and a little part of an old barrel that marks the place of a well from which the water was taken to supply the temple. Very few marks of that wonderful history are left today. A city where once was housed and homed twenty thousand Latter-day Saints, today only about fourteen hundred people make their homes. 

I am grateful for the privileges that I have enjoyed and for the testimonies that I have received; and the experiences through which I have passed only make me more determined in my efforts to serve the Lord. As it has been said in this Conference, this is the work of the Lord, and I pray that God will bless his people and bless me as one individual member, that we altogether may go on serving him and accomplishing the great work which he gave to the prophet Joseph Smith and his associates when this Church was organized ninety-one years ago today. I desire, my brethren and sisters, to so live that I may merit the blessings and carry the responsibility that is desired of me from my Father in heaven, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, who is at the head of this great work. 

I desire also to leave one word of admonition beside a word of blessing. It is natural for many of us to follow extremes, or to look for extremes. There is always danger in extremes. Therefore, I say, beware of extremes, beware of extremes. I think that nearly all of us can apply this principle in our lives. I should like to apply it as it appeals to me, as one of the officers of the Church, in a particular direction. There are many in the Church who never get a written blessing for their guide or their comfort. This is an extreme. It is the privilege and right of every faithful member in the Church to receive a written blessing, for his guide and his comfort, at the hands of certain officers in the Church, and there is little or no excuse for anyone going without this privilege. On the other hand there are others who get a multitude of written blessings, and I have discovered that some have even lost regard for, or faith in, their blessings, because they have received conflicting blessings. They have received a multitude or many, and they have discovered a conflict. Therefore, their faith is lost, or they are discouraged, and they lose regard for their blessings. Therefore, I say again, beware of extremes. 

Now, to make myself plain, it is the right of every faithful member of the Church to receive a written blessing for his guide, either at the hands of a stake patriarch or at the hands of the presiding patriarch, who are authorized to pronounce and seal blessings by the laying on of hands, which is an ordinance in the Church. Now I believe that the Lord knew what he meant when he required, through revelation, that these blessings should be written for the purpose of refreshing our memory and aiding us to put them into practice rather than going back at every opportunity or every few months or weeks or so, to get another blessing. I have thought, and have been impressed, that this was one of the great reasons why the Lord required us to make a record of all of the patriarchal blessings that are given by his patriarchs in the Church. And I should like to admonish my brethren and sisters to read their copies carefully and not to be easily discouraged and think that because their blessing is short it is incomplete, or because it contains only a few promises, that there is something else that has not been written or has not been promised. Yet, it is true that all the blessings and all the promises that the Lord has in store for us are not embodied in one written blessing; why, surely, but that written blessing is a guide, and it is a key in a way, through your faithfulness, to the blessings which are promised unto the faithful, and may be an index to your whole life. And, it isn't a good thing to go without a blessing, that is one extreme that I wish to warn you of; and the other is to beware of getting a multitude of blessings, in the fear of your losing your faith in the one you have already received, and as long as you get those blessings according to the rules that have been established in the Church for our guide, there will be no danger. At the present time officers of this order in the Priesthood are placed in nearly all of the stakes of Zion. These officers are authorized to officiate only for members of the stake in which they reside and their kin, and when we go to making little side rules from that, to accommodate certain individuals, then we discover that someone else wants a special order, a special blessing, a special favor, and so we have to make exceptions to the rule, and sometimes the exception becomes the rule. 

Brethren and sisters, let me admonish you to follow the rule or rules of the Church pertaining to your written blessings. Every member of the Church has access to his blessing, either at the hands of the presiding patriarch or at the hands of the patriarchs in the stake where he resides, and not here and there and everywhere, because there is order in the work of the Lord. 

I am grateful, grateful indeed, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of laboring in this wonderful ministry. There are a number of men who have been called to this great position in the stakes of Zion, who, I suppose because of their study and their experience, have feared to go ahead and exercise their callings. I also have feared. Sometimes I tremble with fear, because I feel the responsibility of officiating in this sacred calling. Nevertheless, I feel to trust in the Lord, and if I am deceived, it is due to the weakness of the flesh and not to the willingness and the humility of the spirit. And so I have often wondered out of the hundreds and hundreds of promises that have been written and made by the patriarchs, how many of those wonderful promises the Lord will be able to make come true. I am astonished at the testimonies of the Latter-day Saints as they come back, declaring that those promises have been fulfilled and are being fulfilled all over the Church; and I am grateful to be permitted to officiate in this sacred work. I see hundreds of young men as they go out from their homes into the world, to carry the message of life and salvation to the world. Under the duties of my office I am enabled to admonish these young men, to give them a blessing, which, with their faith and their works, the Lord is able to bring to pass a fulfilment of the promise or promises, and they go out to all the world, in all the nations of the world where the gospel door is open, they have faith in the promises given and they live by them, and they come back and testify, that the blessings have been a source of strength and power to them. Others go out into the world without the blessing; and many of them have written to me in this manner, "Brother Smith, here am I, away over in Liverpool; I am on a mission; I was unable to get my blessing when I went away from home, and now I am over here in the service of the Lord; my companions have blessings and they receive comfort from them; can't you send me a blessing, I need a blessing, can't you write one, and send it to me?" Well, I have to send word to them that I can pray for them, and when they come home, then I can officiate for them in the regular way and give them a blessing. And so I admonish the young elders, the missionaries, both men and women, to get their blessings before they leave home, so that they will have these comforts and guides in their missionary experiences abroad. 

I also have the privilege of officiating for many young people as they start out into the great battle of life, and they receive comfort, consolation and guide, because they have faith in these promises. And I am grateful to the Lord for the privilege of officiating for them, because they frequently come back and testify that the Lord has blessed them, and that their promises have come true, and they have been a source of great strength to them in hours of trial, in hours of doubt, and in hours of sickness. 

I also have been permitted, and am permitted, to officiate for many fathers and mothers in Israel, and they have testified to me that they have received comfort and consolation in their responsibilities of parenthood. And so I am grateful for the privilege of officiating for them in this sacred work. 

Brethren and sisters, beware of extremes. It is not necessary that you go without a written blessing; neither is it necessary that you burden our records with your simple desires of perhaps wanting only a question to be answered rather than a desire for a written blessing at the hands of the patriarchs in Israel today. 

I pray God to bless this people and those who preside in Israel today. I frequently hear my brethren pray very much as Elder Kimball hears them praying, for the leading authorities of the Church, naming only, of course, the first ones, and when I hear the remark, "And then all the rest of the authorities," I always come in for my share, because I need the blessings of the Lord. 

I pray the Lord to bless the Priesthood of God, and those who are called to bear it in the earth, even from the greatest to the least, and I pray God to bless the faithful members of the Church, both old and young. I pray God to bless our lands, that the destroying elements may not interfere with our blessings. I know that there are a great many people now wondering how much danger this wonderful storm is going to cause. Brethren and sisters, it may cause some danger, and some damage, but the Lord is not sending this wonderful storm to crush us nor to interfere with our blessings. This wonderful storm is a blessing to the multitudes of his children in these valleys of the mountains, and while it may interfere with some of us, in slight ways, the great end of this storm will be a blessing to us. 

I pray also that drought as a destroying element may not interfere with the blessings of this people, and if the brethren and sisters, the members of the Church, will hearken unto the counsel they have received in this conference, as they have done unto the counsel that was given six months ago, in a like or similar manner, the Lord will continue to multiply his blessings upon us; and that his blessing may be upon us, and his name be honored and glorified forever, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I read here last evening at the priesthood meeting some items regarding our missionary work, and I thought they would be interesting to all the Saints, so I will read these items again: 

MISSIONARY STATISTICS. 

The mission membership of the Church at the close of 1920 was 99,870. 

Tithes paid in all missions of the Church, $456,699; an increase of more than a hundred thousand over any previous year. 

Value of mission property, $1,467,571. This does not include all of the Hawaiian property. 

Spent for charity in all the missions, $34,532. 

Baptisms in all the missions last year, 5,087. This is the highest record in many years. 

There were 1,727 missionaries in all the missions on January 1, 1921, an increase of 574 over January 1, 1920; while the average expense of the missionaries of the Church was $37 per month in 1920, or $10 per month higher than in 1919, and that is the highest expense per elder in the history of the Church. 

The number of baptisms per elder in 1920 was about three. 

Calls of the missionaries were answered at 2,926,416 homes, and the elders had 2,617,345 gospel conversations. They sold 34,703 copies of the Book of Mormon, and distributed 7,023,378 tracts and held 135,532 meetings. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE REPORT. 

The report of the auditing committee was then read as follows: 

Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1, 1921. 

To Presidents Heber.J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Anthony W. Ivins, First Presidency, and to the Saints in Conference assembled: 

Dear Brethren and Sisters: The Church Auditing Committee desire to report that they have carefully examined the receipts and expenditures of the Church for the year 1920, as the same appear from the books and vouchers in the office of the Trustee-in-Trust, and in the office of the Presiding Bishop. We find them correct and fully accounted for. 

The usual care has been exercised in having the records disclose every detail of every transaction, besides which, during the past year, the auditing and examination has been emphasized by having the financial transactions of the Church submitted to a monthly check. 

Along the lines of securing Church statistics, we think there should be some consolidation of effort; and your Committee shall take an early opportunity of submitting their views upon this subject to the First Presidency. 

Your brethren in the Gospel, 

W. W. RITER, 

HENRY H. ROLAPP, 

PETER G. JOHNSTON, 

Auditing Committee. 

John C. Cutler and Albert Scowcroft, did not sign owing to being absent. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH SUSTAINED. 

The General Authorities were presented by President Grant, voted upon, and unanimously sustained as follows: 

First Presidency: Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

President of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson. 

Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard, John A. Widtsoe. 

Presiding Patriarch: Hyrum G. Smith. 

Prophets, Seers and Revelators: The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young. 

Presiding Bishopric: Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop; David A. Smith, First Counselor; John Wells, Second Counselor. 

Trustee-in-Trust: Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Church Historian and Recorder: Joseph Fielding Smith, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

Church Board of Education: Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph Fielding Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Commissioners of Education: David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman. 

Superintendent of Church Schools: Adam S. Bennion. 

Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, Heber Scowcroft, John C. Cutler, Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Asst. Organists; George C. Smith, Secreary and Treasurer. And all the members of the Choir. 

Clerk of the General Conference: Edward H. Anderson. 

TRUSTEES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY. 

In the Articles of Incorporation of the Brigham Young Academy, now University, it is provided that the presidency of the Church shall nominate the trustees for this university, and that they shall be sustained by the General Conference once in three years. This is the time to sustain those officers. The officers nominated by the presidency for your support are as follows: 

Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University: Heber J. Grant, Susa Y. Gates, Reed Smoot, Stephen L. Chipman, Lafayette Holbrook, Joseph R. Murdock, Joseph Fielding Smith, Joseph Reece, Zina Y. Card, Willard Young, Thos. W. Taylor, J. Wm. Knight. One vacancy had been caused by the death of Jesse Knight. 

ALL THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES HEARD. 

President Grant said: We have had the privilege of hearing from this stand, at this conference, from each and all of the General Authorities of the Church, without having to tell any one of them how long he could talk, which has been really a pleasure to me, because it is anything but pleasant to limit our brethren in their remarks. Quite frequently in our late conference meetings we have had to ask our brethren to speak three, five, eight or ten minutes, at most, in order to have time to hear from all of the General Authorities. We have an hour and five minutes left, and I have concluded to ask my counselors to make some remarks, and when they finish I will make some myself. 

I suppose that one reason for our having a little spare time is that we have had one extra meeting during this conference, the general sessions of the conference lasting three days and a half. 

Brother John Wells is at home sick. If he had been here, he would have been asked to speak. I forgot to mention that he had not spoken. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS 

52
Afternoon
06 04 1921
A. W. Ivins
13
190-193

None

None

"And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many waters. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles, and were smitten. 

"And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles, that they did prosper, and obtain the land for their inheritance; and I beheld that they were white, and exceeding fair and beautiful, like unto my people before they were slain. 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles who had gone forth out of captivity, did humble themselves before the Lord; and the power of the Lord was with them; 

"And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered together upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle against them; 

"And I beheld that the power of God was with them, and also that the wrath of God was upon all those that were gathered together against them to battle. 

"And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations." 

WE BELIEVE IN REVELATION. 

The Church, in its very incipiency, declared to the world, among other fundamental doctrines of its creed or belief, that it believed all that God had revealed, all that he does now reveal, and that he would yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. Revelation is the revealing or making known that which was not previously known or understood. The Church has always claimed that gift. It is indispensable. It must exist in the Church. 

REVELATION BELONGS TO EVERY MEMBER OF THE CHURCH. 

It belongs to every member of it. The Lord has declared, in this same book from which I have read, that when the doctrines which are contained in the book are made known to the peoples of the world the truth of its contents shall be manifest by the gift of the Holy Ghost to all of those who seek God in faith with a desire to know the truth. 

BUT IN AFFAIRS PERTAINING TO THE CHURCH AT LARGE, THE KEYS ARE WITH ONE MAN ONLY -- THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH. 

So that revelation, the gift of the Holy Spirit of the Lord, who manifests the truth and leads us into it, is given to all of the members of the Church, but in affairs which refer to the Church at large, its doctrines, its policies, its purposes, the keys remain with the man who has been chosen, whom we have sustained here, by our vote, to occupy that special calling and to speak in the name of the Lord for the Church at large, and revelations for the benefit of the Church, its government, its doctrine, must be so confined. They will never come through emotional women; they will never come through men whose right it is not, and never has been, to receive them. That is what we mean when we say that the key of authority vests in and belongs to the president of the Church. It has no application to other people. It applies only to the Church. 

MANY NOTED CHARACTERS OF HISTORY HAVE RECEIVED REVELATIONS. 

The doctrines of the Church just as fully recognize that from the beginning of time God's Spirit has striven with man and his will has often been revealed to man, just as this scripture which I have read declares that it was revealed to Columbus, who was the discoverer of this country. That fact is as fundamentally a part of the faith of the Latter-day Saints as is any other doctrine. The Church has always believed and taught that those men who came to America, guided by God our Father, inspired by him, men who sought asylum where they might worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, did come moved upon by his Spirit and his revealed will to them, that they were so established here, that they were so protected, and that it is because of the inspiration of God which has come to men that we live today under the constitution which forms the fundamental law of this government. The thought that this gift should be enjoyed by us and by us alone has never been a part of our faith. 

Let me read here, but let me go back just for a moment before reading. We believe, and it is a part of the doctrine which we have always taught, that those men who in early days broke away from the mother Church, which had degenerated until all kinds of wickedness were permitted to be committed in its name through license and written permission given by the bulls of the Pope, against which Luther protested, against which he stood firmly when his very life was at stake as he stood there before the Diet of Worms and declared that except he be convinced by reason and by the scripture, he could not retract anything — acted under the inspiration of God. It was the power and Spirit of God which prompted the man to begin the opening of a better and greater dispensation. We believe that John Wycliffe, whose body was burned and the ashes of it scattered upon a river of England that it might float down to the sea and be obliterated, was raised up of the Lord to publish the Bible and make it, as he said, so common that the plow boy in the field would understand it as well as the Pope. He gave his life for it. God inspired him to do it. He inspired Tyndale, burned at the stake because he dared to raise his voice in defense of the simple truths contained in the scripture. The Lord was with him. The spirit of revelation was upon him. It marked and blazed the way which we have followed after. Now, that is the doctrine of the Church. Let me read here briefly again from the Book of Mormon: 

"Behold, that which is of God, inviteth and enticeth to do good continually; wherefore, every thing which inviteth and enticeth to do good, and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired of God. 

"Wherefore, take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye do not judge that which is evil to be of God, or that which is good and of God, to be of the devil. 

"For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from evil; and the way to judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect knowledge, as the day-light is from the dark night. 

"For behold, the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that they may know good from evil; wherefore, I shew unto you the way to judge: for everything which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God, 

"But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him." 

WE WISH GODSPEED TO GOOD MEN AND WOMEN EVERYWHERE. 

It appears to me, my brethren and sisters, that this doctrine is made so plain in the scripture which I have read that there need be no doubt regarding it. I only wish to say to good men and women everywhere that we pray for them and wish them Godspeed and cooperate with them and bless them in every effort which they put forth for the accomplishment of that which is good, that which will uplift, that which will enlighten, that which will make better the lives of men and women, that which will draw men towards Christ, who is the Redeemer of the world, and away from the influences of the evil one, which are so dominant in the world today. 

THE CHURCH DICTATES NO CREED OR POLICY TO ANY OTHER BODY. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has never assumed nor desired to dictate the creed or the policy of any other religious denomination. We grant to our fellow workers who stand and speak in the name of the Lord, the right to receive the inspiration of his Spirit for the control and government of their own congregation; and if they lack that, if there is a church in which the man chosen to represent it is not endowed with the spirit of revelation that he may communicate it to his congregation and thus lead them in the way of the Lord, woe be unto them; they need to seek after it and get it, for only by the inspiration of that Spirit can the will of the Lord be done. So we stand here not to restrain, not to withhold support, help, or blessing, from any man or woman under heaven who is seeking to do the will of God and bring other people to do it. The Lord bless them, and bless us and help us to understand that this right does belong to the Church and it cannot be taken from it, for without it, confusion and dissolution would immediately occur. 

THE SHEEP KNOW THE VOICE OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the blessings of this conference. I felt that I would like to say just this much before its conclusion. I pray that you may understand the spirit and meaning in which I say it, as I believe you do. I have been just as thoroughly converted to this truth all my life as to any other, that I cannot stand before a congregation of Latter-day Saints and declare that which is not true and in harmony with the will of the Lord and make them believe it. The sheep know the voice of the good Shepherd, and a stranger they will not follow. Cultivate the spirit of revelation, every one of you; plead with the Lord for greater endowment of his Spirit. That it may direct us in the walks of life and help us to live in harmony with the plan which he has given us in the organization of the Church, is my prayer for us all, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I believe that the remarks that have been made to us by Brother Ivins have been understood and appreciated and believed in by this congregation of Latter-day Saints in general conference assembled. He has enunciated the doctrine in great plainness that most of us have heard almost all our lives. It has been taught from this stand not only at conference times but in many discourses that have been delivered by the servants of the Lord. It was the doctrine of the Prophet Joseph Smith made plain through him by revelation from God. As quoted or read by President Grant last Sunday morning, it was proclaimed by the prophet and the president of the Church, Brigham Young. He was a great leader. He was a man of very strong mind and will and expression, and he always taught this doctrine in plainness — that while there was but one man at a time on the earth to receive revelation from God for the Church, for the whole Church, the spirit of revelation rested down on the members of the Church as well as upon men holding the Priesthood of God. So with those who succeeded him in the presidency. I do not believe there has been one of them who has not taught that doctrine. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS' VIEW OF REVELATION. 

There has been associated with that revelation read by the president on Sunday as to the right of the man who stands at the head to receive revelation for the Church, the doctrine and theory and practice that three men holding the presidency of the Church preside over it in all its departments, and that when anything was to be introduced of a new character or kind for the government of the Church, it would come from that presidency and would be submitted to the quorums of the priesthood and to the Saints generally. This was followed by President Wilford Woodruff when what is called the "Manifesto" came from him to the Church. It was presented to the Church and voted on by the Church in conference assembled as doctrine for the Church. A resolution was passed to that effect, offered by President Lorenzo Snow. We should understand this. Brother Ivins has made it very clear that the revelations spoken of by the president on Sunday morning for the government of the Church were for this Church, not for other churches or societies; and at the same time that which was said, that which we have believed in, that which we have practiced, is not confined entirely in all respects to the one man; that the spirit of revelation is for all of the Church, every member thereof, but for the government and guidance of the Church as an organized body, that authority is vested in the one man that stands at the head. And it seems to me that a little common reason would show the value of it. The Lord said we were not to receive as revelations for our government that which came from anybody but the man whom he had chosen to be at the head, and if he transgressed he should not have power except to appoint another, nominate or name another, in his stead to be at the head of the Church. Now we can see very quickly, if we will use our common sense, that if every man of prominence in the Church could introduce a revelation we would be, as Brother Ivins said, at once in confusion. There is none in the Church who has the right to introduce as divine revelation something that is new and different from that which has been revealed before, but the man who is appointed to do that, so that we might all come to the unity of the faith, and when that is received by the Church, and adopted as part of our creed, it belongs to the Church, just as much as anything that has preceded it. 

AS TO MISINFORMATION. 

Some time ago we were afflicted by false reports, sent out from this city by telegraph generally speaking, to the world, pretending to give sentiments expressed by the leader of the Church. Lately there has been some reformation in that respect. I am glad to know that the telegraphic wires are not now as they were at that time under the domination of men animated by the spirit of falsehood. When I was editor of The Deseret News, my time was largely taken up by making or giving refutations of statements of that kind sent over the wires from Salt Lake City by the Associated Press. I became acquainted some time after with the president of that association, Mr. Stone, a fine, splendid, able and fair-minded man, and had the pleasure personally to talk with him on this subject; and since the time when he became fully acquainted with the manner in which dispatches were sent from this city, he saw to it as far as possible, that these false reports were not circulated. Now, I am glad to say there is a change of spirit in that respect; but, at the same time, sometimes things are published and very often talked about without being published, which are filled with misinformation. 

I have heard considerable about this now, concerning the remarks made by President Grant last Sunday morning. It is represented that he stated that there was no man living but him who had any right to receive a revelation from God. He did not say that. You who were here know very well that he did not make any remark of that kind. What he tried to make clear and did to my mind, and I believe he did to all the congregation, was that fundamental doctrine concerning the revelations of God to this Church as an organized religious body; that only the man who stood at the head could be authorized Revelator, the end of controversy; if there were any controversy arising, he could seek by revelation from God to be able to correct error as well as to proclaim truth. 

MEN WHO PRETEND TO BE CALLED OF GOD TO RECEIVE REVELATION. 

Now, I just mention the fact, not that perhaps it is of very much importance, but it is associated, too, with some things that have been done in some quarters of the Church. Men have started up pretending to be called of God to receive revelation from God to the Church. I knew one man of that kind some years ago, who came to the president of the Church and demanded the keys, for he was "the man mighty and strong sent to set in order all things in Zion." Well, he did not make much of an impression, but he came two or three times, and at last he was ordered out of the office and he stumped off on one leg — because he had only one good leg, the other was a wooden one — and he went off as the "mighty and strong" one, and we heard nothing more about it. That is not a fair sample, perhaps, of the men who have arrogated this position to themselves. Lately there have been some members of the Church who have claimed to have revelation from God to organize a United Order, without calling it that at first, but latterly they did, and so they threw in their possessions and placed them in the hands of one individual, and he received what he called revelations from God, and the people joined in with him and were induced to pray that they might find out whether it was true, and they have been led off by a false spirit. Some of them have repented, and others who did not repent but continued in their bad works of darkness, have been excommunicated from the Church. Now here is simply a warning voice from the man that stands at the head of the Church that people shall not be led astray either by ideas of that kind which I have just mentioned, or in regard to other matters that affect their condition in time and eternity. 

MEN WHO HAVE ARROGATED TO THEMSELVES THE RIGHT TO MARRY. 

Some men have arrogated to themselves the right to marry when it has been shown very clearly during this conference they have no such right. The right to marry for time is vested in certain officers of this Church, and the right to marry for time and eternity can only be solemnized and celebrated under the direction of the Church authorities, and there is but one man at a time, the revelation itself says, that holds the keys of this authority. And how in the world men of brains, men of standing in this Church, can be led off to the right or to the left into works of wrong and darkness by persons having no such authority, and who cannot have it, under the revelation itself on this subject — how they can do that has been very perplexing to me. But when I read in the revelations of God, as the Apostle James puts it, that "God is not tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man, but every man is tempted when he is led away by his own lust," that explains the thing clearly to my mind. 

Now I have made these few remarks in regard to this subject because I am fully desirous, with all my soul, that our people should understand, and that the world, if they want it, may understand, and that our friends who are not of our faith may not misunderstand our position, and if they choose to misinterpret and to twist and turn about the words that are uttered from this stand and proclaim them to the world as the words of our leader, why they must take the consequences. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS BELIEVE IN ANCIENT AND MODERN REVELATION. 

It has been a doctrine, as Brother Ivins has said, from the beginning, that we believe in revelation, and the trouble with our pretended friends, who are misinterpreting this matter, is they do not believe in modern revelation at all, and our conflict has been with them from the beginning. They have made the conflict. Joseph Smith received, a revelation from God, and the great heads of the Christian churches and the ministers of the various conflicting denominations have declared that the doctrine of revelation in these times is false, that God does not now reveal anything for the children of men, that all the revelation that we have now that is of any account is to be found between the lids of the Bible, and they quote the last chapter of Revelation, a few words there, that if "any man shall add to these things God shall add to him the plagues that are written in this book." They leave out the other part, generally, strangely, "if any man shall take away from the words of the prophecies of this book, God shall take away his part out of the book of life and out of the holy city and from the things that are written in the book." And they do not dwell much upon the saying in it that "all liars and they that love and make a lie shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone." 

THE RIGHT TO RECEIVE REVELATION IS COMMON TO ALL. 

President Grant did not claim that he was the only man that could receive revelation from God. He has taught from the beginning, as all the leaders of this Church have, that to receive revelation is the gift of all men who seek for it. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you, saith the Lord of hosts." That was the doctrine of the ancient seers and prophets. That is the doctrine of the latter-day prophets, and of the Latter-day Saints' Church. The right to receive revelation from God is common to every one. Christ taught: "If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?" That Holy Spirit is the spirit of revelation, that which makes clear, that which reveals; whether it be something new or something old does not matter, if it is true. It is the spirit of truth, and that is the spirit of life and the spirit of light that he has given to everyone born into the world. Every sensible, every sane person, has a right to the guidance of that spirit if he will seek for it in the right way and be obedient to its whisperings and its teachings. The beneficial inventions received by leading minds come from that source. Now, it is not the right of every person to teach things that he may consider he has received by revelation, to others. I have had manifestations to me from the time when I, as a boy, went out into the world to preach the gospel without purse or scrip or means, for my personal benefit. I received them from the Lord; they were my guiding stars. I am thankful to know that I received this inspiration in my labors and duties, and there are many things I have never talked about to others, and I know just as well that they are true as that I am standing here, but it was not given me to teach them to the world or to anybody else. It was for me. Every inspiration that I have received from the Almighty has strengthened my faith in this work, this organization, this Church of Jesus Christ, for it is his Church, and I know that it is of God, and that it will prevail. 

ALL REVELATION FOR THE CHURCH COMES THROUGH THE HEAD OF THE CHURCH. 

There have been some persons who have been led away by an evil influence, which has caused some of them to lose their standing in the Church, and it was pertinent and timely for our president to allude to this doctrine as shown in the forty-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and what he said is true and it is the word of the Lord to the Church; it was then and it is now, and anything that the Lord has to reveal for the Church for its guidance and government in doctrine and principle and discipline will come through the head, and we will have the opportunity, if it is new, to pass judgment upon it. In the book of Doctrine and Covenants we have a number of revelations, all of which have been received by the body of the Church as the word of the Lord. I was present when that was done, when we were all organized in the Priesthood in our various quorums. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price were voted upon by the priesthood of the Lord and also by the congregation in conference during the time of President Taylor. If the Lord has anything further to reveal, it will come through the head, and then the body responding will make it the doctrine of the Church. That is the order of heaven. God reveals, God orders, God presides, and the heavenly hosts willingly and gladly receive his guidance, and his word becomes their word and they are like Jesus, they do his will, but they do it because it is the will of the Father and they know that the Father is true. And so when we get the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands and we walk in its light, we know for ourselves concerning the work, concerning all our duties as we are called upon to perform them. 

WOMEN AND THE PRIESTHOOD. 

One other remark I want to make, and that is this: There seems to be a revival of the idea among some of our sisters that they hold the Priesthood. President Clawson sat down on that in his remarks on Sunday. He said "No, the sisters do not hold the Priesthood." Well, is that right? Yes; but then there is a little qualification to it, perhaps, very slight. When a woman is sealed to a man holding the Priesthood, she becomes one with him. Sometimes the man is the one and sometimes he is not, but she receives blessings in association with him. The glory and power and dominion that he will exercise when he has the fulness of the Priesthood and becomes a "king and a priest unto God," she will share with him. Sisters have said to me sometimes, "But, I hold the Priesthood with my husband." "Well," I asked, "what office do you hold in the Priesthood?" Then they could not say much more. The sisters are not ordained to any office in the Priesthood and there is authority in the Church which they cannot exercise; it does not belong to them; they cannot do that properly any more than they can change themselves into a man. Now, sisters, do not take the idea that I wish to convey that you have no blessings or authority or power belonging to the Priesthood. When you are sealed to a man of God who holds it and who, by overcoming, inherits the fulness of the glory of God, you will share that with him if you are fit for it, and I guess you will be. 

AS TO WOMAN'S RIGHT TO ADMINISTER TO THE SICK. 

There is another thing connected with that. I have had sisters visit me and ask me if they did not have the right to administer to the sick. "Well," I have said, "yes, you have in one way; Jesus Christ said, 'These signs shall follow them that believe — in my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover.'" As I say, there are occasions when perhaps it would be wise for a woman to lay her hands upon a child, or upon one another sometimes, and there have been appointments made for our sisters, some good women, to anoint and bless others of their sex who expect to go through times of great personal trial, travail and "labor;" so that is all right, so far as it goes. But when women go around and declare that they have been set apart to administer to the sick and take the place that is given to the elders of the Church by revelation as declared through James of old, and through the Prophet Joseph in modern times, that is an assumption of authority and contrary to scripture, which is that when people are sick they shall call for the elders of the Church and they shall pray over and officially lay hands on them. 

It is the prayer of faith that saves the sick; faith in God not in some particular man, although some men seem to have more of the gift of healing than others, that is true, but the authority in the Church is vested in the elders. True, a priest, of course, can, a teacher can, and so can a deacon, although neither a teacher nor a deacon can exercise the power in the lesser Priesthood which is for the remission of sins through baptism; he cannot do that, he has not the authority, but he may lay hands on the sick and pray God to heal them; so can a member. So can people out of the Church, and so they have done. Having faith in God, they have asked God in the name of Jesus Christ to heal the sick by the laying on of their hands, and some of them have got well, and a good many others have died, like it is with all of us. 

NO MEETINGS TO BE HELD WITHOUT CONSENT OF PRESIDING AUTHORITIES. 

These sisters, too, claim the right to go around and hold meetings of their own and speak in tongues and interpret the same and to prophesy. Now they may have the gift of tongues; that is just as much for the sisters as it is for the brethren, and seems to be a little more so. One good sister said to another, "Oh, you may have the gift of wisdom, I don't say you haven't, but I have got the gift of tongues." She thought she was ahead of her sister who had wisdom. Sisters, it is not your right to organize meetings either for the sisters or for the brethren in your respective wards without the regulation and permission of the presiding authorities of the ward. Some sisters not very far from this spot used to meet together, relate visions, speak in tongues and had a glorious time, and the president of the stake was appealed to as to the right to do that. He said, "Sisters, you must not hold any meetings of that kind unless you get permission from the bishop," and they have never asked permission of the bishop nor held such meetings since that time. What does that show? It shows that they were not acting under proper authority. The Lord has declared "my house is a house of order." 

DO WHAT IS RIGHT AND LOOK TO THE LORD FOR HIS WORD. 

Let us do that which is right; let us avoid that which we have no right to do. Do not let us presume to hold Church meetings in our own authority. That is under the direction of the ward authorities and they will say when meetings are to be held; the quorum meetings, of course, are under the direction of the quorum authorities. Let us be wise in our generation, and let us look to the Lord for his word, through the appointed channel. And when we sing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," let us do so in faith. Many Saints sing that song, but they do not want to do or believe what he says. That is the way with some folks; not with you, of course; we know better or ought to know better. Let us follow in the ways the Lord has pointed out, and let us not get very angry at what the wicked do. The wicked will not cease from troubling, liars will not cease from lying, unless God converts or compels them, and they will go on in their evil way; some of them, until they find they are with the wicked in that punishment which is figuratively called fire and brimstone. 

CONCLUDING TESTIMONY. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. I am thankful to the Lord today for his mercies to me; I am thankful for his goodness to me all my life long. God be praised for the revelations of the latter days, and for the revelations of ancient days that have been handed down to us; only a few have come to us, but we are living now in the full blaze of the gospel of the last dispensation. The Holy Ghost, the Comforter, is with this people; Jesus Christ the Son is at the head of the Church, and God the Father is above all, and we will find out when we learn the fulness that Providence is indeed over all, and that we are to acknowledge his hand in all things, in adversity as well as in riches. In all conditions in which we find ourselves, we will praise the Lord and give thanks to him and serve him with all our heart and might and mind and strength, and will try to love our neighbors as ourselves, as far as we can, and if we can say, "O Lord, they don't know what they do," we will say also, "Father, forgive them." I am afraid some of them do know what they are doing; that is, they are not telling the truth, but are purposely perverting it. They, too, are in the view and the hands of the Almighty. 

God's peace be with you all, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

A revelation was given to the Church ninety years ago last February from which I have read during this conference, and I will read from it again. This revelation is to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or the elders in it. 

A VERY IMPORTANT REVELATION. 

"Oh, hearken, ye elders of my church, and give an ear to the words which I shall speak unto you. 

"For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye have received a commandment for a law unto my church, through him whom I have appointed unto you, to receive commandments and revelations from my hands." 

I want to emphasize once more, "A law unto my church." 

"And this ye shall know assuredly that there is none other appointed unto you," [Who? "my church,"] "to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me. 

"But verily, verily, I say unto you, that none else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him, for if it be taken from him, he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead; 

"And this shall be a law unto you," [and who is this law unto? "Unto my church,"] "that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments; 

"And this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me. 

"For verily I say unto you, that he that is ordained of me shall come in at the gate and be ordained as I have told you before, to teach those revelations which you have received, and shall receive through him whom I have appointed." 

And I said that anybody who taught contrary to that was a plain, simple, every-day liar. That is what I said; that is what I mean. The idea that any man claiming to believe the teachings of this revelation saying that he has today the right to perform plural marriages, is utterly absurd. We have cut such men off from the Church. 

CONCERNING PLURAL MARRIAGES. 

Perhaps I owe an apology — in fact I will make one — for speaking with anger in this building last Sunday night. As I came to the meeting Sunday night, I was told that a person had said that neither Heber J. Grant nor any other man had any right to say that an individual could not perform a plural marriage; that God had revealed plural marriages, and therefore that I had no right to say that they could not be performed, and that one party had remarked that it would take an angel from heaven to convince him, even if I did say it. In my remarks on Sunday evening I had no thought of referring to anybody outside of this Church, or that I ever had any right to undertake to say that I had anything to do with directing any other people than the Latter-day Saints. But I branded as plain, simple liars those who undertake to say that anybody, aside from the President of the Church, had any right to give revelations to this people. I had just heard that one more pretended plural marriage had been performed, and after all the teachings from this stand, and all the declarations, and after excommunicating, as we have done, within the last year, one man for marrying — or pretending to marry — a plural wife, I confess I was angry and "rebuked with sharpness." 

NO PERSON HAS THE RIGHT TO PERFORM PLURAL MARRIAGES. 

But I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that no man upon the face of the earth has any right or any authority to perform a plural marriage, and there are no plural marriages today in the Church of Christ, because no human being has the right to perform them. Therefore, any person pretending to have that right is attempting to exercise an authority that he does not have, and therefore he does not perform a marriage and there is no marriage covenant when such ceremonies are performed. 

SEVERAL PERSONS EXCOMMUNICATED FOR PERFORMING PRETENDED MARRIAGE CEREMONIES. 

We have excommunicated several patriarchs because they arrogated unto themselves, the right, or pretended right, to perform these ceremonies, and after our having excommunicated several patriarchs, another one, so I am informed, has committed the same offense. I announce to all Israel that no living man has the right to perform plural marriages. I announce that no patriarch has the right to perform any marriages at all in the Church. We have delegated, at the present time, to the presidents of stakes and to the bishops of wards, the right to perform lawful marriages, and there has been delegated to some elders who held positions as county clerks, the right to exercise the authority of the Priesthood to perform legal marriages for time. And it was in view of the lie that was going out, and a desire to protect virtuous, noble, good girls who were being deceived and entrapped into doing what, under the law of God today, and under the law of the land, is adultery, that I was branding the liar. 

CONCERNING INSPIRATION. 

I want my friends to know that the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints declare that God inspires men. We heard Elder Whitney read to us the twenty-ninth chapter of Alma. When I was the junior member of the council of the twelve apostles, I knew that chapter off by heart, and I used to repeat it, time and time again, in my public addresses. 

"O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people!" 

This same chapter further states that men are inspired, and are given all that is wisdom in God that they should have, and Alma says that he ought to be content with the things that were allotted unto him. And the thing allotted unto him was to declare repentance to the people, and he had had great joy in that many men, because of the word he had declared, had come unto God. Perhaps there is no other passage, no single chapter, in all the Book of Mormon, that I have preached from as often as I have from that twenty-ninth chapter of Alma. We believe absolutely, as has been said here, that God inspired Columbus. I commend to all Latter-day Saints when the conference pamphlet is published, to read what Elder Orson F. Whitney said about the inspiration of God being given to men in all parts of the world. We endorse his remarks. 

One of the fundamental articles of faith promulgated by the Prophet Joseph Smith was: 

"We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience; and allow all men the same privilege — let them worship how, where, or what they may." 

But we claim absolutely no right, no prerogative whatever, to interfere with any other people. We desire the good will of all mankind, and we desire the advancement of all mankind, and we pray God to bless every man that is striving for the betterment of humanity in any of the walks of life; and we say of every man who believes that Jesus is the Christ and who proclaims it: O God, bless that man. But we cannot pray for those who pretend to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and deny the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, and who proclaim that he was only a man. Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, who came to the earth with a divinely appointed mission to die for the redemption of mankind. Jesus Christ is literally the Son of God, the Only Begotten in the flesh. He is our Redeemer, and we worship him, and we praise God for every individual upon the face of the earth who worships our Lord and Master as the Redeemer of the world. 

I rejoice in the blessings of the Lord that have come to us during this conference. God bless the Latter-day Saints. God bless every honest-hearted soul all over the world, all who are striving to do good, striving to benefit mankind. I thank the Lord for the rich outpouring of his holy Spirit during our conference. May we all go home and take the Conference spirit of love and of fellowship and good will to all the congregations of the Saints, and thus inspire them to serve God and to keep his commandments is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

I want to read just one more thing: 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates; in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law."

The law provides that any person performing a marriage shall record the marriage, and I haven't heard of this last marriage I referred to being recorded; and there should be a license issued also; I haven't heard of any license.

A solo was sung, entitled, "The mighty God has spoken."

The choir and congregation sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet."

The Conference was adjourned until October, 1921.

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Orson F. Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve.