Overflow
03 04 1910

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, April 3rd, 1910. The services were presided over by Elder Anthony W. Ivins. Prof. O. A. Kirkham conducted the singing exercises, in which the Latter-day Saints' University Choir participated. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth 

need we roam, Good tidings are sounding to us and 

each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption 

will come. 

Prayer was offered by Patriarch Joseph D. Smith. 

The choir rendered the selection, "Just for today." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Idea that this Rocky Mountain region could not be occupied by civilized people. — Astounding change in conditions, under God's blessing. — Great increase in Church membership, and faithfulness of the Saints. — Tribute to memory of the late President John R. Winder. 

We have not a very large congregation of Latter-day Saints here this morning, but I certainly feel that the Spirit of the Lord will characterize this meeting, and that we will go forth renewed and benefited from these services, and grateful for the opportunity that we have to meet together here this morning in annual Conference. 

I feel grateful for this comfortable place to which we can come, and where we are sheltered from the rigors of this spring storm, and can in comfort worship the Lord, and review, briefly, the great work which He has established in the dispensation in which we live. 

I have been thinking while sitting here of the wonderful change that has come to the world, and particularly to this intermountain region, since the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, eighty years ago. Washington Irving wrote about that time of this rocky mountain region and I suppose he understood it better than any other man of his time, for he had before him a great mass of manuscripts made by Bonneville, Wyeth and those who accompanied the expedition which went with Lewis and Clark across the continent, and he reached his conclusions largely from the deductions of those men who had explored and become familiar with this intermountain region. After concluding the volume in which he treats of the explorations of Captain Bonneville, Washington Irving says that the "fur trade undoubtedly will in the near future be exhausted; that the great inter-mountain region is not susceptible of agricultural development; that it has but scanty resources so far as grazing facilities are concerned; that it is occupied by savage men; and that the intermingling of the blood of the trappers through marriage with Indian women will undoubtedly develop a race of men, in this intermountain region, who  compare with the Tartars of the East." And he reaches the final conclusion that there might be, in the then not very distant future, developed in the rocky mountain region, a race of men living largely through plunder, whose predatory habits would make them a menace to the civilization which will exist to the east and to the west of them. These men could see possibilities of civilization on the Pacific slope. They could discern scope and possibility for the development of civilization in California, in Oregon, and of course in that district of country lying east of the Rocky Mountains. But they reached the conclusion that the facilities here in this intermountain country were not susceptible to a development which would result in the establishment of a highly civilized people. 

I thought this morning how little men comprehend the possibilities of achievement when the Lord sets His hand to the accomplishment of any work. How little do they comprehend the will of the Almighty so far as it applies to this region which they called barren, and sterile, and which they looked forward to as the home of uncivilized people only. Compare that with the actual conditions of today. Civilization has been built up in all of this Rocky Mountain region, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south. The wonderful development, cities which have been builded, schools which have been established, churches which have been erected for the worship of God, our Father — these all rose as it were before my eyes, and I said to myself, How marvelous are the works of the Lord. Let us give the credit to the Lord for it, because he brought His people here, He estab them in these valleys of the mountains. He has cared for them. He has blessed their labors. He has multiplied them, and from here the Gospel of the Lord, Jesus Christ has gone out into all the world, where it is being preached as a witness to every creature before the end shall come. 

I thought how little Irving could conceive, when he wrote the words which I have quoted, that, in the life of men then living, men and women would be gathered together in this valley, to which he referred as a desert, alkali plain, here upon the borders of this great lake which Captain Bonneville was the first to explore and survey, that there would be gathered together under a roof like this a congregation of men and women in the service of the Lord. How little he was able \o comprehend that here, in this valley, schools would be established which would be the equal of any schools that exist in the world. How little he thought that there would ever be here a choir composed of boys and girls, young men and young women, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, finished, accomplished in music, representing a school that should be established on one of those storm-beaten and desolate plains. These reflections bring great satisfaction to me, because I seem to see in all these things His hand plainly manifest, in all the circumstances and conditions which surround the Latter-day Saints, and which make us comfortable here today while a storm rages without. 

Not only do I thank the Lord for that, but also that we come here with peace in our souls, satisfied with the Lord. We come here understanding Him, knowing His , and striving, so far as He gives us power to do it, to overcome the world and bring our lives into subjection to the will of God. That is what has brought this congregation of Latter-day Saints together this morning, and that which has brought the large assembly of people together who are now in the Tabernacle. They have come here to be taught the way of the Lord, that they may lear-n to walk in His paths. They have come here, for a few days, to review the Lord's work, to look back over it and see whether He has "made good," to see whether His purposes are being accomplished, that they may find out through the presiding authorities of the Church as to the conditions that exist in it. I expect, in all probability, that the President of the Church is now reporting to that large congregation of people, assembled in the Tabernacle, conditions as they are in the Church of Christ in the beginning of this month of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred ten. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that if you could all be there and hear the report that the President makes, that it would bring comfort to you, it would bring satisfaction, and you would be encouraged, because you would learn that the work of the Lord is developing in the earth. You would learn that the Saints are not faltering in their faith, and you would learn that every day, every week, every month, as time passes, men and women are being converted to the Church in the world. They are putting away their sins by repenting of them and going down into the waters of baptism and having the hands of the servants of the Lord laid upon them for the reception of the Holy Ghost. Statistics show that a greater number of baptisms are being performed by our Elders in the world than perhaps at any time in the past, at least than in 1908. Statistics show that there is a greater number of Elders abroad proclaiming the Gospel than ever before in the history of the Church. The reports of presidents of missions- show that new fields  are constantly being opened; that friends are being raised up to defend the truth; that the way is provided by which the Elders are sustained in the fields of labor in which they are called to preach the Gospel; that here at home the faith of the people is not faltering, for they are accomplishing more than ever before. More meeting houses are being erected; more Church schools are being established; more tithing is being paid in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than ever before; and it is these things that make possible the development of the work of the Lord. 

I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, and I say it intelligently, because I know it to be the truth, that while it is a fact that the tithes and offerings and the good works of the Latter-day Saints are increasing, have increased during the past year, it is also a fact that your business in connection with tithes and offerings, the funds which you entrust to the management of the presiding authorities of the Church, has never, in the history of the Church, been more carefully and more economically administered than it is being administered at the present time. The accounts of the Church are audited by men who are not in any way connected with the disbursement of its funds, who go into every detail. There is not a detail, there is not a, fund, there is  a receipt or a disbursement in the Church which is not scrutinized by them, and which they do not thoroughly understand. This auditing committee are men of unques^ tioned integrity and qualifications, so far as their ability to judge in these matters is concerned; and they will tell you — probably will tell that large congregation over there, because they will make this report, I suppose, today — if not today, at some other time during the conference — they will tell you that they know of no corporation, and they are associated with many large corporations, that they know of no individual business of magnitude that is so carefully and economically handled and administered as the business of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I felt gratified when I heard them say it, and I feel, my brethren and sisters, that it is proper for you to know it. 

The work of the Lord is not finished, by any means. It is only beginning. It is only in its incipiency. True, it will soon be one hundred years since the Church was organized, and that measured by the life of a man is a long time; but measured by the time which is required for the development of the purposes of the Almighty and the accomplishment of His designs in this great Latter-day work, it is, after all, but a little while. We shall continue to preach the Gospel. This burden rests upon the Latter-day Saints. This Gospel must be preached in all the world as a witness to every creature before the end shall come; and that is what we are trying to do; that is what your sons and many of your daughters are doing. They are in all parts of the world, bearing glad tidings of great joy to the inhabitants of the earth. 

We all regret that during the past year, and since we last met in General Conference, the Lord has called home one of His servants who was a member of the First Presidency of the Church. I. need not extol the virtues of President Winder. I need not refer to his life and works, because Latter-day Saints all know them. They are familiar with them. I only desire to say that he has been gathered home, into the garner of the Lord, like a harvest that is fully ripened, and gone back into the presence of God His Father, whose name he has honored and magnified while he has been in. the flesh, whose work he loved, and to which as a servant of the Lord he devoted his life. Throughout his long life the thought of true and devoted service to the Latter-day Saints and to the Church of Jesus Christ was ever uppermost in his mind. 

It is not my purpose to prolong my remarks. I thank the Lord for His blessings to us individually and to the Church in general. I love the society and fellowship of the Latter-day Saints. My desire and my determination, with the help of the Lord, is to magnify my calling as a member of the Church of Christ, to keep the commandments of the Lord, to defend that which He has established and to oppose that against which His voice has been raised, to seek, so far as in my power lies, to overcome the world, to point out to my brethren and sisters the way by which they may overcome it, and to contend against those evils that exist, and which the Church has always had to contend against, and which the Lord has  have no place nor part in His everlasting work. 

May the blessings of the Lord be with us while we are together here this morning, and with our brethren and sisters who are gathered in the Tabernacle, and with the Latter-day Saints who are not here, and with all the world, that the way may be opened for the accomplishment of His purposes, that His kingdom may come and His will be done upon the earth as it is done in heaven. That this condition may be hastened and a reign of righteousness be ushered in, is my sincere prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, I have been very much interested in the remarks of Brother Ivins, and rejoice with him exceedingly that we have this opportunity to meet together in this comfortable hall, where we are sheltered from the storm, and where we can commune together in regard to the work of the Lord in which we are all deeply interested. 

Early in February, 1831, the Prophet Joseph Smith and one or two of his associate brethren arrived in the town of Kirtland; a town that has become memorable on account of its associations, and because the first temple erected by the Latter-day Saints is located there. On his arrival in Kirtland, the prophet went into the store of Gilbert and Whitney, and, walking up to Mr. Whitney, who was then a member of that firm, but not a member of the Church, he said, "Newel K. Whitney, thou art the man. You have prayed me here; now what do you wiant me to do?" Mr. Whitney said, "You have the advantage of me; I do not know you." The prophet smilingly replied, "I am known as the Prophet Joseph Smith." Mr. Whitney welcomed him kindly and took him home., The prophet Joseph and his wife remained domiciled with Newel K. Whitney and family during the fore part of the year. Soon after this, some of the Saints began moving farther west, into the state of Missouri; and during the latter part of 1831, the prophet himself visited that state, and also in 1832. Previous to his second visit to the state of Missouri, he lived in the town of Hiram, but moved back to Kirtland again in 1833. When the Saints were driven from Jackson county, where the center stake of Zion was designated, many of the people moved to Kirtland, frqm Missouri, and Kirtland became a ward of the Church, numbering one thousand five hundred souls, most of whom were young men and young women, without families. You may thus understand that the town of Kirtland in 1833 was a strong branch of the Church: In March of that year, the first stake of Zion was organized, and the first High Council in connection with the Church. The Prophet Joseph and his counselors, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, were the presiding officers of the stake. This implies they did not organize a presidency of the stake aside from the prophet and his counselors. The stake was well organized, having its High Council and other officers complete. 

On the 14th day of February, 1835, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles was organized, the first in this dispensation. In the months of February and March following, , the first two quorums of Seventy were organized. On the 27th day of March,- 1836, the Temple of the Lord was dedicated. You will realize something of the spirit of that solemn occasion by reading the dedicatorial pr.ayer offered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, contained in the 109th section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. The revelation which is found in the 110th section, which was given to the Prophet a few days later, proclaims the fact that seven days after the dedication of that temple the Prophet Joesph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, beheld the Savior standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, upon a platform of pure gold shining like amber, brighter than the noon-day sun. The Savior declared to the Prophet and to his associate that He was the Mediator with the Father for His people, from that time forth. At that time Moses came also and delivered the keys of the gathering of Israel. Also, the great Prophet Elijah, that was taken into heaven without tasting death, came in accordance with the promise of the Angel Moroni, when he informed the youthful prophet concerning the plates on which was engraved the Book of Mormon; for Moroni said that the Lord would send these great leaders of dispensations to the Prophet Joseph. Elijah delivered the keys that were to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. That Temple was erected without  baptismal font, for the reason that the keys of baptism for the dead were not given by Elijah to the prophet tijl after its completion. Temples since that day have had placed in their basement rooms, the molten s sea, or baptismal font, for the redemption of the living and the dead; 

The first stake of Zion was organized in Kirtland. Now we have sixty-one stakes. We have grown a little. Assuredly there has been some increase of power among this people. The organizations were continued in Illinois, and finally, when Brigham Young reached Salt Lake Valley, after the breaking up of the people and their expulsion from their homes in the state of Illinois, a stake of Zion was organized here in Salt Lake valley in 1847-8. John Smith, the uncle of the prophet, and the presiding patriarch at that time, was ordained president of the stake, the first stake of Zion in the intermountain country. The growth of the Latter-day Saints is attributable to the fact, in my estimation, that they, at least a large majority of them, have sought with all their hearts to keep the commandments of God, and they  have shown their faith by their works. In place of only one temple, and that one without a baptismal font, we have today four completed edifices of that kind, all having this wonderful preparation within their walls for the redemption of our dead kindred. 

Brother Ivins alluded very feelingly to the death of President John R. Winder. From the beginning of our temple work in this city, president John R. Winder has been a leading spirit and diligent worker in the house of the Lord. In Oc, 1891, the Saints passed a resolution at their conference, moved by President Francis Marion Lyman, that the temple be completed at the April conference of 1893, or at the end of the forty years from the time of its commencement. Brother Winder was then placed in charge of that work. I speak of him now with my heart full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father that I had the pleasure of knowing him intimately, probably as much so as any man, for I say with pride and gratitude that I have been very near him as his medical adviser. You know, we get every close to men with our sympathy and love during the hours of their suffering and pain; the heart of the doctor is drawn out in love and tenderness for the sufferer. This has been my experience. Now I want to say this, that President Winder when he had the charge of completing the temple, although the foreman of the builders and the architects themselves declared it would be impossible to gather sufficient material of requisite kinds to complete it within the time named, yet it was done because President Winder stood always upon this platform, "It must be done; the temple must be finished on time for its dedication at the end of forty years." It was accomplished at the April conference of 1893, through the energy of the brethren and the Saints generally, their means being freely given for that purpose. The faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints, and their earnest works in that direction were crowned with success. Other temples have been completed in this intermountain region, and the brethren who have the presidency of this work, the leaders in these ordinances, have been energetic to that degree that millions of people in the spirit world have had the ordinance of baptism performed for them by living friends and kindred. These faithful workers, among the foremost of whom was President John R. Winder, with the brethren and sisters who form the corps of workers in each temple, have been diligent and faithful for all these years; and we may ask ourselves "What will the harvest be?" How glorious will be the welcome of President John R. Winder and others as they go into the spirit world and meet their kindred and those for whom they have worked in the temples of the Lord! You can imagine for yourselves, my brethren and sisters, occupants of a prison house, without the freedom that the Gospel brings, how they must rejoice when they learn that the ordinance of the Gospel has been performed vicariously for them, that will give them their freedom from the bonds of death, hell and the grave. We can rejoice today, my brethren and sisters, for the blessings of the Lord which have been showered upon His people. From this barren country that Emerson pronounced unfit for white man to live in, gardens and orchards have sprung up as if by magic, and the Lord has sent the early and the later rains for the benefit of His children. Daniel Webster, who was a great statesman as you well remember, asked, "For what purpose does the president of the United States purchase the Louisiana District, including this great western and intermountain region, what is' his aim and object, I cannot fathom. It is a country of rock and sagebrush plains, where nothing that is food  man can grow, and inhabited by lizards and poisonous reptiles, and the wildest kind of untamable savages." But the Lord led His servants here, Brigham Young and his pioneer band, and indicated to him that here he would £nd a refuge for His people. The refuge was found, and in this valley of the Great Salt Lake, a successful colony and community of living working people was established. The thrift and industry of the Latter-day Saints have been manifested from the first by the results attained in this once sterile country, in causing it to blossom and become fruitful. 

As I remarked in the beginning of my conversation this morning, in Kirtland we had one stake of Zion; today we have sixty-one. That is some growth, and there is some advancement. Today, as Brother Ivins truly said, we are beginning to rank with people who are known to be foremost as educators. Our schools rank very high in the records of the United States; we are among the five most advanced states of the Union in literacy, away up among the leaders, although we are but a youthful state. 

The Church today is approaching its eightieth birthday, which will be on the 6th of this month. We can realize my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has been very kind to His children. Not only have the Latter-day Saints been benefited by the redemption of this intermountain country, but all people of the Union and of other countries are looking toward this great region of the west as a safe place for homes and investment. Many visitors come to our cities, and es this great city, and are favorably inpressed and more are coming. Many of the people in the East are looking to the West, to these once arid plains and valleys. 

I rejoice with you today, because I know the principles of the Gospel which we have received are true. I know that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired by the Spirit of the Lord to organize this Church, and to organize the quorums of the Priesthood, ' and that Brigham Young and those who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph have been inspired to gather the people, to this land of Zion, and we are here rejoicing this day in general conference because of the blessings of the Lord unto us. 

May we be faithful and true, and always have a living testimony within our hearts of the truth of this great work, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The young ladies of the L. D. S. U. choir sang the hymn entitled, "This is the Sabbath morn." 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I believe that the Latter-day Saints here present must feel with me a certain amount of pride in listening to the voices of these Latter-day Saints' University students, who are rendering such beautiful music to us here this morning. A good deal has been said this morning in regard to the educational status of the Latter-day Saints. We have here now an object lesson, these young men and young women, members of the Latter-day 

Saints' University in this city, pursuing their studies there, also receiving instruction in the divine art of music, under the able leadership of Brother Kirkham. I am sure that we must feel proud of these our young brethren and sisters and what they are accomplishing in an educational way. I regard music as a part of their education, and the ability they have shown is a result of their application. I believe that it is the destiny of this people to become the leaders in education, in knowledge, in understanding and in all those accomplishments which go to make the perfect man and the perfect woman. Every acquirement in these lines helps to polish the young lady or young gentleman to give to them an air of culture and improvement that is completely in harmony with the great work of the Lord in which we are all engaged. 

If there is anything that this work stands for it is for enlightenment, for education; for improvement, and the accomplishment of the great ends for which this Church has been set up, organized and established, for after all our mission upon this earth is one of education. We are, so to speak, attending school, fitting and qualifying ourselves for a habitation in the realms above, in the presence of our eternal Father, whose glory is sometimes referred to as being intelligence. Intelligence is the glory of God. It is by reason of His great intelligence and knowledge that He is able to manifest such power, for knowledge is power. We have organizations that are particularly adapted to the youth of Zion, not only in our Church schools, that are doing so much in 

that line and are accomplishing such a great work, but also in the various organizations for our young people, the young men's and the young ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, our Sabbath Schools, Primary associations and Religion classes. 

Sometimes people in the world imagine that the study of religion is not particularly an intellectual attainment, and that men and women can be religious and keep moral without any particular amount of intellectual pursuit or application. But I wish to call attention to the fact, which seems to me to be selfevident, that it requires intelligence to be good, to be moral, to be virtuous, and to be honest. It is a mistaken idea some people have, that they prefer — for they say they prefer — to bring their sons up into some occupation that will require a great amount of mental application. They would like to have their sons become good lawyers or physicians; but when it comes to following religion, why anybody can follow that, as it does not require any particular amount of intellect or knowledge to be an upright man. That, think they, is something that can be turned over to weaker minds. But I wish to call attention to the fact, that the greatest amount of intellectual energy is necessary to overcome evil in all its various forms as it presents itself to mankind in gefneral. I wonder how many there are who have resolved in their own mind "I will do no evil, T will think no evil, I will resist all that is wrong and try to do only that which is good." In other words, how many are there who are trying to follow the injunction of the Lord Jesus Christ when he said, "Be perfect even as  Father in heaven is perfect." If we have resolved this in our minds and determined that we are going to try to live tnat kind of a life, have we not learned, and found out to our own satisfaction, that it requires intellectual effort for us to do so? To govern the mind, the desires of the heart, require the greatest amount of intellectual power. To resolve in our minds that we are going to try, is the biggest step in that direction. What are our intentions? It has been said by some one that "hell is paved with good intentions." I do not believe one word of it, I regard that as a false aphorism. Hell is not .paved with good intentions; it would be more appropriate to say it is paved with evil intentions. It may be true that some people have particularly good intentions at times, and fail to carry them out; but I believe that the most difficulty is in our failure to have good intentions. I believe this, that anyone with good intentions will never be found doing anything very wrong. If we can control our thoughts or our minds, if we can control our thinking, our intentions and our purposes, I believe that our deeds will take care of themselves. But we want to get the reins and hold them, that we may control the thinking of our minds; that is intellectual energy, and it requires a vast amount of it. There is no undertaking so vast and so great as the obtaining of this self-control, and it is all a part of our religion. The Gospel takes hold of us exactly in this way, or it should do so. 

Fundamental in the Church of Jesus Christ, is the principle of faith. We must have faith in God, and plead with Him for His 'as, for the companionship of His Holy Spirit. Fundamental, also, in our Church, is the great principle of repentance from sin. Without it we. cannot improve. It is the application of this principle that is going to help us to cleanse ourselves from sin. The resisting of evil is exercised by us every day, if we are leading the lives of Latter-day Saints. Opportunity to exert these powers is afforded to us every day of our lives. We should indulge only in pure thoughts; do we endeavor at all times to reject the evil ones that are constantly presenting themselves to us ? If we do, we have something to accomplish, something that requires our greatest effort. It requires a superior quality of spirit and intelligence for us to combat the evils of the world, not only as it applies to communities at large, but as individuals, fighting the great fight, cleansing and purifying ourselves from all evil. That is what repentance will do for us. But it necessitates constant and daily application, something that we have got to do every day of our lives. If we are imbued with this kind of a spirit, when we arise in the morning the first thought will be "Today I will keep myself clean and unspotted from the world; I will do no evil; I will resist every evil that presents itself to my mind that it may find no resting place within me." Someone has said — I do not know who it was — that "we cannot prevent the birds from flying over our heads, but we can prevent them from building nests in our hair." Sometimes I think that we can, to a certain extent, prevent them from flying over our heads. A short time ago I was in the city of Los Angeles, and  there I visited a pigeon farm, owned by one of our people who formerly lived in Sanpete county. Nearly all the visitors who go to Los Angeles make it a point to visit this pigeon farm, for it is possibly the largest pigeon farm in the world. The brother showed us his pigeons, numbering 125,000. It is only a small farm as far as the area is concerned. There were housed there, as stated, 125,000 pigeons. There is a little creek running through his farm, and a little green growing on either side of it, and these pigeons fly all around on this particular farm, but it was noticeable that none of them left th° boundaries of the farm. On the right and on the left were garden patches with green garden stuff, vegetables growing in the garden, and houses were all around. You would naturally think that these pigeons would fly over and devour these green vegetables, that they would go over on to the houses of the neighbors and rest upon the roofs. But no, they all remained on that farm. We asked Brother Johnson — I think that is his name — how it was. He said they never leave the farm. "When I first started business here thev began to go on the neighboring farm, but I went out with a shotgun and I fired off a few shots and they went back, and," he says, "I never had anv trouble since." Now, my brethren and sisters, if we fire a few shots* at the evil thoughts and evil desires which sometimes present themselves to us, and set ourselves against them, we can prevent them from flying over our heads. We want to endeavor in every way to avoid evil thinking, because out of an evil thought comes" an evil deed; and if we will take care of this part I think that the deeds will take care of themselves. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of repentance, because I know that it has within it the power of God unto salvation; and I know that it is necessary for us to make individual efforts to control the thinking powers of our minds, to control those elements of our nature that require our purification to fit and qualify us to dwell in the presence of God. That is the part of our salvation that is left to us. Through the grace of God we will be redeemed from the dead. Through the grace of God we will be relieved from the consequences of evil, not only from the original transgression of our first parents in the Garden of Eden, but also of all our own personal acts and shortcomings, provided we will practice this great Gospel of repentance from sin, and bring unto the Lord a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and manifest in our daily lives that we are determined to lead that perfect life and to resist evil in all of its forms, no matter how it may present itself to us. May the Lord of heaven help us to go on and on until finally we shall gain the victory, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in having the opportunity this morning of listening to the remarks and testimonies of the brethren who have preceded me, and of listening to the sweet sing of our college choir, and of taking part in these meetings connected with the eightieth anniversary of the organization of the Church. Prof. Geo. Trumbull Ladd, professor of moral philosophy and metaphysics of Yale University, in the introductory preface of a recent work on Mormonism, makes the statement that "the rise and growth of Mormonism is one of the most remarkable phenomena of the nineteenth century," and that "it is deserving of thorough investigation whether the investigation be conducted from the point of view of the sociologist, the psychologist or the student of politics or of religion." Mormonism has been investigated, not only by those who are its friends and adherents, but also by those who have sought to find some satisfactory explanation of its origin other than the true one that it is of divine founding. Thus far, these counter theories or efforts to account for the introduction of Mormonism Upon some hypothesis other than the one given by Joseph Smith, have not received any considerable number of adherents to any particular theory. There was the Spaulding theory, and that has been so thoroughly exploded that you can scarcely find any one, I apprehend, in this enlightened age who thinks the Spaulding theory satisfactorily accounts for the Book of Mormon and Mormonism. 

Then there is the theory that Sidney Rigdon was the author of the Book of Mormon, and the real genius and founder of Mormonism; and that, I suppose, has also very few adherents. Of course we Latter-day Saints know that as a matter of fact Sidney Rigdon had nothing to do with the origin of Mor, had no knowledge of it, and never met the Prophet or his followers until after the Book of Mormon had been published. 

Some one suggested that the success of early Mormonism was due to choice of men, that "as Harris had supplied the money, so Pratt supplied the eloquence, and Rigdon the brains," but no one believes such nonsense. The antithesis, though somewhat striking,receives the scoff of the investigator who realizes that Joseph Smith was a power, had established this work, and was directing it with a master hand, before making the acquaintance of Rigdon or the Pratts. 

I believe that the world is coming today to realize as never before the sincerity of the direct witnesses to the Book of Mormon. Truths are established either by direct or circumstantial evidence. It is no light task to fabricate or formulate a false theory, or a falsehood, and successfully palm it off as the truth. My reading of the history of human experience in this respect teaches me that it is a very difficult thing to fabricate even the smallest item and have it established as the truth; that it is even difficult to forge so much as a downward stroke of the pen or add a syllable to a word; for the reason that they do not conform to the truth, and are not in harmony with things as they exist. And so it would have been an impossibility for Joseph Smith, the Prophet to have acted a false and fictitious part for nearly a quarter of a century without his fellowmen being able to detect the imposture. As a recent illustration of the difficulty of a person palming off falsehood successfully upon the people for any considerable length of time, take the case of Dr. Frederick A. Cook. No  Dr. Cook thought it would be an easy matter to put forth the false statement that he had been to the north pole, and have it believed. It would not be expected that he would erect a monument at the north pole; a monument of rock, if you please, such as our surveyors sometimes place upon the summit of mountain tops which they scale. It would not be expected that he would leave any record there that other explorers might afterwards find to prove beyond all doubt that he had been there. It would not be expected that he would leave a trail in the snow or ice, that others might trace. And so Dr. Cook thought it would be an easy matter to mislead the world as to where he had traveled. Even the two representatives of a half-civilized race who were with him would not be able to determine, with any degree of certainty, how far north he went. They were not sufficiently acquainted with astronomy or astronomical observations to know just how far they had traveled or what ground they had covered. So no doubt he thought it would be an easy matter to deceive the public in that respect. But he was not able to deceive the one board of learned men in the north country to whom he presented the evidences of his trip; much less could he deceive the entire public. 

Mormonism has been before the world now for these eighty years, and thus far, as expressed by Ridpath, the historian, in his history of the world, "It has never succumbed to the force of logic nor to the logic of force." And today, men investigating it realize the sincerity of the direct witnesses to the founding of Mormonism. They know that the three witnesses would not have remained true to their testimony if it had been based upon fraud or collusion with the prophet, just as they know that the prophet would not have dared 'to break with the witnesses and e!xpel them from the. Church for their failure to live up to the strict requirements and discipline of the Church, if there had been any collusion between the witnesses and himself. And so with the eight witnesses. There were enough of them who failed to live according to the rigid discipline of the Church and who were disfellowshipped to demonstrate that there was no collusion between them and the prophet. A chance acquaintance of mine, in Idaho, had a theory with reference to our missionary system, and why thousands of our young men, at the call of the Church, would go upon missions. He thought they had been hypnotized. I soon convinced him of, his error. You may examine so-called Mormonism in the light of mesmerism, hypnotism, or any other form of psychological phenomena, and still you will find no satisfactory explanation of Mormonism except that given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In recent times Mormonism is being investigated from the point of view of the psychologist. We welcome such study as we have welcomed every other attempt to scrutinize and investigate to the fullest the claims of Mormonism. 

In addition to the testimony of the three and of the eight witnesses, we have an overwhelming array of circumstantial evidence in favor of the divine founding of Mormonism. We have the fact that the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants and the organization of the Church dovetail with all truth, are in harmony with the Jewish scrip, with the -learning and revelations of the past; and the fact that the Book of Mormon is in harmony with the archaeology of the American continent, with the philology and the ethnology and all the other ologies that have any connection with these matters. All these sciences corroborate and dovetail and unite in support of the claim of the Book of Mormon to be a true history. It is useless to attempt to explain away the testimony of the dozen or more men, direct witnesses to the Book of Mormon, upon any of these modern hypotheses, because not one of these theories can be pursued satisfactorily for any length of time without disclosing the futility and the weakness of the same to account for the phenomena connected with the growth and establishment of our Church. 

I rejoice with you in the splendid growth that Mormonism has achieved in the few years of its existence, the largest part of that history being within the easy remembrance of the largest part of this audience. During this time it has grown from a Church composed of six individuals to an organization of 400,000 or more members. And if in the next eighty years there is a corresponding ratio of increase in membership in the Church, what a power Mormonism will be in the world It is today a leaven that is working upon the lump of humanity. The doctrines of Mormonism of yesterday that were unpopular are becoming the popular doctrines of religious creeds today; and gradually the truth is being established, and truth and knowledge are being extended upon the face of the earth and established in the hearts and minds of the children of our Father. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and enable us. to be true and steadfast in this work, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the sacred chorus, "The Great Crusaders." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Hyrum Bennion. 


