Morning
04 04 1910


ELDER JOHN L. HERRICX. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

"If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain. 

"Pure religion and undefiled before God arid the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keeo himself unspotted from the world." 

These words from the epistle of James seem rather pertinent today, since so many people, at this time, are thinking more than ever before upon the plan of salvation, and the redemption of the human soul. De, religion is the outward act or form by which men indicate their recognition of a God or Gods having power over their destiny, to whom obedience, service and honor are due. Specifically stated, it is conforming by faith and life— or by faith and works, if you please — to the precepts inculcated in the Bible respecting the conduct of life and duty toward God and man. Aside from what we believe, and practice, and know, a question occurred to me a short time ago, about the time of the death of Mr. E, H. Harriman, the greatest railroad magnate that the world has known, I presume. In reading a letter, which was supposed to have been read at his funeral, and which he had caused to be written to those residing on his vast estate,— the question occurred to me, Is religion worth while? Referring to those who have made a success in life financially and otherwise, and who feel independent of oeople of this world, is it worth while for them to be religious? This is the letter he wrote : 

ThJ? t 1 he f m - en residen ts of ArdenThe lack of interest on your part is discouraging to those who provide means whereby you can have the important privi ege of attending church services. Fair weather Christians are of no more use in a community than the same sort of laborer, milkman dairyman farmer, carpenter, blacksmith, railroadman, or any k nd I of a fair-weather man. It seems to me ?hat your responsibility does not end with yourself, but extends to those over  you have an influence. The opportunity is given your children for religious training at Sunday School, and the church for yourselves and families, if you avail yourselves of it. I hope by next Sunday, that you may evidence more interest by attending the service." 

This incident in the life of that man, coupled with another related at the same time, indicates his greatness. We are told that on one occasion, afthe holiday season, he discovered that a child of one of his laborers had been overlooked and would receive no remembrance in the way of a Christmas gift. He himself went out into the snow, in the middle of the night, and walked three miles to that woman's home to assure her that her child would not be forgotten. A man that can entertain such ideas as this for religious worship and its necessity, with such an attitude toward those of the human race with whom he is connected, cannot help but be a great man. So I thought that it might be profitable to look into the lives of other great men of whom we have heard or have come in contact, and see if, perchance, they had not been religious; and the religious side of some of these men was gone into with a great deal of interest. Since the discovery of this great country, when Columbus, with those who were with him. bowed down on his knees and kissed the earth, and 'thanked the God of the universe for having guided and directed them to this land, — coming down through history to the great patriot and father of the country, George Washington, as well as Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and all the great men, in fact, who had anything to do in the framing of the destinies of this new , were men who acknowledged a living God. They acknowledged the existence of a divine being who ruled the destinies not only of men but of nations; and they recognized His hand in the affairs of this blessed country of ours. 

Yesterday, when President Smith referred to the home and what it should be and consist of, I was reminded of Moroni who, at the age of twenty-five, stood at the head o the Nephite armies of this country, who fought and gave up their life's blood, — and what was it for? For the dual reason of protecting their homes and their religion, equall Did they realize what these two institutions meant to them? That is what they fought for and prayed for. After they were successful in overcoming the opponents who, outnumbering them, the first thing they did was to say to their enemies that the Lord had seen fit to place them in their hands, and it was by His goodness and mercy that such conditions had been brought to pass. 

The thinking man today is reaching out in his contemplations far beyond mortality. It is inborn in the human race to have some conception and idea of God; and today, more than at any other time, I believe, among the sectarians, they are realizing this truth,— that God is a living being, and that their bodies are immortal. Immortal life is so closely connected with us and our work, our religion, our faith, I would like to read a few lines of the inspired poetess, Ella Wheeler Wilcox, which, perhaps, explains our position, or at least it suits my view, particularly in regard to the question of immortality : 

"Immortal life is something to be earned, By slow, self-conquest, comradeship 

with pain, , And patient ' seeking after higher 

truths. 

We cannot follow our own wayward wills 

And feed our baser appetites and give Loose reins to foolish tempers, year on year, 

And then cry, 'Lord, forgive me, I believe — ' 

And straightway bathe in glory. Men 

must learn God's system is too great a thing for 

that; 

The spark divine dwells in each soul, and we 

Can fan it to a steady flame of light, Whose lustre guilds the pathway of the tomb 

And shines on through eternity.or else Neglect it till it simmers down to death 

And leaves us but the darkness of the grave. 

Each conquered passion feeds the living flame; 

Each well-borne sorrow is a step toward God. 

Faith cannot rescue, and no blood redeem 

The soul that will not reason and resolve. 

Lean on thyself, yet prop thyself with prayer, 

For these are spirits, messengers of light, 

Who come at call and fortify thy strength, 

Make friends with thee and with thine 

inner self, Cast out all envy, bitterness, and hate, And keep the mind's fair tabernacle pure; Shake hands with Pain, give greeting 

unto Grief, Those angels in disguise; and thy glad 

soul, 

From light to light, from star to shining star, 

Shall climb and claim blest immortality." 

I bear you witness, my brethren and sisters, of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. I bear my humble testimony to the truth of, and I feel to subscribe to, the principles enunciated by President Smith at the opening of this . I pray God's blessings to rest upon him and strengthen him in the loss of his beloved companion and counselor in this Church. I pray God's blessing upon us all, that we may be endowed with sufficient of His Spirit to live uprightly, to do our duty to our fellow-man and to our God, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HDD GEE, CLAWSON. 

Examples of astounding wealth and extravagance.--The Savior's example of disregard for earthly riches.— True happiness derived from other sources than wealth. 

I feel a good deal like President Smith expressed himself, last evening, that to stand before a large congregation of this character inspires one with a feeling of awe, if not of fear; and if I shall be able to say anything this morning that shall be profitable to us, it will be due to the help and assistance of the Spirit of the Lord. 

I quote from the Proverbs, chapter 23 : 

"Labor not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom. "Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven." 

Again, in Proverbs, chapter 30 : 

"Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die: 

"Remove far from me vanity and lies; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me; 

"Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the Lord? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain." 

This prayer of the wise man is  of our consideration — how beautiful, how appropriate, how consistent! He prayed not for riches, for fear that he would forget the Lord; he prayed not for poverty, because it is a distressing thing and may lead to crime; but he prayed for just sufficient to meet his reasonable wants, and then he would be content. 

Brethren and sisters, the spirit of the age is a spirit to seek after wealth, to get rich, and to get rich quickly. There are innumerable schemes and enterprises devised by which this might be accomplished, and many people run into speculations that lead down, swiftly to financial ruin. 

At the beginning of the nineteenth century there were very few people in America who could be classed as wealthy. If a man was known to be worth a million dollars, nearly every eye was upon him, it seemed to be such a wonderful thing; but now a million dollars is looked upon as quite a paltry sum, and he who has attained to this degree of opulence attracts no attention whatever. During the past century great fortunes have been accumulated by the wealthy in the United States. Henry Clews, a Wall Street banker, and an authority of eminence in financial matters, has prepared a list of some of the rich men of the country. Here it is : 

John D. Rockefeller $500,000,000 

Andrew Carnegie, $115,000,000 given away, leaving. 250,000,000 Wm. Waldorf Astor, chiefly 

real estate 200,000,000 

John Jacob, Astor 175,000,000 

The Gould family (of which 

Geo. J. Gould's personal 

portion represents $35,000,000) 150,000,000 

Marshall Field 100,000,000 

Blair estate 100,000,000 

W. K. Vanderbilt 80,000,000 

Russell Sage,now Mrs. Russell Sage 80,000,000 

D. O. Mills 75,000,000 

Wm. Rockefeller 75,000,000 

J. P. Morgan 60,000,000 

Jas. J. Hill 60,000,000 

Henry H. Rogers 50,000,000 

Henry Phipps 45,000,000 

Jacob D. Archibald 40,000,000 

Henry M. Flagler ... 40,000,000 

Jas. B. Haggin 40,000,000 

James Henry Smith (not John Henry Smith (laugh-" 

ter) 35,000,000 

Wm. H. Tilford 20,000,000 

James Stillman 15,000,000 

[Just think of that — the paltry sum of $15,000,000.] 

George F. Baker 15,000,000 

This makes a total, owned by twenty-two men, of two billion, two hundred and five million dollars. Mr. Clews admits that his list is incomplete, but says that it undoubtedly contains the names of the richest men in the country. Now, pause and reflect, brethren and sisters. Think what an immense responsibility rests upon these men who own such vast wealth. You could scarcely suppose that they would have a moment's time to devote to religion, or even to devote to their families, their time would be so completely occupied in looking after and managing these millions of dollars. 

I would like to say in this connection, brethren and sisters, that the possession of great wealth often leads to extravagance and folly of the worst character. I was reading, the other day, of a case in court, where a wealthy woman was suing out a divorce from her wealthy husband, and in order to- impress the judge with the necessity of allowing her a large alimony, she gave to him and to the court a detailed account, which was published, of her yearly expenses, the moneys expended by her for dress amounting to $40,000. I am sure it would be interesting to you to know the number and cost of the various articles required by this wealthy woman to furnish her wardrobe for one year; and, of course, the expense is continuous, as the fashions, you know, change frequently. She required : 

Twelve morning gowns that cost from $50.00 to $100.00 each. These often very elaborately ornamented 

* would' cost from $350 to $800 each. 

Fifteen reception gowns, $250 to $350 each. 

Twenty-four street gowns at $100 to $200 each. 

Six house gowns, $350 each 

Six negligee gowns, $50 to $175 each. 

Six tailored suits, $90 to $150. 

Four riding habits, $150 each. 

Twenty yachting suits, $50 each. Furs: 

One black muff and boa, $225. One black caracul skirt, $700. One black otter boa, $125. One fur coat, $300. 

Now I submit to you the question and ask if you do not think that one hundred women, and even a greater number, could be clothed properly, ' to make a very respectable appearance, and to look reasonably well in all respects, with the money that was expended by this one woman on her wardrobe for one year? So that it would appear to be a very 

 foolish and extravagant outlay. In order to satisfy her it would require a very large sum in alimony, and that is what she wanted. 

Now, in the matter of wealth, as in all other matters, we must look to our Lord and Master as the great exemplar, and we may well judge from what the scriptures say that He despised wealth, for upon one occasion He said — think of it, the Lord of life, the Savior of the world, the Son of the living God, , "The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, -but the Son of Man hath not where to lay His head." He seemed to give very little attention to the question of wealth. Even the adversary was permitted to take Him to the top of a high mountain and to show Him the kingdoms of the world and the glory thereof; and the adversary turned to Him and said, "Fall down and worship me, and all these things I will give thee." The Savior said, "Get thee hence, Satan : for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." Upon one occasion, as you will remember, a ruler of the Jews came to the Savior and said to Him, "Good Master, tell me what I shall do to inherit eternal life." The Savior turned to him and said, "Why callest thou me good ? None are good except God. Thou knowest the commandment, Do not commit adultery; do not kill; do not bear false witness; defraud not; honor thy father and thy mother." "Why," said the young man, "all these have I kept from my youth up." And the Savior, looking upon him, loved him and said, "Yet lackest thou one thing." Now, think of it, what a remarkable life this young man had led, he had kept all these great commandments from his youth up, every one of them, and was only lacking in one little thing, the correction of which would enable him to grasp eternal life. The Savior said, "Sell all that thou hast and distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come, follow me." This made the young man very sad, and it grieved him sorely, for he had great possessions, and he turned away; and the Savior, addressing Himself to His disciples, said, "How hardly  a rich man enter into the kingdom of heaven." Whereupon Peter replied, "Lo, we have left all and followed thee." Jesus answered, "Every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an , hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life." How very fitting were the words of the Savior upon another occasion, if applied to that young man, wherein he said, "Lay not up treasures unto yourselves upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where moth and rust doth not corrupt, neither do thieves break through and steal; for where your treasure is there will your heart be also." The acquirement of riches was not only referred to upon numerous occasions, by the ancient writers of the scripture, and also by the Savior in His day, but the Lord in modern times has spoken very clearly. and definitely respecting it. In His revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, this subject is dwelt upon quite fully and seems to be counted of great importance. The Lord said to Joseph, in section 38 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"If ye seek the riches which it is the will of the Father to give unto you, ye shall be the richest of all people, for ye shall have the riches of eternity; and it must needs be that the riches of the earth are mine to give; but beware of pride, lest ye become as the Nephites of old." And how were the Nephites of old ? We read that they grew to be quite wealthy; they became proud and high-minded, and went with stiffnecks and high looks, and they seemed to think thev were better  their poorer brethren and sisters, because of the costly apparel which they wore. This was a great evil in the sight of God. Upon another occasion, the Lord emphasizes the words of the wise man in the proverbs, when he said: "Seek not riches, but wisdom, and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded to you; then shall ye be made rich, for he that inherits eternal life is rich." 

Brethren and sisters, the late President John R. Winder is a rich man, for he will inherit eternal life. He fought the good fight, kept the faith and has won a crown in the kingdom of our God. 

Now, we have before us, on the one hand, the riches of eternity, and, on the other hand, the riches of the earth. Which will you choose? If you choose the riches of eternity, then all other things will be added unto you. If you choose the riches of the earth, you may lose all else, yea, even the riches of the earth. There are many, very many among the Latter-day Saints who are rich today, and others who are growing rich; but they do not derive their happiness from riches. There are five sources from which the Saints derive inestimable happiness, and in which the principle and power of wealth has no influence whatever : The first is the possession of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; the second is the contemplation of spiritual things in that Gospel; the third is the blessings of the house of God, in which the endowments are given, and the principle of marriage for eternity is revealed; the fourth is the preaching of the Gospel to a fallen world, thus bringing to pass the redemption of mankind; and the fifth is administering the necessities of life to the worthy poor. This is what brings happiness, pure and unsullied happiness, to the Latterday Saints. Let us seek after these thing's. 

May the Lord bless His people. May He prosper and sustain them. May He bring to them the riches of eternity, and may He bring to them the riches of the earth, if they can only have wisdom to employ these riches for the building up of His Church and Kingdom. May the Lord God of Heaven bless His Prophet and His people, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

President Melvin J. Ballard sang the hymn, "I know that my Redeemer lives," as a baritone solo. 

ELDER HYRTJM M. SMITH. 

How Joseph Smith became a Prophet. — The Gospel and Priesthood restored. — Continuation of authority after the Prophet's martyrdom. — God's inspiration manifest in character of successive leaders. — Futile efforts of enemies to create dissension in the Church or retard its growth. 

Almost ninety years have passed away since the opening of the dispensation of the fulness of times, in the which the Father, in person, accompanied by His Son, Jesus Christ, came from heaven to the earth in answer to the prayer offered them by Joseph Smith, a boy of fourteen years of age. These divine personages made themselves known to this lad, answered his questions and told him that the time had come for the introduction among men, once more, and for the last time, of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ which is the power of God unto salvation. This was a most glorious and effulgent day. We are told it was a beautiful day in the spring time, a day in every way  such a condescension on the part of the Father and the Son, to come from their celestial abode into consultation with Joseph Smith in this state of life. But almost immediately after that glorious vision, the clouds of darfeness began to encircle this young man, — who was now a prophet .of God, — for the moment that he declared he had seen the Father and the- Son, nearly all who heard the declaration rose up in opposition to him, and in great objection to his message, declaring it to be false and from the evil one, and they tried to their utmost to persuade the prophet himself that he had been deceived. Nevertheless, he knew he had not been deceived; and, obedient to the instructions imparted to him by the Savior, he continued to do„ as nearly as was possible, what he thought and understood to be right and according to the will of the Lord. In due time, the Lord sent from His presence other messages to Joseph, with further instructions and with proper interpretation of many ' of the prophecies that had been made, concerning the latter times, by the ancient prophets, with other prophecies and promises to him that the Church of Christ should be organized, and that he should become the instrument, in the hands of God, in building up the Church of Jesus Christ in the latter days. These promises and prophecies were, in due time, fulfilled. The Aaronic Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph Smith by John the Baptist, who had been the forerunner of the Savior in primitive times, and some time later the Melchizedek was conferred upon him by Peter, James and John. These were men who had lived, and who had been valiant in the testimony of Jesus Christ. 

They had been preachers of the Gospel, and had held the Holy Priesthood. They, with the exception of John, had been put to death for the testimony which they had borne. They had been resurrected, had come forth from the grave, and had been sent by the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith to restore the Priesthood which was the authority of God, by which these great prophecies should be fulfilled, namely, the building up of the kingdom of God in the earth, the establishment of the Church, and the opening of the doors of all nations for the preaching of the Gospel, that the light of truth should be spread into every nation and among every people, to every kindred and tongue, and that the cry of repentance should go forth, that all men should have the privilege of hearing it and the opportunity of accepting the Gospel, repenting of their sins and becoming members of the Church, thus putting themselves in the way, by their obedience, to inherit eternal life in the Celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

All this was accomplished, and in the midst of persecution, and all manner of evil and slander and opposition that were brought to bear against the Prophet and those who believed in him. In =pite of it all, the Prophet was able to accomplish his great mission; and during his brief life — his presidency over the Church was but fourteen years — he' laid the foundations of this great and glorious kingdom; he effected the organization of the Church, an organization which is, at the same time, the pride of the Saints, the glory of the Lord, and the wonder of the world. He was martyred for the truth's sake, — put to death for bearing witness and testimony of 

Jesus. At his death, the Church experienced possibly the darkest moment of its career. For but a moment, however, were the Saints bewildered despite their intense sorrow. They were, I imagine, a good deal like the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, when they had seen their teacher, their guide and their God crucified upon the cross. They went away in sorrow, and they declared that they had hoped that this man "had been He which should have redeemed Israel." They were enthralled, for the time being, in doubt, in darkness, and in very great disappointment. So were the Latter-day Saints at the martyrdom of the Prophet and his brother the patriarch of this dispensation. They were troubled for a little while. They were not in doubt, however, as to the man having been a prophet of the Lord, and the restorer of the Gospel. In order that they should not fall into doubt, the Lord did not leave them even in this anxious state for long. He raised up him who was to receive the authority and the mantle of the Prophet. President Brigham Young, of the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, was transfigured before the people; in their conference. They knew that the Prophet Joseph was dead, yet when President Young arose to address them, they saw in the speaker the Prophet, in stature and in feature, and they heard the voice of the Prophet of God speak unto them. This renewed <"heir faith and gave them courage; it convinced them that God had chosen him, and he was . accepted by them as their leader, and in due time was sustained by the people as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to succeed the Prophet Joseph Smith. During the dark days of persecution and mob violence immediately following the martyrdom, the Saints were driven from their homes, and their houses were burned and their property destroyed. They were driven out in the winter time, even beyond the borders of civilization, into the wilderness. The Lord was mindful of His own, however, and revealed His purpose and will to President Young, and the inspiration of His Spirit rested mightily upon the Saints, giving them hope and en-> couragement and consolation even in this hour of deepest distress. Guided by the revelation of God, President Young led the people across the plains, and the Lord established them in the valleys of the mountains. President Young, in his wisdom and greatness, taught the Saints, he guided them, he instructed them, he sent them into the north and into the south; he advised them in the manner and matter of establishing colonies throughout the length and breadth of this land. He built up cities, towns and villages, and the Saints under his wise presidency grew daily in the work of the Lord, becoming stronger and more numerous as time passed on. President Young presided over the Church for upwards of thirty years; and in all his experience there was never a time when the Saints, for one moment, ever lost faith in him as the prophet, seer, and revelator of the Church, and the representative and mouthpiece of God upon the earth. Nor for one moment did President Brigham Young ever prove recreant to his great trust, or prove himself incapable of the wonderful responsibility that had descended to him from the Prophet Joseph Smith who was the founder,  the Lord, of His Church in this day. He also endured persecution, as did the people during his presidency. The world was arrayed against him, as it had been against the Prophet before him. Nevertheless, through these dark days of its sad experience, the Lord was sustaining His Church; and after the darkness the sun always shone more brightly. When any particular warfare made against the people, was over, the Church rebounded with greater force, gathered greater strength, greater faith, greater inspiration, and greater power in- the carrying on of the work of the Lord towards the accomplishment of the redemption and the salvation of the children of men, and the spread of truth among the people of the world. 

When the Lord gathered President Young to Himself, He had already prepared another mighty and good man to take his place — President John Taylor, one of the greatest and noblest men of this dispensation, was sustained by the people as their president. He also received the mantle of the prophet of God. He received the revelations of the Lord, and was in constant communication with Him in all things connected with the building up of the kingdom and the spread of the Gospel. He was an inspirational preacher of the Gospel, an able writer upon the principles and doctrines of salvation, and a valiant champion of the cause. The people rallied to him, supported and sustained him. They received the same witness that he had been chosen of God and had been exalted of the Father, as they had received concerning President Brigham Young and the Prophet Joseph Smith. Very dark days were ex during his presidency, days of exile, days of sorrow, days of persecution, when he with many of the general authorities of the Church were hunted and hounded, by officers of the law, for conscience sake, because they were determined to keep the commandments of the Lord, because they believed in the principles that they were living and practicing, because they were honest and conscientious ' in their belief, and would not yield that which God had commanded them to do, even rhough it necessitated their going into exile or prison, or, perhaps, suffering even martyrdom for the truth's sake. In the end, that was the fate of President John Taylor, for he died during the time of his exile, when he had been driven from ' home, and when many of the Saints were hunted and had to flee to save themselves from undeserved punishment, and many others had been sent to prison. But before his death, the Lord had been preparing his successor, as the Lord always does have in preparation those who shall be called to carry on the work of His servants who have finished their work. 

When President Taylor had completed his mission,. President Wilford Woodruff was raised up, and he, also, became a wonderful man, a mighty man, a man of faith and humility, a man of power, of wisdom, of judgment, a man of great inspiration, who, like the others, lived in the hearts of the people. All the people recognized in him the prophet of the Lord, the president of the Church, the man who held the keys of authority and who stood at the head of the Church, having been raised to that exalted position by the Lord Himself, and sustained  the Saints. During his lifetime he was upheld and sustained in all his acts, and the wisdom of the Lord was manifest in his appointment. He lived to a great age, filled his mission and accomplished the work the Lord had assigned for him to do, and he departed this life mourned by all the people of the Latter-day Saints and by very many who were not members of the Church, but who were acquainted with him, and knew his worth. President Lorenzo Snow succeeded him, and like all the rest, he demonstrated by his h'fe that he labored, advised, counseled, and preached under the inspiration and direction of God the heavenly Father. The people loved him. Under his administration the Church made splendid progress. After his death the Lord placed at the head of the Church another of His servants, who magnifies nobly that great authority of Presidency and in whom the power and might and wisdom that characterized the lives of all the other presidents of the Church are embodied. He, hke them, has the confidence of the Saints of God and enjoys, also, the approbation of the Lord and the Lord's blessings and inspiration poured out upon him. 

Now, during this conference, the 80th annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, we witness that the Church has grown larger than ever, that the people assemble in greater numbers, as each succeeding conference comes annually and semiannually. It seems a pity that many who come find it impossible to be accommodated under the sound of the voices of the servants of the Lord who are called to speak and minister unto them. It appears that the Church will have to build, sometime, another tabernacle, for there is no doubt that another building such as this could be filled to overflowing during the conferences. Thus has the Lord blest the Saints; He has gathered them in the valleys of the mountains; He has made , them mighty. Thev have been obedient; they love the truth; they understand the word of God; the scriptures are plain unto them. They comprehend the purposes of the Lord in this dispensation, and as a general thing they are prepared to do whatsoever the Lord requires of them, to go and to come, to accept and put into actual practice the will of God as it is made known unto them through the Presidency of the Church. 

We have had some dark days in our experience. It was but a few years ago that an especially bitter and cruel warfare was made upon the Church, and every effort within the power of evil designing men, and every effort that could be brought to bear upon men by the power of the adversary was used to discredit the President of the Church among the people. The people were warned against him. Some of the descendants of the Prophet Joseph Smith took it upon themselves to write letters of warning to the President of the Church, in which he was accused of deceiving the Saints, and warnings to the people to beware of the general authorities and the Priesthood. The people were told that they were being led astray. The people — it was said — were innocent; the people were pure and good; hut their leaders were impure and had. The grandson of the Prophet Joseph 

Smith came here and made a great effort with these warnings, to create discord and dissatisfaction among the Saints of God. He joined himself with those avowed and determined enemies of the people who for years had made war upon the Saints; he was in constant association and communication with them, assisted them in their tirade against the Priesthood, and in their efforts to discredit the Presidency before the people. There were a few' — just a few foolish and unstable ones among the Latter-day Saints who had not been very faithful, who had not enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord, and they were tinctured with this folly, and they rose up against the brethren. They called themselves prophets, claiming to be one or another of the ancient prophets come' again; and because of this the enemy actually imagined that they were making great inroads among the people. So sanguine and sure were some of these men that the Church of Jesus Christ- of Latterday Saints was about to be disrupted and broken to pieces, and that there would be a great harvest fpr these pretenders, that even the president of the so-called Re-organized church came to Utah with the full intention and hope of gathering up the fragments and establishing again the Church under his leadership. I remember so well : he made a few speeches in this city, as did his son. They came to the conference, and sat here among the presidents of stakes. They fully expected to see the Presidency of the Church repudiated and voted down. The Latter-day Saints were assembled, as usual, in great numbers. But, do you know, there were none of the general authorities that had  fears; they did not expect to see the kingdom of God destroyed and the Church thrown down and given to another people. They knew better; the Lord had promised otherwise; and so, when the President's name was presented before the great congregation for their support, the people responded almost to a man, and just like it might have been one man, so united were they. I remember the president of the Re-organized church and his son, — how they looked back over the congregation, to see how the people would reject the authorities of the Church; but they turned to see a sight that they had never and that few of us had ever seen before, for it seemed to me every hand was raised just a little higher than I had ever seen them raised before, and they remained uplifted just a little longer than usual. They were raised with a determination, with a will, with a faith that conveyed unto all present the knowledge that these men were indeed living in the hearts df the people, and that the people knew for themselves that they were God's divinely called servants, and that God was at the head of this Church, and not men alone, but that the men whom the Lord had chosen to preside among the people were in close touch with the Spirit of God, in communication with the Lord constantly. 

What a disappointment it must have been to our Re-organite friends, and what a defeat it was to the adversary, a defeat so decisive that from that time to this the enemy has scarcely recovered. Those dark clouds which, according to the opinion of some, threatened the very foundation of the Church, have been dispelled and  sun has shone forth with greater glory and light upon the people than ever, and the Gospel has made greater progress in. the world. It has made greater advancement in the various mission fields. Missionaries have had greater power, and the people of the world themselves, have come to understand more thoroughly and fully the purposes of the Elders of the Church who are preaching this Gospel. The hundreds of thousands of people who come to this ,city annually, and are entertained at the Bureau of Information, and are kindly received by the Elders of the Church, and are courteousl> conducted about these grounds, and through these buildings, have the Gospel preached unto them. Good literature is given to them. They go away with a much better understanding of Mormonism with a better impression of the people, with more light concerning them. They go away with a more ..friendly disposition and feeling toward us, and this feeling they carry with them into the world, and it is having its effect. As a result of it, the principles of the Gospel are being better understood and more people are investigating the truths of it. People are being baptized constantly, by the hundreds, out in the various mission fields, and at borne the Latter-day Saints are strong and full of faith. 

We often bear our testimony to the divinity of the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we all have that testimony. We bear testimony, also, to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith the prophet; and that those who have succeeded the Prophet are divinely called and have a divine mission to perform in the earth. As we bear this testimony, so I this morning, would like to bear my testimony concerning the people of God who are the fruits of this restoration and of the preaching of the Gospel in this dispensation, that they are men and women who love the Lord with all their hearts, minds and strength, who love the truth, and uphold it, who love that which is right and good and pure, that which is noble and godlike, and they are living for these principles and sustaining them in the midst of the earth. I bear testimony to their  intelligence, to their wisdom, their greatness, their humility, their faith — that they are a god-fearing people, that they do love the Lord, and love their fellow-men. That the)' honor the Priesthood and desire to magnify their callings May God bless us and continue to increase us, that we may gather strength and power to further persuade the world of the fact that God has spoken, that He has raised up a people, that He has established His Church and is building His kingdom. 

May the Lord ever keep us true and faithful to these things. May we uphold the work of God and ever magnify ourselves and the authority of the Priesthood, and preach to the world the Gospel of Christ, that all may be saved. Let our prayers still ascend to the Lord in behalf of those who are clothed upon with such great authority and who are under such great responsibility, in presiding over the people and directing the work of God in all the world. I know for myself, by the power of the Spirit of God, that spirit spoken of by Brother Ballard yesterday, the Holy Ghost; that the Lord has indeed established this work and has set His hand for the last time to gather in one all things  the Lord Jesus Christ. May we do our part in assisting Him in the accomplishment of His great and glorious purposes for the salvation of the living and the redemption of the dead, — in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. 


