Afternoon
06 04 1910. 

ATITHOEITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

John Henry Smith, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Ly.man, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins and Jos. F. Smith, Jr. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revefators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. 105 

Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

(It was explained that Rudger Clawson and Reed Smoot should be released from acting as members of the Auditing Committee, because they have some responsibility in connection with disbursement of the Church funds. On motion, the congregation voted to release them, with thanks for their efficient services.) 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, and Heber Scowcroft. 

Tabernacle Choir: Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the Members. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

President Smith then arose and said: God bless you, and we all thank you for the unanimity that has been manifested in the voting of the Latter-day Saints here at this conference. 

ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Responsibility of all Saints to proclaim the Gospel by word, and act. — '"Let us speak well of our home state," and people. — -Don't advertise existing evils, remove them. — The tongue should be controlled to declare truth only, and always. 

"If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. 

"Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us; and we turn about their whole body. 

"Behold also the ships, which, though they be so great and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth. 

"Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire  kindleth! 

"And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire of hell. 

"For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind: 

"But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. 

"Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. 

"Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. 

"Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? 

"Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

"Who is' a ivise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. 

"But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. 

"This wisdom iescendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. 

"For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. 

"But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreatcd, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. 

"And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace." 

So wrote the Apostle James, many hundred years ago. but I feel that, like all truth, that which he expresses in these lines is applicable today. The tongue is a little member ,and yet it is the means by which our thoughts are. given wings, it is one means of influencing one another. 

I thought, this morning, while listening to the presidents of missions, as I have thought throughout this conference, of the great message that the Latter-day Saints have to proclaim to the world, not a message of strife but a message of peace, a message of good will. "The wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated. * * " I would like to read another passage that will give to us what I believe should be the keynote of all expressions of the Latter-day Saints : 

"And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. 

"And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. 

"And the angel said unto them, Fear not : for, behold T bring you good tid of great joy, which shall be to all people. 

"For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Savior, which is Christ the Lord." 

"Good tidings of great joy" — The Gospel of Tesus Christ is that good tidings. The term "Gospel" means, literally, "good news," and such is the news that emanates from above. There have been but few men in the world's history who have been so in tune with the heavens that they could receive directly from God the Father that good news; but there has always been a time in the history of this world when that news came from above. There have always been, in every dispensation, opportunities for men to receive that good news, and these prophets who were in tune with the Infinite and who heard first and directly that good news, have had imposed upon them the responsibility to convey that good news to others of their fellow-men, that they who are concerned with the things of the world might receive the glad message and be brought back into the environment of peace, harmony, and good will. In this dispensation, that same responsibility has been given to man. We have heard throughout this conference, repeatedly, that the Latter-day Saints, are those upon whom rests the responsibility of carrying the good news to the children of the world. I sometimes think that we put off, in our minds, the responsibility of giving that message, to some special calling in life. That is, if we are called as missionaries abroad, we feel it our duty to proclaim the glad message to the world. If we are called to preside in an organization, or in a branch, or in a quorum, then we feel it our duty to give the good 107  to those over whom we preside. We wait until some special opportunity is given to proclaim the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and yet the duty devolves upon us to proclaim that good news every day of our lives. We proclaim it in our .acts— in the home, in business, in social circles, in politics — everywhere that we mingle with men we have the responsibility resting upon us to give the good news to the people of the world. I do not mean that we must, necessarily, formally preach the doctrine under all these circumstances, but I do mean that in our lives, in our conversation, we can bear the good message to the children of the world. 

We have heard much, throughout this conference, about building up our state, remaining at home wherever the stakes are organized, and not to scatter abroad in new places. One of the best ways of building up our home, be it a domicile, a city, a >>tate, or a nation, is to speak well of that home, city, state, Or nation. Let the tongue be under control, and speak well of the home. I have rejoiced time and again, when visiting the different stakes surrounding Utah, to hear our brethren tell about the advantages of some particular town. "Why," they would say, for example, "we are blest with the purest air, we have the best water that can be found in the world;" and they will enumerate, one after another, the benefits and blessings of that particular locality. I recall now how the brethren in Canada were eager to impress those who were with them with the resources of that country. Why, the advantages were innumerable. For example, when one visitor said, /'But you haven't the scenery we have in 

Utah." "Yes, we have," persisted President Wood  we have even better scenery than vou have in Utah." "Where?" "I will show you;" and then a ride forty miles from Cardston took us to one of the most beautiful mountain scenes in the world — the Switzerland of America. He felt that there was nothing that "could make him feel dissatisfied with his home there. "Even the winds in Canada," he said, "are blessing us, because they blow the snow off, so the cattle can eat the grass." (Laughter.) This is the point, — he could see good in everything. There was contentment — not a spirit of tearing down, finding fault, complaining. I believe it is a good lesson; let us speak well of our home city; let us see the advantages of it. 

On that hot July morning in 1847, when the Prophet Brigham Young stood out here a few miles, and looked over this vast country, what did he see? Away down yonder in the distance, probably the smoke from an Indian's wigwam; away out in the west, the lake sparkling in the sunshine; and between him and that body of water, an alkali waste. All around him he saw sage brush; and from the distance came the howl of the coyote or the wolf. These are the things he saw in reality, but in his prophetic mind he beheld all the prosperity, the wealth, the prosperous towns, and the crowds of people that we now see here. All these things that we now behold with our natural eyes, and have experienced, he saw with his prophetic eye and pronounced it all good. "Here," he said, "we will build the temple of Almighty God." Surely with the reality of that prophetic vision before us, we can see that GENERAL CONFERENCE.  is good, to speak about, to praise, and honor The Latter-daySaints do this; and we want all to do it, because they can do it truthfully. We have all that the heart desires; we have a ' great, empire here in the West — every advantage, every surrounding, every environment that the heart could desire. Let us speak well of our home state.* But we cannot speak well of the state unless we speak well of the men who have founded the state. There is no other state in the union that can boast of stronger, truer, more virtuous, upright, God-fearing citizens, and men of God than can the state of Utah. Let the young men throughout Zion realize this fact, and let their tongues proclaim it, and let them not encourage the company of those who would use this unruly member to vilify the men who founded this empire. I overheard a conversation the other day, in this city, which in effect was as follows : A prominent man and his wife, evidently, entertaining an eastern visitor who had been interested in the history and in different places of Salt Lake City. I judged that he was profoundly impressed, as every honest thinking man is when he sees the results of the labor and industry of the pioneers of our state. Among other things, he mentioned his going to church : "I was at church last Sunday," I heard him say. "Oh, were you?" answered his host, followed by some remark that I did not catch; "well, where did you go to church ?" At the Tabernacle." And the sneer on that woman's face made my blood boil. With the sneer came some remark about not dignifying the Tabernacle as a church. I saw the shadow of disappointment creep over that eastern 's face. He had dignified it, and ' he had been profoundly impressed, but when our own people, citizens of this state, though not members of the Church, spoke evil of something in our midst, the shadow of disappointment darkened his countenance. It will always be so. O! let us speak well, when we can do it truthfully — and we can in this case. Let us speak well of our city and state, to all who come within our borders; let us speak of the advantages and growth of our state. Let us speak well of those within our Church. Brethren and sisters, Christians have the responsibility of giving good news to the world — not bad news. Latter-day Saints have the responsibility of carrying glad tidings to the world. Let us not watt until we go abroad to carry it; let us give the good news today — good news of our neighbor, good news of our Bishops, good news of our stake workers, good news of all whom we meet and whose company we may chance to be thrown into. If we cannot speak well of them, truthfully, let us refrain from speaking at all: 

"Nay, speak no ill, a kindly word Can never leave a sting behind; And, oh, to breathe each tale we've heard 

Is far below a noble mind. 

"Full oft' a better seed is sown By choosing thus the kinder plan, 

For if but little good is known, Still let us speak the best we can." 

"Give me the heart that fain would hide, 

Would fain another's faults efface; How can it please the human pride To prove humanity but base. 

"No, let us reach a higher mood, A nobler estimate of man; 

Be earnest in the search for good And speak of all the best we can. "Then speak no ill, but lenient be To others' failings as your own; 

If you're the first a fault to see, Be not the first to make it known. 

"For life is but a passing day; 

No lip can tell how brief its span; Then, oh, the little time we stay, 

Let's speak of all the best we can." 

Then say you, would you not speak of evil conditions? Must we not raise our voice in denouncing conditions and men who are bringing evil upon us? Yes, speak of conditions; but it is unnecessary to revile the character of men. We cannot do it as true Latter-day Saints; we must rise above it. Though we are in the world, we must not be of the world. There isa trait in the heart of the world to pick at their fellow-men. Emerson says that so pronounced is this tendency that an accident cannot happen in the street without the bystanders become animated with a faint hope that the victim will die. We cannot encourage that tendency. As James says, it is from the earth — sensual, devilish. We must not pick out that which will tear down a brother's character, nor the character of the city, the state or nation. O, let. us be true to our nation; there is reason to be true to it. That is the point. If we see a condition in a town that endangers the life of our fellow citizens, we meet that condition. Tf it is a washout, a cave, a hole in the roadway, there is a red lamp placed there at night to keep the travelers from falling into it, and the next day or as soon as possible the evil condition is removed. That is proper. 

Now, there are evil conditions in society; there are sunken roads that need to be filled. We shall see these in our towns, and as home-cleaners, if you please, as home-builders and -improvers, we can remove those sunken places. One, for example, is the saloon. The people when advertising their city, do not speak of their saloons; they tell about their churches, about their schools, about their side-walks, about their libraries, about their sewers, but they never tell you how many saloons th^y have. They are ashamed of them; and when we have conditions of this kind, let us remove them without vilifying the men, without tearing down men's character; it isn't necessary. A saloon is an evil; it is a sunken road into which fall thousands annually. You will remember when Napoleon's cuirassiers made the fatal charge against Wellington, that there lay between them and the English soldiers a sunken road. Napoleon stood away off and could not see it. He had asked a man if there were any obstacles, and had received no as the answer; and trusting to that, he gave the command for the brigade to charge. The Invincible Column rushed on, until they came, it is said.to a sunken road, and then horse and rider piled one upon another till the whale abyss was filled with a living debris that made a bridge of mingled flesh of horse and man. The others then rode over. There are, perhaps, sunken roads in our communities. Let us at home see them, and not stand off and say that they are all right when our young people by the score are rushing headlong down the road of intemperance to the sunken chasms of drunkenness. It is our duty to meet that condition, but let us do it calmly; let us do it determinedly, without vilifying those concerned, without tearing down character. Take the high stand of right; rememGENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Gospel of Jesus Christ is one of good tidings. Preach it, live it in your acts. Avoid the danger of the saloon, tell your sons to avoid it. Let the men whom you appoint to represent you in your towns know that you desire the saloons closed before more human beings are piled in that interminable mass that whiskey and the saloon drag down to destruction. But, I repeat again, in meeting this condition, we can take the higher stand of truth, the stand of the Gospel. 

The Gospel is our anchor. We know what it stands for. If we live it, feel it, and speak well of the Gospel, of the Priesthood, of the authorities in it, speak well even of our enemies, we shall feel happier ourselves, and we shall be preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Everybody can do this. It is possible. God has not asked us to do it and then deprived us of the power of performing it. My brethren and sisters, let us go from this conference determined to control our tongues. That isn't much, is it? And yet James says that he who can control that little member has control over his whole body. God has given Us the good tidings to proclaim to the world. Our whole stakes, from Canada in the north to Mexico in the south, form the bulwark in which are enclosed people upon whom rests the responsibility to give to the world, by their acts, by their words, the testimony that God has spoken again from the heavens, that His Son, the Savior of the world, appeared with the Father in person and gave the good news to Joseph Smith, the" boy prophet, that the Gospel has been restored to the earth with all the blessings and powers that mankind need to give them peace, happiness  eternal life. We accomplish these things by our daily acts. God grant that we may show by these that our wisdom does come from above, that it is a Church of peace, a Church of salvation, and that there are men and women who show by their fruit's that God is with them — I pray,' in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A contralto solo, "The earth is the Lord's," was rendered by Sister Agnes McMillan. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Works of righteousness essential to salvation. — Intemperance and sexual sin menacing the nations. — Duty of Saints to discountenance and eradicate evil. 

"He that putteth his trust in me shall possess the land aVid shall inherit my holy mountain, and shall say, Prepare the way, take up the stumbling block out of the way of my people." 

We believe in God the Eternal Father and in His Sonjesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. This first article of faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is fundamental and indispensable to the belief of every Christian man and woman. We believe that without faith it is impossible to please God; that we must believe in Him, must believe that He is. We must believe that He has control over our destinies, and that we owe allegiance and service to Him; otherwise there would be no desire upon our part to find Him out or learn of His ways. This first article of our faith is accepted by very many people, so far as it applies to faith in our heavenly Father, who reject the remainder of it. Mohammed taught faith in God, and that doctrine today is the foundation of the Moslem reill . The Jews believe in the God of Abraham; but neither of these peoples acknowledge Jesus Christ as the Son of God, nor as the Savior of the world. The Latter-day Saints believe in thje divinity of Jesus Christ— not that He was simply a reformer, a prophet of His time, one seeking to establish righteousness, but that He is the Son of the living God and the Redeemer of the world. 

We believe in the Holy Ghost, which bears record of the Father and the Son, and which, when we are in possession of it, leads us into all truth. 

While we believe that these first doctrines of the Church are fundamental and indispensable, we do not regard them as sufficient to assure exaltation to the presence of our Father in heaven.but that they must be accompanied by works; that we must do the will of the Father, keep the commandments which He has given us, in order that we may be brought back into His presence. This congregation is made up largely of Latter-day 'Saints, people who have accepted these first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, who have repented of their sins, gone down into the waters of baptism, and have received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. You have come up here to the mountains of Ephraim, that you may learn the way of the Lord, that you may learn to walk in His paths. I am sure it is for that purpose that you are here this afternoon, that you may be taught the way of the Lord. This congregation, undoubtedly, represents officially a great majority of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The, presiding authorities of the Church are here; presi of stakes are here; high councilors are here; bishops of wards, and men and women who preside over the auxiliary organizations of the Church — all are here this afternoon that you may learn better the way of the Lord and how to walk in His paths. You are watch-men upon the towers of Zion, and the Lord has said, "Except ye warn the wicked man of his wickedness, and he die in his iniquity, his blood will I require at your hands; but if ye warn the wicked, and he repent not, you have delivered your soul." My brethren and sisters, I understand the Lord to mean by this, that we who profess to follow Him, we who have been called to feed the flock of Christ, are to be advocates of righteousness, that we are to teach the word of the Lord by precept and by example, that we are to make plain that straight and narrow path in which He would have all of His children walk; in other words, that we are to remove the stumbling blocks from the way of the Lord, so far as it is in our power to do so. Where the stumbling blocks cannot be removed, they can at least be marked, that their existence may be known, in order that they may be avoided. 

I had been wondering what I should say to this congregation, because I thought that, probably, I might be asked to speak to you, and I felt at a loss until a circumstance which occurred, a- short time ago, led me to a chain of thought and suggested a subject to which I shall briefly refer. I love to advocate the _ doctrines of the Gospel of Christ, because I believe in them with all my heart. I love to teach the way of redemption, which the Savior of mankind taught, because I know it to be the power of God GENERAL CONFERENCE.  salvation; and I do not believe that there is any other way under heaven by which men and women can be saved, or by which prower is given them over the sins of the work' except through obedience to the Gospel. I love to speak of and to think of the good that exists in the world. This is a good world which the Lord has given us; there are abundance of good things, in it — everything, in fact, that we could desire, to make us happy, if only utilized as our Father designed that they should be. I feel depressed when I think and talk of evils which exist. To place myself in conflict with existing conditions, when I know that by so doing I may be subject to criticism, that my words may be misinterpreted and misunderstood; to feel that I may be criticized and that my views may hot meet with the approbation of people whom I would desire to please, — does not make me happy; it never did make me happy to think of evil, nor to talk about it. Yet, when I see conditions existing in the country — this God-given country of ours — which it seems to me are striking at the very foundation of society, conditions which have resulted in the downfall of nations, in times past, and which must inevitably result in the downfall of nations, or communities, or individuals, wherever they continue, — when it seems to me that these conditions are surely, if slowly, fastening themselves upon this country of ours, I feel constrained to raise my voice in warning to my brethren and sisters against them. T believe that I fully appreciate the value of care and wisdom in handling all great questions, particularly where questions arise in which men and women may conscientiously differ in their opin. I have never desired to be an extremist. I have never liked sensationalism. I have never liked offensive partisanship in anything. I do not like it, even in the advocacy of the word of the Lord, because I do not consider it necessary. But those things against which the Lord has spoken, which are fundamentally wrong, those things against which the servants of the Lord have always warned us, — to those things at least, it seems to me, I should feel justified in referring, even at the risk of being misunderstood. I do not expect that my views, nor the views of the Church, are going to be adopted by all people. I recognize the fact that in this country in which we live, majorities rule, and that minorities must be subject to them. This is all right, and I submit to it; but I also submit that majorities are not always right, and while I yield, I may still remain unconverted. 

Some little time ago, it was my pleasure to be in a great city, and I rode through its streets with a companion. I admired its beautiful residences; I admired its public buildings; I admired its parks, and the things which men had done to embellish it. As we passed down one of its. streets, I saw upon the wall of a dwelling a placard, just a yellow piece of cloth, which had "Smallpox" printed on it. I said to myself, that means that there is some one sick there, and that placard, which has been put there by health officers, is a warning to other people that they should not go into that house during the period it is infected with this disease; and I said to myself, the people who live there, I suppose, are also restrained from going out. It is their own house; they are unfortunately ill; why should the law lay its hand upon them and prevent them from going in and out of their own home, and their friends going to their assistance and going away again. I then reasoned, it is because the" infection that is there may be carried to other people, and they may become sick; and so I concluded that, after all, it was well within the province of the law to take control of that house . during the period of infection, and prevent people from^ither going in or coming out of it. I knew that after a while, if the patient recovered, that he would go out clean and without infection, and that neither he nor those with whom he came in contact would be in danger. We went on and turned into another street, and came to a great building. I saw the door swinging to and fro, just a screen door that was there. I looked in and saw that the room was beautifully embellished. There were mirrors; there was music. I heard the clink of glasses; I heard the laughter of men .and women too, for as the door swung back and forth I saw that there were women there. My friend said, "That is a saloon; we call it a saloon." Yes, and refreshments were served there, for I saw "Ice Cream" and "Refreshments" marked in great letters over the door; and my companion said, "Just back of it, there in that group of buildings that you see, there are' lawless men and abandoned women; and there ribaldry, and license and intemperance reign supreme." Then my mind reverted back to that other house. On thfs house there was no ' placard, nothing on the door to warn people that it was a dangerous place to go; yet I thought to myself of the two, the danger to society, the danger of infection, is  greater in this latter place than in the former. Why isn't there some warning there ? Why are not people given to understand the dangers of this place? Why are they, upon the contrary, invited into it? Why is this condition legalized and licensed here in this beautiful city; then I , thought of something else, and I am going to refer to it. I know that I am discussing a delicate question, but I thought of this; only a few days before I had read in one of the great magazines of the country, that they had taken the trouble to collect statistics, and that the medical fraternity of the United States had reported to them that 75 per cent of all the men in the great cities of this country, between the ages of 18 and 28 years were infected with disease that was almost incurable, as the result of their acquaintance with just such places as this to which I have referred — not diseases that can be easily eradicated, but that are handed down to the third and fourth generations of those who forget God and neglect to keep His commandments. I said to myself, the one great evil that menaces this nation today, the one great evil which menaces the Church — for whatever menaces the nation is a menace to the Church; thank God, these things do not exist in the Church; they are no part of it; they never have been, and if the Gospel of Jesus Christ could prevail, there would be no such places in the world— but I said to myself, the greatest menace to this nation today, and the greatest menace or enemy which the Church of Christ has to combat is intemperance and sexual sin. I just wanted to say that word to my brethren here this afternoon. You men who preside over the destinies of this people — isn't it a stumbling block that is in the path ? Every power that Satan can conceive of is exercised in defense of this evil, and all his forces are marshalled to support it, to promote it, to protect it. Now, the way to combat these evils, if I were going to suggest a plan, would be to fellow the policy suggested by Brother McKay. I do not want to advocate offensive measures. I only want to say to my brethren and sisters that that which the law legitimately and properly authorizes yOu and me to do, that much, at least, we are justified in doing; and, regardless of the law, it becomes our duty, every one of us, to make known to our children, to the children of our brethren and sisters, and to the children of our friends in the world, the existence of this deadly menace, in the hope that they may be persuaded to avoid it. When Rome adhered to her simple life, when the honor of her men and the virtue of her women were above reproach, she became the mistress of the world; but when these things, to which I have referred, gradually fastened themselves upon her, she went into dissolution. 

One of the things I was impressed with, when I first went to Mexico, a few years ago, was a very beautiful growth which I observed upon the trees there. It was in the winter that I went there, but, as I traveled up those streams, I noticed that here and there, along the way, there was an occasional tree that was dotted with green — sometimes only one bunch, sometimes many bunches, all beautiful and green. I examined it and found it to be mistletoe. It seemed to be rather an embellishment to look at it, but after a while, as I went further up one of these canyons, one , I observed a tree that was dying. It was literally covered with mistletoe, this beautiful plant. The fact of the matter was that the plant had fastened itself upon the tree just as other parasites fasten themselves upon that which other people create, until it had sapped the last bit of life out of it, and the tree had died. This shrub does not grow from the earth, as other plants do, it does not struggle for existence, as God seems  to have designed that all good things shall struggle for their existence, from infancy to old age; but it just waits till the tree has grown, till the tree has made the struggle and has become vigorous, and then the first thing you know you will see a bunch of mistletoe sprout out on one of the branches. After a while it goes to another branch, and then to another, and if left, as I have said, it takes away the life of the tree. Well, I said, to myself, it would be better to cut it off, better to remove that single bunch that has appeared, — and I made it g practice to do that with my own trees thereafter, and I found that it was an easy matter to keep it down, but if left to itself, if kept there because of its beauty — and it is a thing of beauty — it became a thing of danger. So, my brethren and sisters, that which God has ordained for the good of man, that which makes men and women happy, that which makes men and women temperate, that which makes men and women virtuous, that which leads men and women to believe in God and Christ and to serve Them — that we cultivate, that we cherish, that we care for. But that which comes into our midst, when the tree has become strong, and fastens itself upon us, with no other purpose in the world except to sap our life-blood, 115  cut it right off; better get rid of it, hadn't we ? I think so. So I want to say that any legitimate means which is in your power and mine we should exercise in the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the eradication of these things as they exist in the world, and to keep them out of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that they may have no place in it. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Announcement of deaths of missionaries.— Baptisms in 1909. — Prayer in. behalf of the erring. — Heaven's choice blessings invoked upon the faithful. 

An item of sad information to the congregation is the fact that Brother John H. Cartwright, of Beaver, Utah, died October 22nd, 1909, of typhoid fever, while laboring in the Western States mission; Griffith E. Williams, of Thomas, Bingham county, Idaho, died September 25th, 1909, of appendicitis, in the British Mission; and William Funk, of Claresholm, Canada, died December 20, 1909,- of typhoid fever, in the Northwestern States Mission. 

I know that the sympathy and love of this vast congregation, as well as of all the Latter-day Saints, go out to the kindred and loved ones of these dear brethren who have laid down their lives in the ministry, while making their best effort to proclaim the Gospel of liberty and of life and salvation to the inhabitants of the world. 

Another item of information that, may be of interest is this : During  year 1909, 9,143 persons were baptized in the stakes of Zion; and 5,391 persons were baptized in the missions of the Church during the same period; making a total of persons baptized, 14,534. 

I do not intend .to prolong the meeting. I wish merely to say that my heart is full of blessing for this people and for all people — for all mankind. I love the good, the upright, the manly, the honorable, the pure in heart everywhere in the world; and the foolish and unfortunate have my sympathy and my pity. I pray God the Eternal Father to help the erring to forsake the error of their ways, that He will help those that are in darkness, to come to the knowledge of the truth and into the light, that they may walk in the light as Christ is in the light, that they may have fellowship with Him and His people, and that He may cleanse them from all sin. 

May peace abide upon the people of God everywhere, upon the people of our state and upon the people of our glorious country. May the blessing of the Lord attend the administration of our Government; may 'His power and Spirit pervade the halls of Congress and enlighten the men who enact laws f or.the government of our nation; and may they acknowledge God in all things and seek to please Him,and to enact just laws, which may be executed in such a way that the purposes of God may be subserved and His will be accomplished in the earth. This is my earnest desire; and, therefore, I say, again, God bless Israel in all your abidings, in your homes, in your fields and farms, in your flocks and your herds, and in all the labors of your minds and the labors of your hands; may peace dwell in your midst; may prosperity attend GENERAL CONFERENCE.  on every hand — is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

It was announced that Prof. John J. McClellan and assistants will continue, to give recitals at 12 m. daily, on the great Tabernacle organ, to which the public will be admitted free, as heretofore. 

Benediction was pronounced by Bishop Charles W. Nibley. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens was assisted by Horace S. Ensign in conducting the singing of the choir and congregation at the conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom and Frederick E. Barker. 

.Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY*?/* CHURCH 

V olume Five Now Ready 

CJ[Have you secured Volumes I, II, III and IV? Procure them as they are issued. 

(JfThe history of the Prophet Joseph, written by himself, with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. Low prices have been fixed by the First Presidency, that the work may secure the widest possible circulation. Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and private library should have it. 

POSTPAID 

Cloth, Embossed, per volume - $1.50 Half Morocco, Gilt Top, per volume 2.50 Half Calf, Gilt Top, per volume - 2.50 Full Morocco, Gilt, per volume - 4.00 

DESERET NEWS 

BOOK STORE 

No. 6 Main Street, Salt Lake City 

DESERET NEWS 

BOOK STORE 

THE LEADING BOOK CONCERN 

WE CAN SUPPLY YOU WITH 

Books For all departments of Sunday School work. 

Books For the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, including the new reading course. 

Books For the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, Traveling Libraries and New Reading Course. 

Books Ot reference to study in connection with the Seventy's Manual or new course of study for 1910. 

Books For Primary Associations, Stories to tell children, Short Stories, Dialogues, Recitations, Speakers, Music Books. 

Books For the Religion Classes, including the new Manual now ready. 

Books For every day in the year, especially for winter reading. Immense lines, new and attractive. 







