Morning
06 04 1910

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

One of the Apostles of the Savior, who lived anciently, was cast upon a desolate island; and during the time of his banishment he was visited by a holy being, whom bp was about to worship, but this heavenly messenger spoke to him and reminded him that he should not worship this individual, as he was but one of his brethren, one of the prophets who had once lived  the earth. He invited the Apostle to come up with him and a vision from the Father would be opened to his view, and he would have the privilege of looking down through the stream of time, witnessing the events that should transpire in the future. Among other things he saw the time, near the close of this world's mortal history', at an hour when God's judgments were about to be poured out upon the inhabitants of the earth, when an angel would leave his place in heaven and bring back to the earth the everlasting Gospel; the same one that this Apostle was himself engaged in preaching. This body of people delight in singing hymns concerning the restoration of the Gospel. Among others, one of the favorite hymns is : 

"What was witnessed in the heavens? 

Why, an angel, earthward bound. Had he something with him bringing? 

Yes — the Gospel — joyful sound! It was to be preached in power ' 

On the earth, the angel said, To all men, all tongues and nations 

That upon its face are spread." 

Then another favorite hymn starts in this way : 

"An angel from on high, The long, long silence broke 

Descending from the sky, These gracious words he spoke: 

Lo! in Cumorah's lonely hill, 

A sacred record lies concealed." 

Then again, we delight in singing: "An angel came down from the mansions of glory, 

And told that a record was hid in Cumorah, 

Containing our Savior's most glorious Gospel— 

And also the cov'nant to gather His people 

O Israel! O Israel! in all your abidings, 

Prepare for your Lord, when you hear these glad tidings." 

I wonder if we fully appreciate the responsibility that rests upon us when we sing these hymns, and when our eyes rest upon this record, the Book of Mormon, which contains the fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as He delivered it to the ancient inhabitants of this part of the earth. Do we fully appreciate the fact that we are, indeed, living in the day that was looked upon by John the Revelator, when he saw another angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel that was to be preached to every nation, every kindred, every tongue and every people that existed upon the earth. Where much is given, much is required. Those who have been warned have a responsibility resting upon them, they are commanded that they shall warn their neighbors. Those who have been born and reared within the pale of this Church should realize that they owe a debt of gratitude that must be paid to the children of the world, that they must perform the work of reciprocity in doing unto others what others have done unto them. Those who enjoy comfortable homes, who are surrounded with happiness, who have a desire to thank God, in their hearts, for the surroundings that they have, owe it all to the inspiration of this Book of Mormon, to the preaching of the 

Gospel that was delivered, as found in this record, by an angel that came from God and visited the Prophet Joseph Smith. The inspiration of this book has gone to every nation, every kindred, every tongue, and every people. It is that which has brought our fathers and our mothers to know each other; and there are a very few who are before me today who do not owe their very existence to the inspiration of this record. The promise is made here, that wherever it is read with ? prayerful heart, the Spirit of God will bear witness that it was brought forth by the inspiration of His power. 

Every individual should have an ambition to do something toward the spread of the information contained in this book, to others who at present are in ignorance of th~ precious truths contained within the lids of this divine record. There are a great many people who shu^ missionary work. I want to tell you that it should be the prayer of your hearts that God may open your way, that you may have a part in this glorious work, that you might be an instrument in the hands of God in pointing out the way for others to come, that they and their children after them might rise up and say, Blessed be the work of the Elders in the Church, who carried the Gospel to the doors of bur fathers. It was the work of men commonly known as the Mormon Elders that brought the Gospel to my father, who was born in Kentucky, — brought the Gospel to m mother, who was born in Illinois, — brought the Gospel to her parents, born in South Carolina. I want t~ tell you that it brought the Gospel to my father's parents — Kentuckians and Irish, and that tells you the , that the best blood of this world is mixed up in these little veins of mine. (Laughter.) While a South Carolinan and a Kentuckian and an Irish mixture may be a little warm at times, (laughter) I am proud of every drop of it. 

I thank God that I have had the privilege of bearing witness to the restoration of this Gospel, for many years, in the missionary field. I have performed missions under the presidency of John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, and President Joseph F. Smith; and if I always feel as I feel now, and I hope that I will, I trust that I will continue to fulfill missions in the interest of the spread of the Gospel under every president of the Church until I am gathered home to my fathers. For ten years and a half I had the privilege of preaching this Gospel to the people . of the southland, and I desire to pay a compliment to those people. There is a great improvement in that country. When T went there, it was not nearly so bad the prejudice was not so deeply rooted as in the days of John Morgan, B. H. Roberts, Golden Kimball and others who had charge of the work during what was known as the "shot-gun period." During the early experience of myself I became acquainted, noon more than one occasion, with these kinds of weapons, while surrounded with mobs armed to the teeth, I had other southerners come to me and offer their lives in my defense, although they were not members of the Church. While I was laboring in the South, I was in the habit of paying a tribute to the people of the South. I want to . nav a tribute to them now, as. the most God-fearing people, as a community, that I ever did missionary  among. They love to hear a man preach from the word of God; and the Lord prospered me while I was in that land. During the ten years and a half of my presidency we sold 25,000 Books of Mormon; we sold 15,000 of Orson Pratt's Works, 160,000 Voice of Warning, 150,000 Mr. Durant of Salt Lake City, 25,000 hymn books, 40,000 miscellaneous books; distributed 3,500,000 Gospel tracts, and there were 6,800 honest-hearted souls who walked down into the waters of baptism, and were born of the water and of the spirit. 

I want to tell you that as good as this work has been done, I look forward to the time, in the territory where I am now laboring, for it to be even greater. The Elders throughout the New England states and throughout the eastern states are received by the people kindly. Last summer 65 per cent of all the Elders in that mission traveled absolutely without money, and they were entertained by the sons and daughters of God. The work thev is growing. In the country where the Prophet and the Patriarch were both born, where the angel brought this book, where God the Father and the Son paid their visit to the young Prophet, where the Priesthood of God was restored, where the Church was organized, there are thousands who are today hungry to hear the word of God. There is a great and a mighty field for work. We are in need of workers, and if you cannot help it in one way, you can help it in another. I want to pay a tribute to a little lady that lives across the road from the Temple block, on the west — Sister Watson. She hasn't a son, — but, God bless that little woman, for four years she has maintained a missionary who has labored in the missionary field, calling him her boy. She has supported him, sending him monthly allowances, and in numerous ways helping to spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I had an Elder come to me a short time ago, in New York, a man with very limited education, but a heart burning with prayer to God, and anxious that every one of his sons should be in the missionary field, and he told Brother Levi Edgar Young and myself of the conditions. There were two men there — stalwarts in preaching the Gospel — but on account of finance it was deemed wise to send them home, even against their will. This individual said, "Let me maintain these men, and one more, in the missionary field, while I go home and prepare my sons as I myself ought to have been prepared years ago." After praying and consulting over it, he went home, he has three able representatives in the missionary field today. 

You can all do something. You owe it to your God. Some day we have got to give an account for every idle word spoken, and for all our acts upon the earth. We must do our share in preaching this Gospel of Jesus Christ, because we know it is true. Speaking personally about this work, I have figured it out, and I know it is true. No man has told me; I received it as Paul received his testimony, — not from man. I know as I know that I stand here, that God Almighty visited Joseph Smith, that he was a Prophet of God and is a Prophet of God, and will always stand at the head of the greatest dispensation that this world ever saw. I know, too, that his successors, after his , as each man came, was the man that God wanted; and I know that the man who stands here today as the head of the Church, is the man that God wants, that He has chosen. It is the work of the adversary to try to creep in between that individual and the people of God. That has always been the work of the evil one; and he holds out false promises to the people as an inducement to get them to turn their backs upon the prophet of Almighty God, just as he held out false promises to the Savior Himself when he took Him up on the top of the mountain and showed Him the glories of the world and prom.7 ised to give them all to Him, if He would fall down and worship him. The old sinner never owned a foot of it. (Laughter). He is like a great many men — anxious and always willing to give away things belonging to other people. But if you want a portion of this earth and the fulness thereof, you will have it by being true to your covenants, this will be your future inheritance — this earth and the fulness thereof will sometime be given to the Saints of the most high God, and they will possess it forever and forever. If you keep the faith, eternal heaven will be this globe from which your bodies were made, and it will be your Kolob forever and forever. 

May God bless this work; may God bless the prophets, seers, and revelators who rule over it. May we always love them, and let the world know that we do love them, and not be ashamed of it. I would rather take the counsel, and advice of President Joseph F. Smith than that of any man on this earth; and if some people don't like it, they can lump it. (Laughter.) Amen. 

A contralto solo, entitled "Christ is risen," was rendered by Sister Esther Davis. 

President Joseph F. Smith read a message of condolence on the death of President John R. Winder from John W. Young, dated in New York. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

( President of Northern States Mission.) 

In facing the Latter-day Saints here this morning, I was reminded of the 14th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and wondered in my soul what the feelings of the Prophet Joseph Smith would be if he could be in attendance here, or if he had the privilege of living to see, in part, the promises of our Father fulfilled that were made to him and the early Elders of the Church. I would like to read to you the first few verses of a revelation which was given June, 1829: 

"A ' great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men. 

"Behold, I am God, and give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word. 

"Behold, the field is white already to harvest, therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up . for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God; 

"Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God; 

"Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive, if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. 

"Seek to bring forth and establish  Zion. Keep my commandments in all things; 

"And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God." 

Two weeks ago last Sunday, I stood on the spot where the last time the remains of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were known to rest. I was :n the company of two old men. I heard them tell the story of those who lived there after the Saints left the beautiful city of Nauvoo. My mind has rested upon the great work that was done by the Prophet of the last century. How his heart would throb with joy, and what a satisfaction he would feel today, if he could view in life this great body of men and women gathered together as the result- of the work the Lore! did through him. I can hardly believe that in his early manhood he conceived the extent of the great work that has been done in the last eighty years. How happy the six members who were instrumental in the organization of the Church would be if they could behold the hundreds of thousands of people who have received the same testimony that they received in listening to the word of the Lord through that humble instrument. I have met people in the east who once believed that Mormonism was a thing of a transitory nature. A certain , class of them believe that after the death of the Prophet, the Church was left in darkness for many years, in fact until the re-organization received its tardy birth after sixteen years of dissolution. But this is not so, for God's prophet told the truth when he declared that "in the days of, these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom never more to be thrown down nor given to another people." The work that the Prophet Joseph and those who labored with him did, under the direction of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, was the work that was never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. In poverty these people, chosen to lay the foundation of God's work, began to build the city of Kirtland, on a most beautiful spot. Considering their financial condition it is awe-inspiring to visit it. This first temple, which still stands, gives evidence of permanency typical of the great work entrusted to them. Again, the streets of old Nauvoo, together with those old homes bear evidence that all work done by our worthy parents was of a permanent character. While we did not stay and inhabit the cities that our parents struggled hard to build and beautify, yet we learn to build by building, we learn to beautify by doing that kind of work, and all of this has prepared the Saints of the Lord for the work required. The trees are now grown through the curb-stones, and many of the houses that were builded then have tumbled down, but those that remain bear silent testimony, which speaks volumes for the early Latter-day Saints, that everything they did was of a permanent nature and was done to the glory of our Father. The spirit that built Nauvoo was the spirit that carried the Saints across the plains, and the spirit that carried them on that long and weary journey, a pilgrimage that has been unequalled in the history of this world, is the spirit that cleared the sage-brush, dug the canals, planted the trees, ,md built temples to the most high God. The spirit that built these temples, and  cities,, and redeemed the desert, is the spirit that has carried the missionaries to the ends of the earth to bear witness that the kingdom of God has been established in the earth, never more to be thrown down nor given to another people. The man who was selected of God to establish this work in the earth, was called to be an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and ordained to that office by Peter, James, and John. Others were ordained through him, by command of the Lord, and through the apostleship this work has been carried on. 

During the last few weeks I have received about a dozen letters along this line of enquiry. "Is it possible for an Elder to ordain a Seventy? Is it possible for a Seventy to ordain an Apostle ?" We knew the source of the first letter that came of that character, and we answered that it is not a question whether an Elder could ordain a Seventy, or whether a Seventy could ordain an Apostle, the question is, Has it ever been necessary for that to be done, since the Lord ordained the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver .Cowdery to the holy apostleship, and gave them commandments to call and ordain other men? We bore testimony to those enquirers that, since men were ordained to the apostleship in the earth, and given power to call and ordain other men, and "call and ordain all the other officers in the Church," it had never been necessary,— for this work has been established for the last time under the hands of God, and it has not ceased to roll since it was started by our Father. 

I rejoice in this work. I rejoice in the spirit of permanency that has characterized it through all these years that the work has been  by our Father. I am glad, my brethren and sisters, to mingle with such a body of Latter-day Saints, with men and women who have the same testimony, who come here to worship the Lord, with the same spirit in them that permeates the hearts of our brethren the First Presidency and the Twelve. We have a testimony that this is the work of the Lord; so has every other man and every other woman who has kept the commandments of our Father; and so will every man and every woman receive this testimony who will hear and obey the voice of the Lord. The people in the world today, who hear the testimony of the Elders of the Church, and yield obedience to it, receive a testimony exactly the same as those who have labored in the Church for years, the same as those who heard the Prophet Joseph Smith declare, "If you will repent and be baptized ye shall know that I am called of God, and know it for yourselves." I am thankful to live in a day when this glorious revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith has been so greatly fulfilled. Surely a great and marvelous work did come forth in the earth. Who can- mingle with and know the Latter-day Saints and not be able to declare that it is truly a great and a marvelous work. The Latter-day Saints today are being gathered from every nation, and are being brought to dwell in harmony together to the glory of God. Had it not been for this work, as testified by the former speaker, our parents would never have known each other, neither would their souls be filled with the joy or moved with the same songs or stirred with the same ambitions to do good to their fellow-man that fills their hearts to. Yet, this work has only begun. Another eighty years will produce greater results,' and it is my testimony that it will be even more glorious than it is today. The spirit of the Gospel will fill the hearts of those who are coming hither to be more loyal, true, and loving, more kind to one another, uphold each other, and not be ashamed of those who are called of God to guide and direct His people. I feel proud to honor them. 

I tell you, in all my wanderings and associations, I find no men who have the same spirit in their hearts as those of our brethren who preside over this Church. My testimony to the world has been and is that they are men of God. I would rather have one of them put his arms on my shoulders and say, "God bless you," or associate with them a few minutes, than anv other men in the world, for thev are clean and pure, and God has' blest them. In their presence you can feel the spirit of righteousness, because of the righteous lives that they are living in the earth. Recently one of our fellow members of the Church was in Chicago for a very serious operation, and as I visited him, from day to day, I was struck with the testimony of many medical men who came to see him, —a simple testimony yet beautiful,' This man is clean, clean as a babe morally." It was almost a revelation to them to find a man so clean and virtuous. So are thousands of our brethren who have been called of God to bear this great message to the world. To find and convert the clean men in the world is a part of the glorious work that has come forth, and it will become more glorious according to the lives and labors, and earnest work, of the Latter-day Saints. 

I feel honored, my brethren and sisters, to labor with the Elders and Saints, and the honest in heart, among the people of the Northern States, the states surrounding the great city of Chicago. It is my testimony that the promises of God to the early Elders of the Church are just as sure of fulfilment today as they were then, when the Elders depend upon Him to the same degree. Our Father gave the promise to the Elders of the Church, in the year 1832, that "whosoever re-, ceiveth you there I will be also, for I will go before your face; I will be on your right hand and on your left hand, and my spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about to bear you up." It is my testimony now, my brethren and sisters, that the angels of our Father do go before the face of the Elders to prepare the hearts of the people to receive them; and the Spirit of God is in the hearts of those who are laboring to establish Zion in the earth. Those who labor honestly as missionaries bear this witness that it is the happiest time of their lives, after a hard day's work, to feel the presence of the Lord, the influence of His holy Spirit, and realize that the angels of our Father have borne witness and prepared the hearts of the people to receive them. I am grateful and thankful that the Spirit of the Lord has thus been with us, and the spirit of this great work has softened the hearts of both great and small in the earth toward the truth and toward God's people. 

The spirit of prejudice is fast vanishing away, and tens of thousands of people are convinced that we have the greatest truth that has  delivered to the earth. While their hearts are not converted, their minds are convinced that we have a power back of us that no other people possess. When they are brought to realize what a great work our Elders are doing, they say, "Why can't we get our missionaries to do the same as the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ, or the Mormon Elders, are doing?" The only reason they can't get them to do it is because they have not got the testimony in their hearts that it is the work of God they are performing. They do not know their work is indeed the work of the Lord, but they are engaged in it because they have nothing better. They desire to do good, but know not how best to do it. Thousands would just as gladly do what we are doing if they knew, as we know, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that He has restored the Gospel to the earth for the salvation of the children of men. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the work of God, that our Father is directing it, that He goes before our face, that His Spirit is in our hearts; and this marvelous work will continue until the honest in heart have been gathered together from all nations, to the praise and glory of our Father. The prayers of the faithful Latter-day. Saints should continue to ascend to our Father for the speedy gathering of His people. May He bless and inspire, sustain and uphold our worthy brethren who preside over us; and may the revelations of His mind and will be given to them. May His Spirit ever be given to us to receive their counsel, advice, and revelation until our Father's name shall be glorified  the faithful labors of His children in the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the report of the Auditing Committee of the Church, as follows : 

Salt Lake City, Utah, 

April 1, 1910. 

President Jcseph F. Smith and Counselors: 

Dear Brethren: We, the undersigned, the auditing committee of the Church, beg leave to report that we have carefully examined the books and accounts of the Church as fully and thoroughly as the great mass of accounts would permit in the time at our disposal to perform this important labor. 

It gives us pleasure* to report that we have found everything in a very satisfactory condition both as to the method of keeping the accounts, and also as to the volume of receipts and expenditures of the Church in all . its varied activities; and while perhaps it may not be within our purview either to criticise or commend the expendituies of the Church, yet we cannot refrain from expressing our gratification with the way these expenditures have been made on account of the various needs of the Church. 

We are pleased to say, as heretofore, that the accounting department is in good condition, and that the method of keeping the accounts improves from year to year, so that now there seems but very little more to be desired. Everything is done in an intelligent, systematic and business-like way and according to  that save time and expense. 

Very respectfully submitted. Your brethren, 

RUDGER CLAWSON, W. W. RlTER, 

August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, General Auditing Committee of the Church. 

ELDER WILLIAM W. RITER. 

(Chairman of Auditing Committee.) 

My brothers and sisters, — I will brush aside all formalities and seek to say what I have to say as briefly and concisely as I can, for I know the time of the conference is too valuable to be wasted in unnecessary words. 

The report of the Auditing Committee of the Church, just read in your hearing, in a general way covers the whole ground, and I can add nothing thereto; but there are, perhaps, a few details that may be of interest to you, that it would be impossible to embody in a general report without making it unnecessarily lengthy. 

First, let me say this : There is in the minds of some people — though I do not believe in the minds of the Latter-day Saints, to anv marked extent — a suspicion that the Auditing Committee, which you sustain at your conferences as the Auditing Committee of the Church, are dominated by the Church authorities to the extent that they would hardly make a report in any different form than that which has been presented to you. I will say, in order to dispel any suspicion of this kind, that it is wholly unfounded. The Auditing Committee never saw President Joseph F. Smith during the entire course of their labors, and were only brought face to face with him when they had completed their labors and made their report. I believe, on one occasion only, President Lund passed through the room where we were at work, and. in a friendly way we shook hands with him. As you are well aware, President John R. Winder was lying upon his deathbed, and as a matter of course we could not and did not see him. So that no set of men could have been more free from any outside influence acting upon their labors than were we. Every book and every source of information and every document which our judgment required to be brought before us was furnished with alacrity, and there was no evidence whatever that anything whatever was being withheld. 

Now, you understand that in the world at large, the constitution of the Mormon Church is considered a very delicate and perfect piece of machinery, and I am inclined to think, , from my knowledge of the history and movement of mankind, that no more delicate and no more precise piece of machinery has ever been instituted upon the earth than that which constitutes the government, and exercise of authority, over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now, I say this in a religious capacity. We all understand, running side by side with these matters, there must be other activities than those that are considered strictly religious, that relate to our temporal affairs. I want to say that in this regard the machinery has been perfected from year to year, until now it is practically as perfect on the material side as it is  its religious side. I believe there are but few Lattei-day Saints who are aware of the magnitude of the activities of the Church in all directions. I will briefly call your attention to a few of the more important features in regard to our temporal matters, that came under our review as auditors. 

First, at the head, as a matter of course, is the presiding office of the Church, the office of the First Presidency, who have the care and direction of the matters pertaining to the office of the trustee-in-trust. The amount of business transacted in that department is very great. Next below that comes the office of the Presiding Bishopric who report, directly to their officers above them. The amount of labor performed in that office is something beyond the ordinary knowledge of the Latter-day Saints. The accounts of sixty stakes or thereabout, and some six hundred wards, or thereabout, besides the missions in the various quarters of the earth, some twenty-one in number, are centered in that office; and so delicate is that machinery that I believe if any half-naked Maori, or inhabitant of the South Seas pays a tithing of a nickel, his name and the record of that account may be found in that building across the way. (Referring to the Presiding Bishop's Office.) Under the very able management of the present Presiding Bishopric, matters have been brought up and crystalized into a business condition that is very gratifying indeed. And let me here remark, without any intention of making a personal reference, that all four of the committee who signed this report, I believe, are professional bookkeepers, or at least they have been at some time in their , so they know what they are talking about when they speak in regard to these matters. 

Now, beside the Presiding Bishopric, there are other institutions of the Church. There is the Land and Title Department that has the record of the titles of all the properties of the Church. There is the Latter-day Saints' Hospital, a magnificent institution in its mission of mercy. I am sure if the Latter-day Saints could fully comprehend "the good that it is doing, it would be held near and dear to their hearts. Briefly, let me say that, if I remember correctly, some twelve hundred surgical operations were performed there last year, and it is very fair to assume that six hundred of these operations were the means of saving life; and, yet, this hospitab is where people go who are in the last extremities of distress and disease, notwithstanding that, the mortality in that hospital is less than the average mortality in other hospitals in the United States. 

Then we have the Deseret News, a large, flourishing, and ably managed institution performing a work for good that is almost beyond calculation. Also we have the Bureau of Information. We audited their accounts, and we cannot speak too highly in regard to their labors. Commencing a few years ago with a donation of $100.00, for capital, they invested that amount in books and pamphlets .to be used in connection with their mission, and so judiciously have they managed this matter that this one hundred dollars, without anv outside help, has grown now to be $9,000.00, which they have invested in books and pamphlets which they either sell or give away to all who ask for them. The number of strangers who call  them and receive information as regards the Church, the State, the country in all their various functions, is very great. 

Now, I have mentioned only a few of the leading activities of the Church. There are a great number of others. Of course, you will understand that in every stake, to a certain extent, they may have duplicates of some of these things, and also in the many wards, and all these center in the Presiding Bishop's office. Besides taking care of the dollars and cents, the Presiding Bishop's office gathers a great mass of statistics in regard to other affairs of the Church, this, I believe, the people as a whole are unaware of, and which to me are very interesting. I want to call your attention to some of these and let you draw your own conclusions. But before reading any of these statistics, I want to disabuse the public mind, and especially that of the Latter-day Saints, of an impression which has gone out — I do not know to what extent, but I do not think to any great extent, but to whatever extent it may be, I believe this impression ought to be dispelled, and it is this: that it is unfair and unjust, in a sense, to gather the tithes and donations from the various wards and stakes in the outlying portions of the country and bring them to Salt Lake City, for the purpose of enriching Salt Lake and impoverishing to the same extent the localities from whence these moneys have come. It may surprise you when I tell you that 51 per cent of all the tithes paid by the people last year in all the stakes of Zion was returned directly to them to be used for various needs in their own localities. Now, you will readily understand that this cannot be reGENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the same proportion that it has been received, because circumstance and conditions vary. The wants of one stake or locality this year may be different from next year. One stake may need help and assistance in one direction this year, and it may be years again before they need help again. So a uniform return of the funds that you donate would be impossible. As an illustration, the needs and wants of one of the largest stakes, at some distance from Salt Lake, this last year were such that 103 per cent of their tithes were returned to them, or, in other words, all that they paid was returned to them, plus 3 per cent more. I only hastily impressed some of these.figures upon my mind, but I remember that there was another stake where 80 per cent was returned, and so it runs with varying proportions all down the line. When we consider the expenditures of a general character, that all are interested in, whatever the locality, in regard to certain general expenses of the Church, which must be met in some one locality, — when we consider the proportion that each should pay to defray these expenses —I haven't figured it out, but I verily believe that the people of Salt Lake county, would have the right of jealousy and suspicion, if there were any cause, and that they do not receive the amount of money from the outside that they are entitled to. Or, in other words, I believe Salt Lake county, comprising the stakes which were once the Salt Lake stake, pays more into the general fund than they receive, so that they are at a disadvantage in this regard. If my memory serves me correctly, the various stakes now within the lines of the old Salt Lake stake, received only 40 per cent of  tithes last year in return for their wants, as against 51 per cent that was returned to the stakes as a whole. 

Now, it possibly may not be necessary to speak of a matter I have in mind, and yet I ki$>w some people discuss this phase of the question which I am going to bring before you. There are a few people who are naturally suspicious, and our outside friends, too, are very suspicious, because they have an idea that this Church is a huge machine for making money — for a few people, for a few wise ones! I remember, many years ago a correspondent of "The Dollar" newspaper, published in Philadelphia, described the tithing office as a place where they 'kept good things for the knowing ones. Now, if you will take my word, and I believe you will, I want to say that no undue amount of the funds donated by the Latter-day Saints goes into the hands of the presiding officers of the Church. The revenues of the Church, from certain directions, are sufficient to pay the expenses of the leading authorities, without trenching to the amount of a dollar upon the tithes of the Church, — so that every dollar that you pay in, in the matter of tithing may be and is used for the general wants and needs of the Church, according to the spirit of inspiration in the minds of those who have the direction of these things. 

Now I am going to say something that is a littL- embarrassing to me. I am inclined to think that of all men that are in this congregation, I am, perhaps, as little a man-worshiper as any amongst you, and it is distasteful to me to praise any man to his face. I would rather President Smith would not hear what 101 

I say; but I want to say this, that I can't conceive that any man could administer the financial affairs of the Church with a truer conscience or a firmer conviction that its funds are sacred funds, and that they are funds belonging to the great God who created this Church than does President Smith. With that view, he and those associated with him administer every dollar, and as stated in our certificate, I believe, that every dollar has been expended wisely. As business men and bookkeepers, we did not find any money going in any direction that we could disapprove of, and I believe if every one of you who are before me this day could see and have an insight into these matters, as we have had, you too would be perfectly willing to join in the certificate that has been read in your hearing. 

Now, there is this pleasing feature that came to our attention, — the tithes and offerings of the Church showed a very gratifying increase over the previous year — quite a material increase. Well, how do you interpret that? I might also say that the tithes and revenues of the Church have shown a very material increase over the previous years. True, I understand that we are having years of increased financial prosperity. I understand that, but taking this into consideration, I believe that the people are paying their tithes and offerings out of proportion to the increased material prosperity of the country, and I account for it this way : The people as a whole have implicit confidence in the honesty, integrity and wisdom of those to whom they entrust these sacred funds. There is something about an honest man that all people apprehend without it being necessary for his friends to as that he is honest, and without it being necessary for him to assert it. The -best evidence of this was the magnificent testimonial that was given in this building, a few days ago, to our departed brother, John R. Winder. I believe that it came from the very depths of the hearts of the people. The esteem they showed him sprang from the belief that he was a thoroughly honest and conscientious man; and let me testify to you that after an association with him — civil, religious, and military — for something over fifty years, I know that to be the case; and after a close and intimate association of seventeen years in temple work, I am doubly assured of it. You know he was a man never on dress-parade, but he believed that the people knew that he was honest; and the people know that his confreres are honest, and this knowledge or belief is manifested in the willingness with which they pay these increased revenues and donations. 

Now I believe I have said enough along these lines, and I am egotistical enough to believe that you believe what I say. 

As I have already remarked, there are some very interesting statistics kept in the Presiding Bishop's office, and I believe that in the future they will gather in others that will be of interest as well as benefit to the Church. Let me call your attention to the fact that the birthrate amongst the members of the Church, within the stakes of Zion — mind you I don't mean the birthrate of the state of Utah, or any other state where the Saints are located, — but the birth-rate amongst the Latter-day Saints in the stakes of Zion, leaving out the missions m the world, was 39 per thousand. It GENERAL CONFERENCE.  be known to some of you that one thousand is used as the unit of measurement in vital' statistics, for the reason that a smaller unit would make disagreeable fractions. The birth-rate amongst the Latter-day Saints was 39 per 1,000 as against 32 in the United States as a whole, or an advantage in our behalf of about 20 per cent. The death-rate was 9.9 or in other words, nine persons and 9-10 of a person died per thousand amongst the Latter-day Saints during the year 1909, against an average in the United States of about 17 per thousand, so that the death-rate among the Latter-day Saints was a little over half of the general average death-rate of the country. Brother Heber J. Grant, at one of our meetings called attention to the fact — he being an insurance man — that the lowest deathrate amongst the life insurance companies, that he was aware of, had fallen but once or twice below ten. Ours is just a trifle below ten, and bear this in mind that the deathrate in insurance companies covers a class of people who are supposed to be physically perfect. They undergo an examination, or a physical test, and their records are considered, and their records for generations before them, and all doubtful cases are eliminated; and to but a very limited extent does it cover children; and yet in the world at large their death-rate is equal to the Latter-day Saints that covers the aged, the infirm and little children, and we know it is the history of the world that mortality amongst children is much greater than it is among people of maturer age. Then there is this other thing that must be taken into consideration in getting ratios,— that the Latter-day Saints, have more children accord to population, per thousand, than the people of the United States as a whole. These things must be taken into consideration in order to get a proper measure of this question. 

The marriage-rate amongst the Latter-day Saints, last year, was 16.5 per thousand; that is, sixteen persons and a half were married out of every thousand. Of course, you can readily understand that that half person was not married, but that is the way we have for getting at these proportions and percentages. I have not the other per cent, but I am inclined to think our percentage is higher than is to be found elsewhere. 

There are 31 widows and widowers per thousand of population amongst the Latter-day Saints. These are, presumably, mostly elderly people. 

Here is one feature that may strike you as a little strange. (I am reminded that I ought to speak louder, but my voice is already breaking.) There are fifty persons per thousand over twenty-one years of age unmarried. The remedy for that is in your hands. (Laughter.) 

Here is a very important item. During the year 1909, there were 2,748 persons married in the temples. During the same time, there were forty-six persons, or twentythree couples divorced, among those who had been married in the temples — not necessarily among those who were married in the temples last year, but that figure represents the number of- divorces granted to members of the Church who had been married in the temples at any time. Figuring 46 divorces as about the average for a year, that would be 1.6 per cent of the number married in the temples. During the 103  year 83 members were divorced who received civil marriages. Carried out into, percentages, the result would be 3.6 per cent of divorces among those who were married outside of the temples, as against 1.6 per cent for those who were married in the temples. In other words there is a factor of safety to married life, in behalf of temple marriages of about 2y 2 to 1. 

There were 2,065 missionaries in the field on the first day of January, 1910, and it takes about $500,000.00 a year, from their relatives and friends, to sustain them. This monev is not counted in the financial statements of the Church, they are personal matters between the missionaries and their relatives and friends. 

Forty-six per cent of the Church population are enrolled in the Sunday Schools. Now, do not get the idea that 46 per cent of the population are children. It means the total of the persons engaged in Sunday School work, the teachers as' well as the children. I think this is a marvelous showing, that 46 per cent of the people are engaged in Sunday School work, either as pupils or as teachers. They are engaged in teaching and learning the way of life and salvation. 

Nine and one-tenth per cent were enrolled in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations; 8.8 per cent were enrolled in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations; 19 per cent were enrolled in the Primary associations, and 10 per cent were enrolled in the Religion classes. There are 41,586 persons in the Church who hold the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood, and 33,357 who hold the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood. 

Now, in view of the preciousness  the time, I believe I have said enough. Perhaps I have said as much as most of you will remember about these matters. I may close by expressing ' the great pleasure and gratification that I have had in these labors. 

There is one thing, however, that comes to my mind, that I think I must speak of. You remember the days when the old tithing office order was largely current amongst us, and frequently it got into a condition which some people regarded with contempt. Nevertheless, when the proposition came to do away with the system and do away with a tithing office here, and not receive tithing in kind, I was rather opposed to it, for I was attached to those old tithing office orders, just as the people of the United States were attached to the old greenbacks. You know the green-backs saved the nation during its hour of peril; and the old tithing office orders were the means of bringing bread and meat to the mouths of a great many worthy and deserving people. I had a great veneration for the old system; but in the march of events, and as this Church must grow and spread and increase in all directions along the lines of higher intelligence arid progress, it has been found necessary to abandon the old system, but I almost feel like saying, God bless the old tithing office order. (Laughter.) God bless you all, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

President Smith said: "You have heard the report of the Auditing Committee. What is the pleasure of the conference concerning it. It is numerously moved and seconded that we receive and approve the report and file it. All in favor GENERAL CONFERENCE.  by raising the right hand. Contrary by the same sign.  

"The vote is unanimous in favor of receiving report." 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Praise to the man "who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that "Prophet and Seer" —  

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Benediction was pronounced by President Seymour B. Young. 

It was announced that the closing session of the Conference would convene at 2 p.m. :session. 


