Afternoon
06 04 1929

The meeting commenced at 2 o'clock p. m. President Heber T. Grant presided. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Elder Charles S. Clark of the Cassia Stake offered the invocation. The Chaminade Ladies' Chorus, under the direction of Prof. Anthony C. Lund, sang a sacred selection, "Holy Father." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

1 am reading from Paul's epistle to the Galatians : 

"Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. 

"For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting." 

Years ago, Sister Snow, one of our gifted poetesses, wrote a hymn, the first lines of which are: 

"The trials of the present day Require the Saints to watch and pray, That they may keep the narrow way To the Celestial glory." 

The trials which she referred to were not the kind we are now familiar with. The trials of her day were of mob violence, of hardship, of struggle and strife. 

As we heard this morning, we have passed beyond that period of the Church's: history, and yet we are not without our trials. They are of a different character, and sti# they require the saints to watch and pray if we are to preserve ourselves in the way to celestial glory. 

THE PRESENT GENERATION 

I am not one of those who find pleasure in condemning this generation. I have a deep sympathy for the young people of our time. I believe they arej as good at heart as their parents. Indeed I feel that God has kept them in reserve, as he did their fathers and mothers, to come forth in an age wh*n he needs them; and that they also can be made true and faithful. I feel, however, that no other generation has ever needed wisdom, guidance, and help as much as does this generation of young people. They are in a new world, face to face with conditions quite unlike those that obtained in the time of their parents. So that my quarrel shall not be with them so much as with conditions that they must meet. I have a spirit of patience and of charity towards them. Yet I feel in my heart an anxious desire to awaken the members of the Church to the need of lending parental aid and assistance to these boys and girls, such aid and assistance as perhaps no other generation has really needed. 

CORRUPTION OF MORALS BRINGS DESTRUCTION OF FAITH 

I remember in my early childhood being considerably shocked by a statement which appeared in this city from an enemy of the Church. After having attempted to convert the young people of the Church from the faith of their fathers and having failed, the suggestion was made, that if you want to convert the young people of the Mormon Church you cannot argue with them, you cannot attack the Book of Mormon or Joseph Smith — but if you really want to convert them corrupt them, build brothels, get them into these institutions, and have their morals destroyed; then you can easily turn them from their faith. 

I believe that this is true, that the easiest way to destroy a man's faith is to destroy his morality; that when his morals are corrupted his faith totters; he cannot stand, except he repent, of course. 

METHODS OF THE ADVERSARY 

So that I believe that while the enemy is not arraying men and nations against the Church, he has not quit the field. Let us not be deceived. With new methods, quite different from those employed in the days of our fathers, he is diligently at work, using more effective means to destroy, to corrupt, than he has ever used before; and the assaults that he is making are against the individual himself. 

,1 found in the missioif field it was utterly impossible for any man to successfully attack the doctrines of this Church. When the elder was thoroughly familiar with the teachings of the Church he could defend the Church's position. I have never been afraid of such assaults, I have never been afraid of mob violence nor of disasters that should come from the elements; but I have been afraid of the power of the evil one to hurt this cause when he could corrupt the missionaries; and his favorite means of stopping the missionary is to get him to commit sin. He was never more successful in stopping the Lord's work than when he could induce the bearer of the message to sin and to transgress. I have discovered in my own experience with hundreds of missionaries that when the devil lays a snare for the feet of a missionary, he generally baits the hook with a woman. 

THE TRIALS OF PEACE AND PROSPERITY 

We are in the age of self-indulgence. 'It is not peculiar to this Church; it is in the world. The spirit of it is rampant everywhere. It beats upon our shores from all points. It enters into the midst of the people. It is a deadly siege in an attempt to destroy that which persecution, mob violence, privation and hardship failed to destroy, — the integrity of this people. I am not a pessimist either. While I recognize the storms that are raging against our standards, I am as sure as that I live that the promises of the Lord will be fulfilled, and that this work shall not fail, nor shall it be given to another people. I recognize however, with my brethren, that the sorest trials that have ever come to the Church in any age of the world are the trials of peace and prosperity. But we are to do a new thing, a thing that never has before been done — -We are to take the Church of Christ not only through the age of persecution and mob violence, but through the age of peace and prosperity. For we must learn to endure faithfully even in peace and prosperity. 

|I am not praying for the return of persecution and poverty; I am praying for peace and prosperity; but above all things for strength and power to endure this test. For it was not the design and the intention of the Lord to have this people always in suffering in bondage and distress. They shall come to peace and prosperity, but it is the sorest trial that will come to them. 

SNARES OF THE EVIL ONE 

I recognize that there are some things connected with this subject that need to be brought to the attention of parents and of the watchmen presiding in the various stakes, wards and missions of the Church, watchmen who ought to distinguish, and they do I am sure, the presence of evil, and set up a defense for the people of the Church, particularly the young people. 

I believe that there is need for greater care over our young people during the period of their courtship. I have been grateful for ail the blessings and joys of the automobile, but with it has come also dangers. Thq courtship of too many goes forward in the automobile, and there lurks a danger to many, because, unchaperoned and out of reach of parents, away from all restraint, they seem to think they are alone. But they are not, for the devil is often there to lay snares for their feet,  destroy their own happiness and to darken their spirits by leading them to sin and transgression. 

During the war I saw the breaking down of what seemed to me to be the most precious thing that the girls and women of this nation have, maidenly modesty, until now it has come to be a sort of custom among many young people (I regret to say even among us), that they feel at liberty to promiscuously engage in embracing and kissing each other when there is no thought of anything serious so far as engagement or marriage is concerned — only the thrill they get. I protest against it and say to you that there is danger in it, and that the fire will burn those who play with it. 

The sacredness of the kiss and affectionate relationships belong only' to the engaged and married state, and ought not to be indulged in by those_who are only seeking the thrill of the moment. There will come danger if we do not guard and keep, by all the strength and power we have, these splendid young people in the path of rectitude and safety. 

A PECULIAR PEOPLE 

I believe that virtue is its own reward. We arq to be a peculiar people. I do not think the Lord meant we were to be freaks or in any sense ugly or undesirable; but our peculiarities shall consist in that we are different from other people in some of these most desirable things. I remember, while on my first mission more than thirty years ago, meeting a gentleman who could not believe that these Mormon missionaries were clean and undefiled. He said, "You do not mean to tell me that married men will go upon a mission and stay for two years and keep themselves morally clean." I said: "I certainly do. That is our standard." "Well," he said, "You won't find it anywhere else." 

THE SINGLE STANDARD 

I feel sure that this is true. Our standard that requires a young man to be as clean and as chaste and as pure as the girl he asks to be his wife, the mother of his children, is peculiar. We do not find it generally in the world. When I think of the assaults that are coming I recognize the weakness of the world's position because of its double standard. It required a higher standard of women than of men, and now it has given to women equal rights with men, not only in the franchise, but in other things. Some women are coming to ask the same privilege to sow their wild oats that men have, and then expect honorable marriage. 

We have no such double standard. We ought to be able to succeed under these circumstances better than others, because we have a single standard for men and for women. We expect our boys to be as good as our girls, and as clean. The Master said, in answer to the question, Who is guilty of committing adultery ? that whosoever looked upon a woman to hist after her had committed adultery already with her in his heart; and the Prophet Joseph Smith said that unless such a one repents he will lose the Spirit. It is the quickest way to lose the Spirit. 

PROTECTION THROUGH MODESTY 

There never has been a day perhaps since these words were uttered by the Master when there was greater temptation for men to think evil than in this age with its immodesty, in almost every avenue of life. I am not crying for reform in dress, but I do plead with the mothers of Zion to undertake modesty in dress. We may like to follow the fashion, but let us follow it in modesty. The most precious thing that a girl has is her modesty and, if she preserves this in dress, in speech, in action, it will arm, and protect her as nothing else will. But let her lose her modesty, and she becomes a victim of those who pursue her, as the hare ist of the hound; and she will not be able to stand unless she preserves her modesty. 

PATTERN MAKERS FOR THE WORLD 

\I am therefore of the opinion that there is no peril that is threatening us today such as this peril of immoralty. It is in the world. The standards that have long been maintained are being questioned and by many discarded. Are we also to succumb? No. If that day comes, and it will, when the people from the ends of the earth will say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob," it will be to learn of the ways of this people. If we act and live like the world, why need they come here? They are to find something different here. It is easy for us to drift with the tide. It doesn't take much courage to do that, but it is difficult to go against the current. God has called upon this people to be pattern-makers for the whole world, to hold up an ensign that shall attract the attention of the ends of the earth. Is it not worth fighting for to be admired and respected by all the good and the great? This is the battle that is before us, to preserve our standards. 

MARRIAGE FOR A HOLY AND SACRED PURPOSE 

Then when we come to the question of marriage, our standards invite young men and women to live worthy to enter into the holy contract of matrimony for time and for all eternity; and that involves upon them another sacred obligation, which is to fulfil the first great commandment of God, "multiply and replenish the earth." Not companionate marriage, no, but marriage with a given and definite purpose. I plead with you parents and teachers in Zion to hold up the ideal and the standard before our young people that they enter marriage for a holy and sacred purpose. Not that they are to use these glorious bodies with their God-given power of procreation as mere harps of pleasure. If they do they shall reap disgust for each other and stand condemned before God. 

1 do not know of course what we agreed to before we came into this life, but I have a deep conviction that we promised our Father's children who long had been waiting for the privilege and opportunity  come into mortal life that we would remember them when we came into life ourselves. If we wilfully and deliberately neglect that promise and forget them and determinedly live a childless life, we shall stand condemned in the presence of those to whom we have made sacred promises and before God himself. 

POVERTY NOT A BAN 

Are poverty and the expense of raising children to be a ban that shall deter us from maintaining the high standards of our fathers and mothers? No. Poverty never was a ban against children rising to eminence. Lincoln was not held back from the highest office within the gift of the people because he was born of poor parents in a log house. Nor need it be in this age of liberty, education and great opportunity for even the poor. Let us not be afraid to assume the full obligations and receive the blessings that God has promised to those who keep this first great commandment. 

As far as the nations of the earth are concerned, I have made some study of their statistics and they show that going hand in hand with, a decreasing birth rate is an increasing divorce rate. The cement that binds hearts together, children, is lacking, and as a result dissolution comes; and as the family institution begins to crumble, so will the government and the Church. 

THE CRIME OF SEXUAL IMPURITY 

I plead with you, therefore, my brethren and sisters, that we rally to our standards. Certainly our teachers were right when they held up an ideal that virtue was as sacred as life itself, and that we had better lose our lives than lose our Adrtue. That was the teaching I received; and next to the crime of murder itself is the crime of sexual impurity. The boy who would deliberately look upon a clean, chaste, and pure girl to rob her of her virtue is almost as guilty as though he contemplated sending a knife into her heart to destroy her; for when she loses her virtue she loses that which is more precious than life itself, ilf she does lose her virtue the devil is apt to deceive her, for he often does, and make her believe, and a young man also, that now he or she has committed this sin they are lost forever. Repentance is in order always, and mercy for the sinner. 

THE WAGES OF SIN 

I was saying to a young woman who was confessing her own sins recently, wondering if there were any hope for her, that if she continued the sale of her glorious body for the filthy lucre of this world she soon would come to the end of her career, and, like an o'ld worn-out shoe, be cast aside, and die prematurely, full of disease, in some charitable institution. 

REWARD OF THE VIRTUOUS 

When you contrast that condition with the glorious privilege God has offered to the sons and daughters of Zion who keep themselves clean and pure and undefiled, to go into the temples of God to receive a companion for time and eternity, that they may be worthy to pass on. by the angels and the Gods, to their glory and inheritance and attain unto the power of endless increase, is it not inducement enough to call for sacrifices, for cleanliness of life, for purity, so that we may reap these glorious blessings and holy privileges? 

A WORTHY EXAMPLE 

'I believe that the strength and the power is in every boy to be as good as was Joseph our forefather who was sold into Egypt. From the time of my childhood the story of his life has appealed to me. When he, comely and desirable, was sought after by the wife of the ruler, he resisted her again and again; and when she seized upon him he fled from her presence, though he left part of his clothing in her possession. Condemned falsely, he still stood true to his convictions, and God vindicated him. 

Let the young men of Israel, the descendants of this Joseph, look upon their ancestor and be inspired to die rather than to be defiled, that they may be worthy to come into the great heritage that God has for his faithful sons and daughters. For if this generation shall keep themselves clean and undefiled they shall reap honors and distinction like unto which their fathers who subdued the deserts and made it blossom never attained. We shall indeed be peculiar. 

REQUIREMENTS TO WEATHER THE STORM 

I have confidence and a faith that the great majority of this people shall weather the storm, but it will require the closing in of our ranks. It will require closer co-operation between parents and children. It will require every effort and every power that this people can put forth to preserve this generation in purity. God give us the strength and the power to do it, that we may receive the great distinction and blessing and the eternal joy that shall come as a result of achievement and accomplishment, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Missioit 

I have been verv greatly impressed, my brethren and sisters, by the spirit of the conference so far, and I feel strengthened and built up in my faith by reason of the instructions and admonitions and the testimonies that have been given. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father that I am accounted worthy of membership in the Church; that I have been accounted worthy to labor in the vineyard of the Lord. My missionary labors have been a source of very great joy to me, and they continue to be so. 

I rejoice in the opportunity of laboring with the noble young men and women who are called from out the ranks of the Church and who  now and have been for the past years laboring with me in the mission field. They grow and develop in a degree that is marvelous, in their contact with the world, in their contact with opposition, and even in their contact with the indifference that they encounter in the world. I think someone said yesterday that they are born seemingly with a testimony, and as soon as they begin to labor and to study and to reflect, this testimony springs into real life and activity and they grow and develop in a wonderful way. Their spirit of obedience is very remarkable, my brethren and sisters. Those who have labored with me, in nearly every instance have not hesitated at all to go where they were directed to go, or to stay whatever length of time they were asked to stay. If we had no difficulty about elders going home other than that which we have from the elders in the field our difficulties would bo few indeed. We do, I am sorry to say, have some little difficulty in keeping our very fine missionaries in the field, because of the attitude assumed by friends and relatives, and in some instances presiding officers, at home. I wish that it could be understood by the people of the Church generally, as we mission presidents understand it, and we have our understanding from the General Authorities of the Church, that a mission in the world is not for any stipulated length of time. Some may be honorablv released at a year's expiration, and others may stay well beyond the two year mark, even in some instances running into three and five years in some missions. It would make it very much easier for your missionary boys and girls if you could maintain them there as long as the Lord requires them to remain; and that duration of time shall be indicated through the servants of the Lord whom he has entrusted to preside over your young men and young women in the missionary field. 

In our particular field of labor the work is progressing very satisfactorily, considering conditions and all concerned, even more satisfactorily than one could well hope for. We are thankful to the Lord for this and feel a desire to continue our labors and to work zealously for the redemption of that particular branch of the house of Israel with which we are laboring, namely, the Lamanite people, who are descendants of Joseph and who have resided upon this land of America. 

I have been particularly impressed during this conference by the reference that has been made to the Book of Mormon. It has made my heart rejoice to hear the strong testimonies given in favor of its divine authenticity, and it is a source of joy to know that the men of science, archaeologists, who are delving into the ruins of the past, are developing only things that corroborate the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon; for in very deed all that is coming forth is in favor of it. So far as my studies and observations are concerned I have found nothing that in any way controverts the claim that we make for tne divinity of the Book of Mormon. 

It has been my good pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to travel a very great deal in Book of Mormon lands, and it would have been strange indeed if I had not taken some interest and had I not found some things that to me are evidences of the divine authenticity of that book. I have not been among those who have tried to place or locate certain cities, or even definitely certain lands; but I have read in the Book of Mormon of a mighty civilization that has existed upon this continent in the remote past — the Jaredite civilization, preceding even the Nephite civilization. I have read in the Book of Mormon of their spreading out upon the face of the whole land. I have read about the wonderful buildings they have left, the wonderful temples that they have erected, the extent of their great cities.!l have studied about the materials used in the construction of those cities; and it has been my happy pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to see verily demonstrated before me the fact that there has lived in the remote past upon this continent a civilization that exceeded inj every way that found even by the Spanish conquerors in Mexico and by the Spanish conquerors in Peru, who conquered the most highly civilized nations found here by European conquerors. 

I have stood in amazement at the immense dimensions of the stones used in the construction of great buildings in Mexico. I have seen jutted together as lintels over three great doorways that led into a great hall from a courtyard, stones that were five by six by twenty-five feet in dimension. Brother Ballard and I, in returning from our missionary sojourn in Buenos Aires, came by the great ruined city of Tiahuanaco. at the extreme southern end of Lake Titicaca, at the great elevation of 12,500 feet above the sea level; where we actually measured stones that were six by eight by twenty-five feet, and they were fitted together in buildings, without mortar, in a system of dry masonry. So well fitted and adjusted were some of these huge stones, that even after all the ages that have passed since they were placed there, you cannot insert a knife blade between the joints. 

I have seen many things that demonstrate to> me that the Book of Mormon is true. It is not a difficult thing for me to believe in inscriptions on plates of gold. When Brother Ballard and I were returning from .South America we had the opportunity of going ashore at Lima, Peru, the capital of the Peruvian government. There we had access to a national museum where a great collection had been made, which was being housed in new quarters that were not open to the public. We secured entrance, through the good offices of our ambassador to that country, and after witnessing many archaeological wonders we came to a glass case that was perfectly filled with gold ornaments. There were cups and candlesticks seemingly, of very curious workmanship. They were wonderful indeed. They were a few of the great things that had been left after the cupidity of the Spanish conquerors had robbed that country of all the gold that could be found, but yet some was left behind. After examining through the glass case many of the objects, our attention was attracted to a pile of gold leaf in one corner. As: near as I could calculate its dimensions, it was about the same size as our Juvenile Instructor, and the pile was about as high as half a dozen Juveniles. The thickness of the leaves, it seemed to me, was similar to 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 73 

the outside cover of that magazine. They were of pure gold leaf. All you would need to do would be to insert a ring through the edges of them to have a set of plates that would contain at least as much as we have in the abridgment of the Book of Mormon that was brought to us through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I do not say these things to be sensational or to boast, but I tell you that my eyes have beheld them. I do not doubt the story of the Book of Mormon because of these things. I have delved a very great deal into old Spanish literature during the great number of years I have resided in Latin American countries, and I have been able to search out many curious traditions concerning the belief of the ancient people, as they were recorded by the early chroniclers that came with the conquest of Mexico; things that bespeak the fact that the people must have had a knowledge of the creation and of the flood that was in every particular coincident with or exactly like the account given in the Bible. The story of the creation is not recited very much in detail in the Book of Mormon, but one cannot but understand from that record that the people had a knowledge of it precisely as the Jews had it, because of the fact that the Nephites brought with them the first five books of Moses, upon which plates perhaps, as they were spoken of this morning by Elder Talmage, were contained these writings. They had this record precisely as it is in the Bible. 

I have in my possession some pamphlets from which I have made a few extracts that I should like to refer to. One is in regard to the flood. These pamphlets are in Spanish, and I have made a hasty translation of them into English, but I would like to call them to your attention. 

You remember that it is recorded in Genesis that the Lord commanded that the waters from above be separated from the waters beneath, and the account goes on to tell how they were arranged in their proper places. There is a tradition that was recorded by Padre Pedro de los Rios (Codice Rios (Vaticano A.), folio 12, anverso) speaking of Quetzalcoatl, a great being traditional among them, to whom they attributed the creation of the world and many other things. And this is said about him by Padre Rios as he recorded the tradition that he found among the Indians : 

"This is the image of the first Lord that the world had, who, when it pleased him, breathed and separated the waters of the heavens from those of the earth, the which had before been together, and he it is that arranged them as they now are." 

You will see a close analogy, my brethren and sisters, between this tradition and the account given in Genesis, which account truly must have been had among the people of this land, if it so be that the Book of Mormon is true. 

There is a tradition among these people concerning the destruction of the world by the flood; and furthermore, they recount that in the traditions of the native people there was an account of the destruction of the world at another time. This excited the curiosity of one Diego Munoz Camargo. You will find this accoufit written in his History of Tlaxcala, published in 1892, on pages 153 and 154. He says: 

"There being a very great error among these natives, and very general throughout this new Spain, because they said this world had had two endings or two windings up, and that one had been by deluges and tempestuous waters, and that the earth had been turned upside down, and that those who had lived at that time had been giants, whose bones are found in the broken places. 

You will recall, my brethren and sisters, that the Genesis account also states that there were giants living in those days. The tradition 

says : 

"And those who lived at that time were giants whose bones are now found in the broken places." 

"They also say that there had been another ending of the world, and that it was caused by winds and hurricanes that were so great that everything in the world was destroyed, even the trees and plants of the mountains; and that the men of that time were taken up from the ground and were lost to sight. And they hold as a certainty, furthermore, that there is to be another ending of the world and it is to be by fire." 

If you will take the pains, my brethren and sisters, to look up these references you will find that my statement in regard to this is true. These things attract my attention very greatly, and there are innumerable things of this kind that could be recited that are just as wonderful as these that I have mentioned. 

I would like to recount just one more tradition, which is in regard to the miraculous conception of Jesus Christ or Quetzalcoatl. Our account of the conception and birth of Jesus Christ and that of the conception and birth of Quetzalcoatl, who was their great Deity, are almost the same. You will find this in the Codice Telleriano Remensis. 

"Quetzalcoatl was born in Chiuenauiecatl, which is where the hand is — He it is that was born of the virgin that is cailed Chimalman in the heavens. This Quetzalcoatl is he of whom it is said, 'He made the world,' because they say that this Tonacatecuhtli (the supreme God who resides in the most high heaven) when it pleased him breathed and begot this Quetzalcoatl; and he, (Quetzalcoatl), they say it was that made the first man." 

This is very remarkable, my brethren and sisters, taken in connection with the account given in the New Testament, of the conception of Jesus Christ; and if you will couple that also with the first chapter of John, wherein it says that the Son of the Most High God, who was with the Father from the very beginning, was the Creator of the earth, and that by him and through him and of him all things that were made were made, you will see that we have ample reason to accept, even from these external evidences, the fact that the Book of Mormon is the word of God. 

Nov/ to me it is a reality. It is my faith and belief in this Book of Mormon that has kept me going throughout all the dark years of my missionary service in Mexico. For it seems that no more obstacles could  placed in the way of missionary progress than have been, because of conditions that have reigned in that land. But the Book of Mormon recounts to us that the people of the land, the descendants of those who wrote these great prophecies of the Lord, are a covenant people of the Lord and they are to be redeemed. 

I want to read to you something that has given to me a great deal of faith and hope, and if the book is true as we declare it to be, these promises that have not yet had their fulfilment will most surely be fulfilled in behalf of that people. I read to you now from the thirtieth chapter of 'Second Nephi, beginning with the third verse: 

"And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many who shall believe the words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed. 

"And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews. 

"And the Gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had among their fathers. 

"And then shall they rejoice; for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them from the hand of God; and their scales of darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a white and delightsome people." 

I believe that prediction. I am working earnestly, my brethren and sisters, for its fulfilment. Tt would be almost easier, looking at the thing from a natural standpoint, to believe in the extermination of the people rather than that any of them would be spared. But they are to enjoy this great redemption. 

I would like to refer to statistics that reveal the fact that since the coming of the Spanish conquerors among the Indian people, — at least speaking of those south of the Rio Grande, clear on through Mexico and down to Central and South America, — nine-tenths of them have succumbed. That is in a period of about four hundred years. Mathematically calculating" it would not take long for the other one-tenth tq be wiped out, for it seems that the same condition of strife and war and bloodshed prevails among them. Looking at it naturally it almost looks as though not even a remnant of them might be left. But in this respect, and in order that my faith may not falter, I take courage from the word of the Lord as it came to Nephi concerning this very thing; for verily he was shown just what would happen among this people, that his own branch should be destroyed at the hands of their brethren, and that his brethren should dwindle in darkness and unbelief, and that there should be wars and strife among them for generation after generation. But the Lord said to him something that must have been very consoling to him, and indeed, my. brethren and sisters, it is very consoling to me. Speaking of the great Gentile nation that should be brought in to bring them down and to inhabit the land, the Lord maintains that it is the land of the inheritance of the sons and daughters and the descendants of Lehi, to whom he gave this land as a perpetual inheritance. And in this connection the Lord says to Nephi as recorded in the thirteenth chapter of first Nephi: 

"Nevertheless, thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by thq power of God above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord hath covenanted with thy father that his seed should have for the land of their inheritance; wherefore, thou seest that the Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed, which are among thy brethren. Neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren." 

So I take it, my brethren and sisters, that these prophecies and promises are valid. The Lord intends to redeem that people. He intends to redeem them through those of us who are brought out from among the Gentile nations and who in very deed believe the words of the book that has come to us. I testify to you with those who have testified before me that it is the word of God. It has been revealed through the instrumentality of the greatest prophet that has resided in this world, save it be the Son of God himself; and it will stand the test of time. It will stand the test of any investigation that can be brought to bear and in the end it will triumph. The Lord help us to believe it and help us to act well our part in carrying out the work assigned to us in this great work of the Lord, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

An ancient prophecy, in the second chapter of Isaiah, contains, in the first four verses, two notable predictions. In the fifth verse the prophet makes this telling appeal to the people of Jacob: "O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord." — Isaiah 2 :5. 

WHAT PEOPLE DESIRE TO KNOW 

I received a letter the other day from Evanston, Wyoming. The writer said that in recent remarks in this tabernacle I indicated that there are characteristic differences between the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and other churches. My correspondent adds that I failed to point out the differences. I attempted then to point out that our missionary system is one of the characteristic features of our Church work. I hope this afternoon briefly to indicate another outstanding feature. 

In the ninth chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, it is said : 

"And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples; of the Lord, went unto the High Priest. 

"And desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way"— that is, any who are disciples of the Lord, any of the believers in the Gospel of Jesus Christ— "men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem." 

THE LIGHT) AND THE VOICE 

"And as he journeyed, he came near to Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven: 

"And he fell to the earth and heard a voice."— Acts 9:1-4. 

He saw a light and he heard a voice. Later, Paul the Apostle appears before King Agrippa in his own defense: and, standing. before this great king, he said, telling this same story: 

"Whereupon, as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, 

"At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed, with me. 

"And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me." — Acts 26:13, 14. 

Notice that he says : "I saw a light," "I heard a voice." It was a vision. 

EFFECTS OF THE VISION 

We have seen that Isaiah says : 

"O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord." — Isaiah 2:5. 

That light from heaven which shone into the life and soul of Saul transformed him from a man who was persecuting the followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene to one who thereafter gave them his most loyal and ardent support. It changed him from a man of hate to a a man of love. It is that spirit — something that comes into the human heart — that we believe in these days results when one in authority, placing his hands upon those who are faithful and repentant, says to them, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost." 

Ours is a land of liberty and freedom, especially a land of religious freedom. Its motto, "In God we trust," might well have come from that remarkable picture — that scene of which we all have read — Jesus the Son of God, in the Garden of Gethsemane upon his knees. That is the spirit which has characterized leading people of the United States in the entire history of our nation. 

THE SPIRIT OF AMERICA 

Have you examined the special stamp issued in 1928 by the United States government? In the left-hand corner is this inscription : "1778"; in the right-hand corner, "1928" — one hundred and fifty years later. Between these two dates are the words "Valley Forge"; and on the stamp, the stamp of the United States government, officially made in the year of our Lord 1928, is Washington, the father of his country, upon his knees. The motto of our country, as it appears upon our dollar, is : "In God We Trust." To this land of liberty— of religious freedom— people came that they might worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. During the first critical period, they  led by George Washington, who frequently and effectively sought divine aid. 

THE WISDOM OF FRANKLIN 

Standing in the Constitutional Convention, Benjamin Franklin said : 

"Mr. President, I perceive that we are not in condition to pursue this business any further. Our blood is too hot. We indeed seem to feel our own want of political wisdom, since we have been running about in search of it. We have gone back to ancient history for models of governments and examined the different forms of those republics which, having been formed with the seeds of their own dissolution, now no' longer exist. In this situation of this assembly, groping as it were in the dark, to find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of light to illuminate our understandings? In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible to danger, we had daily prayer in this room for divine protection. Our prayers, sir, were heard; and they were graciously answered. 

"To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting, in peace, on the means of establishing our future national felicity; and have we now forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need his assistance? I have lived, sir, a long time; and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men." 

THE FAITH OF LINCOLN 

No less a man than Abraham Lincoln, foremost and most typical of Americans, was wont to retire into his office, and there, behind a locked door, to appeal to divine providence for help and guidance. While the fearful Civil War was raging, Lincoln issued a proclamation setting apart the 30th day of April, 1863, as a day of fasting and prayer. In this choice land, "choice above all other lands" (II Nephi 1:5), he appealed to the people to go into their various places of worship, to assemble around their own hearthstones, and to appeal to the Most High for divine direction : 

"Whereas it is the duty of nations as well as of men to own their dependence upon the overruling power of God, to confess their sins and transgressions in humble sorrow, yet with assured hope that genuine repentance will lead to mercy and pardon, and to recognize the sublime truth, announced in the Holy Scriptures and proven by all history, that those nations only are blessed whose God is the Lord; 

"And, insomuch as we know that by his divine law nations, like individuals, are subjected to punishments and chastisements in this world, may we not justly fear that the awful calamity of civil war which now desolates the land may be but a punishment inflicted upon us for our presumptuous sins, to the needful end of our national reformation as a whole people? We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of heaven; we have been preserved these many years in peace and prosperity; we have grown in numbers, wealth, and power as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us, and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our own hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity  redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us. 

"It behooves us, then, to humble ourselves before the offended Power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness. 

"Now, therefore, in compliance with the request,! and fully concurring in the views, of the Senate, I do by this my proclamation designate and set apart Thursday, the 30th day of April, 1863, as a day of national fasting and prayer. And I do hereby request all the people to abstain on that day from their ordinary secular pursuits, and to unite at their several places of public worship and their respective homes in keeping the day holy to the Lord and devoted to the humble discharge of the religious duties proper to that solemn occasion. 

"All this being done in sincerity and truth, let us then rest humbly in the hope authorized by the divine teachings that the united cry of the nation will be heard on high and answered with blessings no less than the pardon of our national sins and the restoration of our now divided and suffering country to its former happy condition of unity and. peace." 

THE POWERS OF HEAVEN 

The spirit of America, the spirit of Lincoln, is most distinctively that spirit which appeals to the powers of heaven. 

Considering now a time more recent, have you not all read the words written during the last sixty days by Calvin Coolidge, until recently President of the United States? He, an American with the American spirit, tells us just what he did when he learned officially of the death of President Harding. The word came to him in the night. He says : "I arose and put on my clothing" — and then, to quote his exact words — "before leaving that room I knelt down * * * and asked God to bless the American people, and to give me power to serve them." That act illustrates anew the spirit of our country. 

One month, and two days ago today, in the city of Washington, I had the genuine pleasure of listening to the inaugural address of President Hoover. His closing words were: "I ask the help of Almighty God in the service of my country." Do we not find in these words the spirit of America? That spirit is found not only in words that were uttered long ago; for these words express the actual spirit of America today. Our land has been made sacred by the prayers of its people. 

ANOTHER MODERN INSTANCE 

Can anyone be surprised, therefore, that a hundred years ago, a boy fourteen years old, no more, seriously religious, and given to reading the scriptures, was led, like these leaders, by the same American spirit? For when he came to the words of Scripture (James 1 :5), "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, * * * and it shall be given him," he followed this advice and sought his Heavenly Father in prayer. 

How appropriate it was that in this religious country, following the example of its great men, he should go straightway into the sacred grove and there make his appeal to the Most High. 

VISIONS OF LONG AGO 

Saul of Tarsus, afterwards Paul the Apostle, saw a light, heard a voice, beheld a vision. Since visions and revelations were possible then, are they not possible now? To those who accept this book called the Bible, to those who believe its words concerning Paul, may I not ask again : Since it was possible for him to hear a voice, to see a light, was it not possible for this boy, believing and hoping, also to see a light, to hear a voice, to receive a vision ? We hold that as a result of this boy's visions, the inspiring prophecies I quoted at the beginning are now being fulfilled. 

Consider another Scripture : John the divine heard a voice that said : "Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter." — -Rev. 4:1. 

This is a strong statement: Not things that may be; not things that will probably be; but "things which must be hereafter." John adds this declaration : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people." — Rev. 14:6. 

We hold that the fulfilment of that prophecy came as the result of an appeal made by a boy with faith believing, as he knelt in the sacred grove. John the Revelator, with inspired insight had the vision, and drew the picture; and the angel he beheld has flown through the midst of heaven, bringing the everlasting Gospel to be preached to all people. 

IN THE TOPS OF THE MOUNTAINS 

We have seen that Paul saw a light, heard a voice. Joseph Smith saw a light and heard a voice; and as a result of his vision these prophecies have been and are being fulfilled. 

Let us now return to the two quotations referred to in the beginning: "And it shall come to pass in the last days" — I draw attention to "the last days" — "that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it." — Isaiah 2 :2. 

Over the radio or otherwise, you who desire to know something that is peculiar to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, may take this as one of the characteristic things : The mountain of the Lord's house is established in the top of the mountains. It is here, exalted above the hills. Unto it all nations have already come. If I were to call the names of all the nations this afternoon and were to ask those to stand who have descended from people of these various nations. I believe there would be a demonstration that this outstanding prophecy has been and is being fulfilled. 

THE PRESENT SPIRIT OF PEACE 

That is the first part. Consider now the second : 

"And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into  hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." — Isaiah 2:3, 4. 

That also is a prophecy now being fulfilled. Then come the words already referred to : "O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord." 

Our papers, our literature, our magazines, have been filled during recent years with articles that endeavor to point out the way to peace. Peace is in practically every issue. In the Deseret Nezvs last night I noticed an article, asking whether or not the entrance of the United States into the World Court will be given consideration in the coming special session of Congress. The League of Nations — see what it is accomplishing. Statesmen, scholars, educators, men of money, in every country are struggling to bring peace to the world. Clearly in fulfilment of this prophecy are the following : the Locarno pact, a marvelous step forward in the interest of peace; the effort put forth by the United States in the virile words, "The outlawing of war," in the Briand-Kellogg peace pact, made for the express purpose of renouncing war; the United States going into the World Court. The article that I read last night indicates that the President of the United States, while he has publicly expressed no definite opinion, has such an intense interest in the World Court that the new formula prepared by Elihu Root and the jurists of the nations will, without doubt, be acceptable to him. 

"in the last days" 

In all this we are not talking about the peace of one nation, nor of a few, but of many nations — all the countries of the world, the jurists of the nations, the wise men of our day. "In the last days, the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains." 

The Lord is to judge among the nations, and to rebuke many people. They are to beat their swords into plowshares, their spears into pruning-hooks. Nations are not to take up swords against nations any more. 

This is the place. This is the time. This is the Church. These prophecies are being fulfilled. I say unto you, who have gathered in the top of the mountains, where the mountain of the Lord's house is exalted above the hills, let us, in the language of Isaiah, walk together in the light of the Lord, that we may be united and walk in purity, love, honesty, and truth; that all prophecies made concerning us may be fulfilled. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

The sincere prayer in my heart this moment, my brethren and sisters, is that I may be inspired and directed by the Spirit of the Lord to say something to you that will comfort you if you mourn; to say something that will encourage you if you are discouraged. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart * * * and thy neighbor as thyself." Tf each individual knows and feels this truth to be fundamental and lives it, much of our energy will be released to develop our gifts and spiritual lives. We will be patient with our neighbor's faults and excuse them as we do our own. We will help him; we will be kind to him; we will be strictly honest in our dealings with him. We will live a life that will be an example to him. 

We have this afternoon some distinguished visitors from Denmark, sitting in the congregation. We bid them welcome to these services. They may recall that above the gate of the University of Denmark at Copenhagen, there is a beautiful eagle with out-stretched wings. Underneath the eagle is a Latin inscription which in English reads : "The eagle is looking toward the celestial light." A lovely and inspiring thought for the youth of Denmark. So we too. my friends are looking toward the celestial light; we are humbly striving with you toward perfection. 

My life's work has brought me into close contact with the youth; with young men and young women in colleges and universities. They wish to talk honestly about what life has meant so far, and what it may mean. They are young, intelligent, cultured people; but many of them are taking no part in a spiritual development for themselves; nor are they helping others in this regard. They need awakening religiously. They need to De shown the way, the truth, and the life; and then be given an opportunity for intelligent expressional activitv. They must be converted and filled with a spirit of influencing their friends and companions and associates. Besides, these young people write to me from all nations and tongues for help and information and spiritual guidance. 

I meet on this Temple Block mission the travelers, the tourists, the students, the professional people, the humble individual who is out for pleasure. All are eager to hear the message of Christ's Gospel — the brotherly Christian religion. They all want to know the history, and the religion of this people. Preachers and ministers of all Christian sects hear us and invite us to come to their churches in their cities and speak to their congregations. I have had invitations to speak in many cities in the United States and in Europe, Japan, and India. The people who come to us are impressed with our lives, our ideals, our religion : and they want it explained to their followers. They want us to do for them what Paul did for Timothy, when he said: 

"Wherefore, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. 

"For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. 

"Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord; * * * but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God; 

"Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Jesus Christ before the world began." 

We are able to speak plainly with the people of the world. We must proclaim religion as a way of life, rather than a set of ethical mandates. As Latter-day Saints, we are not left in doubt concerning the things that really spell value and that endure. Unfortunately, in the religious controversies of the day, secondary issues have been exalted above primary truths. The Gospel of Jesus Christ has primary truths that must forever and ever regulate human souls unto divine guidance. We cannot very well mistake religion so long as it upbuilds and makes the Christian man. "Righteousness anywhere and everywhere is the paramount sovereign and effectual witness of Christian souls." So on this Temple Block where thousands of people come to visit us, we try to show with love for God and his children that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints upholds the witness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the priesthood of God has been restored in this day. This cannot help being the inextinguishable light to all nations and people. 

As missionaries, we proclaim religion as a way of life, rather than a set of ethical mandates. As Latter-day Saints we are not left in doubt concerning the things that really spell value and endure. Unfortunately, in the religious controversies of today, secondary issues have been exalted above primary truths. The Gospel of Jesus Christ has primary truths that must forever regulate souls unto divine guidance. We cannot very well mistake religion so long as it upbuilds and makes the Christian man. The Church of Jesus Christ upholds the witness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the priesthood of God has been restored in this day. This cannot help being an inextinguishable light to all nations and ages. 

I think we should proclaim more and more the standard Church works which are the Holy Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. In them do we find the principles of eternal life; and the holy commandments that teach us to love God, and our neighbors as ourselves. "Love your enemies, * * * do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you." In these books do we have the superb procession of idealists which the world needs today. As Latter-day Saints, we should know and keep ever in mind the teachings of the Savior of mankind, and let Jesus Christ be our Guide and our Light. We all realize that life is a struggle, and is filled with so many hardships and pains; so many sorrows and trials. So the supreme power in all this struggle is prayer — the turning to God through Jesus Christ, and adding the force of the eternal to the petty cares of life. 

We may well turn to our sacred books from now on more and more, and receive the teachings that they hold for us, for in them do we find eternal life. A word now about our holy books. 

The Holy Bible contains the richest and most enlightened thought concerning man and God that has ever been written. The work taken as a whole teaches the fatherhood of God and the great plan of salvation for the human race. God is the Creator of the world and all things therein, and has established through revelation a bond of divine relationship with his children. 

Great prophets like Moses, Isaiah, Hosea, Micah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel sought to raise the spiritual life of the times in which they lived. They inspired the people of their countries to believe in God, and to hope for a Redeemer of the world. 

The Bible tells of people who became acquainted with each other through international commerce and trade with foreign civilization. It tells about the industrial and civic life of peoples of ancient days, and how they kept alive a monotheism, and morality based on belief in God. They had the highest possible idea of God, who gave to his servants the highest knowledge of moral and religious laws. The New Testament comprises the writings of the Apostles and disciples of Jesus Christ our Lord. These divinely inspired men taught the Kingdom of God and its coming: the Fatherhood of God and the infinite value of the human soul and the higher righteousness and the law of love. These are all to be obtained by obeying the laws and commandments of God, which are fundamentally, faith in God the eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost; the principles of repentance and holy baptism by immersion by one having divine authority; and the conferring of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by one holding the priesthood of God. The Bible teaches the sanctity of the Church, because only through the incorporation of religion with the Church does religion gain a full actuality for man. The Bible is the first of the standard works of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

The Book of Mormon teaches that the same Semitic institutions which the forefathers of the American Indians had in their native country in Asia were brought to America, and under new environment and conditions, were developed in this land. Like the Bible, the Book of Mormon makes God and immortality subjects of faith; and public and private righteousness matters of practice. It identifies God with the principle of morality, and goes farther by identifying God with the story of human progress and life, in, which mankind is redeemed from evil. It teaches the deeper consciousness between the Almighty and the individual soul, and unfolds the divine purpose in the rise, fall, and progress of nations. 

The Book of Mormon tells how the ancient peoples of America built cities and developed a rich religious and political life, and in time how Jesus the Christ gave his teachings to the people, just as his message of salvation was given to the Jews, Greeks, and Romans. The Church of 'Christ was established on this continent, and his holy priesthood given to those who were chosen for his work. Prophets wrote the history of the people, and their most important message is that God is the Father and Creator of the world and mankind. 

The religious teaching of the Book of Mormon is monotheistic, and embodies the revelations of God to his people on this the American continent. Likeness to God is its supreme aim, and the highest duty  man is, "Ye shall be perfect, even as your Heavenly Father is perfect." 

The Pearl of Great Price embodies the visions of Moses as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet in 1830. It also comprises the Book of Abraham which is a translation of some ancient records from the catacombs of Egypt, to which are added the writings of Joseph Smith concerning his first vision and revelation, and his baptism and ordination. The principal part of the Book of Moses treats of the work of God in the creation of the world and of man. God is the Creator of the Universe and the Father of the race, and in God's image man is created. 

The teachings of the Pearl of Great Price are in complete harmony with the Holy Bible. Man has fallen below his higher self and the divine principle of the moral law has been lost. There is the same pure monotheism, the same personal conception and moral character of God; and his command to his children to recognize the supremacy of the law of salvation through Jesus Christ our Lord. It shows the importance of the lofty conception of one living God, who reveals himself to man and enters into gracious relation with him as God and Father. 

The Pearl of Great Price gives the true idea of the nature of God. It shows how God became an intense reality in the minds of the ancient Hebrews; and the sublime central thought of the book is that man does not search after God alone, but God draws graciously near to man and manifests himself in person and by his holy influence. 

The Doctrine and Covenants contains the revelations of God the Father to Joseph Smith and other prophets of God in this dispensation. It was first published in 1835. It tells about the restoration of the plan of God in the salvation of the human race. It is largely ethical in its message, and, like the Book of Mormon, makes public and private righteousness matters of practice. The book opens by telling of a mighty work that is about to be ushered into the world. This is the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, with the giving to man of the holy priesthood of God, the Aaronic and 1 Melchizedek, as it existed in the days of the prophets of Israel and at the time of Christ. The outstanding truth of the book is that God is identified as the Father of the race, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ is restored in this day with all its gifts and blessings. It puts the 1 principle of righteousness through obedience to the plan of salvation into the foreground; and all its teachings grow out of the principle that for man to attain the highest development he must place his faith in God the eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost, and receive by divine authority the priesthood of God. It also emphasizes the importance of man's spiritual life, and his great mission on earth; as well as the glory of immortality and the power of eternal progression in the hereafter. 

May we go on with life more unafraid, and come to a realization of our best selves. I pray God's blessing upon us all. Amen. 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers, and General Auxiliary Officers, who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

lleber T. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Kevelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nihley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A.* Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball j Charles H. Hart 

Kulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rev L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TR USTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson. Brigham H. Roberts, A William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion Joseph F. Merrill 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Peter G. Johnston 

Orval W. Adams 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Assist. Conductor 

David A. Smith, President George C. Smith, Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of 1 the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Gen'l Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There are a number of returned mission presidents whom we would have liked to hear, but time will not permit. 

We wish to state that Brother Joseph Wilford Booth, who passed away in Armenia, gave seventeen years of his life as a missionary in that section of the country. No more faithful, God-fearing, humble, splendid man have we had pass away in the mission field. 

Sister Martha Home Tingey has given most splendid work as the president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association for many years, and as a counselor in the presidency while Sister Elmina S. Taylor presided for many years previous to that time. She retires with the love, the confidence and the blessing of the General Authorities of the Church, and with the love and confidence of .all the members of her General Board. All who favor extending to Sister Tingey a vote of appreciation for her most splendid labors will manifest it. (The congregation raised their right hands.) 

I think the hands were raised higher for her than for any of the rest of us. 

The congregation sang, "Praise God from Whom all Blessings Flow." 

The dosing prayer was offered by Elder M. Ezra Sorensen, President of the Bannock Stake. 


