Morning
05 04 1929

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice to have the opportunity of again meeting with the Saints in general conference. I am very grateful for this splendid audience, considering the inclemency of the weather. I most earnestly pray that while we are assembled here together the prayer that has been offered may be answered and we may have a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord, that those who address us, those who offer prayers and those who sing for us may be inspired and blessed of our Heavenly Father. 

It has been one of the joys of my life to attend, from my childhood days until the present time, the general conferences of the Church, and to partake of the remarkable and wonderful blessings that have come to us from those who have been called upon to speak. 

It is customary at our annual conferences to give some information regarding the condition of the Church financially and otherwise. 

MISSIONARY WORK 

I rejoice to say that our missionary work all over the world is progressing favorably, and that from every mission we have earnest appeals for more missionaries. The work is very great and we do not have as many laborers as we would like to have, notwithstanding there are more than 2,000 missionaries out in the world today proclaiming the Gospel. 

CHURCH EXPENDITURES 

The items that I thought would be of special interest to the conference I have prepared : 

Stake and Ward Purposes — During the past year the Church has expended more than $1,200,000 for the erection of ward and stake buildings. The people themselves have contributed for this same purpose over $1,000,000. 

Had the means been available we could have expended as much more, by responding to all the calls that have come to us for funds with which to construct church edifices. But inasmuch as the tithes of the people have not increased in proportion to the applications for funds (in fact the tithes have increased very little, while the expenditures have increased over $500,000) we have been unable to do all that we should have liked to do. 

Up until about twelve years ago no more than $300,000 in any one year was ever contributed by the Church to assist in building meeting houses. 

Education — There has been expended more than $900,000 for the construction and operation of Church schools, seminaries, and the two institutes that have been erected. 

Missions — For the maintenance and operation of missions and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions, there has been expended over $900,000. 

Charity — The total expenditure for charity rendered by the Church, including disbursements from fast offerings, and assistance rendered by the Relief Societies, is more than $800,000. 

Missionary IV ork — Various wards have assisted the missionaries by contributions of over $100,000, principally for the purpose of sending them to their fields of labor. 

More than 2,000 missionaries have been sustained in the mission field at the expense of their families, at an average cost per missionary of at least $40 per month, or $960,000 a year; to say nothing about the value of the missionaries' time, which H am sure would be more than double this amount, as they could earn on an average more than twice their expenses. 

SEMINARIES VERSUS CHURCH SCHOOLS 

There are today 12,500 students in our seminaries and 3,800 students in our Church schools. It is costing more than twice as much to support the 3,800 students in the Church schools as it is to support the 12,500 students in the seminaries. It costs over ten times as much per capita to give the same amount of religious instruction in our Church schools as is given in our seminaries. 

It is only fair to say that the religious instruction given in our seminaries is equally as extensive and as thorough as that given in our Church schools. We have appeals from all over the Church, whereever Church schools are located, that we do not close these institutions. The people in each stake feel that their particular school is the one that ought not to be closed. While we are expending more now and have done so for the past three years than all the tithes paid by the people in the various stakes of Zion from Canada to Mexico, it is an impossibility to further extend our seminary system — which has been greatly expanded in the last three years — and still continue our Church schoo/s. When you stop to reflect that its only costs a little less than one-tenth as much to educate our young people religiously in the seminaries as it does in the Church schools you will realize that we are justified in curtailing our schools and in enlarging our seminaries — when we can give for the same amount as much if not a little more religious education to ten people in. a seminary as we can give to one person in a school. We would be delighted if it were possible not (inly to keep each and every one of our Church schools operating, but to have more of them. I am sure that figuratively speaking it breaks the hearts of the presidency and of each and all of the general authorities of the Church to close any one of the Church schools. We appreciate the wonderful labors that have been accomplished and the wonderful good that has been clone in these schools, but we cannot, without facing a deficit, continue to expend three or four times as much money for building meeting houses and Church schools with only a very slight increase in our tithes. 

Because of these facts we would like the people to understand that in closing Church schools and opening seminaries we shall be able to give religious instruction to about ten times as many students. 

STATISTICAL AND OTHER REPORTS COMPILED FROM THE CHURCH RECORDS 

FOR THE YEAR 1928 

We have at the present time: stakes in Zion, 101; wards, 938; independent branches, 74; dependent branches, 36; total wards and branches in the stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, 1048; missions, 27; mission branches, 813. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church 

in the stakes and missions 19 223 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 15,073 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes 

and missions _ 5 Q40 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion December 31, 1928 194.! 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 

31, 1928 IgQ 

Number of local missionaries 95 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 2,197 

Number engaged in missionary work in stakes 838 

Total missionaries 3 035 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary Home 929 

Persons recommended to the temples 51 222 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 29.9 per thousand. 

Marriage rate, 14.7 per thousand. 

Death rate, 7.8 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 70 per cent. 

These figures speak very well for the Church. The first great commandment of the Lord, given to our firsH parents, was to multiply and replenish the earth. When it comes to the death rate, we have one of the lowest of any people, showing that we must be observing the laws of health — and the laws of health are the laws of God. 

I have often said in my public addresses out in the world that when it comes to vital statistics, such as a high birth rate, a low death rate, a low insanity rate, a low divorce rate, in fact all the vital statistics that go to show that a people are a worthy and good people, we are making no apology to any one upon the face of the earth. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE OUR LAST CONFERENCE 

William H. Richards has been released as president of the Malad stake, and Thomas W. Richards appointed to succeed him. 

William T. Jack has been released as president of the Cassia stake, and Charles S. Clark appointed to succeed him. 

C. Alvin Orme has been released as president of the Tooele stake, and Alfred L. Hanks appointed to succeed him. 

George A. Little has been released as president of the Oquirrh stake, and Harry Edward Sutton appointed to succeed him. 

William H. Mendenhall has been released as president of the Bannock stake and M. Ezra Sorensen appointed to* succeed him. 

All of these brethren who have been released have labored with zeal, with energy and with determination for the advancement of the people in those stakes, and they retire with the love and blessing and confidence of the General Authorities of the Church. 

MISSION PRESIDENTS APPOINTED 

A. William Lund has been appointed president of the British mission. 

Heretofore the British mission has been under the direct jurisdiction of the president of the European mission, he presiding over all of the missions in Europe and also being the actual head of the British mission. There are now two missions, one presided over by Elder John A. Widtsoe, which includes all of the missions in Europe, among them being the British 1 mission, presided over by Brother Lund. We have received very good reports for the brief time since this division took place. 

Samuel Martin has been released as president of the South African mission, and Don Mack Dalton appointed to succeed him. 

Lorenzo W. Anderson has been released as president of the Norwegian mission, and Hyrum D. Jensen appointed to succeed him. Brother Jensen, I believe, left yesterday for his field of labor. He would have liked very much to be here at this conference, but on account of the early sailing of the steamship, he left yesterday. 

Alma G. Burton has been released as president of the Tahitian mission, and George W. Burbidge appointed to succeed him. Brother Burton has not yet left for home. 

James H. Moyle has been appointed to succeed Brother Henry H. Rolapp as president of the Eastern States! mission. 

Miles L. Jones has been appointed president of the East Central States mission, a new mission, which includes a part of the territory heretofore belonging to the Southern States mission, presided over by Brother Charles A. Callis, and the state of West Virginia formerly being a part of the Eastern States mission. 

New Ward Organisations — Mount Trumbull ward, St. George stake. 

Lincoln ward, Granite stake. 

Bishop, who has passed away during the past six mdnths — Frank R. Smith of the Hillspring ward, Alberta stake. 

Mission president zvho has passed aivay during the past six months — Joseph W. Booth of the Armenian mission. 

We regret that the circumtances are such that up to date we have been unable to secure permission to bring the body of Brother Booth home, but we expect to secure permission to do so at some later date. 

CHURCH INSTITUTES 

Speaking of education in our seminaries, we rejoice in the erection during the past year of an institute at Moscow, Idaho, where the young Latter-day Saints who are attending the University of Idaho can receive education religiously. We rejoice that only last Sunday an institute was dedicated where the young people attending the Agricultural college at Logan can have the opportunity of receiving religious training. 

IMPORTANCE OF RELIGIOUS TRAINING 

One of the outstanding characters in the United States of America is Honorable James J. Davis, Secretary of Labor. He has this to say regarding religious training: 

"Morality needs a religious base. A man can not be truly moral unless he is at the same time deeply religious. * * * 

"Men may say what they will, but we shall never have a morality that respects the rights and integrity of others unless our morality has a religious sanction. To put morality on anything but a religious basis is to build on sand. It is_ religion that gives vision, strength, inspiration, and without it we are nothing. * * * 

"I have children of my own, and I want them to grow up into men and women who believe that religion hasi a genuine message for them, as it has for me. I don't want them to develop into atheists and materialists. If there is no truth in the teachings of religion that have come down to us, of what earthly use would life be? If the world were under the control of blind forces operating without any direction, if there were no plan behind the creation of the world and man, and if after our little span of life here we  to lie down for eternity in a dreamless sleep, then I do not see what inspiration life would have for any of us. * * * 

"It is the plants we prize that need our care. So at is with the young. Nobody needs to train his son to be vicious. Let him go without training, and he will be that of his own accord. But virtue has to be cultivated, and we can never succeed in that if we let go our hold on religion. 

"No nation ever lived and prospered without a religious faith of some sort. * * * 

"No people has ever found a purely intellectual education enough in itself. A man may be ever so highly cultivated and still be a bad citizen. One of the greatest scholars of his day, Lord Bacon, took bribes as a judge on the bench, and eventually found himself a prisoner in the Tower of London. Probably the poet went too far in his indictment, but we see the wit in the judgment he passed on the man, as 'Brightest, wisest, meanest of mankind.' * * * 

"As institutions where facts may be learned, our schools are worthy of all praise. But facts are not everything. They are not even the most important things in life. One might pack into his head every fact to be known, and yet never even glimpse the kingdom of truth. 

"I would plead for a conception of education large enough to take into itself everything that deepens the human consciousness, that inspires the human soul, and gives one a vision of the eternities. This, a moral education, to use the word in the highest sense, will do. As every historian can show, morals divorced from religion are sorry affairs without any point. But morals not so divorced can rise to the height that religion itself has attained." 

STATEMENT BY COOLIDGE 

Ex- President Coolidge made the following statements: 

"Our doctrine of equality and liberty, and humanity and charity, comes from our belief in the brotherhood of man through the fatherhood of God. The whole foundation of enlightened civilization, in government, in society, and in business, rests on religion. Unless our people are thoroughly instructed in its great truths they are not fitted either to understand our institutions or to provide them with adequate support. For our independent colleges and secondary schools to be neglectful of their responsibilities in this direction is to turn their graduates loose with simply an increased capacity to prey upon each other. Such a dereliction of duty would put in jeopardy the whole fabric of society. For our chartered institutions of learning to turn back to the material and neglect the spiritual would be treason, not only to the cause for which they were founded but to man and to God." 

"We cannot remind ourselves too often that our right to be free, the support of our principles of justice, our obligations to each other in our domestic affairs, and our duty to humanity abroad, the confidence in each other necessary to support our social and economic relations, and finally, the fabric of our government itself, all rest on religion. 

"Its importance cannot be stressed too often or emphasized too much." 

THE VALUE OF THE GOSPEL 

I believe that I can say without fear of contradiction that we as a people demonstrate by our actions that our religion is dearer to us and of more actual value than is the religion of any other people in the world to them. Where can you find a people, 2,000 persons of whom are giving their time and their attention without money and without price, laboring to bring others to a knowledge of the Gospel ? I am sure that we realize the force of the statement made in that wonderful and re markable revelation given to David Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery: "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me in the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" 

We are bringing many souls unto a knowledge of the Gospel. I rejoice beyond all the power which God has given me to express my feelings, that the Latter-day Saints in every land and in every clime, all over the wide world wherever the Gospel has gone, have been blessed with a testimony, with a knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I never have heard and never expect to hear the song, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, to Guide Us in These Latter Days," but what my heart goes out in gratitude to God for choosing that wonderful young man, Joseph Smith, to restore to the earth again the Gospel of the Lord 'Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation. I rejoice that the missionaries! who have been going out to proclaim this Gospel for ninety-nine long years have gone out under the inspiration of the living God, that they have declared that which they knew to be true; and that in every nation under heaven where the Gospel has gone, honest men and honest women, in answer to. their own prayers and their supplications to God, have been blessed with the light and the knowledge of the Gospel, and of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith the prophet. 

May God bless us during our assembly here today, and inspire all those who shall speak to us, is my humble prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

1 desire first to express the sincere gratitude which I feel that I as well as all of you who are assembled this morning, have been preserved through another year. That we are privileged to assemble here, as it is our custom to do, to commemorate the organization of the Church, to be informed regarding its development and growth by the teachings of the Gospel which we receive in these general gatherings of the Church. It is for this purpose that we meet together. 

PROTECTION FROM STORM 

It is a stormy day. Looking out of the window to the south before getting up it appeared that the storm had developed into a blizzard. 

We thank the Lord for the rain and snow. We thank him for , as we do for sunshine, and know that as long as we continue to put our trust in him he will watch over and protect us. The mantle which is drawn about us through the influence of the Gospel of Christ will protect us from the storms of the world, just as this comfortable building does this morning from the storms which are raging without. 

MISREPRESENTATION 

From the organization of the Church to the present it has been customary for unbelievers to assail the Church until it has become a thing to be expected by us. Abortive efforts have been made to explain the reason for its existence. It has been ridiculed, it has been criticised by both unlearned and learned men. It has been referred to as an organization not Christian in its character. It has been referred to as an organization which perverts the doctrines of Christ as they are taught in the Bible. In fact, it would appear that there is no pretext that can be thought of which has not been resorted to in order that the true origin and purpose of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints might be misrepresented to the world. And it is strange, almost incomprehensible, that these statements which have been made, the reasonings which have been offered, have been accepted as true by intelligent, thoughtful people. 

ONE OF THE OBJECTIONS 

One of the objections commonly raised is that the Latter-day Saints accept the Book of! Mormon, as we declare in our Articles of Faith, as coming from God. This book has been referred to as the "Golden Bible." It has been referred to as a book which the Latter-day Saints place before the Holy Scriptures as they are contained in the Bible. It is now nearly one hundred years since the book was published, and I do not know of a single argument, of a single theory, that has been advanced which has not been successfully met. I desire during the short time at my disposal to refer to some df these objections and call your attention to certain developments which have come under my observation during the past few years that tend to establish the divine authenticity of the book and the things which it teaches. 

I am going to read first, in justification of the statement which I have just made, froim a book that I now hold in my hand. It is entitled, "Sketches of Mexico," and is written by John W. Butler, a man whom I knew, a man who was in Mexico during my early experience as a missionary in that country. This is what he says in reviewing the origin of the Mexican people : 

"The theory found in the Book of Mormon hardly merits mention. The story is given in Bancroft's Native Races, vol. v, and covers five pages (p. 96, et seq.) It is rather romantic and reaches from the Tower of Babel, soon after which it is claimed the first Mormons came to this continent, down to September 22, 1827, when Joseph Smith removed the buried book from the 'hill Cumorah, Ontario County, N. Y. The whole story is not only a prententious fraud but also a blasphemous perversion of Old Testament history. "The learned John Fiske in his recent valuable work, 'The Discovery of America,' (Boston, 1892), well says: Tt is extremely difficult for an imposter to concoct a narrative without making blunders that can easily be detected by a critical scholar. For example, the Book of Mormon, in the passage cited, in supremely blissful ignorance introduces oxen and sheep, as well as the knowledge of smelting iron, into pre-Columbian America.' " (Vol. 1, p. 179.) Undoubtedly no one can deny John Fiske's intelligence. No one can deny his good citizenship. No one can deny the sincerity of what he writes, but it would perhaps be not entirely inappropriate for me to call attention to his own argument : 

"It is extremely difficult for an imposter to concoct a narrative without making blunders that can easily be detected by a critical scholar." 

,'It is equally difficult for a critic to reach proper conclusions iiTdjscussing a subject upon which he is not well informed. 

So I want to take John Fiske for just a few moments to some of the recent developments which touch upon the very things that he refers to and treats as impossible. 

THE USE OF STEEL 

I hold in my hand a story taken from the Tanuary number of "World's Work" a year ago. It is written by A. Hyatt Verrill, one of the foremost of our archaeologists. The article is headed "The Pompeii of Ancient America," telling of a vast city on the Isthmus of Panama which was destroyed centuries before Christ. He says : 

"We believe that this article stands unique among accounts of modern archaeological discoveries. It is the story of an American city which flourished and probably was destroyed by a volcano centuries before Pompeii existed. We are finding tnat America is not so young after all Moreover the veteran explorer for the Museum of the American Indian, who discovered this ancient city and who writes this article, believes that he has made another interesting discovery— that steel implements were used in America centuries ago-a theory whicli was scoffed at until iron was found in King Tut-Ankh-Amon s tomb in Egypt, dating back to about 1350 B. C." 

The entire article is exceedingly interesting to a student of the Book of Mormon. It is elaborately illustrated. I cannot take time to read the many thugs which have a direct bearing upon the Book of Mormon, but I ask your indulgence while I read the followingV errill says : fe " 

"I am thoroughly convinced that these people as well as manv nth^r prehistoric races, possessed iron or steel tools, P and T do not know of a sinele argument or fact to disprove this. The fact that no i?on or steel tools have ever been found proves nothing. Iron is the most perishable of 'metals and except under most unusual and peculiar conditions, all traces o ? snTal iron or steel tools would disappear completely in a few centuries H h ? T aeologists will scoff at this theorv anH n™£ ' I!l es :. No . doub * arch ~ as well as laymen have a habit of scoffinT^tT ,dea but -, scientist « 

forthcoming to place them in the wrong" th6 ° ry Untl1 pr ° of is 

He then refers to the discovery of steel in the tomb of Tut-AnkhAmon and continues: 

"Indeed, less than two years ago I was scoffed at for suggesting that an entirely new and unknown culture of great antiquity had existed in Panama, but we now have undeniable proof/ of the fact. Moreover, at a depth of five and one-half feet below the surface, at the temple site, among broken pottery and imbedded in charcoal, I found a steel or hardened iron implement. The greater portion is almost completely destroyed by corrosion, but the chisel shaped end is in good condition. It is so hard that it is scarcely touched by a file and will scratch glass, and with such an implement it would be a simple matter to cut and carve the hardest stone." 

He then proceeds to say that the stone work which he has uncovered there could not have been accomplished with anything but a hardened steel implement. 

Thus, one of the objections which Mr. Fiske expresses in the book from which I have just read is disposed of. Joseph Smith had no knowledge of this, but he told us one hundred years ago, or the historian who wrote the Book of Mormon which Joseph Smith translated, told us that they became expert in the manufacture and use of steel. 

ANIMALS OF ANCIENT AMERICA 

Again, the objection is made by Mr. Fiske that sheep are referred to in the Book of Mormon. I do not think that this needs particular attention. The llama and alpaca of South America are of this species. 

Fiske says oxen were referred to. I have in my hand a circular issued by the Los Angeles County Museum of History, Science and Art. On page 27 of the book is a picture of the skeleton of an ancient ox, mounted and complete. If you will go into the museum at Los Angeles, as I have done, you will see these mounted skeletons. This skeleton is said to be that of a prehistoric ox the remains of which have been taken from the asphalt beds near the city, associated with the remains of many other animals which once existed in America, and are now extinct. 

On page twenty-six of the same book is the picture of a skeleton of a horse, said to differ slightly from our present horse, but fully as large taken from the same bed. The Book of Mormon tells us that there were horses and oxen here. This would appear to dispose of that criticism also. 

FINE PEARLS 

Another, thing to which my attention has been called, and it has been very interesting to me, because it helps us in the conclusions reached in regard to several important matters contained in the Book of Mormon, is the following: (We are now dealing with a period nearly three hundred years after the birth of Christ.) The writer tells us: 

"And now, in this two hundred and first year there began to be among them those who were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the world." lie does not refer to diamonds, nor rubies, nor sapphires, but to pearls. This also has been made a question of ridicule by critics of the Book of Mormon and the faith of the Latter-day Saints. I have in my hand a page which I tore from the "Courier-Journal" of Ohio in 1925. 'I wish you could all have it and read it, and also a page from the "Literary Digest." I can only read the headlines because time will not permit me to refer to the many interesting things which are contained in it. But this is what the headlines tell us : "America's Ancient Kings and Their Bushels of Pearls— Skeletons of aj prehistoric family that ruled the mysterious people who built the mounds near Chillicothe, Ohio, where they were recently discovered. They are surrounded by bushels of pearls which evidently formed their burial robes." — "Newest remarkable discoveries about the Prehistoric People who built the huge earthen mounds and buried their Kings in Robes of Precious Stones." 

I was in communication at this time with a friend in New York, who is a collector of Indian relics, and probably had one of the largest individual collections in the United States. He was well acquainted with the archaelogist who uncovered this remarkable burial place. The photographs contained in the article the headings of which I have just read show the form in which the skeletons were found and their surroundings. The article says that the fragment of clothing which they wore was. shown to be of very fine quality. But more than all, this friend of mine said he had some of these pearls in his possession which had been sent to him, and they were very fine, ranging in size from a hickory nut to a pin head, all of which had been pierced and used evidently as ornaments. 

WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF THE FUTURE 

This may be considered a small thing by some- people, but to me it is very important, because one hundred years ago that account was written into this record without knowledge of the future, without knowledge of these developments that are being made by archaeologists at the present time. I do not know that I can say that these things tend to strengthen our faith because our faith appears to have been definite and needs little strengthening, but it is a source of great satisfaction to us to know that these arguments which have been used, and used so effectually against the Book of Mormon, are gradually beingdisplaced by the actual discoveries which are being made. 

THE GOLDSMITH ART 

The Book of Mormon is referred to as the Golden Bible of the Mormons, because of the fact that the record was made in reformed Egyptian characters upon plates which were of gold. I have in my hand a little book published by the Heye Foundation of the American Indian from which I wish to read a paragraph or two. This book is written by Saville, one of our foremost students of archaeology. It i« entitled 

"The Goldsmith's Art in Ancient Mexico." The entire volume is devoted to this one subject, and tells us of the expert manner in which the Mexican Indians handled gold at the time of the cdnquests; that the goldsmiths of old Spain, which stood at the head, of the world at that time, were amazed, and that they employed these Indians to convert the gold which was accumulated by the conquerors of Mexico into ingots that could be carried back to Spain. 

MILLIONS IN GOLD 

One of the first Spaniards to visit the coasts of the mainland was Juan de Grijalva. He left Cuba, coasted along Yucatan and Central America, and then returned to his starting point. He brought with him more than one hundred samples, which I have copied from this book, of ornaments made from gold. This excited the cupidity of the Spaniards, and other expeditions were immediately sent out for further investigation. One single article, it could not have been used as an ornament, undoubtedly having some religious signification, said to have been as large as a cart wheel, was brought out. It had a weight value in gold of thirty thousand dollars. Among the things which he brought were very beautiful representations of animals, of birds, of men, and other ^things. Prescott declared that there was collected by Cortez and those who were with him, six million three hundred thousand dollars worth of gold, the greater part of' which was not used as a circulating medium, but for the adornment of the person, the representation of various forms of life, and the religious ideals of the people. 

Among other things Montezuma had in his palace in Mexico City, a room wherein was represented every known bird and animal which could not be kept alive in the gardens just outside, made from gold, and said to have been so nearly perfect that it amazed these Spanish adventurers. 

PLATES OF GOLD 

That is not the particular thing to which I desire to call your attention. Mr. Saville has taken the contents of his book from the old inventories that are still available, reports which were made to the kings to whom one-fifth of all the booty which fell into the hands of the conquerors was sent. The amount not recorded he says no one can guess. Six million dollars would be but a bagatelle compared with what we believe was carried away by the conquistadors. 

This is the thing which particularly interested me, and to which my attention was called by Professor Levi Edgar Young. The book that I hold in my hand is his property. I read from it as follows : 

_ "Padre Gay mentions that the Mixtecan Indians 'sold to some European antiquarians, very thin plates of gold, evidently worked with the hammer which their ancestors had been able to preserve, and on which were engraved ancient hieroglyphics.' " 

That is very significant to us, when considered in connection with the declaration that the record from which the Book of Mormon was translated was written upon plates of gold. 

A few days ago I received a letter from Dr. John A. Widtsoe who at present presides over the European mission. Among other things he says : 

"Last fall as I was leaving London I spent an hour in the British museum almost at random. I entered the large room devoted to oriental manuscripts. I noticed at once in the first case to the right a series of very line silver plates, perhaps three inches wide and eight inches long, held together by a silver ring. The plates were beautifully engraved with characters which the legend said gave Buddha's first sermon. In the next case was a sheet of extremely thin gold likewise engraved on both sides, which according to the legend was a letter from one ruler to another." 

I thought again, my brethren and sisters, that this is very significant. It settles without controversy the fact that gold was used anciently for plates upon which records were kept. It illustrates clearly that sheets of metal used for that purpose were held together by rings, just as the prophet tells us the plates containing the Book of Mormon were held together. 

NOT UNREASONABLE How reasonable this is when you think of it. We know that gold is one of the most ductile, one of the moist enduring of metals. We know that it does not tarnish. You may throw it into a river of muddy water; you may bury it in the earth. Go where you will today and wash from the gravel its grains as >I have done, you will find that they are always bright. They retain their color. They are recognized at once. It is one of the softest of metals, not as soft as lead, but nearly so, and consequently would be a convenient metal upon which to keep a record. And if that record were especially valuable and sacred to the people how reasonable it would be that they should keep it upon plates of gold. 

FAMILIARITY WITH THE BOOK REQUIRED 

But I must not continue. I call your attention to these facts believing that they will be interesting to you. I appeal to all of the members of the Church to become familiar with the Book of Mormon. I would that all people, whether they be members of the Church or not, would familiarize themselves with that work. Not through rumors that have been circulated in regard to it, not from such statements as are made by Fiske, which I have read to you— an honest man without doubt, but misled because of what others had said, not familiar with the book itself. I would like to apply that same warning that he applies, to myself and to others, that we must be careful lest we, by writing on subjects that we do not understand, make the same mistake that he has made. 

"It is extremely difficult for an imposter to concoct a narrative without making blunders." 

Nothing more true than that was ever said. I paraphrase that statement by saying, it is extremely difficult for a critic to criticise that with which he is not familiar without making blunders. 

Blunders have been made from the time of the publication of the book until the present, beginning with the old Spaulding Manuscript story, in the abortive attempts which have been made to account for the existence of the Book of Mormon, and the organization of the Church, and it is still being done by men who reside in our own communities, men who have the facilities at their command by which they may know the truth. 

THE TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

The Book of Mormon does not replace the Bible. We believe the Bible to be the word of God insofar as it is correctly translated. I could preach a sermon upon that subject and satisfy any reasonable man that it is the only correct statement that could be made. We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. It is a Christian book. The title page itself appeals to people to come unto Christ — 'Jew, Gentile, bond and free — that salvation may be obtained through him. The last chapter in the book makes the same appeal. You can scarcely open a page that does not bear witness to the fact that Christ is the Redeemer of the world, the Son of God, our Savior, our Elder Brother, our Advocate with the Father. He stands between us and the Father to plead our cause. Every message that comes to us from the Fathei comes through the Son. He came to do the will of the Father. He came to show us the personality of the Father, for he said he was in the exact image of his person. 

So I say one by one criticisms which have been made regarding the Book of Mormon are falling by the way through the investigation of scientists who understand their business. I thank the Lord for them and that which they are undertaking to do. I have never had any fear that a thing would be discovered to disprove the truths contained in this book. 

We must be careful in the conclusions that we reach. The Book of Mormon teaches the history of three distinct peoples, or two peoples and three different colonies of people, who came from the old world to this continent. It does not tell us that there was no one here before them. It does not tell us that people did not come after. And so if discoveries are made which suggest differences in race origins, it can very easily be accounted for, and reasonably, for we do believe that other people came to this continent. A thousand years had elapsed from the time the Book of Mormon closed until the discovery of America, and we know that other people came to America during that period. 

NO DEFINITE SOLUTION 

There is a great deal of talk about the geography of the Book of Mormon. Where was the land of Zarahemla? Where was the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

City of Zarahemla? and other geographic matters. It does not make any difference to us. There has never been anything yet set forth thai definitely settles that question. So the Church says we are just, wailing until we discover the truth. All kinds of theories have been advanced. 1 have talked with at least half a dozen men that have found the very place where the City of Zarahemla stood, and notwithstanding the fact that they profess to be Book of Mormon students, they vary a thousand miles apart in the places they have located. We do not offer any definite solution. As you study the Book of Mormon keep these things in mind and do not make definite statements concerning things that have not been proven in advance to be true. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, keep us all in the faith, and make it possible for us to withstand the assaults of the world," for they are coming just as they have come. They will come with greater force. Lucifer is not dead. He is opposed to Christ, our Lord. He has been opposed to him and fought him for the dominion of this earth since he was cast down to it, and the battle is not yet won. It will become fiercer and fiercer, but there is no doubt in regard to the ultimate termination. Christ will prevail. He will rule over this earth, the right of which he won by the shedding of his blood, and redemption will come to his covenant people. Every word spoken by the prophets inspired of God, as it applies to this land, to this people, and to this great dispensation, the greatest of all time, will be fulfilled. I bear witness of it, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

One great difficulty that we have always had in our conferences is to find sufficient time to hear from all whom we would Hke to have speak here. We will ask some of our missions presidents to speak briefly this morning, and ask that they occupy not to exceed ten minutes. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I sincerely trust that the spirit of the Lord may lead my thoughts at this time. 

The principles of the Gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ appeal to me; they are in strict accord with the holy scriptures; they are conclusive evidence to me that this Church is in harmony with that established by our Lord and Master in the meridian of time In my experience I have not found any man or set of men who have successfully assailed any of the principles of the Gospel revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith a century ago. During that period of time the Church has taught many glorious truths— among others, that our Eter Father has a body of flesh and bones; that men lived before they came into this world, in an ante-mortal state, where they developed under the inspiration and power of God, and where prophets were chosen and ordained. No sect or party of men has been able to prove these doctrines untrue. 

On the other hand, I have listened hundreds of times to young men from the stakes of Zion, who have come into the world to preach the Gospel, proclaiming the same doctrines which were taught by the early elders of the Church. These young men have never heard these early sermons, they have never had an opportunity to read them, but they have taught the same principles and delivered almost verbatim the same sermons by the same power. This fact bears testimony to me that the Divine Teacher who taught the elders of this Church in the beginning is in the earth today teaching the children of men through the priesthood of the Son of God. 

The power of i the Holy Ghost is in the earth; God our Eternal Father rules and reigns; he governs and controls the destinies of men according to their obedience to his laws. The Savior of the world is guarding the interests of his Church and it shall stand in the earth to be here when he shall come in his own due time. 

Men and women by the score Have been gathered out from among the congregations of the earth and have borne testimony through the inspiration and power that God gives to baptized believers, that this work is true. Hundreds and thousands of copies of the Book of Mormon have been printed and distributed by our missionaries, and men and women have come into the Church through the divine testimony taught within the pages of that holy record, which record is a history of the hand-dealings of God with the children of men who lived on this American continent. Tt has been assailed again and again but unsuccessfully. 

I glory in the work of God. There is nothing in the world that is of more interest than the teachings of the Gospel; nothing that will make men and women happier and bring them closer to our Father. 

I am glad to be able to report to you the success of our mission, the Central States mission. The elders there and the sisters are happy in their work, and they are developing the testimony that came into the world with them, that will make them a power in this world. They will be the means of bringing many others into the Church. It is the work of God. I thank our Eternal Father for the light that he has given me, for the testimony that he has given me, for the privilege I have had of learning and teaching the principles of the Gospel to men and women in the earth and of being associated with holy men of God who bear his priesthood, his power and his authority, as leaders and prophets in the dispensation of time in which we live. Tt has been my salvation. 

I pray God that he may continue to give light and truth to his children, that we may obey the inspiration that comes to us and glorify his name to the end; in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

It is my prayer that I may be able to occupy the short time allotted, in saying something that will be appropriate and profitable. It will be fifty years next July since, as a young boy, I went on a mission to the Southern States. I was reminded, by what President Grant read from the book of Doctrine and Covenants, of the joy that comes into one's life with the knowledge that he has been the means of bringing one honest soul to a knowledge of the truth. That truth and promise has come more forcibly to my mind than ever before while on my present mission. I have been reminded of the good souls to whom I carried the gospel message in my youth, and who went down with me into the waters of baptism; whose families are today splendid, honored Latter-day Sairits, surrounded with greater comfort, With greater blessings than they would have possibly enjoyed where I found them. 

The Eastern States mission is in excellent condition. A wonderful work is being done. Although the people generally are not so much interested in religion, yet there are many honest souls who may be reached, and wonderful possibilities exist in that mission. 

There is one thing in particular to which I desire to call the attention of the presiding authorities of the Church, and a condition which I would have the mothers and fathers and the bishops of wards consider, though it may not be my prerogative to call attention to it particularly. That is the fact that in the Eastern States mission there are nine of the greatest educational institutions of America, great universities and almost innumerable colleges, and smaller universities, to which the young people from Utah and surrounding states, are going to obtain an education. I find that few if any of these young people carry with them transfers of their membership in the Church to the branches where they attend school. There may be some, but I do not know of any who do. What is the result? In each of the great university towns, excepting Cornell and Princeton, there are organized branches of the Church with splendid men and women carrying on a great work. These young people are not only needed there, but they need the assistance and the contact with these organizations. 'I find that many of them never attend any branch meetings or participate in any of the activities of the Church. As a rule the meetings are held in humble places, ill-favored physically, but blessed spiritually. These young people go to school and they say : "Well I am here for a few years, and I want to devote myself solely to_ my studies." Then I find again others, a few, who have contact with these branches of the Church, who associate with the elders, the missionaries and branch officers; and what is the result? They are cultivating and developing spirituality as well as intellectuality. Some of these young people will come home better Latter-dayi Saints than when they left their parents. T cannot help but refer to one as; an illustrious . He came from the Eleventh Ward of this city, young Df. Leroy Alvin Wirthlin, a graduate of Harvard University, who is doing interne work in Boston. He actively associated himself with the missionaries and members of the Boston branch, and has done everything in his power, while at school, to promote the work of the Lord. He has some additional or post graduate work to do, which only occupies a portion of his time; the balance of his time is spent in active missionary work. What is the result today ? Without being called upon a mission, he is taking the place of a missionary, working with a missionary, devoting very largely all his spare time (and they all have spare time), during the few months that it is necessary for him to remain there. All the missionaries point to him as an illustration of what can be accomplished. He is using his exceptional qualities and efficiency in assisting in this great work of saving souls. He thoroughly enjoys the thrill that he receives from his contact with the missionaries and from the good he accomplishes. 

'I am reminded of the statement made to me by Presiding Bishop Cannon, that there will be an effort made to have bishops transfer the membership of our people, not only students, but all of our members who go east for employment or education or other purposes, when they are to remain away a year or more. By thus transferring their membership to our branches we have an opportunity of knowing these people. I found that the president of the Massachusetts district and the president of the branch of the Church there, did not even know young men who came from the very best of Latter-day Saint families here, who had been in Harvard for a year or two. They did not know they were there. What is the result? They associate themselves with students and friends who are not of our faith. They live in an atmosphere foreign to the Gospel. They breathe that atmosphere and it gradually becomes a part of them. We must work in the Gospel of Jesu9 Christ, if we are to progress and hold fast to the faith. If we stop using any of our limbs, what is the result? My arm, if unused long enough, would not perform its normal functions. It would wither and become useless. Just as we would lose the use of our limbs by non-use just so with the Latter-day Saints who cease to act as such, or to have contact with those who enjoy the Spirit of the Gospel. It matters not how well favored they may have been, if they cease to have contact with Latterday Saints, if they cease to perform the duties that they can perform, and separate themselves from the Church and its associations, they lose the faith; and many of our young people, I find, in the East, have apparently lost their faith. One young man to whom I spoke recently, the vice-president of one of the large corporations of the East, who has been there a number of years, never attends Church. His wife is the daughter of a bishop in the Church, his grandfather was one of the pioneers of forty-seven. I asked him why he did not attend. "Well," he said, "I am so busy." That I find to be the statement generally. I said, "Has the faith of your father and mother faded out completely?" He said, "I can't say that." His mother is a splendid worker in the Relief Society. Then I said to him : "Can we not induce you to come here and lend the strength of your personality, your reputation and standing, to help this little branch of the Church?" Think of what he could accomplish by spending a few hours with the saints on Sunday. Just before I left New York I was informed that there were fifteen doctors from Utah— and 1 suppose that means Idaho and these surrounding states — Latter-day Saints, practicing their profession in New York and its environs, fifteen of them, most of whom pay very little attention to Church work. We have many members in those great business and educational centers in almost every vocation in life. The great commercial, industrial and manufacturing industries of the East employ many of our people. Some of them are prominent professors and instructors in the great educational institutions. Some are in leading law offices. There is a migration which I think has been overlooked, from the West to the East. A comparative few of our people who have been reared here and who have been East long, are active in the Church. All, including our merchants, business men, and our young people who go East for various purposes, know of the opportunities for entertainment and amusement; they all find ample and abundant time for amusement. Too often they feel that they must in that time miss nothing, even the vicious and degenerating, and they forget and ignore that which is more vital and important, the Spirit of God. They go there feeling that they are relieved from restraint. They go there frequently not intending to stay, but they find employment and hundreds of them are there. More of them are there whose names are not upon the records of the Church than those who have their names upon the records. I importune the fathers and mothers and the bishops of the Church to see that these Church members have their records transferred, that we may be able to work with them. They can be transferred back when they come home. I will be glad to have parents correspond with me and cooperate with them. The General Electric Company has quite a number of our young men employed as engineers. For example, I think there are six of such at Schenectady, occupying responsible positions. Some of them are faithful Latter-day Saints. In Philadelphia, we have a great many doctors as well as others. Hundreds are in Washington. All these young people need the watchful care of parents and they need to be kept in contact with the Church, so that they will not drift away. Many of the choicest blood of Israel are drifting away through lack of contact with the Church. It is due, to some extent, to the fact that their parents are not sufficiently interested or advised. 

_ Then we have another interesting situation. The German and Swiss saints, many of whom are hastening their departure from Europe because of changes soon to take effect in the immigration law, and finding it much easier and cheaper to stop in New York, are locating there. They think there are better opportunities for employment there also. They are coming every month. We anticipate something like two hundred will be coming within the next two months. We have several  of these saints in the Brooklyn branch. There are a goodly number of them in the Manhattan branch and also in Union City. All these things present a problem that is worthy of serious thought. 

I would like to make an appeal to prominent men and women of the Church who go to New York, that in place of spending all their time seeking amusement, they go to the branch meetings of the Church and lend the strength of their personality and their presence to help us build up the work of the Master, in which we are engaged. While we do not have sufficient numbers for a stake of Zion there now, we have the intelligence, the personality and an abundance of it, and I believe it will be but a short time before we will be ready to organize a stake in this greatest of all commercial centers of the world; the unquestioned metropolis of the world, where we should have more adequate facilities for carrying on this great work. Nevertheless it is progressing, and nothing can stay it. 

I believe I have occupied my time; but there is one thing to which I will refer; that is in connection with the Book of Mormon. It has been to me a source of interesting study throughout my life. For many years I have been a member of the American Anthropological Society and the Archaeological Society, chiefly because of my interest in the Book of Mormon. During the war, it was my privilege to become very well acquainted and frequently to have luncheon with Doctor Spinden of the Peabody Museum of Boston, a professor of Archaeology in Harvard, and also Mr. Morley, the leading archaeologist of America, in making explorations in Central America. The latter has been financed for about twenty years by the Carnegie Institute of Washington; has spent as much as ten years in excavating the ruins of Copan. He has written voluminously. He has written one book of about a thousand pages on the explorations of that ancient but hidden city of Copan. Doctor Spinden, the leading authority on the subject, in the presence of Mr. Morley and myself, declared that he has made a special study of the manufacturing of cloth in ancient America, and he said that without question the ancient Peruvians had attained a higher degree of perfection in the manufacture of cloth than any other nation of their time. Dr. Morley seemed to concur in the fact. Sot perfect and complete had it been developed that nothing since has exceeded the skill and fineness that they demonstrated. If you will read in last month's "Art and Archaeology," the leading archaeological journal of the United States, on the front page, in the first paragraph, the leading article of that journal, you will find that it states that the cultural development of the aboriginal inhabitants in Central America, prior to Columbus, was equal to that of any nation of their time; that Babylon and Egypt did not exceed the culture that has been discovered in the ancient ruins of this continent. That culture and advancement did not exist in the days of Columbus. It was found in the ruins they left. Only the Book of Mormon tells the whole story. 

It was presented to the world, before explorations of ancient cities of America had been made, when little or nothing had been written about the subject in English, by a boy twenty-four years of age, whose life had been spent on the frontier, a mere backwoodsman, uneducated, always existing in and surrounded by poverty and adversity, having no contact with educated men or libraries. Its pages reveal to the world a detailed history of many nations, various peoples, great wars, the lives of good and great men, as well as wicked ones, the birth and growth of governments, nations, religions and civilizations. It presents the Gospel in its fulness and contains glorious teachings and prophetic predictions which are being fulfilled. Contrast that achievement with the results of the life work of the greatest scientific archaeological American explorer of our time, backed by Carnegie millions, who can only tell a small part of what happened in a few cities of a small section of Central America. The contrast is so striking that the Book of Mormon can only be admired because a hundred years of fierce opposition and effort at exposure have not affected it. And now it is read by the thousands, where it was only read by the hundreds a few years ago. Has not the Lord indeed taken the weak things of the world to confound the wisdom of the great and the wise? 

My brethren and sisters, the thrill of being a servant of God, carrying his message to the world, the preaching of the Gospel, has stirred my soul. My whole heart is in this work, and while my physical comfort is not what it was at home, while my physical surroundings are not so comfortable, I do bear testimony to the fact that I never enjoyed myself more than when I suffered privation and even hunger as well as the brutal treatment of mobs, while on a mission in the Southern States in the days of my early youth. I was in the adjoining state to the one where the martyred James Standing suffered death, and where President Clawson was condemned to death by a ruthless mob, but was miraculously saved. I went through the experiences of that time and never enjoyed myself more, notwithstanding the hardships, for we traveled almost entirely on foot and without purse or scrip. To the stranger it would appear impossible, but the joy that came to me at that time has come back to me in this mission. It is priceless, and I am trying to duly sense the responsibility. I believe, and I expect as firmly as I know that £ am here, that the joy and the pleasure of my contact with those splendid young people with whom I am laboring, will be such that the blessings of God will flow from it and will last throughout my remaining days, as a compensation and a joy that nothing else can give. That I may be the means of accomplishing some more good in the mission field and enjoy the blessing promised in the revelation read by President Grant is the greatest desire of my heart, in Jesus' name. Amen 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

The President of the Church, in his address this morning, declared that the missionaries went forth preaching that which they knew to be true. I testify to the truth of this statement. The Lord says in a revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, that the power is in them, referring to the men who should preach his glorious word. When the father of John Wesley was dying, he said to his famous son: "It is the inward witness, John, that sustains us in the knowledge of God." This Gospel is being preached in the power and demonstration of the Holy Ghost. The richest heritage that young people can possess in going into the world is to have the Holy Spirit as their abiding! companion. 

A young man, living near Salt Lake City, left for a mission in the Southern States a few years ago. Before he left he said to his mother: "If I do not receive a testimony before I have been in the mission one month, I am going to return home." The mother sweetly answered : "My son, you have a testimony. My prayers will ascend unto God that you will be made conscious of that testimony before you have been in the mission field a month." The young man was put to labor in the Georgia conference. Three weeks after he arrived there, he and his companion were chased by a mob of angry men. The elders discarded their mission grips. They found that their coats impeded their flight, and they threw them aside; but when they had outdistanced their pursuers this young man who had told his mother he would return home within a month if he did not receive a testimony of the truth of the Gospel, shook his fist in the direction of the mob and said: "I know this Gospel is true." But it took a mob to make him conscious of his testimony. — "Sweet are the uses of adversity." 

A few days ago I received a telegram from a bishop in Zion stating that an elder's mother had died, and he desired that I should break the sad news to the young man. I took the young man to dinner : told him of the hardships, the griefs and the sorrows that had come, to many missionaries. When I thought I had him at least partly prepared to hear the sad news, I said : "My son, your mother has passed away." He wept as only missionaries can do, laboring under that great sorrow, and I wept with him. His mother, on her death-bed, had made the request that her son fill his mission. The young missionary said : "Don't be too kind to me. I am afraid I will get homesick. I am going to fulfil my mother's wishes." 

Brethren and sisters, did not that woman have the inward witness? Did her faith spring from a gospel that is not of God? The mission of her life, the mission of the Church burned in her heart, and she wanted to be one of God's children fulfilling his glorious purposes in her earth life. One cannot laugh away a statement like that. A court of law will accept a dying statement in proof of the case under consideration. Is Oliver Cowdery's testimony, is David Whitmer's testimony, is Martin Harris' testimony to the truth of the Book of Mormon true ? We know by the power of the Holy Ghost that those testimonies are true. It is my firm belief that this sainted mother, who! upon her death-bed made the request that her son fill his mission — and she is only one of many who have made this request — is an angel of God, and that before she breathed her last she was an angel of God. I don't believe it takes death to transform men and women into angels of our Father. Her spirit went to the God who gave it, a blessed woman, one among the multitude of the mothers) of Israel. 

II pray God to bless us. Brethren and sisters, if you will have your children baptized when they reach the age of eight years, they will receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, under the hands of the authorized servants of God, to be an eternal abiding companion to them; and though they wander from the path, though they grow indifferent and sometimes tread the wrong path, it is my firm belief — and unshaken testimony, that the prayers of the fathers and mothers in Israel (as did the prayers of Alma's father), will reach their sons and daughters in the hour of their direst need, and this witness of the Holy Ghost will prompt them to return to the faith of their fathers and mothers. I bear testimony that the power of the Holy Ghost attends this Church, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The hymn, "O Ye Mountains High," was sung by the congregation. The benediction was pronounced by President Henry H. Blood of the North Davis Stake. 

