Morning
06 04 1929

President Heber J. Grant presided at the third session of the conference, which began at 10 o'clock a. m., Saturday, April 6, 1929. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation." 

The invocation was offered by President T. Clark Callister of the Millard Stake. 

The congregation sang "Redeemer of Israel/' 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Speaking of the Book of Mormon, concerning which we heard very valuable instructions yesterday, I venture to emphasize the thought that we apply very diligently in our lives the principles and precepts set forth in that volume of scripture. The Book of Mormon is\ more than a book in the ordinary sense. It is the best of all the literature written in this Church for missionary work. For many years I have urged, as have my brethren likewise, that our missionaries strive to get the Book of Mormon into the hands of the people, both members and nonmembers of the Church. I am happy in the realization that while a few years ago we sold copies of the Book of Mormon in lots of tens and scores, sending them out to the missions, we now send them by thousands. The statistics regarding the sale and distribution of that work, particularly as reported by the mission presidents, furnish a testimony beyond all question of the pouring out of the Spirit of the Lord upon the people of the world. 

AS TO BOOK OF MORMON LANDS 

I sometimes think we pay a little undue attention to technicalities, and to questions that cannot be fully answered with respect to the Book of Mormon. It matters not to me just where this city or that camp was located. I have met a few of our Book of Mormon students who claim to be able to put a ringer upon the map and indicate every land and city mentioned in the Book of Mormon. The fact is, the Book of Mormon does not give us precise and definite information whereby we can locate those places with certainty. I encourage and recommend all possible investigation, comparison and research in this matter. The more thinkers, investigators, workers we have in the field the better; but our brethren who devote themselves to that kind of research should remember that they must speak with caution and not declare as demonstrated truths points that are not really proved. There is enough Jruth in the Book of Mormon to occupy you and me for the rest of our lives, without our giving too much time and attention to these debatable matters. 

HOW TO KNOW FOR ONE'S SELF 

I speak specifically of the testimony that has come to the Latterday Saints, and that will come to any members of the Church or other earnest investigator who will read the book rightly — as to its genuineness. The divinely-inspired promise written by Moroni has found literal fulfilment in scores of thousands of cases. I refer to his last word respecting the record which he was about to hide up unto the Lord. It is recorded in the tenth chapter of Moroni : "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." Then he very pertinently adds: "And by. the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." 

Many of us have received that testimony; but of those who have so received there are some who, do not stand by it as they should. I think it well that we speak plainly to one another at times. There are those who forget what the Lord has said through the Book of Mormon, and who are led away into the jungle of error, much of which belongs to the marshy and uncertain ground preempted in the name of higher criticism. Permit me to give you an example; one may suffice. 

THE BOOK OF ISAIAH AND THE BOOK OF MORMON 

It has been declared and proclaimed by a certain school of Bible students, commentators and scholars, that the Book of Isaiah was written not entirely by Isaiah the Prophet, the son of Amoz — in many respects the greatest of the prophets of that age — but that the book is the work of at least two men, and perhaps of many, part of it written by Isaiah himself, and the other part by another man, without local habitation or name, who lived somewhere, near the end of the period of the Babylonian captivity or exile, fully a century after the death of Isaiah the Prophet. That idea concerning the duality of the Book of Isaiah has been exploited, and there are learned readers of the Bible, who, with superior air, point out certain chapters of the Book of Isaiah which they say were not written by Isaiah the Prophet, but by this "deutero" or second Isaiah. So he is called in view of even the scholars' ignorance as to his true name or place of abode. The claim is made that the chapters of Isaiah from the second to the thirty-ninth inclusive, were really written by Isaiah, and that thence on to the end of the sixty-sixth chapter, the last in the book, the subject-matter is not the writing of Isaiah at all, but that of another man, who falsely ascribed the authorship to the Prophet. 

Such is the speculation concerning the duality of authorship in that book; but, once started, these learned investigators have undertaken to dissect Isaiah and to spread before the gaze of the people both his gross and minute anatomy, to the extent of denying his authorship of other parts of chapters, and of certain verses, singling them out  from the rest, and they have left to the credit of the Prophet Isaiah only twenty-four and a half chapters of his book. 

BOOK OF ISAIAH COMPLETE BEFORE 600 B. C. 

I well remember when the positive and emphatic denial of the unity of the Book of Isaiah was put forth by the German school of theologians. So too I remember the many questions that arose among our people regarding it, not a few of such questions coming to me personally. To some of the inquirers I said : "Why trouble yourselves about the matter? I know that the claim is false." "Well, have you looked into it?" I was asked. "Sufficiently so," I replied, "for I have received the testimony promised by the Lord through the Prophet Moroni concerning the integrity and genuineness of the Book of Mormon." 

In the Second Book of Nephi, I find transcriptions of several chapters of Isaiah, that is to say, chapters as the material is now divided and designated in our Bible — twelve chapters at least, taken from the brass plates of Laban, which plates were brought from Jerusalem to Lehi in the wilderness, as you know, 600 years before the birth of Christ. Laban was a rich man. He could afford to have books made of metal sheets, while others perhaps were content with poorer and less enduring material — just as some people can now afford to have de luxe editions and others are willing to accept poorer paper and bindings. But on those plates of brass, brought from 'Jerusalem in the year 600 B. C, you will find the writings of Isaiah, not only the early chapters allowed to Isaiah by modern scholars, but the later chapters as well, which are ascribed by the critics to the second or false Isaiah. Let us remember that we have in the Book of Mormon transcriptions from the brass plates of Laban, comprising the record of Isaiah, ofttimes word for word the same as the translation appearing in the Bible, chapter after chapter. The entire Book of Isaiah must have been in existence at that time. 

Abinadi, a Book of Mormon prophet, quoted from what is now called the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah to the priests of Noah; and the fifty-third chapter comes in that portion which is ascribed to the false Isaiah; but the Nephites had it, Lehi had it, Laban had it six hundred years before Christ; and my testimony as to the genuineness of the Book of Mormon is sufficient to set at rights with me any question as to the authorship of the Book of Isaiah. 

INTEGRITY 1 - OF ISAIAH AFFIRMED BY THE RESURRECTED LORD 

Would you have higher authority than that of mortal prophets of Book of Mormon record? Then take the words of the Lord Jesus Christ himself when he appeared a resurrected being amongst the Nephites. In preaching to them he quoted one entire chapter of Isaiah — as we find recorded in the twenty-second chapter of Third Nephi. That quotation by our Lord is practically identical with the fifty-fourth chapter of Isaiah. I speak of the chapters as we now have them. I repeat, 

Jesus Christ quoted to the Nephites almost word for word what Isaiah had written in what we now know as the fifty-fourth chapter of his book. Then the Lord said : "And now, behold, I say unto you, that ye ought to search these things. Yea, a commandment I give unto you that ye search these things diligently; for great are the words of Isaiah." 

This is the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. In other places, before his death, he had cited Isaiah. While in the flesh he quoted from that prophet, and from the latter chapters of the book, which modern critics say are not the words of Isaiah. By way of further illustration read John 12 :38, wherein we find the citation from the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah, which modern 'critics affirm was not written by Isaiah the Prophet; and in the fortieth verse of the same chapter appears a citation from the sixth chapter of Isaiah, which part the critics do ascribe to Isaiah himself. 

But be it remembered that the critics who thus seek to rend, mutilate and generally discredit the Book of Isaiah are not the only ones whose voice should be heard in so important a matter. They have no monopoly of the truth, and when they die wisdom will not perish with them. A great institution of wide influence, The Philosophical Society of Great Britain, otherwise known as the Victoria Institute, has taken up the matter of the unity of Isaiah, and has pointed out the. errors of the critics with respect to the claim of duality, thus registering its decision that the Book of Isaiah is a unit, written by the son of Amoz, the prophet whom the Lord verily loved. 

STUDENTS AND TEACHERS, BE CONSISTENT AND TRUE TO YOUR TESTIMONY 

Regretfully I find that in some of our theological classes, and in our seminaries, not only pupils but teachers are following after that false lead and are segregating the words of the Book of Isaiah, part as being his and other portions as the works of another. Could there be a grosser inconsistency than that of proclaiming a belief in the divine inconsistency than that of proclaiming a belief in the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon while teaching or believing that the Book of Isaiah is other than what it purports to be — the writings of Isaiah the son of Amoz throughout? 

I cannot feel those in our Church schools and seminaries who put the theories of men above the revelations of God have any rightful place among the teachers in our theological institutions, whether quorum classes, seminaries, or Church school of any name or grade. 

DIFFERENCES IN STYLE OF WRITING 

On what, you may ask, do these critics base this segregation of chapters and verses, as to authorship, in the Book of Isaiah? On two points: First comes the difference in style of composition. The only part of the Book of Isaiah, which is admitted to have been written by the prophet, is worded generally in a spirit of sadness; the tone or color is that of depression, dark presage, as befits the subject. The author is telling of the calamities that will come upon Israel unless they repent and turn from their wicked ways. The picture is painted in dark colors. The latter part of the book, from the fortieth chapter on, is more joyous, much more cheerful The author is speaking of the triumph that shall eventually come to God's people. The critics say that Isaiah could not have written in these strikingly different styles. Do you find any modern writer telling a sorrowful tale in happy and exultant words?; Ts it so that one writer cannot inscribe a story of grief and at another time a story of surpassing joy? Our literature contradicts the thought! Think of the two splendid poems by Milton, his twin pictures, "L' Allegro" and "II Penseroso," known to most of our students of literature. One is a picture of pessimism, pensiveness, and gloom; the other a scene of optimism, joy and gaiety. There could not be greater contrast. Milton could adapt his style to his theme and did so spendidly; but Isaiah, preaching and speaking under the inspiration of the living - God, could not do it, according to the critics who have assailed his work. 

BE TRUE TO YOUR TESTIMONY! 

To my younger brothers and sisters, to my student friends, I say stand by your testimony. When you have received it from the Lord, let it be your guide. It will be no handicap to you in your researches, your studies, your explorations and. investigations. It will not detract from your reputation for learning, if you deserve any such reputation, provided you stand by the truth. As you know, in the Book of Mormon we have that wonderful story of the iron rod seen by Lehi. To those of you who want to explore I say, in all earnestness, tie fast your guide rope to the rod of iron, which is defined as the Word of God. Hold to it firmly, and you may venture out into the region of the unexplored in search of truth if you will; but do not loosen your hold on the rope; and remember that there is very little safety in holding to a rope that is loose at both ends. 

By following this course I have had many satisfying explanations of questions that troubled me. Let me illustrate. It hast been the general conception that certain animals known to have existed on the eastern hemisphere were not to be found on the western hemisphere in Nephite times; but in the Book of Mormon I find record, positive and simple, that certain of these animals were found by Lehi and his colony. Now, the testimony that the Lord had given me as to the integrity of the Book of Mormon did not furnish me with all details by which I could confront the evidence that was being gathered, which was all of a negative character, relating to the alleged non-existence of the horse and other animals upon the western continent at the time indicated. Some of you may say that as you do not find, ordinarily at least, the bones of buffaloes in this section, that buffaloes never lived here. But go search in the gravels of City Creek, and you may be lucky enough to find, as I have found, the bones and horns of buffaloes. One shred of positive evidence will nullify a volume of negative assumption; and the declarations made in the Book of Mormon, if not already verified, will surely be verified every whit. 

The Book of Mormon is not to be judged according to the canons of criticism applicable to any book professing to be the product of a modern brain, any more than is the Holy Bible to be so judged. Each of these is a volume of scripture, profusedly giving the revealed word of God. 

REJECTION OF PROPHECY 

The second objection made by the critics as to accepting Isaiah as a, unit is based on the prophet's mention of King Cyrus, the Persian, a century and a half before Cyrus was born. As King Cyrus is named, the record containing the account of him, says the critics, could not have been written until after his birth, reign, and accomplishment of the divinely-appointed work ascribed to him by the prophet; in short, they say, that account must have been written by somebody who lived after Cyrus, the Persian king. Is there no prophecy? Are there no prophets? And, by the way, is Cyrus, the Persian, the only one whose name was given before birth? What of Ishmael, of Isaac, of John the Baptist? What of the Lord Christ himself? Their names were all prescribed and recorded long before their respective births. 

Josephus, the Jewish historian, knew nothing of the alleged duality of the Book of Isaiah; for he tells us that Isaiah's prophecy was presented to King Cyrus, named therein, and "that the fact of his own name being in the text greatly encouraged him to carry out the prediction." 

Some of us are very apt to be led away by a statement because we find it in a book bearing the name of some man assumed to be great. Let us read in a more discriminating way, and seek for the guidance of the Lord as we read. 

I bear you witness, as witness has been borne before, and I speak it to you with all the assurance that the Three Witnesses and the Eight Witnesses put their testimony on record — that the Book of Mormon is just what it claims to be, as set forth by the ancient historian and prophet, the translation of whose words appears on the title page of the current work. There is nothing in the Book of Mormon to be explained away. The Book teaches, explains, and expounds; it will settle many of your problems, it will guide you in the path of truth. I know of what I speak for I have found it to be a reliable guide. Brethren and sisters, hold fast to the iron rod. May God help us so to do, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Come Ye Blessed," was sung by Miss Rilla Wilson. ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

THE LAW OF TITHING 

My subject is tithing. I can scarcely hope to contribute a single new thought to this matter, but I have felt that the importance of it would serve to challenge your interest, and I have hoped that some good might result from a discussion of it. For some things that I may say I acknowledge indebtedness to a little volume which has recently been placed in my hands called, "Dealing Squarely With God." 

THE RELATIONSHIP OF MONEY AND PROPERTY TO CHRISTIANITY 

"You can usually tell the sincerity of a man's interest in anything by the way he puts his money into it." Indeed it has been said that the measure of a man's Christianity may be determined by the way he gets and spends his money. It is said that Jesus had more to say about money and property, strange as it may seem, than about any other subject. In sixteen of thirty-eight of his parables money and property are made his theme. 

MONEY AND MYSELF 

After all, "Is not money myself ? Money is the medium for which men exchange their abilities, ingenuity and labor. When a man gives his money he is giving himself, and. the way a man gives his money is the way he gives himself. Money is myself. I am a laboring man, we will say, and can wield a pickaxe and hire myself out for a week at two dollars a day. At the close of the week I get twelve dollars and I put it in my pocket. What is that twelve dollars? It is a week's worth of my muscle put into greenbacks and pocketed. That is, I have got a week's worth of myself in my pocket." So, when a man gives the money that he has earned, he is giving literally of himself. Giving is worship. We are commanded "not to appear before the Lord emptyhanded." Not that the Lord needs the gift, but that man needs to give. 

TEST OF FAITH IS GIVING 

The first principle of religion is recognition of God — faith. The real test of that recognition is giving. By that test we may judge with accuracy the religious attitude of our country. In a recent year statistics reveal the fact that more money was spent for face powders and cosmetics; more for ice cream, soft drinks and chewing gum; more for cigarettes, respectively, than the total sum expended to support all churches. May that not be a criterion by which we may safely judge the religious attitude, the deep-set religious feeling of the people of the country? Do not the words of Malachi seem pertinent: 

"Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings." 

SOVEREIGNTY OF GOD 

We do not rob God by withholding our gift in the sense that we deprive him of the substance of earth. He always has that substance, never relinquishing it. But we rob him of the satisfaction and the joy that hq must feel when his children respond to his mandates and open their hearts in giving and in worship. Someone has said, "God never gives a quit-claim deed, he only grants a leasehold estate, and he who receives the lease must ever return the rental." 

BOUGHT WITH A PRICE 

Now the Lord has commanded that a rental be returned for all the substance and for all the blessings which he has given to his children. Christ bought us with a price, so we are told in the scripture. Is it to be thought that we are to gain salvation without a price, without giving and paying for it? When we speak of paying in this sense we do not mean that pay which is given as if in barter, but we mean the return of substance which is committed to our stewardship and which we hold in trust for the one who has so blessed us. 

PARTNERSHIP WITH GOD 

I like "to think of the Lord as a partner, because the essence of partnership is a sharing of profits. It is however indispensable in a partnership that there shall also be a sharing of the burdens of the enterprise. The honor and the satisfaction that come to one in realization that he lives his life in partnership with God is to me a lofty and exalting thought. One cannot hope to realize the profits from that venture without bearing his portion of the expense — the giving which is requisite. 

PAYMENT OF DUES 

The Church generally is probably the only society in the world where a man is not suspended from membership for failure to pay his dues. I think that in substantially every other organized body of men for social or material gain if a man fails to pay his stipulated contribution he is dropped. While the Church does not drop from membership those who fail to pay, I feel very certain that those who fail to pay their stipulated portion are automatically dropped from the real advantages of Church participation and the blessings that inure from inactivity within it. 

THRIFT HABITS 

"Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven," speaking to those whom he had admonished to pay their tithes and offerings. What comes from the windows of heaven? Both temporal and spiritual blessings. Temporal blessings accrue largely from the cultivation of thrift habits. The payment of tithes of necessity compels an orderly arrangement of one's affairs. Accounting is indispensable. Budgeting is necessary. Saving follows. All of which are necessary to financial success. 

ECONOMY 

It was Victor Hugo who said : "Above all, teach the children to save. Economy is the sure foundation for all virtues." I heard a banker say not long ago that if tithing served no other purpose than to secure an orderly adjustment of one's affairs, a budgeting of the income and expenses, it would be invaluable. I feel sure that he who pays his tithes not only has a better conception of economy, but he is indulging in a practice which will bring him into better thrift habits and enable him to go forward toward financial prosperity. 

SPIRITUAL POWER 

Observance of tithing brings spiritual power, and after all that to me is the main thing. Religion is more than mere repose or relaxation. It is positive spiritual exercise. It makes for the growth of the soul, it cultivates all of the virtues. So one who is serious about religion will be willing to give to it the things which are necessary and the things which are vital to himself. 

HONESTY 

One who is honest with God is apt to be honest with his neighbor and with his employer. The need of honesty is attested everywhere and particularly in our own communities by defalcations, the extent and magnitude of which make us all blush with shame. I can scarcely conceive of a man who is honest with his God not being honest with his fellow man; and I can well advocate the payment of our tithing in a straightforward, square, honest way as being a safe foundation on which to build those principles of integrity that shall make honest men and women in the community. 

NEED OF THE TITHE 

The need of the tithe in the prosecution of God's work must be apparent to all of you. There are so many avenues in which sums may be expended to promote the work that J can scarcely take time to mention them. Not long ago I had the privilege of traveling in one of the missions of the Church. I was delighted to observe that in many rural sections which are not in the van of our progress and civilization the Church has caused to be erected inexpensive but beautiful small chapels. I could well conceive the influence that these chapels might exert not only in the furtherance of our religious views, but in their effect on the home life, the community life, the habits and practices of the people. These little chapels were clean and orderly, and I am sure they will bring an inspiration to many hundreds of home-owners to clean up their establishments, to live in an orderly and a more beautiful way. If the Church were endowed with sufficient means these little chapels could be extended throughout the whole land and would bring wonderfully beneficent results. 

USE OF TITHING FUNDS 

With our temples large sums of money are required. Think of the great work of redemption there performed. Our whole missionary cause is, in large measure, dependent upon the financial support that comes to the Church and also that which comes to those who are called on missions. There is a very definite relation between the finances of our people and the propagation of the Gospel of Christ. There is a very definite relation between missionary work and debt. I propose  constructive principle of the Gospel embraced in the law of tithing as a solution for many of our financial problems, as a foundation upon which men may build to bring themselves in a position to accept the calls that come to them to spread the great truths which are committed to our custody. 

ENJOYMENT OF TITHE PAYING 

Every man who pays his tithing should enjoy it. The Gospel of Christ is a gospel of enjoyment. "Man is that he may have joy." When one pays his tithing without enjoyment he is robbed of a part of the blessing. He must learn to give cheerfully, willingly and joyfully, and his gift will be blessed. In order that he may receive more enjoyment he needs to pay more frequently. Why deprive oneself of the joy that comes from this voluntary giving until the end of the year, when by payments throughout the year we may increase and enhance not only the joy of our giving but the practice of it. 

MONTHLY PAYMENTS 

I have found it to be a very difficult problem in mathematics to pay one-tenth out of one-twelfth. I commend that thought to those who are receiving monthly stipends and who indulge the practice of paying their tithing at the close of the year. I am sure you will find it very difficult indeed to get the tenth out of the twelfth if your tithing remains for payment until the last month. I can heartily recommend to you the payment of your tithes as your funds come into your hands, not only because it will be easier, but because greater blessings will inure to you. 

CONSECRATION 

We consecrate our lives in this Church to the advancement of the cause of God. There is no higher evidence of that consecration than this giving which has been enjoined upon us by the Lord. "He who gives himself with his gift feeds three — himself, his hungering neighbor and me." So the law of tithing is the epitome of the Gospel. It is genuine worship and true recognition of the sovereignty of God. It is real consecration, the giving of the muscle and energy of life to the cause; and it begets the abundant life of love and service for which the Christ came. It is a measurement of true religion. By the extent of its observance every man may determine for himself the vitality of his own faith and love of God. A prophet has said, "The tenth shall be holy unto the Lord." It will be holy unto you, men and women of Israel, if you give it lovingly, joyfully, willingly, to the great cause. God help us so to do, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Miss Bertha Sessions rendered a sacred solo entitled 'Tmmortalis." ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I trust that I may be led by the Spirit of the Lord to say something this afternoon that will be profitable. 

A CRITICAL TIME 

One of our speakers yesterday said that we were living in a very critical time. For many years we have been living in peace and comparative prosperity, we have had no contentions with our neighbors; on the surface at least their feelings have been kindly, and apparently everything has been in the nature of peace and prosperity. But these are the times when Latter-day Saints should take heed concerning the revelations of the Lord and desire to keep his commandments with full purpose of heart, more perhaps than at any other time. 

The Lord said in a revelation given in the early days of the Church : 

"And I now give unto you a commandment to beware concerning yourselves, to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life. 

"Fori ye shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God." 

INGRATITUDE IN TIMES OF PROSPERITY 

In the days of our prosperity, when we are at peace, when we have the luxuries as well as the necessities of life, there may be a tendency on our part to forget the Lord. This seems to be a failing of humanity. We are taught this lesson all down through the ages so far as the people of the Lord are concerned, as we read of them in the Holy Scriptures. |In Palestine as well as upon this continent, when the people were prospered they forgot the Lord. They turned from him and felt selfsufficient rather than to feel the spirit of humility and to put faith in the Lord, and to thank him for his blessings. 

The crime of ingratitude is one of the most prevalent and I might say at the same time one of the greatest with which mankind is afflicted. The more the Lord blesses us the less we love him. That is the way men show their gratitude unto the Lord for his mercies and his blessings towards them. 

THE WORDS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

I recommend to you, I shall not take time to refer further to it. the words of King Benjamin to his people as he gathered them around him, and taught them to keep the commandments of the Lord. You will find these things recorded in the first chapters of the book of Mosiah in the Book of Mormon. 

I want to read, because I think these words are better than any that I might give you, from the 12th chapter of the Book of Helaman. These words, it would appear, were written by Mormon after recording some of the conflicts between the Nephites and the Lamanites and  destruction which came upon the people because they had forsaken the Lord : 

"And thus we can 'behold how false, and also the unsteadiness of the hearts of the children of men; yea, we can see that the Lord in his great infinite goodness doth bless and prosper those who put their trust in him. 

"Yea, and we may see at the very time when he doth prosper his people, yea, in the increase of their fields, their flocks and their herds, and in gold, and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives and delivering them out of the hands of their enemies; softening the hearts of their enemies that they should not declare war against them; yea, and in fine, doing all things for the welfare and happiness of his people; yea, then is the time that they do harden their hearts, and do forget the Lord their God, and do trample under their feet the Holy One — yea, and this because of their ease, and their exceedingly great prosperity. 

"And thus we see that except the Lord doth chasten his people with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit them with death and with terror, and with famine and with all manner of pestilence, they will not remember him. 

"O, how foolish, and how vain, and how evil, and devilish, and how quick to do iniquity, and how slow to do good, are the children of men; yea, how quick to hearken unto the words of the evil one, and to set their hearts' upon the vain things of the world! 

"Yea, how quick to be lifted up in pride; yea, how quick to boast, and do all manner of that which is iniquity; and how slow are they to remember the Lord their God, and to give ear unto his counsels, yea, how slow to walk in wisdom's paths! 

"Behold, they do not desire that the Lord their God, who hath created them, should rule/ and reign over them; notwithstanding his great goodness and his mercy towards- them, they do set at naught his counsels, and they will not that he should be their guide. 

"O, how great is the nothingness of the children of men; yea, even they are less than the dust of the earth. 

"For behold, the dust of the earth moveth hither and thither, to the dividing asunder, at the command of our great and everlasting God." 

ALL THINGS OBEDIENT EXCEPT MAN 

Now this prophet did not mean to say that the Lord has greater concern for and loves the dust of the earth more than he does his children. He did not mean to say that we, the children of the Lord, in his sight are considered less than the dust of the earth. The point he is making is that the dust of the earth is obedient. It moveth hither -and thither at the command of the Lord. All things are in harmony with his laws. Everything in the universe obeys the law given unto it, so far as I know, except man. Everywhere you look you find law and order, the elements obeying the law given to them, true to their calling. But man rebels, and in this thing man is less than the dust of the earth because he rejects the counsels of the Lord, and the greater the blessings he receives, (this because of his agency), the more willingly does he turn from the source of those blessings, feeling self-sufficient, and puts his faith and his trust in the arm of flesh rather than in God. 

KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS 

I want to endorse the remarks that were made here yesterday, wherein we were instructed and reminded to keep the commandments of the Lord, to observe the Sabbath day, to keep the Word of Wisdom, to pray, to attend to the various duties that are given unto us as members of the Church and men holding the priesthood; to live, in other words, in accordance with every word that proceeds forth from the mouth of God. 

NECESSITY OF CONSTANT INSTRUCTIONS AND GUIDANCE 

Why should we be under the necessity constantly of being reminded of the Word of Wisdom, of the law of tithing, the duty that is upon us to pray and thank our Father in heaven for his many blessings? Yet we find that it is necessary constantly to call the attention of the saints to these things, to instruct them, to guide them, so that we may be kept always in the path of duty and righteousness. Otherwise they fall into error. What a wonderful thing it is the Lord has given us by revelation, this privilege of meeting together in conference as we are now, and from time to time in the stake conferences and in the various other meetings, to be instructed! In these meetings we are taught the principles of the Gospel, and admonished when it is necessary. If we were not it would only be a short time until we would find the different branches of the Church and various stakes falling apart and doing things in different ways, and to some extent at least falling from grace, failing to keep the commandments of the Lord and to walk in his righteousness. The Lord has provided ample means by which we may be instructed and taught, that we may be one in all things. 

BLESSINGS CONTINGENT UPON OBEDIENCE 

Now, my brethren and sisters, in this time of peace — I do not know how long it will last — in this day of prosperity, let us be humble and remember the Lord ana! keep his commandments and feel that the dangers before us are far greater than they are in the days of trial and tribulation. Do* not think for a moment that the days of trial are over. They are not. If we keep the commandments of the Lord we shall prosper, we shall be blessed; the plagues, the calamities that have been promised will be poured out upon the peoples of the earth and we shall escape them, yea, they shall pass us by. But remember the Lord says if we fail to keep his word, if we walk in the ways of the world, they will not passj us by, but we shall be visited with floods and with fire, with sword and with plague and destruction. We may escape these things through faithfulness. Israel of old might have escaped through faithfulness, but they refused to keep the commandments of the Lord and they were not saved. Therefore I plead with you: pay your tithing, keep the <Word of Wisdom, pray unto the Lord, honor him in all things by keeping his commandments, that his blessings maybe poured out and that we may receive them in abundance, and in humility we may walk before him and be entitled not only to the blessings that come to us in this mortal life, but to the blessings of eternal life, the greatest gift of God. So I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northzvestern States Mission 

I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference. I am happy to represent before you the work as it is progressing in the Northwestern States mission. 

We sang as the second hymn yesterday morning, "Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Guide us to the Promised land." Then, as we sang the second stanza : "Open, Jesus, Zion's fountains, Let her richest blessings come," I could not help but feel, surely the blessings and the rich blessings have come to this people. 

A year and a half ago, in holding conferences with my missionaries, I asked these questions of each group : "What has your mission done for you? What have you done for the mission?" One elder reported: "President Sloan, I sat down the other evening and 1 wrote page upon page of the things that my mission has done for me. Then," he said, "when I tried to write : 'What have I done for the mission ?' I could scarcely fill one page." If that question were put to us individually: "What has the Church done for us?" I wonder if the richer blessings, many of them, have not come. I see before me these wonderful volumes, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price; I see a great organization with ten hundred eighty-four wards, with one hundred one stakes of Zion. I see a great growth of buildings, chapels, schools, and seminaries throughout all the land, an evidence of God's blessings to us as his children. Brethren and sisters, what are we doing for the Church? 

A few months ago, one of our splendid good girls in Portland, working for a large firm, received her pay-check and as she wa| returning home she lost her hand-bag. Upon reaching her home she discovered the loss. It contained her money, the earnings of a mouth's work. She felt very sorrowful about it, but advertised in the paper. Two or three days later the telephone rang. She answered the phone, and a lady at the other end asked her name, so on and so forth. She had found her hand-bag. She said : "As I looked through it I found your money and I found receipts, and among other receipts I found one for tithing to your Church. I thought Tf that little girl is honest enough to pay her tithing, I can't keep this money form her.' " She said further: "I had made up my mind that I would not return the purse, but I am returning it to you now, happily." 

May I be personal just a minute and recount an experience of my own. On the 19th of October, 1926, I was invited into the office of President Grant and his counselors. I don't know if you may have had that experience, but to me it was new. I shall never be able to recount my feelings as T went and sat in the presence of these wonderful, good men. When the presidency had revealed to me the purpose for which they had invited me there, that it was to ask me to preside over a mission, I can never describe my feelings. Then I returned home, and I did so in tears, all the way. That night when we retired, I lay in my bed not able to close my eyes in sleep. Sleep had vanished, and I wrestled with the Lord, in tears, all night. I pleaded with the Father, "What can I, a weak mortal, do in such a mission as that?" The prayer was answered, and a voice spoke to me as I am speaking to you : "The Book of Mormon." My prayer was answered. 

A month and a half later I went to the mission. When I heard the reports read in conference at Seattle on the 19th of December of that year, I found that we had distributed 1850 copies of the Book of Mormon. President Young said: "President Sloan, would you like to speak a few minutes ?" I said, "Yes." I arose. The Spirit came, and I told the missionaries that for 1927 we would expect 18,000 copies of that book distributed in the mission. I shall never forget the reaction as it came to me. It seemed to me as if I sat alone, except for the Spirit of the Lord, as it had been given. At the end of the year, brethren and sisters, we had succeeded, the Lord had blessed us; and in 1928, I am happy to tell you, our mission distributed" approximately 21,000 copies of that wonderful book. I want to tell you that there is no book in all the world from which a man or woman can gain the spirit of the Gospel more than by reading that wonderful volume. 

My time is up. I am happy to report and to bring the love and confidence of the missionaries of the Northwestern States. They are a nohle, sweet, wonderful group of young men and women. They are working hard. I bring you this report, fathers and mothers, from the mission. 

When President George F. Richards was in Portland, laying the corner stone of our new chapel, we asked Doctor Irvine, the blind editor of the Portland Journal, to be one of our speakers. That most wonderful man stood there and paid tribute to this Church and to our achievements. In his closing remarks this is what he said : "Your creed, my freinds, is a gentle, sweet, lovable creed. Your doctrines are beautiful as if they came from the hand of God." So I bear testimony that this work is not of man, but it is of God, and it will succeed through his help. For this I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HENRY H. ROLAPP 

Former President of the Eastern States Mission 

Dear brethren and sisters, I stand before you as a recently-released president of the Eastern States mission. : I have been succeeded by President James FI. Moyle whom you heard yesterday. I was appointed to succeed President B. H. Roberts who had filled that mission so wonderfully well. I report to you that when I left the mission it was in excellent condition. We have done wonderfully well. In that mission we have baptized about two hundred non-Mormons during each year, in addition to many of the children of the saints. 

The Lord has not blessed me with any ability to make great speeches, hut I had an excellent corps of young men and young women to do that for me. I just traveled around amongst them and heard of  progress and of the little things of the Gospel % used to talk to them about. I talked to them about the value of prayer, and I am sure that I have never seen greater evidences of improvement in that direction than I did during my time in the Eastern States mission. I talked to them about observing the Sabbath day, and I am confident that among the Latter-day Saints of that mission there was a strict observance of the Lord's Day. I talked to them about keeping the Word of Wisdom, and T want to say to you that in my opinion that word was thoroughly observed in the Eastern States mission. I talked to the missionaries about their loyalty and faithfulness, and it has been a great satisfaction to me to find that the testimony of the Gospel has come to those young missionaries after they have been in the mission a comparatively short time. 

I want to say to you fathers and mothers that those missionaries, those boys and those girls, and those older men who came as short term missionaries have done a wonderfully fine work. They thoroughly believed in the Gospel, and they had a testimony of it, after they had been in the mission a very short time. Fortunately most of the young people that came into the mission had been good Sunday School people. They had been good model people, but they knew comparatively little about the Gospel of Christ. Yet, by some miracle the Lord permitted his Spirit to come upon them, and I am sure that in ninety-seven cases, if not more, out of every hundred, within one year they could stand up and preach the Gospel, knowingly. 

I talked to them about the law of tithing, and it is observed in the  Eastern States mission averagely better than it is in Zion. The Saints in the Eastern States mission are paying a higher percentage of tithing than they are anywhere in the Church in Zion. To me the. law of tithing is one of the great things of the Church. It is not a recommendation; it is a command. I find that ninety per cent of what I am permitted to receive is quite sufficient for me. There is not one of you who actually receives only ninety per cent of what he is earning that is not wholly satisfied That other tenth does not belong to you; it belongs to the Lord. I taught that to the saints there. 

We have a number of Germans coming into New York and into Brooklyn, hundreds of them. They constitute more than sixty per cent of the saints in Brooklyn, and about forty per cent of the saints in New York. They have done wonderfully well. Their little tithing comes in each Saturday night. They go and deliver it to their branch president, and he gives them their receipt. T cannot think of a thousand people among the many thousands we have in that mission who are not full tithe-payers. I honor them, and I glory in it. I have found that the Lord has blessed me each year with just a little bit more^ because I was willing to observe that law. I have told that to the saints, and they believed it. 

I am thankful to the First Presidency for calling me on a mission, and I am indeed thankful to the Lord that! I was called on' a mission. It has given me a greater insight into the work of the missionaries and into the faith of the Latter-day Saints than I could have received in any other way. I am delighted to have been on a mission. I feel sure that the testimony that I have will continue with me during the few years that I shall yet live. I am glad that I have had this opportunity. It will be a heritage to my sons, to know that their father has been on a mission, as they have been on missions, and that we have done our part in furthering the work of the Lord. God grant that the spirit of serving God may always be strong in the hearts of the saints, that there may always be a desire to do the will of the Lord, and they shall be blessed. God grant us this spirit, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

ELDER ERNEST C. ROSSITER 

Former President of the French Mission 

My brethren and sisters and kind friends, I feel honored, and I am indeed happy this morning in being called to the stand to report on my labors during the time that I was in the French mission, and to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this Gospel. 

I am happy to see such a vast congregation this morning, the largest that it has been my privilege to address, il assure you, that I feel my weakness and pray that God will be merciful to me in the few remarks which I may have to make this morning. 

I feel that it is an honor to be a member of this Church, and especially so, to be able to go out into the world and preach unto the people, many thousands of whom are seeking after the truth which we have to give unto them. 

The French mission today is in a very prosperous condition. We are getting into the hearts of the real French people. I am happy to tell you that we are not only converting the Protestants among the French, but also a great many of the devout Catholic people, many of them very well educated. The First Presidency have been very kind to us in giving us a greater number of missionaries the last three years, which has enabled us to expand into France. Fleretofore our efforts have been confined to Belgium and Swiss Roman. There are in France a great many people who have the blood of Israel in their veins. We feel that we are developing a very splendid mission in that country, and that it will be only a few years hence when we will be able to make a very splendid showing and that the French mission will come to the fore, as have all the other European' missions. At the time I left the mission field we had about fifty-three missionaries, and all of them are real missionaries, doing a splendid work, learning the language in a remarkable way. That has been one of our tasks, to persuade our missionaries to learn the French; language and speak it to the people in an intelligent and pleasing way to them, because in that way we are able to please the people and make friends of them. 

France has produced some very splendid people throughout the world in the Protestant field as well as in the Catholic field. The 

Huguenots came from France largely, went into Switzerland, some into the new world, and thousands of them have accepted the Gospel. The Normans who were in Northern France, went to England, many of them; and it is from that class of people that my family has come. I am therefore very much interested in the French people, because I have French blood in my veins. 

During the last three years I believe we have made more progress in the French mission than in many years previous, from the fact that we have had more opportunity to reach out among the French people. We have opened up new ways and means to find them, preaching the Book of Mormon, that wonderful book which was so well explained to you by Doctor Talmage this morning. I was very much interested in his remarks. That is getting into the hearts of the French people. The stereoptican views have attracted thousands of people to our meetings. That is one means we have of showing people the real facts about Salt Lake and Zion. The French people have always had an erroneous opinion of our people, having heard' only of the evil, the bad side, the false reports. Only recently we held a mission presidents' conference in Paris, which resulted in a vast amount of good. The newspapers opened up their columns to fair publication of our doctrines, which resulted in a wider investigation, and that publication was spread throughout the world. We received many inquiries through letters and personal inquiries from people asking how they could become members of the Church. We feel that the work is just getting a fair start among the French people. Your missionaries who have been called to that land can consider themselves blessed and honored. There is no greater opportunity for any missionary than can come to him through a call to the French mission. The progress, the advancement, the education, the learning of a modern language, for which he can get credit in his school, and the personal development which comes to him, are wonderful things. The fathers and mothers of the boys in the French mission can consider themselves blessed through having their sons in that mission at the present time. 

T wish to bear my testimony to the divinity of this work. I know, my brethren and sisters, that God lives and that he is a remunerator of all those who diligently seek him. I do know that this Gospel is true. God has revealed it to me through his Holy Spirit. I can truthfully say that I have a burning testimony within my bosom of this great work and only hope that I may be able to retain that testimony to the end of my days, when I shall again see my Maker, meet him face to face and talk with him. I bear you my testimony that our present presidency, the prophets of this Church, are indeed inspired to carry on this work, and I stand ready at any time to serve them as best I can, because in serving I know that great blessings come to those who will do it willingly. I desire to continue on in this work the best I know how. May God bless us all in our endeavors to serve him, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

'I wish to announce that Brother Rossiter who has just spoken to you is forty-six years of age, and that he has spent thirteen years of his life as a missionary, or over twenty-five per cent of his life thus far. If you will deduct the years of his childhood and teens you will find that the greater portion of his life has been given to proclaiming the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I am convinced that service of this kind is one of the strongest testimonies of the divinity of this work that can come to a thoughtful man. It seems to me that nothing short of an abiding knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged would cause a man to give so much of his life's labor — giving the very best that is in him — for the spread of the truth. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

I am very grateful that it has been my privilege to be called into the ministry and particularly into the mission field, and for the experience of associating with the saints who reside in the branches scattered throughout the missions, and with the elders and sisters who have been called there as missionaries. We are trying to appreciate the privileges Gospel to the people of the Western States district. We rely upon to make ourselves feel and understand that we are instruments — poorly prepared though we may be — through which our heavenly Father expects to carry on the work of bringing the message of the Gospel to the people of the. Western States District. We rely upon the blessings of the Lord rather than upon our own intelligence or learning. We have learned and are learning by experience, that if we may enjoy the association of the Holy Ghost and its inspiration and guidance we will be more successful than if we attempt to rely upon ourselves. If the Lord is to perform a marvelous work and a wonder, which he is doing, it will have to be performed through the material that is available; and if the material available is willing to serve, willing to try to do what the Lord wants us to do by his great power and wisdom, he will have no great difficulty in performing the marvelous work and a wonder. 

The Lord has blessed us in the Western States mission. We are meeting with success in our labors. Our tithing has increased this year over last year, up to the end of this first quarter, even as it did last year over the previous year. We are able to, and are distributing more pamphlets and selling and loaning more copies of the Book of Mormon than we did last year. We are grateful for the opportunity that is given us to do it. 

We have little prejudice to contend with. Generally speaking, the people receive us with great kindness, very little abuse. I was thinking of what Elder Joseph Fielding Smith stated this morning with reference  that. I have wondered why we meet with so little opposition and with practically no persecution. I have tried to caution first myself and then my associates against a feeling of security, the feeling that all is well with us, because we seem to get along so well. I sincerely hope that we will never feel so secure that we will forget the protecting care of the Lord which is over us, or forget his blessings. 

The Lord is blessing our branches. The branches of the Western States mission are growing in interest, in attendance and in activity. I wish to relate to you one incident which has to me been very faithinspiring. I will not name the branch. That is unnecessary. Suffice it to say, one of our branches has received a great financial blessing at the hands of the Lord, by being obedient to his requirements. The history of this branch has been rather unfortunate. There was contention among its members, lack of appreciation of each other's virtues, a falling down in their payment of tithes and offerings, sometimes a lack] of attendance at their meetings; and the branch had in a measure divided itself, so that there were two factions in it. We, (myself and associate missionaries), were holding a conference there last June. The Spirit of the Lord seemed to say to me: "Prophesy to this people that if they will love each other and keep the commandments of the Lord, the Lord will bless them." 1 was fearful that it was not .the Spirit of the Lord directing me; therefore, I did not give voice to the impressions that came to me until the last meeting we held. By the way, we stayed there three days. At the close of the last meeting, I could no longer resist the feeling that seemed to be upon me. I promised those people in the name of the Lord, by prophecy, that if they would repent of their weaknesses, if they would love each other, and support each other, if they would pay their tithes and their offerings, the Lord would relieve them of their financial distress. They had a large dam and a reservoir without water in it. The impression came to me very distinctly; "Do not promise them that the reservoir will be filled." I said : "jl do not promise you that the reservoir will be filled, but I do promise you that the way will be opened that your crops will be irrigated; you will be prospered and you will be happy if you will do these things." They sincerely accepted what I said. I went away from there feeling very humble. I can tell you now after nine months have passed by, that the reservoir has not been filled, but the legislature of the state in which they reside has appropriated $25,000.00 to help them build another reservoir. They are building on a stream that flows into their fields. Another party has given one of them a contract to get out three million feet of timber. They increased their tithing in 1928 nearly fifty per cent over the previous year. The Lord is answering with a blessing upon their heads. The president of that district wrote me a letter, giving me these facts, with great appreciation. The Lord's protecting care is over us, he is blessing us, and we are grateful to be under his dominion. 

I pray that he will bless the Church and every member thereof, and above all, his servants who preside in the Church, that the work of the Lord may be carried on as he would have it, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We try always, at these conferences, to hear from all the General Authorities, also from mission presidents who have been recently released, and from those who have come in from their mission fields for conference and will return thereto. We have at the present time fortytwo General Authorities, recently retired mission presidents, and presidents who will return to their respective missions. We therefore find it necessary to ask the speakers to be brief in their remarks. 

President Grant, in announcing the closing hymn, "O Say, What is Truth?" to be sung by the congregation, said: "This hymn was written by one of the most loyal and faithful members of the Church, the late John Jacques, and was the favorite hymn of our well-beloved departed President, Anthon H. Lund." 

After the singing of the hymn the benediction was pronounced by Elder Danford M. Bickmore, President of the Hyrum Stake. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


