


ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

Some splendid things have been said during this Conference, and I am happy to find myself in hearty accord with them all. It may be supposed that differences of opinion have been expressed by certain speakers. But I do not recognize any such differences. It seems to me that there has been a wonderful unanimity of thought and utterance in the remarks of those who have addressed us. 

DIFFERENCES OF VIEWPOINT 

What appear to be differences in the teachings of the Lord's servants at times, are not differences in principle, nor in conviction, but only differences of viewpoint. We are all looking at the same object, but not through the same pair of eyes. The splendid discourse of Elder Ballard and the equally interesting talk of President Harris (the latter at the Priesthood meeting) set me to thinking along this line. 

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER 

I recall a trip to Rigby stake that I took some years ago, in company with my kinsman, Elder J. Golden Kimball. We were to attend a conference on Saturday and Sunday, but arrived at Rigby in the afternoon of Friday. A woman's meeting was in progress in the basement of the Tabernacle, and one of the sisters was holding forth to a large assemblage of mothers, wives and daughters. As we went in these words fell from her lips: "The girls of today are just as good as their mothers were when they were young — only they know more." And to clinch her argument she quoted a dialogue between a mother and a daughter, in which the mother said: "I never thought of doing such things when I was a girl." "No," answered the daughter, "if you had you'd have done them." GENERAL CONFERENCE  kimball's pro and con 

The conference opened in due season, and Brother Kimball arose to speak. The first thing he said that interested me was this: "There isn't one man in a thousand that knows how to treat a woman." And the sisters all over the house looked at each other and nodded their heads approvingly. Then Golden fired off the other barrel : "And there isn't one woman in a thousand that knows when she's well treated." I came home more than ever convinced that there are two sides to every question. 

THE YOUTH OF ZION 

I have faith in the young people of this Church — not because I believe them without fault, nor because I think all are walking in the ways of wisdom and shunning the downward road. I have faith in them because of the 'character of their parents, because of the ancestry from which they have sprung, and because of the promise made by the God of Heaven, that "this Kingdom shall never be thrown down nor given to another people.''" 

A WORD FOR THE WAYWARD 

You parents of the wilful and the wayward! Don't give them up. Don't cast them off. They are not utterly lost. The Shepherd will find his sheep. They were his before they were yours — long before he entrutsed them to your care; and you cannot begin to love them as he loves them. They have but strayed in ignorance from the Path of Right, and God is merciful to ignorance. Only the fulness of knowledge brings the fulness of accountability. Our Heavenly Father is far more merciful, infinitely more charitable, than even the best of' his servants, and the Everlasting Gospel is mightier in power to save than our narrow finite minds can comprehend. 

A PRECIOUS PROMISE 

The Prophet Joseph Smith declared — and he never taught more comforting doctrine — that the eternal sealings of faithful parents and the divine promises made to them for valiant service in the Cause of Truth, would save not only themselves, but likewise their posterity. Though some of the sheep may wander, the eye of the Shepherd is upon them, and sooner or later they will feel the tentacles of Divine Providence reaching out after them and drawing them back to the fold. Either in this life or the life to come, they will return. They will have to pay their debt to justice; they will suffer for their sins; and may tread a thorny path; but if it leads them at last, like the penitent Prodigal, to a loving and forgiving father's heart and home, the painful experience will not have been in vain. Pray for your careless and disobedient children; hold on to them with your faith. Hope on, trust on, till you see the salvation of God. 

Who are these straying sheep — these wayward sons and daughters ? They are children of the Covenant, heirs to the promises, and have re111 , if baptized, the^gift of the Holy Ghost, which makes manifest the things of God. Could all that go for naught? 

Something that President Nibley said much impressed me. As I interpreted him, he was reminding us of how Latter-day Saints are made, and how we must build up the Church and Kingdom of God. 

A SCENE FROM SHAKESPEARE 

Shakespeare, in that wonderful play, "The Merchant of Venice" 

I presume you are all familiar with It — pictures a court scene in which Shylock, a Jew money-lender, is suing Antonio, a Christian merchant, whom he hates and would fain destroy. Shylock holds a bond from Antonio for a loan of three thousand ducats, which bond, if the loan be not paid within a certain, time, permits the Jew to cut a pound of flesh from the merchant's body, nearest his heart, that being the penalty of the forfeiture. The money not being paid on time — Antonio's ships having been lost at sea — Shylock demands the strict fulfilment of the bond. 

Portia, a beautiful and talented lady, disguised as a lawyer, represents Antonio and entreats the Jew to be merciful. Shylock spurns the thought, and insists upon his pound of flesh. Portia then tells him to take it, but warns him, to shed no blood, lest he violate the law of Venice, which severely punishes an alien for seeking the life of a citizen. "Take your pound of flesh, but if in the taking of it you shed one drop of Christian blood, or cut off more or less than just one pound of flesh, thou diest, and all thy goods are confiscate." Shylock now tries to recede, but the law still holds him. For contriving, though indirectly, against the merchant's life, all his goods are confiscated— half to the State and half to Antonio — and his life "lies in the mercy of the Duke." Then comes a most wonderful decision — wonderful in its supreme absurdity. The Duke, who is the Judge, gives the Jew his life on condition that he "presently become a Christian." 

It is hard for me to believe that Shakespeare wrote those words — unless his purpose was to satirize the State of Venice and its method of dispensing justice to Jews. Shakespeare was noted for his rare good sense, and T have always been told that good law is good sense. But where was the good sense of trying to convert a Jew into a Christian by a decree of court? Up to that point the logic is faultless, the wisdom abundantly manifest; after that, it is conspicuous by its absence. Christians, real Christians, are not made that way. 

A COLONIZING PROPOSITION 

3 place beside this fancied incident an experience of my own. I was on a train in the State of Idaho, and had just taken breakfast and resumed my seat in the Pullman coach, when a gentleman came and sat beside me. Said he: "I gathered from your conversation in the diner that you are a Mormon." I nodded assent, and he continued : "I have long desired to talk with some of your leading men. I know only one prominent Mormon" — and he named Rulon S. Wells as the man. "I GENERAL CONFERENCE  deeply interested in colonization, and regar-d the Mormon people as the most successful colonizers in the world. I have noted the vain attempts made by Baron Hirsch and other wealthy Hebrew philanthropists, to colonize poor Jews from the large Eastern cities upon arid lands in the West; a project upon which they have spent millions, and failed because of the utter lack of experience as colonizers on the part of those whom they have sought to benefit. Now, if the Mormon leaders would form a co-partnership with Baron Hirsch and his colleagues — they to furnish the millions, you the skill as colonizers- — what a magnificent work might be accomplished! And mind you, you could stipulate in the contract, that every Jew thus colonized should become a Mormon! And just see how that would) build up your Church!" I remained silent, thinking of poor old Shylock and his proposed conversion to Christianity. Does any Latter-day Saint or latter-day sinner within the sound of my voice, believe that this Church could be built up by a colonizing contract or anything else of a commercial character? No; "Mormons" are not made that way. 

HOW MADE 

There is but one way to build up the Church of God — and that is God's way. not man's. Faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the reception of the Holy Ghost under the hands of divinely authorized ministers of the Gospel — these are essentials in the process. That gift of God which imparts a testimony of the Truth, supplemented by toil and sacrifice and continued obedience to the divine will — that is what makes true Latter-day Saints. Divine revelation is the rock upon which this Church is built, and the gates of hell cannot prevail against it. 

AS DICKENS SAW THEM 

What was the character of the early converts to "Mormonism'' ? They were stigmatized as ignorant and malicious. It was ignorance and malice that so stigmatized them. "Scum of the earth," "off-scourings of civilization" — these were some of the pet names bestowed upon them by their enemies. How utterly unjust, how grotesquely misapplied these epithets, must be apparent to everyone who has any knowledge of the facts. The great Charles Dickens, then a reporter on a London newspaper, after visiting an emigrant ship anchored in the Thames, a ship loaded with Latter-day Saints and about to sail for America, described them as "in their degree the pick and flower of England." And if that be true of England, it is true of America, and true of all the countries from which the Saints of latter days have come. As a matter of fact, they were among the best men and women of their time. Many were descended from the Pilgrims and the Patriots who founded this Nation, and in their veins, as sons and daughters of Israel, flowed the blood of priests and kings, illustrious through a thousand generations. 

AN ENGLISH HEROINE 

A few years ago I spoke at the funeral of an aged English woman 113  the town of Payson. iShe had been at one time a member oi the Eighteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, and I was her Bishop. Born in far-away Gloucestershire, as a young girl she joined the Church after hearing the first "Mormon" sermon to which she had ever listened. She went home a Latter-day Saint, and her parents turned her from the door. She had disgraced them, they said, by connecting herself with a people, who, like the early Christians, were everywhere spoken against —the unpopular and despised "Mormons." From that hour she earned her own living, earned it honestly, virtuously, and within ten years, her father, mother, brothers and sisters, by the mercy of God and influenced, no doubt, by her heroic example, had all been gathered into the Church.' They emigrated to Utah, and here she continued her good work in the Temple, redeeming hundreds of her dead ancestors and becoming literally a savior to her father's house. Is it not amazing that a little slip of a girl, only nineteen years of age, could manifest such strength of character, such devotion to principle? "Scum of the earth," forsooth! Would to heaven there were more like her! And there are many like her in this Church, many thousands of them, just as true and steadfast as she. They are the mothers, present or prospective, of our boys and girls, men and women of the future. 

"i CANNOT MAKE THE SACRIFICE" 

Let me now cite a different example. In the State of Ohio in the year 1877, while on my first mission, I formed the acquaintance of a very estimable lady, the widow of a Union officer who had fallen in battle during the Civil War. She loved her departed husband, revered his memory, and expressed for him the fondest, deepest devotion. When I told her of the doctrines of salvation for the dead, marriage for eternity, and the sacred sealings that pertain to the Hereafter — explaining that these were among the purposes for which the Latter-day Saints build temples and officiate therein — she was wonderfully interested. "Do you mean to tell me," she asked, "that if I become a Latter-day Saint I can have such work done for my dear husband, and be his wife in Eternity?" "Yes," said I, and she exclaimed: "I have never heard anything so beautiful, so sublime. Convince me of its truth, and I will be baptized if it were in a lake of living fire." Those were her very words. 

"I cannot convince you," I said, "but the Lord can, and will if you ask him." "I will ask him," was her hearty response; and no doubt she did, for she wrote me in a few days to this effect : "The Lord has given me the testimony that J desired, and I am now ready to be baptized." Overjoyed. I answered telling her that I would make up a little party and meet her at a certain point on the shore of Lake Erie, and there baptize her. 

The party was made up and about ready to start, when I received another note from her, reading as follows: "<L never knew before what a poor, weak, frail creature I am. I thought myself strong enough, brave enough, to take this step— but I am not. If I should become a GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Mormon, all my friends would forsake me, I would lose my social standing, and my name would be cast out as evil. I cannot make the sacrifice. And yet I believe the doctrines that you have laid before me, and regard you as a true servant of God. I hope the day will come when we can stand upon the same plane asi brother and sister in the Church; but I cannot do that now." 

I felt no anger — only disappointment and pity. How like the impetuous Peter, I thought, who said to Jesus, "Though all men forsake thee, I will not forsake thee;" and yet, when danger threatened, he denied him thrice — denied that he knew his Savior. But Peter repented, and the Holy Ghost, descending upon him, banished all timidity and made of him a brave man, ready to die for the Master. It is said that when about to be crucified, he begged the boon that it be with his head downward, not deeming himself worthy to die as his Lord had died. 

This good woman — for she was a good woman, a child of Israel, no doubt, else why did she believe? — had she been baptized she would have received the Holy Ghost, and it would have heartened and sustained her through every trial. She thought herself brave enough to be baptized in a lake of fire. But when weighed in the balance she was found wanting. It has taken braver women to build up the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

THE IMPELLING MOTIVES 

The motives that impelled the founders and early, members of this Church were vastly different from the motives generally imputed to them. It was not for gold and silver, houses and lands, nor any of "the good things of this world," that they forsook home and country,*, crossed the stormy ocean, dragged rickety hand-carts over sun-parched plains and snow-clad mountains, to . settle in a wilderness and suffer hardships and privations innumerable, while redeeming the waste and filling it with farms, vine-yards and happy homes. No; it was for God and his Kingdom — nothing less. It was the love of Truth that inspired and impelled them. And they did not wait for Truth to become popular before espousing her cause. The poet Lowell little knew how admirably he was painting their portrait when he penned these glowing lines : 

Then to side with Truth is noble, 

When we share her wretched crust, Ere her cause bring fame and profit, 

And 'tis prosperous to be just; Then it is the brave man chooses, 

While the coward stands aside, Doubting in his abject spirit 

Till his Lord is crucified, And the multitude make virtue 

Of the faith they had denied. 

Perhaps a little verse of my own may not be deemed unworthy of association with Lowell's heroic stanza. I wrote it as an inscription for a bronze statue, "The Hand-Cart Family," a work of our gifted 115 

Norwegian brother, Torleif Knaphus, unveiled some time ago by President Grant at the Bureau of Information : 

Nor gold, nor glory, their exalted quest, Who won for East the wide unconquered West. 

They toiled o'er frozen crest, o'er parching plain, Eternal wealth in higher worlds to gain. 

Forever in remembrance let them be, 

Who gave their all for Truth and Liberty! 

And like begets like! Fear not for Zion's future. The sons and daughters of the heroes and heroines who laid the foundations of this work, will build thereon and bear off the Kingdom triumphantly. When put to the test, they will "show the mettle of their pasture." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Notwithstanding the anxiety I have had since the commencement of this conference, anticipating the call to speak, I appreciate the invitation extended by the President of the Church for me to occupy a few moments of the time in this, the concluding session of our conference. I realize that I must be very careful not to offend by trespassing upon the time, for I realize there are a number of brethren whom it is desired to hear before the conclusion of the meeting. 

I have enjoyed this conference very greatly, notwithstanding the anxiety I have experienced. In fact, I have thought it to be one of the best conferences we have ever had, and as I looked upon the congregations of saints assembled here to receive the word of the Lord, and remembered that by the use of these amplifiers and radios there would be many thousands of other members of the Church and non-members who would hear what has been said, I have been greatly pleased and have been made to rejoice. But when I contrast the number here assembled with the total membership of the Church, which I understand is about 655,000, I am made to realize that there is but a very small percentage of the people that get the benefit directly from this conference. 

THE CONFERENCE PAMPHLET 

I have a thought in mind that I desire to express, a plan by which these splendid discourses may reach a greater number of our people. The proceedings of these meetings have been kept and will be printed verbatim and appear in a pamphlet or booklet known as The Conference Pamphlet, for distribution. I think that these pamphlets ought to be found more generally in the homes of the saints. I think we should publish a very great many more of them than we have had need for in the past. I have thought, during this conference, that some of these discourses were real gems. The Spirit of the Lord has been poured out upon us. The speakers have been magnified. They have given us the word of the Lord in such impressive, convincing manner that I have felt that we ought to provide means by which these GENERAL CONFERENCE  might have a wider circulation. Take, for example, the talkmade by Elder Stephen L. Richards on the subject of tithing, one that is usually spoken of as a very dry subject. — He dressed that subject in such attractive attire that it was made beautiful, impressive and convincing. That discourse should be read in the homes of all the saints by all those who have not had the privilege of hearing it. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF TITHE-PAYING 

The subject of tithing has claimed considerable of the time of this conference. A most excellent discourse upon that subject was delivered at the priesthood meeting by President Grant — very impressive indeed. The importance of the subject demands that it have consideration in our conferences and that it have consideration in our homes. I desire my family to be blessed of the Lord. I therefore desire that they pay their tithing. This Gospel which we have received is one of sacrifice all along the line — In order to be disciples, worthy of the Master, we must be willing that all of our substance be used as far as necessary for the carrying on of the work of the Lord. We must be willing to lay down our lives if need be for the Gospel's sake. We may not be called upon to make such great sacrifices but we are called upon to give one-tenth of our interest annually as a tithe with which to assist in carrying on the work of the Lord, looking to the saving of souls; and sacrifices of this kind bring forth the blessings of heaven : I have proved it. Others have proved it. I know it is true. It brings a peace, a joy, a hope, and an assurance of the blessings of the Lord and his favor that scarcely anything else will do. 

Now, this places a responsibility upon parents. I have an unmarried son; not because he does not believe in the law of tithing do I want him to read that discourse, because het does believe in it, and practices it to the extent that he has means, interest or income; it is not that I think the young people of Zion do not believe in the principle of tithing or that the saints generally do not believe in it, — but it is that we may have understanding of the obligations resting upon us, and the blessings that may accrue to us by faithfully performing that duty. 

GEMS OF INFORMATION 

I call attention to another discourse, that delivered by Elder Ballard. 1 thought it was a wonderful discourse. He never could have delivered it without the help of the Lord, and I endorse it fully. It is what we might call a delicate subject, referring to the subject of sex, purity of life, and so forth; but in a most masterful manner that discourse was delivered, in words that could be understood and yet would not offend the delicate sensibilities of any young woman. I desire that the young people of Zion who are not present shall have opportunity of reading that discourse. The Lord has blessed the Church with some very efficient teachers of his word and will and I appreciate them, and I would like the members of the Church to have the opportunity of 117  these gems of information and truth. If T can leave this word impressed upon the minds of Latter-day Saints in such a way that they will secure the Conference Pamphlet, and possibly in their home evenings consider it with their sons and daughters, then I shall feel that my remarks have not been made in vain. 

"a marvelous work and a wonder" 

Brethren and sisters, we are reminded that yesterday was the ninety-ninth birthday anniversary of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Already preparations are being made for a grand centennial celebration, suited to the occasion to take place one year hence. There have been ninety-nine years of wonderful accomplishments in the earth. A wonderful work, a marvelous work and a wonder among the children of men. A reform has been wrought in the minds and lives of many thousands of people. A reform has been wrought in the religious creeds of this world; and the reformation of the future, I am sure, will be very much greater so far as respects the creeds of this world. Think of it. Hundreds of thousands of honest souls have found a life of happiness, joy, hope — yea, assurance of eternal life, — through yielding obedience to the laws and ordinances of this Gospel, and have passed on to their reward; the reward of the faithful; the reward of eternal life. And there are now in the Church, in the neighborhood of 655,000 souis enjoying the blessings of the Gospel, happy in serving the Lord, in making the sacrifices, having a testimony and a knowledge of the truth of this work, so that they are not in doubt. The future is clear before them. If they can but continue true and faithful to the cause and the covenants and obligations they have entered into, the reward of eternal life is certain. Ninety-nine years of accomplishments. These accomplishments will be portrayed in an impressive manner at the end of a hundred years. 

appreciation of blessings 

In vour presence, my brethren and sisters, I feel to acknowledge the hand of God and his blessings unto me and unto my people whom I love. For I love the Latter-day Saints and I love the Lord and his great work. I appreciate the Gospel, its blessings and ordinances, as of course you do. I appreciate my membership in the Church, the fellowship I have with the Latter-day Saints, and the association I have with them. I appreciate my association with the leaders of this Church whom I know personally and well, and know them to be servants of God, worthy of their calling. I am thankful to be permitted to labor with them in the midst of this people, "to contribute a little, that which I am able to do, towards the advancement of the work of the Lord here upon the earth. I am thankful for his sustaining power that has attended me  in my humble administrations. If I could have done many many times more than I have for this cause, I would still be indebted to the Church. The Church owes me nothing. It owes no man anything. No man who ever became a member of this Church has fully paid the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of obligation that he owes to God and to this Church and his religion, no matter how faithful he may have been. 

DILIGENCE AND FAITHFULNESS URGED 

Brethren and sisters, do not be discouraged with the duties and obligations resting upon you; of paying your tithes, offerings, contributions, necessary in the labor of the ministry at home or abroad. If we attend to these regularly and faithfully, they will tie us closer and closer and anchor our faith and our souls, and we will be sure of salvation as long as we continue so to do. It is only those who understand these things and have not the faith to yield obedience and make the sacrifices that the Gospel entails, who are unhappy or disappointed in any degree. We cannot afford, brethren and sisters, to be indifferent in this great work or to neglect a single duty. 

I know that this work is true as I know that I live. I desire to be true and faithful to the end, and in order to be so, I know that I must have the help of the Lord; and the assurance I have is that if I do my daily duty I will have his help and jl will be able to remain faithful. I pray the Lord to help me and you, my brethren and sisters, to be faithful and appreciative of his love, kindness and mercy, and I do it in the name of 'Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

"We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God." (Article of Faith No. 9.) 

One of the things that has greatly delighted me in this conference has been the prominence given to the Book of Mormon and to the importance of it as a means of acquainting the world with that system of truth for which we stand. But the passage from our articles of faith just repeated reminds me that the Book of Mormon is only one out of very many things that may aid us in this work of making God's message known to the world. 

We seldom hear the Doctrine and Covenants spoken of as a volume of scripture and important as a help in convincing the world of the truth of our message. Perhaps I can present the thought I hold in my mind upon that subject by relating a circumstance that happened very many years ago in the Southern States. On one of the branch streams of the Tennessee river in one of our conference districts, there lived a woman of some considerable local fame, I may say, noted for her strong character, her intelligence and her religious sincerity. It so happened that she invited us to her home on one of our visits to induce her to read the Book of Mormon and to pay attention to the doctrines we had explained. Several of the local ministers who rather depended 119  her as something of a pillar in one of their churches, heard with alarm the fact that she was reading the Book of Mormon, and called upon her to persuade her to give up her perusal of it; and gave her the stereotyped idea used by opponents of the book at that time, and brought to her pamphlets and articles from periodicals to show that the Book of Mormon was fiction and originated in the Spaulding Romance. They urged her to read this testimony against the book, and she promised them she would do so. In the course of a week or two they returned to her to inquire the progress she was making, and she answered them in substance in this way: "I am somewhat confused in relation to this Book of Mormon. The Mormon elders tell one story of its origin and you tell another, and I must confess I am somewhat perplexed about it; but," said she, "here is another book that the Mormon elders have presented to me and which I have read. They call it the Doctrine and Covenants. It purports to contain a number of revelations to Joseph Smith which he is said to have received. It is nearly equal in volume to the Book of Mormon, and there is no question at all in relation to the authorship of this book. None of you questions, that Joseph Smith wrote it. He is the author of it, and claims everything in it to be inspired of God; and I wish to state to you," said she, "that this book, — the revelations that are in it — contains as much evidence, and even more evidence, that the man who produced it was inspired of God than does the Book of Mormon that it was written by inspiration. Now what have you to say to that, and how will you explain away that?" Of course they had no explanation. The Book of Doctrine and Covenants stands unquestioned as to its authorship, and I wish to express a belief that there is evidence of inspiration in it equal to that of the Book of Mormon. 

Let me just hurriedly call your attention to a few of the prominent revelations of the Book. If :I had time I would read some of them but that is out of the question. A number of men came to the Prophet Joseph while he was yet engaged in translating the Book of Mormon, and asked him to use the sacred instruments to inquire of the Lord for them. Most of them wanted to know what was to be their lot and part in this great institution that they saw coming into existence. The answer to those inquiries is contained in some eight or ten of the early revelations received as, I have described; and iri every case they were told that those who were inspired of the Lord with desires to help in bringing forth this work, must proceed upon the lines of faith, and hope and charity, with an eye single to the glory of God, and with an honest desire and purpose to bring to pass the salvation of the souls of men; and that humility united with these other qualifications equipped them for this great and wonderful work that God was about to bring forth. In no single instance were they promised the honors of men or the reward of personal prosperity and fame. That, to me, is one of the clearest evidences that the Prophet was inspired of God. 

Following through the Doctrine and Covenants you will come to the wonderful revelation in the 20th Section, in which is outlined the GENERAL CONFERENCE , and being, and character of God; the ordinances of the Gospel; the moral law in part, together with the arrangement for the first simple step in the organization of the quorums of the holy priesthood; and the exact terms of the ordinances of the Gospel, including that most masterful prayer which consecrates the holy sacrament. In the first part of it is the great and eternal doctrine of our faith in God, the Eternal Father, and in Jesus Christ hi§ Son; and these emblems associated with the prayer bear witness of their being the symbols of man's salvation. In the second part is named the covenants which man makes with God. bringing about that union with God by which man may participate in the enjoyment of his Spirit and always have it to be with him. Then I might mention the section read by President Nibley this morning, Section 50, containing the beautiful doctrine which he expounded. Section 68, laying the foundation for the inspiration and real force of the priesthood within the Church. Section 84, with its doctrine of God's assurance that he will be with his servants. Section 89, the health law of the Church as given by the Lord in the Word of Wisdom. Section 88, the revelation in which the "imminence of God," in the universe; the Spirit that proceeds forth from him, bearing upon it all the attributes and powers of God, creative power, world-sustain.ing power, vital force, intelligence-inspiring power, the love-manifesting power through Jesus Christ, and harmonizing as no other revelations harmonize, the great universe of God and the union of our world with that universe. Section 107 should not be omitted, which is the doctrine of the priesthood, and which portrays the relationship and operations of the several quorums of the priesthood. All these things are set forth, and it is the record of the living voice of God as it has been manifested in bringing forth this great Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and bears the impress of God's inspiration upon it. 

Perhaps I might call your attention to the fourth book of scripture which the Church accepts officially and by which it is willing to be judged, — The Pearl of Great Price. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price are prized by us above all other books. If the world but had the Pearl of Great Price, and the knowledge it conveys, it would shed a penetrating light upon all the scriptures that our Christian friends acknowledge, and make known the truth of God; how, from the beginning, instead of dealing with mere fragments and hints at the plan of salvation, it would set forth the whole plan clearly. About all the world has in the Old Testament about the Gospel is the statement in Genesis that the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent's head — wound him in a vital part, overcome him; and the implication that is to. be seen in the offering of Abel, and the rejection of the offering by Cain; with here and there an indication of information that underlaid the testimony of those patriarchs that they had some knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. But from the book of Moses and in the Book of Abraham, in the Pear! of Great Price, we get revelation of the plan of salvation that was instituted in heaven among the spirits that were the children of God, 121  an explanation of the earth life of man that is truly enlightening. Patriarchs from Adam to Noah have been some of the mightiest servants of God and the greatest prophets. They knew very much more than the fragmentary knowledge that has come to the world in our day. 

For instance, how helpful it would be if the Christian religious world of today could have such a summary of the Gospel as it was known among the ancients, according to the 1 Book of Moses, and that rather mysterious and unknown character, Enoch, who represents God as giving the following revelation to Adam : 

An Ancient Discourse ,on the Gospel — 

"And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the plan of salvation unto all? men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the meridian of time. 

"And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me. 

'And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. 

'And thus he) was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in' the inner man. 

"And herheard a voice, out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever; 

"And thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity" 

"Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons." (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 6:62-68.) 

This is an outline of the Gospel which Adam knew, which Enoch preached, which Noah plead with the people to accept in his day; and it proves that the patriarchal ages were not as blind to the things of God as the world imagines them to have been. 

Permit me to say that the Book of Moses from which I have read, was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith — who received it as a revelation from God — beginning as early as June, 1830, about three months after he completed the Book of Mormon; and by the close of December of that year the whole book as we know it was com; pleted. If the world would only accept the knowledge of the Gospel as it was in ancient times among the inhabitants of the earth, we would find the matter of convincing them of our truth very much improved. 

This book of Scripture, the Book of Moses, as well as the Book of Mormon, then, brings light and truth into the world for the salvation of men. God grant that this light and truth may be extended among the nations, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to have this privilege of seeing this house so well filled in another annual conference of the Church. I heartily accord with the wonderful testimonies and teachings which have been given during the conference, and am grateful for the privilege of bearing my testimony, thus mingling my voice with the voices of my brethren. 

 y OUR BLESSINGS , 

Many of the brethren have expressed appreciation for the blessings which have come to the Church, each one of them having said something pertaining to our great blessings; and I have thought during the singing and the speaking of the conference that surely the Lord has guided and blessed it. 

I would like to refer to one verse of the beautiful song that was sung today by the choir, which points particularly to the thought of our blessings. These lines have clung to my memory: 

"The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand." 

I have wondered what claim we hold upon those wonderful blessings, and yet each one of the brethren has explained and borne testimony to the kindness and mercy of the Lord in bringing about these particular times in which we live and the promises of the Lord to his chosen Israel throughout the different times of the world. 

THE BLESSINGS OF EPHRAIM AND MANASSEH 

I am trying to bring to you a thought that has been prevalent in my own mind relative to these important promises, and I have in mind the great blessings which were given by the great patriarch Jacob to his grandsons Ephraim and Manasseh. When these two lads were taken to their grandfather for their blessings, their grandfather was feeble and dim of sight because of his age. There seems to have been a peculiar custom in those times that when a thing of this kind happened the older son was to receive the blessing of the right hand and the younger son the blessing of the left hand. But for some reason which was not explained, only that the patriarch said that he knew what he was doing, when his son Joseph was perturbed in his feelings Jacob in blessing these two boys crossed his arms, placing his right hand upon the younger and his left hand upon the older, and blessed Ephraim first. In his explanation to Joseph, the father of these boys, Jacob said : Manasseh shall become great, and he shall receive his blessings; but Ephraim shall become greater, and he shall be a multitude of nations. 

You heard in the report made by the President of the Church 123  to the growth of the Church, that there are today more than one hundred stakes of Zion. It is the policy and order of the Church at the present time to have at least one patriarch, who is authorized to bless the members of the stake, and in so doing, declare their lineage, in a similar way to the manner in which Jacob blessed his grandsons, and his own sons. At the present time in the Church the great majority of those receiving their blessings are declared to be of the house and lineage of Ephraim, while many others are designated as members of the house of Manasseh; but up to the present time we have discovered that those who are leaders in Israel, no matter where they come from, no matter what nation they have come out of, are of Ephraim; while the blood of Manasseh is found in the tribes and nations of the Indians of North and South' America. They are great, they are wonderfully blessed, but Ephraim seems to prevail in the greater blessings, greater in responsibility, and in faithfulness to the Lord's work. And so people T have wondered about it. Why do the patriarchs declare that most of us are of Ephraim? 

THE DAY OF EPHRAIM 

It is my testimony that "today" is the day of Ephraim. It is the day which the Lord has set to fulfil his promises made in the times of the ancient patriarchs, when he said that he would scatter Israel to the four corners of the world, and that Ephraim should be scattered in, all the nations, and then in the "last days" be gathered out again. Many are being gathered out by our missionaries, as "one of a family and two of a city;" and they are found here, gathered into a gathering place appointed of the Lord, and they are receiving his blessings. This is why so many of us are declared to be of Ephraim. If there were time I would like to speak further about our blessings. The Prophet Joseph Smith, was declared to be of this house of Joseph, a chosen vessel. Read II Nephi, chapter 3, relative to the promises made regarding him. But the principal point I have in mind at the present time is the fact that we may discover our lineage, or where we stand in Israel. 

There have been discovered also, a few of the house of Israel who belong to the tribe of Levi, — an ancient priest. There are also a few of some other tribes of Israel, but very few except those of the house of Jacob, as represented by Ephraim in the great multitudes who are enjoying the blessings of the Church, and those who are of Manasseh — the great multitudes of Indians in North and South America. 

THE LORD'S PROMISE UNTO NEPHI 

The Prophet Nephi (a Manassehite), who was privileged to witness the progress and even the destruction of his people, received a particular promise from the Lord, wherein he was comforted in the fact that though his people would be chastised and destroyed they would not be utterly destroyed, but that they should be mixed with his brethren so that the blood and the blessings of the prophets oi that people would not be utterly lost. — Through my experience in meeting up GENERAL CONFERENCE  some of our visitors from the islands of the Pacific Ocean, I was able to discover that the natives of New Zealand and the natives of the Hawaiian Islands are chiefly of that mixed blood which the Lord promised should not be utterly, destroyed, but that in the last days, through their faithfulness, should receive the blessings of the Lord and even become a white and delightsome people. 

The promises of the Lord are being fulfilled and the blessings are being administered under his counsel through his holy servants. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us and that he will continue to inspire the leaders of the Church to lead us in the ways that he would have us go, and that the promises that the Lord has made concerning Israel, (the Jews and others in the great house of Israel) may be rapidly realized. 

"judah's remnant" 

The Jews are preparing to return to the land that was given to them for their inheritance. Many of them have already returned. 5o "Judah's remnant will receive their blessings in their promised Canaan." However a few of the Jews have come into the Church. 

THE LAW OF ADOPTION 

We have also a number in the Church, who, so far as. we are able to judge and learn, did not originally beiong to the house of Israel at all. Then you say, where do they get their blessings? What is their lineage? Well, I explain that in this way: When you adopt a child that does not belong to you originally, and that child grows up in your family, it obtains its blessings the same as othef members of your family. It is the same as your own. If I adopt a child that is born in the world 1 share my blessings with that child, as he shares his blessings with me. In my household I am responsible, he partakes at the same "table," the same blessings. By the law of adoption that child receives his right to the blessings of my household, and therefore he belongs to my household through the law of adoption. Through our faithfulness we are all adopted into the fold of Christ. We are his and his blessings are upon us, through our faithfulness in obeying the laws of his Gospel. And) so, if other people outside of the house of Israel have faith and obedience enough to come into the Church they will receive their lineage and blessings according to the house which they enter. If they enter into the family of Israel they will receive the same lineage as the house or tribe that adopted them, just the same as the adopted child receives the blessings of the family that adopted him. 

That is my idea. I hope that I have made it clear. And so today we are discovering, through the kindness and mercy of the Lord, that his promises are being fulfilled and that his blessings are being received by those who are observing his laws and keeping his commandments. 

TESTIMONY AND BLESSING 

I have a testimony that this is the work of the Lord; that the 125 

Prophet Joseph Smith was a prophet in very deed, the descendant of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, through the lineage of Ephraim, a promised vessel in the hands of the Lord; and that those who have succeeded him in the advancement and progress of the Church have also been inspired and blessed as chosen vessels in the hands of the Lord. I am very grateful for the testimony I have; of the divinity of this work. I pray the Lord's blessing upon those who carry responsibility in the work entrusted to them, — President Grant and his associates, the General Authorities, you men and women who are laboring throughout the stakes and wards, in the Church schools and in the temples, also the brethren and sisters who are laboring in the mission field. I pray God's blessings upon you all and upon the entire Church and its membership and those who befriend it, — the honest in heart and the worthy throughout the world. May God's blessings go with you to your homes, and help you to serve the Lord and keep his commandments, and help to bring about his holy purposes, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

One of the regrets that we nearly always have in our conferences is that we do not seem to have quite time enough to hear from all of those whom we would like to hear. As you will see by the clock there are only twenty minutes left and we have yet four speakers. We will ask Brothers Charles H. Hart and J. Golden Kimball to occupy fifteen minutes between them, and we shall not have time to hear the others. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Canadian Mission 

While traveling through the State of Vermont, last summer, territory newly added to the Canadian mission, while visiting the granite works at Barre, Vermont, my attention was called to an issue of The Granite Cutter's Journal, published in Quincy, Massachusetts, containing a splendid article entitled "The Mormon Battalion Monument", illustrated by four full pages of photographs of the monument. The editor said that one look at the photographs of the monument and he "realized that a single view of it would not be sufficient to bring out its great merit;" therefore all four photographs were reproduced. 

A letter from the Secretary of the American Granite Association was cjuoted in part as follows : 

"I think the monument is one of the finest things! that has ever come to our attention in this office. It is strikingly original in the matter of design, and the photographs show that the carving around the base is executed with unusual delicacy and accuracy. Insofar as the photograph shows, I do not believe that there is another piece of granite carving anywhere in the country done in such delicate detail unless it is the Robert Burns Monument in Barre, Vermont." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The secretary stated that the Salt Lake monument is good proof of the fact "that anything that can be carved in marble can be carved in granite if it is seamed, designed and executed with proper knowledge of the cutting of granite." He then presented descriptive matter as to each panel. As to the panel "The Enlistment," the article states: 

"Upon the north side of the monument is shown 'The Enlistment' of the Mormon Battalion under the flag of the United States of America. Dominating this scene is the central figure representing the eager, fearless and aggressive spirit of youth. A prominent feature of the scene is a portrait of Brigham Young in high relief. Captain James Allen is shown in the background, as are also the youths grouped around the enlistment table. This is the scene of farewell, which sentiment is expressed in all of its poignancy in the grief of the lover, and in the parting of the volunteer with his wife and children." 

Then there is presented other descriptions and the inscriptions also upon the monument. 

Inasmuch as it became my duty under the appointment of his Excellency, the Governor, and two of his predecessors, to share with others particularly in the raising of the last twelve or fifteen thousand dollars that had to be obtained by popular subscription, and inasmuch as I have never had the opportunity before of expressing my thanks to those people who so generously came to the support of the committee at that time, although I realize that this was purely a civic enterprise, I am wondering whether it would not be in place to extend thanks to the many thousands that I know are within the sound of my voice, for their response to the requests by telephone and personal appeal for the raising of these last thousands. 

In passing through the city of Chicago the other day I was reminded of our M. I. A. slogan, "We stand for law, for the people who live it, and for the officers who enforce it." At Springfield, Illinois, there appeared before the judiciary committee the noted criminal lawyer, Mr. Clarence S. Darrow, in opposition to a bill which had been sponsored by the Advisory Council of Chicago, and by the Bar Association of Chicago. Air. Darrow received about the same cordial reception at the hands of State Senator Roy C. Woods and Judge Harry M. Fisher of the Circuit Court of Chicago, that Goliath of Gath received at the hands of the shepherd boy David. Bishop Whitney has asked the question — some of you may have heard it — "Why was Goliath surprised at the sling-shot thrown by David?" and the answer was, "Because nothing of that kind had ever entered his head before." (Laughter.) I am sure that this modern Philistine received a salutary lesson from the reception which he received at Springfield the other day. 

Judge Fisher said that the criminal situation in Chicago is due to the "continuous vilification of our courts; to the impotence of those courts under our law that has led to a belief among the criminal element that it may safely come to Chicago and practice its business and escape punishment." 

I wish that the sentiment of the M. 1. A. slogan recited in concert 127  the Church during the past six months, pledging support in sustaining law might be recited in concert not only by our members and others in the State of Illinois, but elsewhere throughout the country. 

The work in the Canadian mission is going forward in a way that cultivates the faith of our missionaries. I thought of them as the combined choirs sang so beautifully this afternoon in reference to the messengers who bring the gospel of peace. When major operations were necessary our missionaries have gone to the operating table with calmness and with a faith that has been surprising to the attendants. They have been diligent in circulating the Book of Mormon. One elder just wrote me that he put out forty-five copies in two days, and he gave, to each of the state officials of one state a copy of the Book of Mormon. The elders have been very free in presenting their testimony of the Gospel to ministers, school teachers, and other leading people. Hundreds of intelligent people in one province are said to be now ready to listen to the Gospel if we had missionaries to bear that word to them. Our missionaries are very few in number in that province. 

May the Lord bless us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I often tell a story when called up to speak just as we are about to close the meeting, which happens to me occasionally. 

A little fellow was sick and he went to the doctor who was a herbalist. The doctor gave him four herbs and told him to boil them in a quart of water and drink it all. The little fellow said : "I can't. I only hold a pint." I am wondering how much you people hold? 

I have enjoyed the conference. I have not had much peace here for a considerable length of time. The President has been calling people up from all around me. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that in the few words I speak I may be able to impress the people of this Church with the fact, as I am quite sure I have done in the past, that I am frank and honest and sincere in my faith as a Latter-day Saint. 

I believe all that has been revealed. I have no doubt whatsoever of the truth of this work. I have gone out like others have done, and have found God, and God has answered my prayers.- I have heard that still small voice, and I have an assurance, and as much knowledge as has been given to me by the influence of the Holy Spirit, that this is God's work. 

I pray the Lord to bless the people. I have no grievance. No man can ever be treated better than I have been. If I have been corrected once or twice it has done me more good than anything else that has happened to me. The Lord bless you. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

From the way we have nearly always been crowded in the conferences that have been held during the past ten years, at which I have had the privilege of presiding, I am wondering if it would not be advisable, as I am sure we dislike very much not to hear from all of the General Authorities, to arrange to hold a conference meeting the night before the usual conference sessions. I thought that inasmuch as two of the brethren. Elders Reed Smoot and John A. Widtsoe, are not here, there might be ten or fifteen minutes left for me. But in some way when people start to talk on the Gospel they get- warmed up, and although the clock is right in front of them, they very frequently do not see it. 

In my opening remarks I occupied ten minutes, in addition to the time required to give the statistics of the Church, and I was in hopes that I might have some little time in which to speak to you before the close of the conference. I have made up my mind to take it notwithstanding the usual time of closing has arrived. 

THE TESTIMONY OF TWELVE WITNESSES 

The theme of this conference has been the Book of Mormon. I do not believe that in any court of justice in the world if a man was being tried for murder and twelve reputable citizens testified of their knowledge of the circumstances leading to the murder, and there was no one who could testify against what they said, there would be a failure to convict the man. We have the testimony of Joseph Smith and the testimony of three witnesses to the effect that God gave them a knowledge regarding the Book of Mormon, that an angel of God declared from heaven that the book had been translated by the gift and power of God. These men were Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris. They left the Church, but to the day of their death they maintained their testimony regarding the declaration of the angel, and that they were commanded to bear witness of the divinity of this book, and they did so. Eight men, some of whom were excommunicated from the Church, maintained their testimony that they had seen and handled the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, and they remained true to that testimony to the day of their death. The disbelief of all the world does not prove that those men did not tell the truth, because there are no witnesses on the other side. 

A TRUE WITNESS FOR GOD 

It has been said that the Book of Mormon has fraud written upon every page of it. The Book of Mormon is in absolute harmony from start to finish with other sacred scriptures. There is not a doctrine taught in it that does not harmonize with the teachings of Jesus Christ. There is not one single expression in the Book of Mormon that would wound in the slightest degree the sensitiveness of any individual. There 129  not a thing in it but what is for the benefit and uplift of mankind. It is in every way a true witness for God, and it sustains the Bible and is in harmony with the Bible. No group of men can write a book of six or seven hundred pages that is a fraud and have it in harmony in every particular with the scriptures that were given to us by the prophets of God and by Jesus Christ and his Apostles. 

A gentleman told me that he had read Joseph Smith's own story. He said that no liar ever told such a story. No liar could write such a book; and the evidences of the book's truthfulness are coming to light day by day. 

THE USE OF CEMENT 

I have often said and desire to repeat here that when I was a young unmarried man, another young man who had received a doctor's degree ridiculed me for believing in the Book of Mormon. He said he could point out two lies in that book. One was that the people had built their homes out of cement and that they were very skilful in the use of cement. He said there had never been found and never would be found, a house built of cement by the ancient inhabitants of this country, because the people in that early age knew nothing about cement. He said that should be enough to make one disbelieve the book. I said : "That does not affect my faith one particle. I read the Book of Mormon prayerfully and supplicated God for a testimony in my heart and soul of the divinity of it, and I have accepted it and believe it with all my heart." I also said to him, "If my children do not find cement houses, I expect that my grandchildren will." He said, "Well, what is the good of talking with a fool like that?" Now, since that time houses made of cement and massive structures of the same material have been uncovered. 

Not very far from the City of Mexico there is a monument two hundred and ten feet high, built of cement, that was supposed to be a big hill. My first counselor has stood on that monument. You could put forty tabernacles like this one inside of it. It covers more than ten acres of ground and is two and a half times higher than this building. From the top of that monument one can see small mounds, and as these mounds are being uncovered they are found to be wonderfully built cement houses, with drain pipes of cement, showing skill and ability, superior almost to anything we have today so far as the use of cement is concerned. 

THE VOICE OF THE SAVIOR 

Another statement that this doctor made was this: that the voice of man can only carry a few hundred feet, and yet the Book of Mormon teaches that when Jesus Christ was resurrected and came to this country he spoke to the people and his voice was heard all over the land, not alone by the people that were near, but all over the land. "That is a lie," said he, "and you know it." I said, "That is no lie at all. Jesus Christ, under God, was the Creator of this earth, and GENERAL CONFERENCE  he had the power and ability to create the earth I believe that he could arrange for his voice to- carry all over the world at one and the same time." 

The radio is doing- what? I read the other day that a song had been heard nine thousand miles away, not only every word of it, but every note. (There are several notes in every word.) We had four letters from New Zealand or Australia, I have forgotten which, to the effect that people there had heard perfectly the programs that had been broadcast over the radio by the Martha Washington Candy Company. In that program the announcement was made that if anybody in a foreign land who heard the program would so indicate there would be sent to him a pound box of candy, and four people wrote' for the boxes of candy. It takes the sun eighteen and one half hours to travel that far, yet the voice carried that distance as quickly as you can snap your finger. 

I said to this man : "The voice of the Savior could go all over the world if he so arranged it." The radio has proven what I said. Faith is a gift of God, and I thank God for the faith in and the knowledge of the divinity of the Book of Mormon which I had in my youthful days, and that these two alleged scientific facts, which are now known to be fallacies, did not destroy my faith. 

LISTENERS IN DISTANT PLACES 

I rejoice in the wonderful time that we have had together here. I want to request our people and any that are not of our faith who are listening in distant places to what I am saying, to send a postal card informing us of that fact. If there is a little gathering of a dozen or more people in a home, or in a meeting-house, in any part of the country from Canada to Mexico, listening over the radio to these services, please send a postal card to the Bishop's Office telling how many were listening to the services. And if there are any who are not of our faith who are listening in we would appreciate it if they, too. would notify us that they have heard the services. We would like to know how many people have heard the testimonies that have been borne during this conference, given by men who are devoting their lives and all that is in them for the advancement of truth and the spread of righteousness. 

BLESSINGS INVOKED 

I pray God to bless each and every soul on the face of the earth that believes in God, and for those who do not, I pray that God may help them to obtain a testimony that he lives, that he is the Father of our spirits, that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer of the world. 

SHOULD LIVE THE GOSPEL 

I hope and pray that the saints will ' live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I hope that they will listen to the teachings of the presidents 131  stakes and bishops of wards. I want to say that we expect every president of a stake and every bishop of a ward to teach the people the truth. We want them to tell the people that they are expected to obey the Word of Wisdom, to be honest tithe-payers, to remember the covenants that they make in the temples of God, and not mutilate their garments : that we expect them to quit playing cards; and that we expect them to do their duty as saints, and to preach the Gospel by living it. 

May God help each and every one of us that has a testimony of this Gospel to live it, is my earnest prayer. I pray God to bless the Latter-day Saints and the honest the world over, and I do it in humility and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 
