Afternoon
07 04 1905



ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Remarkable Development and Numerous Changes in Church Affairs.— Toung People Should be Prepared for Futur,Responsibilties.— Predictions of Ancient Prophets Now Being Fulfilled. 

Brethren and sisters, I have greatly rejoiced in the spirit of this conference and in the great gatherings of the Latter-day Saints within this building. There was a time when the Latter-day Saints were weak in numbers. That time was the 6th day of April, 1830, Today, however, the people of the Lord are strong — strong in faith, strong in experience, and reasonably strong in numbers. Today we have 55 stakes of Zion, with 629 wards, and 14 missions in the world; and there is no ward in Zion but has a larger membership than the whole Church had 75 years ago. I remember the Time, although I was but a boy, when a great canvas was stretched across the center of this building, because at that time the place was too large and it was difficult even to fill one half of the building with Latter-day Saints. Today the Tabernacle is not adequate. I do not remember to have witnessed so large a gathering at the first session of our conference as we had yesterday morning, and we have today a vast congregation of Latter-day Saints, numbering perhaps between 8,000 and 10,000. This is a very remarkable showing. It is encouraging to witness the growth and progress of the work of God. 

Some very wonderful changes have occurred since the organization of the Church. I call your attention to the fact that there are but few people within the sound of my voice today who were acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, or who saw him in life. Most of his eontemporariss have passed away. I call your attention to some oiher changes that have taken place, suggested to my mind by the remarks of President Lund when he alluded to the fact that this was the seventy-fifth annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Since our organization as a Church five Presidents have passed away; six counselors to the Presidents, 11 Apostles — nearly a full quorum of those who were faithful — have passed into the spirit world; 11 members of the First Council of Seventies, and three Presiding Bishops have also gone. But this change is not so remarkable, in my opinion, as what has occurred in our own time, within the brief period of 13 years. Since the year 1892, two Presidents of the Church have passed beyond— Presidents Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow; one counselor in the Presidency, President George Q. Cannon; the following Apostles: Franklin D. Richards, Abraham H. Cannon, Brig-ham Young, Jr., and Abraham O. Woodruff; three of the First Council of Seventies: Jacob Gates, John Morgan and Edward Stevenson; and of the other general authorities, Brother Karl G. Maeser, general superintendent of Church schools, and Brother George Goddard, first assistant general superintendent of the Sunday  of the Church, and John JaQues, assistant Church historian. Thirteen years ago there were 33 stakes of Zion; today there are 55 stakes, or an. increase of 22 in 13 years. Of the 33 Presidents of stakes then living 11, or onethird of the number, have passed away. So that in all 21 of the general authorities of the Church out of the 26 have closed their labors here and passed into the spirit world. To me this is very remarkable, and it shows that great changes are going on, almost without notice. What may we expect, brethren and sisters, in the course of 20 or 30 or 50 years to come? Whether we disguise it or not, the fact still remains that the boys and girls of today will be the men and women of tomorrow. The authority resting upon the men of today will speedily descend to their children; and this emphasizes the need and the importance of the quorums of the Holy Priesthood and the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Many parents among us are very busy men and women; they are engaged in the various avocations of life, in order to provide for their families, and they do not seem to have very much time to devote to the teaching of their children. But a way is provided in the quorums of the Priesthood and in these organizations whereby the children may be taught in the things of the Lord. We have various grades of the Priesthood in the Church, from the Deacon up to the High Priest. There is no principle in this Church of so great importance and consequence to us as the authority of the Priesthood. This authority sl.ould be fostered and nourished, and the quorums should be strengthened and supported by the Latter-day Saints. Every man, every young man, and every boy who holds the Priesthood should do his duty. We should also foster and encourage the auxiliary organizations of the Church. The Relief society, the Sunday school, the Mutual Improvement association, the Primary and the Religion class, all should have our support; and parents should see to it that their children are sent to these places 

ELDER RUDG 

of instruction, that they may be prepared and fitted for the great responsibility that will rest upon them in the near future. And notwithstanding, brethren and sisters, that prominent men and women, pillars of the Church, men and women of power, of strength and of faith, are passing away, still the Church goes on. That is characteristic of this work. I call your attention to the fact that some very remarkable predictions have been made concerning the work in which we are engaged. It was known of old. Even Daniel the prophet saw this work. You will remember, doubtless, the great vision of Nebuchadnezzar, which he could not call to mind. He had had a vision in the night time, in which he beheld wonderful things; but it was taken from his mind. He sent for the astrologers and wise men of Babylon, and he wanted to know from them what his vision was, and also the interpretation; but the wise men could not help him. If he could only recall the vision, why then they might give to him the interpretation; but he could not do it. Then Daniel, of the despised Hebrew people, was called in to make known the vision of the king; and Daniel used these very remarkable words — words that I consider remarkable in view of the present attitude of the world on the question of revelation: 

"There is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days." 

Here was declared a God who revealeth secrets and speaketh to the children of men, a God of revelation. That was the God that Daniel worshiped, and that was the God who would make known to the king what he had seen in the vision of the night. Daniel thereupon interpreted the vision. The king had seen a great image of gold, of silver, of brass, of iron, and of iron and clay mixed together. The image represented kingdoms of the world that should reach from Nebuchadnezzar's reign down to the end of time, the head being typical of Babylon as it existed in those ancient days. Other 

R CLAWSON. 35 

kingdoms were to follow Babylon, until the feet and the toes were reached, which were typical of kingdoms which should be established in the latter days. And Daniel said: 

"In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

The Prophet Isaiah had his eye upon the same event, and if he had been here yesterday and written the things that are published in King James' translation of the Bible, and which were inscribed thousands of years agr he could not have set forth the condition of this people more clearly than he did. If I remember correctly, the words of Isaiah were something like this: 

"And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say. Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

And again Isaiah says: 

"O Zion, that bringest good tidings get thee up into the high mountain." 

And again: 

"For the Lord shall comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody." 

This vast congregation are living witnesses of the literal fulfillment of these words of the prophet. Was not this land a veritable wilderness in the year 1847? Has it not been transformed into a garden like Eden? This land has become choice above all other lands. We want no better. And I am inclined to think that the Lord can lead us to no better land than we have at the present time, unless a special blessing is conferred upon the land beyond what we have received. And in this conference we have seen the joy of the people; we have witnessed their gladness. We have heard the voice of thanksgiving from this stand, from the lips of the Elders of Israel. Here in this choir we have heard the voice of melody. Isaiah must have had his eye upon these occasions; and in the great visions that were given to him he must have witnessed the gatherings of the people of the Lord. Oh, how our hearts have been made to rejoice upon this occasion! 

Brethren and sisters, I testify that this is the work of the Lord. I testify to you that I have witnessed with my own eyes that Isaiah was a prophet of God, and that Daniel was a true prophet. Their words are finding fulfillment. This is the work of God, and not of man; and any man, in the Church or out of it, who pits himself against this work is measuring arms with the Almighty, and his effort will be futile, his folly will be manifest in the eyes of the people. You will remember, brethren and sisters, that the Prophet Joseph obtained a promise from the Lord as he went forth to preach the Gospel of repentance unto this generation. The Lord said to him: 

"Wherefore, let them bring forth their strong reasons against the Lord [not against Joseph and his brethren, for they were but the representatives of the Lord]. Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, no weapon that iS formed against you shall prosper; and if any man shall lift his voice against you, he shall be confounded in due time." 

Mark you, these are not the words of Joseph Smith the Prophet, but the revelation of God to him. This is the work of Jesus Christ, and not the work of Joseph Smith, nor of any of his successors, nor of any man upon the earth. I rejoice in this testimony. I rejoice in the teachings of this conference, and in the blessed words of comfort and consolation which we have received. I rejoice in the union of the Latter-day Saints. They begin to  forth the fruits of seventy -five years of experience in the work. The words of President Lyman sank deep into my heart when he referred to the experience and to the faith and faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints. That is my testimony and it has been confirmed in my visits to the Stakes of Zion. I rejoice in my fellowship with the Latter-day Saints, and in my acquaintance and association with the authorities of the Church, with the Presidencies of the Stakes, and with all the brethren and sisters. May the Lord bless us, and may He sustain His work, and bring us off victorious and triumphant, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Olea Shipp sang, "Be with me, O Lord." 

ELDER J. G. McQUARRIE. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.)Yesterday afternoon I had the pleasure of sitting shoulder to shoulder with six other Presidents, co-laborers in the mission fields of the United States, and I wish I could explain the feeling of strength and sympathy that passed through my being in thus associating with my fellow-laborers. Ella Wheeler Wilcox expressed in a poetic way a truth intensely felt by the Latter-day Saints, when she said: 

"There is an unseen cord which binds 

the whole wide world together; Through every human heart it winds 

its one mysterious tether. It links all races and all minds within 

their span allotted, And death alone unties the strand 

which God Himself hath knotted." 

But I would like to change the last part of that, and say that even death does not sever these cords of brotherhood and fellowship that God ties in our hearts and in our souls. We cannot overestimate the strength of sympathy. The idea of government in the Church is the voice of God and the consent of the people, and hence those who officiate in any of the offices of the Churchmust look for their strength, not only in the favor of God but also in the confidence of their brothers and sistersThe most touching appeal I have read from the far east was written by a (Russian officer complaining because, when they looked to Russia for strength they found division, contention and lack of sympathy among their own people, and literature was scattered in their ranks urging the men to lay down their arms, while they were facing a foe moved on and stimulated to almost superhuman strength by the sympathy, the unity and the power of sentiment that came to them from their own country. Those who are interested in the missionary work want to know what we are doing in the field. Perhaps they think we come here with the idei that we are going to tell about great things we are doing out on the battle line; but we come here with different feelings. Our thoughts are something like this: We are going to the strongholds of Zion; we are going to see the unity of the home guard; we are going to look upon the sources from which we may draw strength to continue our work; we are going to hear the voice of inspiration, and clasp hands with our leaders and with our co-workers. This is the way I feel today. I want to clasp hands with those whose hearts beat in unison with my own. 

There is so much that should be said that what I have to say seems to me of so little importance that I do not feel like taking much of your time to tell it; yet perhaps there is no part of the work of Zion that is not important. In listening to the reports that have been made, the earnest testimonies that have been borne, and the voice of inspiration we have heard in this conference, I feel that I can be a stronger and a better man. Longfellow said that we desired to walk beneath the shadow of great names. This is illustrated by the fact that churches bear the names of great men. As men, we are timid in relation to our own opinion, and feel like resting our faith beneath the shadow of great names; but as Latter-day Saints we are taught to rest our faith beneath the shadow of bat one name — that of Jesus Christ. 

But while we know that we should not pin our faith to men, we also realize that we can receive strength from each other. 

I have labored in the mission field as a traveling Elder, as a conference president, and as a mission president, and I understand the feelings of the Elders as they go up against the stone walls of prejudice that seem to confront us. Individually we feel we are accomplishing very little, but when the Elders report to their conference presidents, and they in turn report to the mission president at the close of the year, and we figure up how many homes have been visited by Elders bearing testimony of the restored Gospel.how many hundreds of thousands of tracts have been delivered, how many books have been sold or given away, how many meetings have been held, and sermons preached, and baptisms performed, then we realize that something has been done. And when we think of this record being united with those of all the other missions in the world, and then contemplate the compilation of such for the last seventy years, we realize that it comprises one of the grandest, one of the most glorious missionary reports ever recorded in the history of the world. And when the clouds of envy, and hatred, and persecution shall have rolled away, and when the future historian shall trace to their source the many streams that have united together- to form the millennial sea of peace, it will be conceded that a stream of powerful influence has flown down from the mountains of Israel. 

In a recent magazine article written upon the so-called "Evil of Mormonism," the writer said: "We must first admit and understand the inherent power of Mormonism, before we can cope with this religion. The energy and zeal put forth by the Mormon Elders ought to put to shame any Christian denomination in the world." This is said, and yet they have only commenced to learn what a great work is being done by the Latter-day Saints. 

I bear my testimony to you who have made great sacrifices, to you who have performed many noble deeds, and to the Elders in the world laboring for the spread of truth, that these actions and deeds will not fade away in the gray mist of the past and be forgotten, but they will rise like a glorious scroll upon the horizon of the future, and stand as a justification of the righteous and condemnation of the wicked. I feel strong in the support of my brethren and sisters and the Elders with whom I work. One young man, when he was told by his opponents that they were going to overcome the work with which he was associated, said, "How are you going to do it? We are here to work for it; we are here to sacrifice our means for it; we are here, if necessary, to die for it; how are you going to stop it?" With thousands of such men and women, and with God on our side, we will eventually be victorious. Even if assassins put such men to death, their death, like the guns of Concord, would send an echo round the world, and probably would be a more effective testimony than our preaching. 

As there has been some voice, some word, some murmuring heard through the land against our prophet-leader, it is natural that his friends should rally to his support and give expression to their feeling. This morning, President Ben E. Rich bore testimony to the fact that he knew President Joseph P. Smith had his ears open to hear the voice of God, and was ever ready to heed the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. I want to bear my testimony to the fact that he also has his ears open to his fellowmen, and that he sympathizes with them. He has not forgotten, as others have often done, "That the love of the Lord and of man are one." When I stood here six months ago I had a rather heavy heart, because our mission was without a home. We had been forced to leave our headquarters because of the agitation then going on, and were obliged to take shelter with the conference president in a little room about 10x18. I thought I would appeal to the authorities of the Church and see if we could not get some aid to establish  firmer in t^he city of New Tork, where it was important that the Latter-day Saints should be well represented and established; but, I accidentally heard that the funds of the Church had already been so divided, there had been so many calls, that word had been sent out that improvements not already started should not be commenced during that year. Still I felt I must ask for aid, and I testify that my appea'i received kind consideration, and five thousand dollars was given to us to make the first payment on a place we might call our own in the city of New Tork. Part of your tithing has gone there, my brethren and sisters, and I hope you do not regret it. 

Last Monday I was in the city of Chicago. It was the first time I had th; privilege of visiting the headquarters of the Church there, and while looking for the number I saw in bold letters across the front of a beautiful edifice the words "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." I have seen many churches the last four years, but I had never before seen the name of Jesus Christ written across the front of any of them. We should feel honored in erecting churches to His name, and I trust a similar building may soon be seen in the city of New York. 

Since we have been established in our own home, my notice has been called to a prophecy recorded in Nephi, 14th chapter, 10-12 verses. I hope you will read it, my brethren and sisters. It was a source of inspiration to me, because it describes the great struggle that you and I have to make. Nephi speaks of the great battle between righteousness and wickedness which should continue until there would be only two churches — the Church of God and the church of the devil; that the latter*would have great dominions in all parts of the world, and that the Church of the Lamb of God should also be upon all the face of the earth, but its possessions would be small. Now, we have been gathering people from all nations, and no effort has been made until lately to obtain possessions, even small ones, in various parts of the world. These have not been secured for the purpose of fulfilling that prophecy. Instructions on this matter did not come to us from the President of the Church; but the movement seemed to come as an inspiration, almost simultaneously in all parts of the world. When I asked President Smith a year ago, as I was returning to my mission, if he had any counsel to give me, he said: "You have our confidence, and the time has come when men must go out into the world and live near enough to the Lord that they can receive their inspiration from Him, and build up Zion wherever they are called to labor, without the personal assistance and continued counsel of the general authorities of the Church." I testify that this desire to have places of our own in the world has burned in the hearts of the Saints, and it has been forced upon the Mission Presidents, until now from Norway and Sweden, from England and Denmark, from the islands of the sea, and from "all parts of the United States, we hear reports that they are established upon their own ground. I thank the Lord we now have a place we can call oui own, and we feel that Zion is becoming more firmly rooted. When I read this prophecy recorded in the 14th chapter of Nephi, I thought that possibly the prophets of old even saw this little work that we are doing. What a glorious thing it is to join with the Prophets of old fulfilling their words, and accomplishing the purposes of God. 

My brothers and sisters, there is, it is true, some agitation throughout the country against us, and many things are being said to injure our reputation. But why should we worry about our reputation? Let our anxiety be for our characters. No one can soil my character but myself. No one can soil the character of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but the characters of its members may be soiled by their own misdeeds. A short time ago I read in the New York Herald the statement that after all that had been written and spoken, there was no source to which a  could go to get reliable information in regard to the "Mormon" people, because that which had been written had been blackened by prejudice or colored by zeal. I was glad that I could answer the writer by saying: There is one history written that zeal cannot color and prejudice cannot efface. That history has been written with the iron pen of industry. Its scroll has been rolled out from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, covering like a beautiful veil the great desert of America. That history has been engraved with winding streams, checkered fields, and fruitful gardens. It has been illustrated with great cities, nestling villages, and happy homes. It is vitalized and vivified by hundreds of thousands of happy men and women, rejoicing in the blessings of liberty and an intelligent faith in God. And this history will live, while yellow journalsm will die and be forgotten. The men and women who have written this history will be remembered and honored by thousands who reap the fruits of what they have sown, while those who have vilified and persecuted them will go down either to disgrace or oblivion. 

God grant that we may live up to the high ideals that have been given to us, that we may be able to preserve the heritage that has been intrusted to our care, and bequeath it, not lessened, to those who may follow after us. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

I am going to ask you to listen to a few passages of scripture. 

"The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament showeth His handiwork. 

"Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. 

"There 'is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. 

"There line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world." 

Such is the language of David, Prophet and King of Israel. 

"There is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." That is Job. 

"For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man; but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." 

Such is the language of the chief of the apostles in the dispensation of the meridian of time. 

"For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man preceiveth it not. 

"In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; 

"Then he openeth the ears of men.and sealeth their instruction." 

That is Job again. 

"And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses. 

"And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle door: and all the people rose up and worshiped, every man in his tent door. 

"And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend." 

All these examples of revelations from God to man are from the Old Testament. If you turn to the New Testament you will find that all these modes of revelation are to be found upon its pages. I will read one or two passages from the New Testament. 

"For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead;" 

Such are the words of Paul, the apostle of the gentiles. 

"And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him [that is, unto John the Baptist, who was to be a witness that Jesus of Nazereth was the Lamb of God, the Redeemer of the world; hence it was for him that the heavens were opened], and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: 

"And lo a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." 

Again, referring to Stephen at the very moment of his martyrdom: — 

"But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God. 

"And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God." 

You who have followed me in the reading of these passages of the scripture, have doubtless already concluded in your minds that it is my purpose to call your attention to the various modes through which God reveals Himself to the children of men. You will observe that the first passage that I read calls attention to that species of revelation that is made known through the works of nature. "The heavens declare the glory of God." I presume there are no people living now or in past times but must have been impressed to a greater or less extent by that revelation which God gives of Himself through His works. Not only Christian people, but the Mohammedan, the Buddhist, the Deist, are all impressed by that magnificient revelation of God's power and glory which may be seen in the magnitude of His works. The Deists, are of opinion that this revelation is all-sufficient as a foundation for natural religion. One high in authority among such people has declared that the wonderful structure of the universe and everything we behold in creation proves to us better than books can the existence of God, and at the same time proclaims His attributes. "It is by the exercise of our reason," he continues, "that we are enabled to contemplate God in His work and to meditate His ways. When we see His care and goodness extended over His creatures, it teaches us our duties towards each other, while it calls forth our gratitude to Him." 

But great and magnificent as is this revelation of God's glory and power through His works, it is inadequate to meet all the requirements of man. There are great questions that the stars cannot answer. There are great problems that this world of ours cannot solve. I ask the question in the presence of this great revelation that comes from God, through nature. Whence is man, and the purpose of hi« existence? And the stars give no answer to that question. I ask the question, What is the purpose of humai 

existence? And nature gives no reply. I ask the question, What is the end of human existence? And from nature there comes no satisfactory answer. So that this revelation through nature, however splendid it may be, is not sufficient for guidance to the children of men. So say the Christiana of all sects. They hold that something must be learned more than can be learned through the revelations of nature. Hence they accept the revelations that come through the scriptures. 

I desire to call attention to Christian faith on this point, and I desire also to expound our faith, if I can, upon this great subject. 

Christians are pretty well united in believing that there Is a revelation of God through nature. They accept all there is in this revelation of nature, and in addition to that they believe that God is manifested in the history of the world. So also do we. They believe, too, that there is a revelation from God through the human heart. So do we believe "there is a revelation in the intelligence that is in man. The Christian world also believe in special revelaitions from) God — revelaltions through inspiration, such as Job speaks of when he says that there is a spirit in man and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. "This is the kind of revelation which has produced the scripture. Men spake, in olden times, as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and what they said under such circumstances became the word of God, the will of God: and being reduced to writing and treasured up by the people, it has come down through the ages as holy writ. I say, all the Christians believe in that kind of revelation. So, too, do we. But there is a difference between our faith in respect of this class of special revelation and the belief of the various divisions of Christendom. 

I count myself happy that in consequence of the recent interest awakened on the subject of revelation we have in our city an utterance of the Christian belief upon this subject. A prominent minister of our city has set forth,  only the views of the particular church of wlych he is the pastor, but also the views of the whole of Christendom with reference to this subject of revelation. I do not refer to his discourse with any intention of entering upon a controversy. Far be that from me. I would not for the world, if I can help it, challenge the correctness of anything that may have been said by our fellow Christians. I do not feel antagonistic toward them. I am a man of peace. But this particular discourse has afforded a good opportunity of placing in contrast our beliefs on the subject of revelation with the beliefs of the world, and I use it merely for this purpose. Sometimes, you know, we can appreciate things better when we see them in contrast than in any other way. 

And now in regard to special revelation by inspiration, whence comes our scriptures. This Christian teacher has this to say about it: 

"We are not only at one in gratefully receiving such scriptures as the faithful record of God's gracious revelations and the sure witness of Christ, but we are equally at one in denying that any such record or unveiling of the divine will has since been given, or ever will be given, for the guidance of mankind." 

Why should such a conclusion as that be reached? When the great apostle of the Christian dispensation, unto whom Jesus had said: "I give unto you the keys of the kingdom, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven," — when this man, clothed with the Holy Ghost, stood before the multitude in Jerusalem, and they said unto him, "Men and brethren what shall we do?" He gave this memorable answer: "Repent, and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." Now mark you: "For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many 'as tke Lord our God shall call." 

If Peter had designed to make this promise of the Holy Ghost universal, I cannot for the life of me understand what language he could have used that would have made the promise more universal than the language he did use. This promise of the Holy Ghost, given as a result of obedience to the gospel, was to them, to their children, and to all that were afar off— a hundred years off, five hundred years off, five thousand years off — to all unto whom this message of repentance shall come this promise is made. Very well. How did we receive the scriptures? "Holy men of God spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost," that is how we came by the scriptures. "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." Now, if people are receiving the gospel today, I hold that they are entitled to the fulfillment of the promise that they shall receive the Holy Spirit — the power by which the scriptures were written. And hence our friends are confronted with the choice of one of two propositions; either they must say that men no longer receive the Holy Ghost, when yielding obedience to the gospel, or else they must say that the Holy Ghost has lost His power to reveal the will of God to man. To say that, in my judgment, would be blasphemy. We Latter-day Saints do not say that. On the contrary, we say that this Holy Spirit possesses all His powers, and those who receive that Spirit receive His powers and can exercise and enjoy them. 

Again: All Christians, together with ourselves, recognize that God manifests Himself through mighty works, called miracles. Yet listen to this discourse I am quoting on that mode of revelation: 

"While Christians are virtually at one in recognizing these invasions of the Divine will, they are well nigh as thoroughly agreed in denying that we have good reason to expect the continuance of such marvels." 

Why? Whence came the miracles of scripture — the healing of the sick, prophecy, speaking in tongues, the interpretation of tongues, the gift of knowledge? They came from the pos of this same Spirit and power. This power, which is imminent in nature, which fashions and molds matter as God wills— whence comes it? It comes from the possession and operation of this Holy Spirit. I repeat again, that to deny to that Spirit the powers He is accredited with in scripture would be blasphemy. To deny Him His power would be to say that He was as salt that bath lost its savor. 

In common with our fellow Christians we believe in that mode of revelation by which men of God, such as Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Peter, John, Paul, and the rest of the names which blazon the pages of sacred history, rose to such high privileges that, like Moses, some of them talked face to face with God, as a man talks with his friend. But while the Christian world believes that such revelation as this obtained in the past, listen to what is said of it at the present time: 

"Few Christians will deny that men of old had such revelations; few Christians will claim that we have reason to look for their continuance." 

Another mode of revelation recognized by ourselves and also by the Christian world is the revelation of God through Jesus Christ. He is the crowning revelation; for in Him, in His person and character, was revealed the Divine.. The Father was revealed through Him. He is spoken of as being the express image of the Father; and henceforth the world has a means by which they may know, not only the being, the existence of God, but the kind of being He is, namely, that He is the express image of the Lord Jesus Christ; for as the Son is the express image of the Father, so also the Father must be the express image of the Son. Concerning this, the discourse to which I am alluding says: 

"All Christians believe in the incarnation. Very few believe that this revelation will ever be repeated in its objective form till time, as we measure it, shall end." 

Well, no; the incarnation of the Son of God will not be repeated. He has obtained His body, arid it has beei glorified through the resurrection from the dead, and has become as immortal as the spirit that inhabits it. There will be no reincarnation of the Son of God, it is true; but this will be true of the Son of God, if we may trust the scriptures to guide us: He will make a glorious reappearance in the world. You remember that occasion, do you not, when the disciples were gathered together on the Mount of Olives after the resurrection, and Jesus met with them. Presently, after giving His last benediction, He was taken up into heaven. Spell-bound by the beautiful sight of His receding form from earth, to heaven, the disciples stood gazing up at Him, and as they did so two angels made their appearance and said to them: "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven." That kind of a revelation of Jesus Christ — His reappearance among men in His resurrected, immortal body of flesh and bones — that kind of a revelation of Jesus Christ is in the future for the world, though there may be no reincarnation of Him. 

The difference between the Christian world and the Latter-day Saints respecting special revelations from God is this: The Christian world believe that such revelations took place in the past, but that they have not taken place since the close of the apostolic age; that miracles have ceased: that special inspiration has ceased; that God conversing with man face to face has ceased; and they have no hope of these glorious kinds of revelation bf>ing- repeated in the experience of the world. The Latter-day Saints on the other hand state boldly to the world, and as I remember it, one of our articles of faith declares that 

"We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and that he will yet reveal many gre it and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." 

I want to extend that a little and  that we not only believe in the revelations that have been given, that are now being given, and that will be given in the future, but we believe alsff in all these modes of revelation — revelation by inspiration, by the manifestation of miraculous powers, by face to face conversations with God, and communion with Jesus Christ as a man might commune with his friend. And we believe that all these modes of revelation will continue. But we do not believe that the will of man will control in these matters. Prom some things that have been said recently relative to revelation one would reach the conclusion that because we have in our midst prophets and apostles, inspired men, God and angels and the Holy Spirit are subject to their beck and call; and because a man is upheld as a prophet of God some people seem to suppose that he may enter the presence of God when he will and talk with Him face to face; or, that 'by his summons, a prophet may bring angels to his side at his own sweet will! Not so. These divine things are under the control of the Lord Almightty, and He will reveal Himself when and in whatsoever mode seemeth Him good. Do you not remember the scriptures which clearly indicate the correctness of the view I state upon this subject? where it is declared that unto one is given by the Spirit the Word of Wisdom, to another the word of knowledge, to another the gift of faith, to another the gift of healing, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, etc., the Lord dividing to every man severally as He [the Lord] will— not as man might will or choose. So that the times and modes of revelation are in the hands of God; our faith is simply this: that the Lord reigns supreme in heaven, aye, and on the earth, and whenever His work requires that His hand should touch it and guide it He will inspire His servants to take the course that is necessary to conform His works to His will. If it be necessary to send from the presence of His throne an angel, clothed with power, might and majesty, to stand in the presence of prophets and apostles, to make known a divine purpose, the sovereign will of God is sufficient to order that to be done; and if it becomes necessary to summon a prophet into the presence of God to commune face to face with Him, then He will summon that prophet into His presence; or open the vision of His mind, snatch away the veil of the covering that at present separates us from God, and will commune with His servant as He did with Moses face to face — all according as God wills. That is our faith concerning revelation; and as the great Luther said of his faith at the Diet at Worms — "Here we stand; we can do no other; God help us." If God says, move forward, we will move forward. If He says, halt, we will halt. If He says, turn to the right or turn to the left, we will turn accordingly. And our faith is if we shall walk under the guidance of God no harm can come to us individually, nor harm come to the work of God. Only such things will happen as will tend to the progress of God's work, and the glorification of His name in the earth. 

I do not know whether I am stating exactly your faith in these things or not, but this is my faith; and for the life of me I cannot understand how anyone, Jew or Gentile, Heathen or Christian, who believes in God at all can stop short of this perfect submission unto His will; which submission of the mind to God is alone true worship. Once admitting the great premise that God lives, that He is interested in human affairs, that He not only created but governs and controls this universe, it seems to me that after that the only logical conclusion for one who holds that faith' is that if he receives a message from God, he will perform the mission that is given to him in that message. 

Just a word or two in conclusion. We have spoken in this conference a great deal about the world hating us. I think sometimes we use the term without sufficient and proper modification. When Jesus said to His disciples: 

"Marvel not if the world hate you. It  me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you." 

When the Master used that language I scarcely think He had reference to all the world, but only to those who were "wordly," to those whose hearts were set upon the things of this world, to those who were lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, to those who were corrupt in their hearts; out of which conditions the Lord had called His disciples, and now in these days has called His people. When we say "the world hate us," let us ngt think that that means all mankind, but that it means the worldly portion of mankind, those who love darkness rather than light. Those whose deeds are evil. When we go to them with our message, it reproves this part of the world for sin and unrighteousness; therefore they hate it. They hate the light, because they love darkness. But we shall find, I am sure, hundreds of thousands, nay millions of our Father's children who do not and who will not hate us; but who will be responsive to the message that we have to declare to them. So that I am of opinion that we should keep this modification in our minds that it is the worldly that will hate us, while those who are honest in heart will be responsive to the testimonies that we have to bear. I remember with what supreme confidence President Brigham Young relied upon the operation of the Spirit of God upon the minds of people. He said on more than one occasion that no man had yet so much as heard of the Book of Mormon but what the Spirit of the Lord whispered quietly to his soul that that book was true: no man had so much as heard of the Prophet Joseph Smith but what the "still small voice" whispered to him that he was a true prophet. 

The exact words of President Young on this subject are as follows: 

"Nothing short of the Holy Ghost will do us any lasting good. I told you, in the beginning of my remarks, the truth as it is in heaven and on the earth, as it is with the angels, and  prophets, with all good people, and with every sinner that dwells upon the earth. There is not a man or woman who on hearing the report of the Book of Mormon but the spirit of the Almighty has testified to them of its truth; neither have they heard the name of Joseph Smith but the Spirit has whispered to them 'He is the true Prophet.' 

It is the spirit which is invisible to the natural mind of man, that produces effects apparently without causes, and creates mysteries, marvels, and wonders in the earth. These things we behold, but we cannot with the natural mind account for them, nor divine their ultimate end." 

(Discourse by Prest. Brigham Young, June 13, 1852. Deseret News, Vol. 4, No. 6.) 

I believe that doctrine, and it ought to be a mighty source of encouragement to the Elders who are preaching the gospel among the nations of the earth. They toil and labor, they distribute tracts, they try to make their voice heard in the midst of the world's clamor, and they may think from surface indications that their labors are vain, that their voice is lost as though they were crying in a wilderness. Not so; but as they speak in halls or crowded thoroughfares God's Spirit bears witness to the hearts of those at all susceptible to its influence in testimony of the truths uttered; and it will be because the world rejects that testimony which comes to their souls that there will be condemnation for them,  not because they have rejected the words spoken by the Elders. 

Both we ourselves and the world stand in the presence of this enfolding influence and power of God's Holy Spirit — the spirit of revelation. Our lives through the gospel may be made to touch the life of God, and by touching the life ot God partake somewhat of His qualities; have brought into our lives some of His divine powers, by which at least we may know the truth and rejoice in it. And though "the world" — regarding "the world" in the light of my suggestion — may hate us, let us see to it that we do not hate the world. We may dislike their acts; we may not be able to look upon their actions with the least degree of allowance; we must say that their actions are wicked and that they and their actions are ungodly; but after all, they are the children of God, though they have wandered far from Him, and it is our mission to send forth the voice that shall call them back, to stretch out a hand that shall lead them into the fold. Such is the spirit of the gospel as we have received it, and such our faith in the revelations of God. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Song of the Redeemed." 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. Adjurned till 10 a. m.,

