Morning
07 04 1905



PRESIDENT FRANCIS. M. LYMAN. 

The Way Preparing for Further Proclamation of the Qospel.— The Saints Giv3 Practical Evidence of Love for Mankind.— Leaders in the Church Deserve Faith and Confidence.— Ignorant Opponents Not so Culpable as the Malicious.— Our Religion Conforms to the Law of the Land. I feel very much this morning the necessity of your, faith and prayers, and the blessing and Spirit of the Lord while I attempt to address you. My heart was full of joy yesterday m lis, tening to the splendid reports of the condition of the Latter-day Saints, and what they have accomplished. It is wonderful that we have been able in seventy-five years to have brought together from so small a beginning such a remarkable people, from so many different nations, so well established in their faith, so completely organized, and working so unitedly together to carry the Gospel to the whole world. From the first organization of the Church, with six members, down to the present time, with several hundred thousand members, it is but a short time. And every Latter-day Saint has a testimony regarding the truth of this work. The people of the Lord have obtained forgiveness of sin through their faith, repentance and baptism, and they have received the Holy Ghost, which bears record of the Father and of the Son, and which enables us to un the truth and the things of God — things that none are able to comprehend without the aid of that spirit. We see today a great multitude gathered here to worship the Lord, representing all the various Stakes of Zion, and all the missions of the United States. 

We learned yesterday from the Presidency what we have accomplished collectively, and it is remarkable; for we are carrying forward a very important work among the nations of the earth. We would be delighted if we could penetrate those nations where we have not yet found religious liberty; and we believe that the Lord will move among the nations and control them until all the world may enjoy the same liberty that the English-speaking people and some other races enjoy at the present time. The Gospel makes us free; but it is necessary that we should have a measure of freedom among the children of men, through the governments of the earth, before we can move the cause of Zion effectually among the nations. I believe that the hand of the Lord is manifest today, as it always has been, among the nations, and that He is preparing the way for the labor that we have to perform. Though the world have little faith in us, yet we will demonstrate to them that we are true men and women, that we love mankind and that we do not hate them. We labor to do them good, we work for their salvation, and among the Latter-day Saints there is a large percentage of men and women who have sacrificed years of their lives in preaching the Gospel among the peoples of the earth; and as a rule they have borne their own expenses, have lived with the people, and traveled without reward — without purse or scrip. And what has been done, and what we see around us, the Lord has enabled us to do it. He has wrought by our hands. He has planted our feet securely in these mountain valleys, and has enabled us to extend our borders. He has moved upon our neighbors in the surrounding states and territories so that they have wanted us, because we are a peculiar people, leading out in practical lines, and possibly a little more stable in our ways than other peoflle. We have gathered for the purpose of settling down and occupying the land, and establishing a church wherein we may learn of the ways of the Lord and walk in His path. We have listened to His counsel and have been led by it from the beginning. We have not been deserted. We have not been overlooked. The Lord hag been with His servants who have led us. He has been with His people in their labors, at home and abroad. He has enabled us to build and develop a great and important commonwealth in this State, and we have helped materially in the establishment of the States around us. We have led in home industry. We have been driven to do so for our self-preservation. We have cultivated the earth. We have not given quite so much attention to mining as our neighbors have done. We have not made fortunes like our neighbors may have made in this direction. But we have established ourselves solidly upon the land, and have built up cities and towns, houses of worship, school houses, temples of learning, such as any State could well be proud of. In these respects we compare very favorably with the other States in the Union, although we have labored under disadvantages and have been a poor people, gathered from among the poor. Not many wealthy, not many great and noble, reckoning after the fashion of men,' have come into our ranks; but the souls that have gathered with the Saints have been of just as fine material, as splendid texture as the peoples of any other church in the world. They have been men and women who were willing to make sacrifices for the Gospel's sake, and to bear the ill-will and the hatred of the world. They have been willing to endure trials and hardships, to leave their homes, their kindred, their friends and neighbors in the various nations, to gather with the Saints. 

They have come here and have been made one by the Spirit of the Lord. What remarkable oneness we noticed here yesterday in the voting! And we are always united just about like that. It is a rare thing to have opposition votes among the Latter-day Saints, for the reason that we see alike and we believe alike. We have faith in our leaders; not only in the men who lead the Church, but in the men who lead the wards, the stakes, the quorums, the associations and the missions. For these men have all been selected with great care, with prayer and with supplication to the Lord. As the officials of the Church and as the people, we have no object whatever but the obtaining of the very best men and women for the responsible positions. We want men and women who are exemplary, who have faith, who are true and upright, and whose integrity is unquestioned. And today there is no dearth of that class of people. We find them in the stakes of Zion; we find them in all the gatherings of the people. In the Priesthood gatherings, in the conference gatherings, in the sacramental and fast meetings, we find very choice men and women. Though there may be, and there is, carelessness among some of the Latter-day Saints, which grieves the spirit of our good brethren and sisters when they discover it, yet down in the hearts of those people they know that the Gospel is true, and they know the men who preside over them locally and generally; for we have dwelt together, we embraced the Gospel together in foreign lands, and then we have been trying to live it here, after a fashion. We have been doing pretty well. Some have been weeded out. They were not able to endure; they weakened and lost the faith, and withdrew from the Church, because it is a very great undertaking to be a Latter-day Saint in the face of the feeling of the world toward us. The world feel ugly toward us, and as a rule, honestly, I believe. There are some no doubt that are not honest in it; but people that have not known anythingof us, and all that has come to them is what has been written by those who have maligned and despitefully used us, have honestly, conscientiously entertained those falsehoods and believed them to be true, just as honestly as men did in the days of the Savior, for there were men then who honestly persecuted the Saints and felt that they were really doing God's service. Do you not think that during our history many people have felt that they were really doing a service for the Lord when they persecuted the Saints? Do you not believe that they thought we were immoral, impure, corrupt and dishonest?. Of course, they believed that we were deluded. That was the most charitable construction that they could put upon it. But what a wonderful "delusion" to come from a young man of the age of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to have the effect it did upon men who were much older than he, more experienced, better theologians, and men who had acquaintance with the world and who in some cases were educated and scholarly! He was the junior of most of those who associated with him. He was only thirty-eight years of age when he died, and he had then led the Church in its organized capacity for fourteen years. And he had always waded through a sea of trouble; yet the Lord made his heart joyous and light. He was filled with inspiration from on high, and he laid the foundations of this work under the direction of the Lord. It was not his work. He had not the wisdom, the judgment, the power, nor the understanding-. But the Lord made him a Prophet and a law-giver, and he has handed down to us the revelations which the Lord gave to him. They compose a very precious volume, for they are the words of the Lord. This book is a law to the Church. The Prophet Joseph was especially raised up for this work. He was foreknown by the Father, who understood him perfectly. He knew his integrity and his devotion, and He  up to him for the loss of this world's education, and brought him to a profound understanding under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, so that he was one of the best theologians, learned in Scripture and the doctrines of the Lord, that has lived upon the earth. He laid down the doctrines of the Gospel for us, and they are here at our service. 

Now then, have we been deceived? Have we been led astray by this young man? He comes to us and tells us, as the Savior did in His day, that if any man will receive the message and will allow his heart to open and receive the principles of faith, repentance and baptism from the Lord, and th«n will do the will of the Father,, he may know of the doctrine. There is not a, man :'n the world but may know of the truth of the doctrine laid down in the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. There is not a man so great, so intelligent and so powerful in this world but he can learn that lesson. He can know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God just as well as he can know anything on this earth; for all his faculties and his very soul will be con> vinced. And if he is an honest man like Paul he cannot deny it, provided he does right. When Paul got his eyes open and he heard the voice of the Lord, he was willing to sacrifice his life, because he had seen the light and had heard the voice. The Spirit of the Lord filled his soul and bore record to him that he had met Jesus in the way. Could he deny it? He could not. And the Prophet Joseph could not deny it when he saw the Lord and the angel. He knew it, he saw it, he understood it thoroughly. The Holy Ghost doth envelop and inspire the hearts of men who serve the Lord, so that they are as thoroughly convinced of the truth as their natural senses are that there is light and darkness, cold and heat, pain and pleasure, taste and smell. By our natural senses we comprehend the things of the world; and just as information and knowledge come to us by hearing and feeling and seeing, so does the inspiration of the Holy Ghost fill  hearts and souls of all men who sincerely repent. Of course, men will not repent unless they have faith; but all men who have faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, who repent and turn from their sins, who are baptized for the remission of their sins in the authority of the Lord Jesus, obtain this light and inspiration. That is the spirit that made us one yesterday; it makes us one today, and it will unite us in the future. It will clear our minds, and we will not be troubled nor in the dark; for the Lord will be with us and will manifest His good pleasure to us in answer to our prayers and our good works. He will bring peace and joy into our Souls, and establish us and anchor our souls, that we shall not be easily moved. Why, we have become so numerous now, so well established and experienced, that with all the agitation that can be stirred up against us you will hardly see anybody turning away from the truth. In early times, before the brethren were well seasoned and tried, while the material was fresh and green, many fell by the wayside, lost their footing, and wandered from the Church. Some of them returned and saw the light again, but many never returned. Today, however, you cannot find a devoted and faithful Latter-day Saint, not a chief, not a leading spirit in the Church, that is shaken in his faith, or that feels uncertain in regard to his standing and fellowship. I want to say for the six hundred Bishops in the Church, for the fifteen hundred missionaries in the field preaching the Gospel, for the Presidents of Stakes and their counselors, for the High Councilors, for the Bishops' counselo one for the presiding councils of the Seventies, you can hardly find one of these presiding men that is shaken. And Israel is larger today than he has ever been in this dispensation, and we are more numerous and better established than ever before. Not one of these officers but knows just exactly where we are. The testimony abides in every heart when the will of God has been at all reasonably done. If there be any who do not know; if  be any who have question in their hearts, it is because they have not steered their course along the proper lines, and they have need to repent. We have need to repent if we are a little off the straight line that leads to eternal life. 

The brethren who preside are laboring constantly among the people, and we are doing what we can reasonably. And we will do more; we intend to do more; we intend to be better, to work righteousness better than we have done and to grow in faith and in favo with the Lord all the time. There is room for improvement, no doubt, with the very best of us. I believe that is the feeling with the brethren who preside. The care of the detailed affairs of the Church rests with the presiding brethren in the branches, the wards and the stakes, and these men are entitled to be filled with the inspiration of the Lord. Men who stand at the head of stakes and of wards, with their helps in government, are expected to be prepared to teach the people, to care for the various departments and organizations, that none shall be neglected or overlooked, and that all shall be cared for, exercising sympathy and tenderness towards those who are at all weak. And we all get "weak. There is not anyone so strong but gets weak at times. Let sickness and poverty come upon us, let misfortune overtake us, and we are weaklings. Man is like the worm of the dust almost when his health and strength and the favor of the Lord are taken from him. The strongest anH mightiest among the people need the favor and blessing of the Lord and the sympathy of their neighbors. We need to help one another, sustain and uphold one another, so that no one shall feel neglected; for all their souls are precious. Though we be mortal, fallen, frail, yet we are the sons of God, the children of our Father who dwells in heaven. Thank the Lord that we have learned this through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Thank the Lord that we know who our Father is, that we knew wfTo the Savior is, and that we know that they live; for we have the witness, the word of the Lord through the Prophet, and in addition to that we have the witness of the Holy Ghost. We have demonstrated in our lives and in our experience that we are not mistaken; for the Lord has manifested Himself to us in our visions and dreams and in answering our prayers, and in a thousand ways. He has redeemed us from our fallen condition, and has saved us; that is, we are preserved, we have not been broken to pieces, and we are' not going to be broken to pieces. We are going to be faithful, united, and attend to the duties that pertain to the kingdom of God. We propose to do that, 'with the Lord's help. Then wt intend to feed and clothe ourselves, and take -care of our farms, our flocks and our herds, and build our temples, our houses of worship and our temples of learning. We expect to be men in this world, like other men— manly men, honorable, upright men, business men, financial men, physical men, spiritual men, pure men. We expect to do the will of the Lord, and we intend to be as loyal to the government of the United States, and to our own state, as the people of any other state can possibly be. We will bear our share of the responsibilities and burdens of the state and the nation, in peace and in war, and we will do our duty faithfully and well. We will love our neighbors, and we will not wrong them. We will associate with them in business matters and otherwise. We will bless them, and not curse them. We will not rail against them. We will not despise nor hato them. We will not do them injury, but we will do them good. We have gone out in the world to do mankind good. Have not the Elders who have gone out into the world done good service for these hundreds of thousands of people that are gathered together and that are now settled upon the land of Zion in the various states and territories surrounding us? Are we not a good, peaceable element, prayerful and faithful? Are we not doing our part and portion for the state and for the government? We are; and we are faithful and true, and propose to be from this time henceforth. The things that belong to the nation and the state we will render equal to  else in the world; and then we will render to God the things that are God's. We will honor and obey Him and keep His commandments, and He will not require us to wrong our state: or nation. We love the people of this nation. We live with them. They are made up, like we are, from all the nations of the earth. This nation is allowing the people to come from all the nations of the earth. I wonder if they ever think that they are gathering the people together. We won't have to goaway from home to preach to everybody, because this great land of ours will be filled with the people of all na. tions. They come here and possess the liberty which they cannot have in the eastern world; then they can heir the Gospel. This is to be a favored field for the preaching of the Gospel. The Lord has prepared the way, and He is. working the principle of gathering better than we could do. True, w^e are doing all we can in that direction, and intend to do more; but the peoples of the earth will gather themselves upon this land of Zion, and here the word, of the Lord will be taught. Here is where the word of the Lord came in this dispensation to the Prophet Joseph; and upon this land of Zion the nations, of the earth shall assemble, and ths Gospel will be preached to them. Thank the Lord for the liberty that is allowed, us, and that we have the liberty of talking, of living, of loving the truth, working righteousness and doing the will of God. I pray that this principlemay always remain with us, and that we will never be deprived of it;_ and. that this nation of ours will be perpetuated to do the 'work and will of theLord among the children of men. I hope that it will be preserved and sustained, and that the power which theLord has granted unto it so marvelously shall be devoted for the accomplishment of His purposes in the earth. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren, and sisters. May His Spirit abide in. your hearts. May we be united and faithful. May we see our way clearly; never be befogged! never get in thedark; never fall away from the truth, but maintain our morality and our among the children of men. You know the leading men among you; you know those that visit you in your own homes; you know your neighbors; you know one another; and you know that they are honest, virtuous, upright men, and they are not trespassing upon you or yours, but they are conscientious and true. It is not necessary, therefore, for anyone to tell us we are a bad people, because we know to the contrary. We are not wicked, and we have no evil designs against anybody in the world. We are working righteousness, and we are earnestly engage! in a good cause, and we are bringing ing to pass much righteousness for the salvation of the children of men. May God bless us, redeem us and save us in His celestial kingdom and presence, through Jesus Christ, the Lord. Amen. 

A solo, "Oh, dry those tears," was sung beautifully by Sister Edwardina Parry. 

ELDER J. G. DUFFIN. <President of Central States Mission.) 

I feel grateful in my soul to my Heavenly Father for the privilege of meeting with you in this conference to worship the Lord, and to have the pleasure of listening to the testimonies that are borne of the goodness of God and of the power of His Holy Spirit which is among His chosen people in this goodly land. I stand before you to represent one of the missions which, by the authority of God, has been established in these United States, covering five of the States and two of the Territories of this great Union. The work in the Central States mission is in good condition. The people are increasing in faith and in their devotion to the work of our Father in Heaven. While I was listening yesterday to the testimonies of our brethren, and to the statements of our beloved President Joseph F. Smith concerning the tithes and offerings of the people, I thought if the payment of tithes and offerings by the people of the Church is likened unto a barometer, registering the condition that exists, then certainly that  in the Central States mission must be encouraging. Within the last five years the tithes of the members of the Church in the Central States mission have increased nearly six hundred per cent. The tithes paid last year showed an increase of more than fifty per cent over the tithes of the previous year. The poor in the mission — whom we have also with us. as the Savior said — were supported largely from the offerings of the people. A year ago last January we set out to make that mission self-supporting, so far as help for the poor is concerned, and we were nearly successful. We hope in the future to be entirely successful. Through the teaching of this law of offerings for the support of the poor we have learned that the people are increasing in faith and in their love for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

In that mission we are doing a little in the way of colonizing. In the state of Texas we have a colony of sixtythree families, with a membership of three or four hundred people. In the eastern part of the State of Kansas we have another nice little colony, where a number of people have gathered together, and they have built a house of worship and are now beautifying the grounds. During the past few vfears six or eight houses- of worship have been erected in the mission, by the donations of the people; and we have not as yet found it necessary to call upon our brethren for contributions from the tjlbes for this purpose. The people in that part of the Lord's vineyard have manifested their faith in putting up these buildings for their own convenience. Doubtless in the future some help will be required from the Church in the erection of our mission building, for which we are now collecting means, and which will probably be located in that city around which cluster so many memories that are dear to the Latterday Saints — the city of Independence, in. Jackson county, Missouri. 

My brethren and sisters, in our associations with your husbands and sons, and with a few of your daughters, who have been sent out there to carry the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ unto their fellows, we have experienced great joy and satisfaction; for we have learned to love them. There is a bond of union between us which we feel will not be broken in time nor in eternitv. Thev are devoted and faithful in their work. Every missionary that is laboring in that mission gives support with his whole soul unto those men whom God has placed to lead and direct latter-day Israel. We are not tender about teaching the revelations of the Lord to our brethren and sisters in the world. The eternal principles of the Gospel are brought before them in plaiivness; nevertheless, we seek to use wisdom and discretion in our teachings. 

This in the work of our Father in Heaven. It has been established by revelation direct from Him. The work that is being done today we know is in fulfillment of the word of the Lord through His Prophets in former dispensations, pertaining to the redemption and salvation of His children in the latter days. While I have been tmnhing over this latter-day work, a few of the words of the Prophet Isaiah have come forcibly to my mind, and I will take the liberty of reading them in your hearing. You will find them recorded in the twenty-ninth chapter of Isaiah. Speaking of the work in which you and I are engaged; speaking of a tiered record that was to come forth, then the work that was to follow its corning forth and the effect it should have upon those who accepted it and upon those who opposed it, he said: 

"The meek also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." 

As I sat in this congregation yesterday and noted the joy and satisfaction that were depicted upon the countenances of the thousands assembled, I could not help but think that surely the words of the Lord are being fulfilled today, for the meek are indeed increasing their joy in the Lord and the poor among men are rejoicing in the Holy One of Israel. 

"For the terrible one is brought to naught, and the scorner is consumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off: 

"That make a man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought." 

It is no new thing, brethren and sisters, for those who do not love the Lord and who will not keep the commandments of God and observe the principles of purity, to lift their hands and their voices against those holding the authority of the Holy Priesthood. I sayto you that he who raises his hand against the Church of Christ strikes at me as an individual. He who raises his voice against men whom God has placed at the head of His work strikes at me as an individual. Why do I feel thus? Because all the blessings that have come to me and my family have come through this work that God has established. The sacred ordinances and blessings that we have received as a family have come to us through that authority which has been perpetuated in the men whom God has placed at the head of His work on the earth, who have held the keys of the Holy Priesthood, and who have borne that authority with such faithfulness. So I feel that he who strikes at these men of God, and at the work of God, strikes at me as one of the members of the Church and places me upon the defensive. 

I feel encouraged in this work. With all my heart I am grateful that I am united with my brethren. I feel thankful for the blessings that the Lord has given to me and to mine. I am grateful for the spirit of faith that He has poured out upon your sons and daughters in the mission field, and for the same spirit resting upon the people who have received their testimony. These principles are finding their way in the hearts of the people. They are acting as a leaven, and many of the prominent men, and even some of the ministers in our mission, are receiving these principles of eternal truth, though they do not render obedience unto the ordinances of the Gospel. Only the other day I received a letter from two  our faithful young- men who are down in the State of Texas, in which they related to me an interview they had recently with one of the prominent ministers of a popular church in that State. This man had read the Book of Mormon, and he said to these two Elders: "I know, young men, that we have got to begin to reorganize the line of work in our church, and we must conform more nearly to those principles that you Mormons are teaching unto the people." On every hand we have these testimonies coming to us. Let me say further, that the spirit in which your sons and daughters go among the people is finding its way into their hearts, and even ministers of the world who have bitterly fought this work are beginning in a measure to partake of that spirit, and they have more of the spirit of charity toward the servants of God than they have had. 

My brethren and sisters, my testimony to you this day is that God lives, that Jesus is His Christ, and that the man who stands at the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the man whom God has chosen, and He will uphold and sustain him, together with his brethren. May God bless you forever. I ask it in the name of Jesus our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. (President of Southern States Mission,) 

Within the last two months, it has been my privilege to meet with the Elders who are laboring in the States of Virginia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Kentucky, and I expect, in the next two months, to have the privilege of meeting with my brethren who are laboring in the two conferences of Tennessee and in Mississippi, Alabama and Ohio. The work of the Lord is progressing very nicely in the Southern States Mission. There is a gradual growth all the time. It is seldom a week goes by without additions being made to the Church of Jesus Christ. Sometimes we have as many as fifty to eighty new baptisms in one month. We are rather in an  condition for help. I have the reputation with the authorities of the church of being a monumental beggar for missionaries. At one time we had Ave [hundred and sixty Elders laboring in that mission. We have not one-third of that number today. Our members are scattered very badly, and we have not missionaries enough to visit and look after the members of the Church, owing to their scattered condition. Wherever our Elders go they meet with success. They do so even in the days of persecution. God works with them. They are happy in their missionary labors, and their testimonies are increasing. I am very much encouraged in the missionary work there. 

If you know any young men who are laboring in that mission or in any other mission, do you ever ask yourself the question as to how the parents of those Elders are situated, and whether they are able to maintain them in the mission field? All the Elders need clothes and shoes and other necessaries, and I wonder if the thought ever enters into your minds that it is your duty to help your neighbors bear the burden that rests upon them when they have a son or a husband upon a mission. 

Another thing: you young men who are about to go upon missions, let me say a word to you, — and I believe I can safely speak for the president of every mission who has spoken here, and for Brother McQuarrie, who probably will speak. You do not know what clothing you will need until you get there. If an Elder comes to our mission, he must go where his services are the most needed; and if, before leaving home, he obtains a suit of clothes that is suitable for Ohio, and his services are needed down in Mississippi, Alabama or Florida, he will go there and suffer from the heat. I would advise every young man to wait until he gets to mission headquarters, to find out where he is going, and then become clothed in a way that will be the most comfortable. 

I never saw a day in my life when I was more satisfied with the principles of the gospel and the condition of the Church than I am today. I never rejoiced more than I have over the testimonies which I have listened to yesterday and today; and I may be pardoned if I call your attention to one little matter. I was especially interested in the faithful testimony borne by Elder Hugh J. Cannon concerning the principles of the gospel, and the lessons that were given to him by his father regarding his duty to love and uphold the one who is now at the head of the Church. I was also interested in the testimonies of Elders Rulon S. Wells and Nephi Pratt. I single these brethren out because thousands of you have listened to the testimonies of their fathers, who once occupied positions of prominence in the church, and who are now dead. Every man in this church is going to be placed in a position where he will be tried and tested so that he will have the privilege of knowing for himself that the gospel is true, and not simply believe it because his father is one of the authorities of the Church. I have listened to the testimony of three generations of Apostles in this building. I rejoice that I know the gospel is true just as well as I did when my father lived, and my brothers and sisters know that it is true just as well as they did when he Jived. The children of other dlead apostles and prophets, who have kept the faith and lived near enough the Lord to drink in the inspiration of His word, also know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true tod-ay as well as they did in the days of their fathers. They know, too, that the man who stands at the head of the Church today is called of God, and is blessed with the same power and authority as the man who stood at the head of the Church in the days when their fathers sat upon this, stand. I rejoice in this; and I bear witness to you today that I do not believe there has ever been a man at the head of the Church more willing to listen to the voice of God and to receive a message from Him than the one who stands at the head today He occupies that position today in literal fulfillment of prophecies ut by those who have occupied the same position before. I used to live in Ogden. Some of you brethren who live in Ogden may remember the time you sat in the Ogden tabernacle, many years ago, and listened to the voice of prophecy from the lips of President Wilford Woodruff, when he predicted in the name of God, and told the people to write it down and remember it, that Joseph F. Smith would be president of this Church, and you know by the way in which it was spoken, that it came from God; and you know, too, that it has been fulfilled by the will of God the Eternal Father. 

I .know that as long as we receive the whisperings of the Spirit we will never doubt the divine mission of the one whom God places at the head of ithe Ohruch. Those who cannot be tried from the outside will be tried from the inside, until every individual is tested. God is no respecter of persons. The son of the most obscure and unassuming man that ever joined the Church and the son of the mightiest prophet that God has given to us in this dispensation, will stand upon an equal footing in this respect. All of them will have their tests, and God will have a tried people. Sometimes I feel as though this people cannot live as they should live without the voice of the wolf being heard upon the outside. We are like a flock of sheep. Tou who are in the sheep business know how it is with a herd of sheep. They gradually cross and separate, but it only takes the howl of one or two wolves to bring them all together again. Jesus Christ said that the kingdom of God is like a net cast into the sea, which draws to the shore fish of all kinds. The gospel net draws to Zion all kinds. They must be tried and assorted, and some of them go back into the world. 

I have been fishing for many years, and I know I have caught lots of poor fish, and some who have come to Zion no doubt will be so tried that they will go back and swim off. Every man in the Chruch will be tried. But God lives. This is His work. The puny hands of man may try to stay the pro of it, but it will go right on; nevertheless; while they who try to stay its progress will die and be forgotten. 

As has been said by some of the brethren, many people in the world are becoming converted to the correctness of the principles of the gospel, and are adapting them to their own beliefs and teachings. Many people persecute us with honest hearts. Not over three weeks ago I was standing on the streets of one of the largest cities of the south when a young man, who is being educated for the ministry, came up to me and told me that a professor of theology — the man who was training him to be a minister of the gospel — had stated that he had been to Salt Lake and that "Mormon" Elders always referred to their wives as cows; and, said the young man, "I know that he spoke the truth, because he is a good man." I replied, "he is a monumental liar." Some of these ministers may be opposing us with an honest purpose, but I tell you there are lots of them that are opposing us because they are naturally as mean as the devil. Sometimes the Irish blood inmy veins makes me feel like breaking loose long enough to tell such defamers of the truth to go where they belong; but there is no necessity for me to do that, they will go there anyhow. 

I bear witness unto you that I know that God lives. I know that this is His truth. I know that the man who stands at the head of this Church is a prophet, seer and revelator, and those who stand with him are the same. I hope that God will continue to whisper to them, no matter whether it is commercialism or not. I hope they will be wise enough to place us in a position sometime so that if a temple is needed in Jackson County we will know where the money is to build it, and not be compelled to go begging for it; or if temples are wanted in other places, that there will be funds on hand to build them, and that they will not have to be started without a dollar in sight. Don't you be afraid of anything they are doing; they can not go very far astray, God will not  them. I bear witness unto you that the gospel is true, and that it will prevail, no matter how much the wolves may howl. Whether they come from the world or go from us out into the world, they cannot stay the progress of God's work. It is His eternal plan of life and salvation, and will save and exalt those who are faithful to it. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

Benediction by Bishop William B. Preston. 
