Morning
09 04 1905



PKEST. JOS. F. SMITH. 

Attendance Exceeding All Previous Conferences, an Evidence of Increasing Faith.— Blesses All Who Desire to Do Good and Establish Peace.— Strong Declaration of Loyalty to the Nation and to the Government. 

I would like to say to this vast congregation that I am delighted to see you here and to note the interest which is manifested by the/ Latter-day Saints in this conference. I sincerely hope that the same calm, peaceful spirit which has pervaded the meeting hitherto will continue to be with us until the close of this seventy-fifth anniversary of the organization of the Church. Let every man and woman holding a membership in the Church exercise that faith which it is their right to exercise, and let them remember that the Lord hears and answers the prayers of those who petition Him in faith, nothing doubting, for the peaceable influence of His Holy Spirit, for the light thereof to shine upon their understanding, and for the strengthening of their good resolutions to serve God and keep His commandments. Thus far I do not think this conference has been surpassed for the number of those in attendance, and for the warmth of fellowship that has been manifested on the part of all that have assembled here. I pray God, my Heavenly Father, that this spirit of union, fellowship and love may continue to the end of the conference, and that this spirit may spread to the uttermost bounds of the Church, that the people may be renewed, strengthened, built , and established in the truth of the Gospel of the Son of God. 

I feel from, the depths of my heart to bless the Latter-day Saints, and I cry for blessings upon the heads of all people who have in their hearts a desire to do good and to establish peace and goodwill among the children of men. I pray not only- for the prosperity of Zion, but for the prosperity of our nation. We must always bear in mind that we are not only citizens of the Kingdom of God, but we are citizens of the United States, and of the states in which we dwell. We have ever been loyal both to our State and Nation, as well as to the Church of God, and we are at the defiance of the world to prove to the contrary. We have been willing to fight our country's battles, td defend her honor, to uphold and sustain her good name, and we propose to continue in this loyalty to our nation and to our people unto the end. 

Now, I did not design to speak this morning. May God bless you, May peace dwell in your soul. May the love of God pervade your hearts and minds. May light and truth shine upon your understandings. May wisdom be given unto you. Be( prudent in all your acts. May you be devoted to the cause of iZion and to the upbuilding of the Church and people of God throughout the length and breadth of the land. Let every officer of the Church be loyal to his calling, loyal to his people, and loyal to everything that is good, pure, noble and godlike. Let no man shrink from his duty for fear of consequences, nor from the responsibility that rests upon him by reason of the calling which he has received through the holy Priesthood. Let us remember that the Gospel has come to stay, and to be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We have ourselves and mankind to save from the errors and sins of the world, and from those evils to which men are , that they may come to the marvelous light of the Gospel of Christ and be made free from the law of sin and death, in the glorious liberty of the children of God. May He bless you, and may peace abide in your hearts, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen 

HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Evils of internal dissension.— The instigator of crime as dangerous as the criminal. — President Roosevelt's courage, and honest policy.— God will vindicate His people. 

My brothers and sisters, the meetings of this Conference, so far should have brought to the hearts of all present unlimited joy and satisfaction, in seeing the unity with which the Latter-day Saints have come together and transacted the business pertaining to the Conference. In the opening remarks of President Smith, he made use of that simile of the Apostle Paul, wherein the Church of Christ is likened to the perfect body of a man — a man in whom the mental faculties and the physical powers are in harmony; one without blemish. You know that when a man is at war with himself, when the flesh wars against the spirit, when the yearnings and the great desires of the heart are denied by an inexorable will, there is internal strife, and that individual, if he be conscientous, suffers the fiery pains of a living hell. And as with a man, so with a family. If in a family there is strife, quarreling, false accusation, partiality, we know what the inevitable result will be, unless it is checked. As in a man where this internal strife exists, if it be not checked, distress must follow, so if these conditions are not checked in a family, it means the disintegration of that family, and the scattering of its members. So in a community, or in an organization, or in a church; if the members thereof are at war one with another, ifthey are not in harmony, if they are divided, if they are contentious, then, unless these conditions are changed it is but a short time until the organization, or the community, or the church, or the state, or the nation, is dismem and destroyed. It was this condition which disrupted the French people to such an extent. It was their civil 3trife and fratricidal revolution, wherein they fought and slew one another, wherein the blood of noble and peasant flowed until the people grew weary with the bloodshed. The same thing also distracted our own great and glorious country during the civil war, wherein citizens of the same country, who had previously fought shoulder to shoulder against a foreign power, were themselves found in deadly strife. There is no telling what might have happened—worse than did happen— had it not been that the eye and the hand of God were over this goodly land, wherein He raised up a man, whom I verily believe was impired to guide the ship of state, that it might not be broken to pieces on the shoals and rocks of slavery and secession. I believe Abraham Lincoln was raised up to do God's will. 

I have rejoiced in hearing the patriotic sentiments of the brethren who have spoken, showing forth their love and loyalty to the country of which we form a part. I, too, love my country. I know that the Latter-day Saints love this nation. However, I see dangers today in this land of freedom and liberty, just as there have been dangers in our midst in times past. There are those who abuse the great privileges of freedom and liberty, and who prostitute the powers and talents God has given them, and use them to the hurt of their country and its people, rather than to the good and blessing of the land and its inhabitants. Abraham Lincoln, the man who held together our country, through whose wisdom the men of the north and the south were again united in the bonds of brotherhood, was put to death by an assassin. Of course, he who committed the rash deed was put to death also; but I ask you, were the ends of justice met when the murderer was himself put to death? Was the life of the one equal to the life of the other? Not at all. The ends of justice were no more met when the slayer of Abraham Lin-. coin. was put to death than recompense would he made if the combined debt of . the world were to be paid with a counterfeit penny. Another of the noble sons of America who stood at the head of the nation, James A. Garfield, was likewise slain by the hand of an assassin, and this assassin also was put to death. But was the country and the people compensated for the loss of President Garfield by the death of his slayer? No. And in later times, so recently in fact that it still brings sorrow to our minds when we think of it, another president of the United States has been slain by the hand of an assassin, who was promptly taken and executed for the crime. But I ask you again, "Was recompense made in the death of this man? Put the life of this foreigner anarchist, this man with the unpronounceable name, in the scales with the life of William McKinley, whom he slew, and would the scales of justice be balanced? Not at all. 

These men were the assassins, but, in my estimation, they were not the real murderers. The real murderers are still at large, and still have influence among the children of men. Who are they? They are men who live in this country of freedom, who have vouchsafed to them every privilege of liberty, and who pervert these privileges. Some of them edit newspapers, some occupy pulpits, and some speak from public platforms; they are the artists who picture noble men before the community as fiends incarnate; they are writers who describe them as being monsters, as being wicked, cruel, ambitious, as men reaching out to rob the poor, to oppress mankind, and to have flow into their own hands the proceeds of the work of the laborers. Christ said upon one occasion that he who looketh upon a woman to lust after her has committed adultery already in his heart. I say that the man who looks upon another with murder in his heart, and who, by speaking and writing, incites the feeble-minded and vicious to strike the blow which takes from the country her noble men whom they hate, is in fact the murderer. Such men  murder in their hearts, and they are no less murderers than they would be if they committed the .deed itself. So with the man who covets that which does not belong to him; in the court of Almighty God, he will be deemed a thief, just as though he put forth his hand and took that which belonged to his neighbor. And when the Lord, in His courts on high, dispenses strict justice, these ignorant, foolish or vicious individuals who have been induced to take the lives of good men, through the lies that have been circulated about their victims, will be found no more guilty than will those who commit the murder in their hearts, and whose writings, speaking or pictures have incited the criminals to strike the deadly blow. This is what I believe. Today, in our land of boasted freedom and liberty, whenever the President of the United States attends a public function, or goes abroad, he must needs be surrounded by a corps of secret service men, detectives and policemen, who watch him and everyone who comes in contact with him, and look for suspicious characters. Why? Is it because President Roosevelt is a coward, that he dare not go abroad without being protected thus? No; no man will say that the hero of San Juan hill is a coward. No man will say that one who boldly, and almost alone, stands out against the oppression of the people by wicked men and by trusts, is a coward. No man will say that President Roosevelt is a coward when he dare stand unswayed against the 'Combined cry of tens of thousands of men and women incited by prejudice. He is not a coward; he is a brave man. But because there are those in the land who, enjoying the liberties of a free country, describe and depict him as being ambitious, desiring to be an emperor, and wear a crown; because there are men who use their talents in cartooning him thus, representing him to be an oppressor of the people and criminal in his desires — these men, through their writing and speaking from the platform and the pulpit, have made it necessary that the President of the United States,  though he be, must be surrounded by a corps of secret service men, night and day, in order that his life may be preserved. I say that those who make this necessary are criminals. Why do not men use the gifts God has given them in portraying before the country the virtues of their fellow men, in magnifying their good deeds, and in imputing to their honest purpose good instead of evil? Why do they not magnify honorable men in the eyes of their fellows, rather than exaggerate imaginary faults, and arouse hatred in the hearts of the ignorant against men whose lives are spent in behalf of the people and in defense of righteous laws and justice? 

My brethren and sisters, there is but little true justice done among men in this day and age. The laws that men make are necessarily human, and men will err; but, in the day of God's judgment absolute justice will be done. Then it will not only be the acts' of men that will be taken into account, but it will be the thoughts and intents of their hearts that will also be considered when they are judged. When men in the court of Almighty God are so judged and found unworthy, and they are shut out from the presence and love of their Pather,there will be no meed then to argue with them as to the truth of hell Are; they will know it without argument, you can depend upon it. 

Well, we believe that in President Rposevelt we have an unprejudiced friend; and we know that in the Latter -1 day Saints President Roosevelt will find .loyalty to the government and the greatest friendship toward him. There are no people in the nation more friendly to him; and they will remain so just so long as he remains true to the cause of humanity. Furthermore, we will continue true to Old Glory, and to our glor. ious country, even though all the world should prove unjust to us. We are a true people. I believe that President Roosevelt is a man who has the courage of his convictions. He is fairly well acquainted with us, and he is not a man that is moved by public clamor or pre. I believe that he will honestly and truly stand by his great policy of a "square deal to all men," and that he will accord us our portion of the "square deal." I do not believe he is the weak and vacillating man that a predecessor of his was who, knowing, our condition, said, "Your cause is' just, but I can do nothing for you." I believe he is a man who, so long as he believes our cause is just, will be willing to do something for us. We assuredly will do all we can to sustain him, and all other good men. I believe these are the sentiments of the ten thousand Latter-day Saints who are gathered in this building today. I believe they are the true sentiments of *every member of the Church, and we will demonstrate it in the future, as we have done in the past. 

May God bless us. May the Church of Christ never be less united than it is now. Like the nation of which we are a part, we have gone through trials of internal strife, but we do not have them now. In early days, in our weakness, we saw the witnesses to the Book of Mormon, who had stood shoulder to shoulder with the Prophet Joseph Smith, turn away from him, and oppose him. We have seen his counselors leave him; we have seen members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles leave the Church and lead away many others. That was our internal struggle, but we have overcome it. It has been proven that God is over us, and He will not permit internal strife nor external persecution to destroy His work in the earth, no more than He permitted civil strife to destroy this great country, over which He has had His all-seeing eye from the very beginning. Let men do what they will; let those whom Elder Rich dignified by comparing them to the wolf (to my mind you could compare them more consistently to the penny fice, which makes only a noise) howl all they will, we will go right straight along, doing the will of Almighty God, and He will justify and vindicate us in the eyes of men, in His own due time. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and make you ever as faithful and even more faithful than you are today, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER L. W. SHURTLIFF. 

(President of Weber Stake.) 

My beloved brothers and sisters, the few moments I shall occupy this morning-, I trust that I shall have the Spirit of the Lord to direct me, as it has directed all of the speakers during the Conference. I have attended a great many conferences of the Church, and I feel that this is the best one I have ever had the privilege of attending. I rejoice exceedingly in the truths of the Gospel, and in my association with the people of God in the last days. It has been my good fortune to be associated with the Latter-day Saints all the days of my life. I have been personally acquainted with all of the Presidents of the Church from President Young down, and have served upon missions under all of them, and I thank God this morning that I can bear testimony that they have all been men of God, filled with light and intelligence and the revelations of heaven to guide His people on earth. I am thankful that I live in this glorious republic, that I was born in this nation, that my forefathers fought in the Revolutionary war. I am thankful for the liberty that we have in this great nation; and although my life has been spent with the Latter-day Saints, sometimes in darkness and difficulties, yet there has always been brightness to those that were filled with the love of truth. I am thankful to see this vast assembly come here to worship, and to hear the word of the Lord. We have alreadv heard it, we are hearing it from day to day. 

So far as the people are concerned over whom I have the honor to oreside, in the Weber Stake of Zion, I will say that we have union, fellowship and love for one another and for those that lead Israel. There may be a few, and they are very few, that feel differently, but T tell you that the Latter-dav Saints do support the authorities of the Church. They pray for them and sup them in every way, and we are united in this. We have no fear about what shall be done with the tithes and offerings that are placed in the hands of the Trustee-in-trust. I believe that the Latter-day Saints who pay their tithes and offerings are not the ones that are finding fault, but it is those that have done little or nothing in this direction. I trust that we will be loyal to the servants of God. We know that God has inspired them to lead Israel, and we have full confidence in them, it matters not what the world may say concerning them or the people of God. The Church of Christ will go forth in great earnestness in the earth, and there is no power that can stay it. From time to time men may rise up and think they can do something that will retard the progress of the work of God, but thev will fail, as they always have. Those that have been long in the Church know how freauently men have come forward and said, "We will show you the way;" but they have utterly failed. 

God bless Israel, and especially our leaders. I know that Joseph F. Smith is a nrophet of God, I know that his counselors are men of God also, and also the Twelve Apostles, and the others whom we have sustained, and we will continue to sustain them whatever the world may say regarding them. God he 1 .? us to do so. May Zion rise and shine. May we still feel able to maintain the right and build up and strengthen the weak in all parts of the land. God bless you and all Israel. Amen. 

ELDER JESSE N. SMITH. 

(President of Snowflake Stake.) Brothers and sisters, I feel that I am one of the least among you; but notwithstanding my humility and my nothingness, I have received a witness of the truth of this work. I can relate how it happened that my lot was cast among the Latter-day Saints. I do not suppose there was any natural goodness about me to boast of, but I had very choice parents, and they had a great interest for me, as I have discovered,  I revere them. If any of the fathers have wayward sons, probably if they will take the course that my father took, they may be enabled to interest those sons in this work. My religious impressions commenced from my earliest childhood. My father seemed to make his religion first and foremost. He attended very strictly to his family devotions. He did not seem to be hurried. At evening he read from the Scriptures, he and my mother sang, and we had family prayers. My religious life, I may say, my testimony, dates from these things. My father soon passed away in death, but - 1 can never forget him. I felt that he was a minister of God. I lived in very great poverty, in much humility, privation I may say. I was taught early to pray, and I understood the meaning of those words in the Lord's prayer, "Give us this day our daily bread," because we did not have much laid by. When I was enabled to go to school, there were no free schools then; contracts were made by the parents; and I had a very meagre supply of books, almost none at all. I heard . that they were using the Book of Mormon in the schools, so I took my father's Book of Mormon with me. It was the first edition. Our honored Patriarch was in that class with his Book of Mormon; young Joseph Smith, the son of Sidney Rigdon, the son of William Marks, and the son of Peter Haws were also in the class. I was in good company, but they all had books of the second edition, with new and beautiful binding, and I felt I was a little behind them. As I was going to school one morning, and passing the Prophet's place, he was walking in the garden, and he answered my salutation. I think he would answer a child's salutation just as readily as that of a grown person. He came up to the fence and spoke very kindly to me. He said, "You are going to school?" "Yes." "What book do you. read in?" "I read in the Book of Mormon." "Come in here." I passed in at the gate and he made me a present of a Book of Mormon of the ne"W edition, with the beautiful binding. I could then hold up my head with the  of the class. He gave me this injunction: "Read it in school and read it at home." I have done so. I believe the Book of Mormon. I have believed it from my childhood. I have been a great reader, but it is to me the most interesting of all books. I felt that that was the greatest treasure that could be bestowed upon me. And when I read that David Whitmer, one of the witnesses to the Book of Mormon, and his family, had a superstitious regard for the sacred record that was in his keeping, and they felt that no harm would come to them while they were the custodians of that record, I could comprehend that. My family have almost the same feeling for the sacred volume that was presented to me by the hand of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In traveling around among the people as a missionary, which I do considerably, I find many young people just starting out in life. I call on them in their humble homes. When I find the Book of Mormon on their shelves and see an indication that it is read and considered, I feel thankful, for I have a sort of testimony that in that home there will be no family jars and no seeking for divorce. I have looked after these things In a humble way. I find that there is power in this Gospel, and that the faithful and the true believers are favored of God. Peace, blessed pence, comes to their homes. Their homes are homes of faith and prayer, and the Christian virtues cluster around their family altars. 

I thank the Lord for what I have received in the Gospel; chief of all, that I have received a degree of faith, blessed faith. I have been free from doubt. At the death of the Prophet and Patriarch, the people for a moment seemed helpless, and there sprang up many aspirants, who sought leadership and dignity and honor in the Church; yet I was blessed, I had no doubt, and I realized that the Twelve were the men to look to. It was given me of the Lord. Fortunately I was present at that wonderful meeting where President Brigham Young spoke with the voice of Joseph Smith, and I heard that familiar voice. That strengthened the testimony of many. It was most wonderful. That voice which, as was said of the blessed Redeemer, spake as never man spake! I sincerely hope to remain faithful to this cause. It has not been difficult for me so far. I hope I may have grace ana the favor and blessing of the Almighty to continue. 

The people where I live are not numerous, but I believe that, almost universally, they are content and satisfied. They sustain the authorities of the Church in word and in deed, and they are greatly blessed. I think it very unfortunate to be discontented, to be an agitator, to delight in turmoil, to seek to stir up strife. I think there is far more happiness, there is far more opportunity to be of help to our fellowmen, to be conservative in our feelings and in our spirit, and help along, instead of trying to hold back. I regard it as the highest blessing to know the will of God and have a disposition to do it. 

I pray that we may all be preserved in righteousness, that we may build up the kingdom of God, and bequeath the legacy of righteousness and good works to those who shall come after us. Amen. 

President Joseph F. Smith arose and said, "Elder Jesse N. Smith, who has just addressed us, may properly be regarded as a modern Nathaniel— a man in whom there is no guile." 

Elder John Robinson sang a baritone solo, "O Lord Have Mercy." 

ELDER E. H. SNOW. (President of St. George Stake). 

My dear brethren and sisters, I appreciate very much the opportunity given me to report the condition of the people in the St. George Stake of Zion. Ours is a stake of magnificent distances, requiring about eleven hundred miles to travel, all by team, to reach the people. There are twenty-two wards, most of them small. We have no railroad, no corporations, and not much of the wealth of the world to worry us. The stranger says it is a God-forsaken country; but >we do not believe him, for we know better. The Lord has justified the wisdom of the servants of God in colonizing this semi-arid region. The  pioneers have nearly all passed away; but their sons and daughters have regarded the call of their parents as equally binding upon them, and they have remained In the country, and have toiled and struggled and wrung from the elements a fairly comfortable subsistence. There is an affection in the hearts of the people for the sanSs and the rocks that have developed strength in them. After all, our best crop has been men and women. We have been engaged in building extensive canals.. The rives has washed some of our land away; and one canal, at an expense 'of one hundred thousand dollars and ten years in building, has just been completed and water turned upon the land. Another reservoir scheme has been perfected, and we are getting this spring, for the first time, the benefits of that enterprise. Years ago we had plenty of rain, but for the last fifteen years there has been drouth. During the last winter, however, the rains have come up from the Gulf of California and settled down over the rim of the basin, and we have had rain, and rain, and glorious rain. We have not had such rain for twenty years. So we ar» happy, we are hopeful, we are contented, we are united. I need scarcely say to you that a people who have remained loyal to the country to which the servants of God called them, are still loyal to the servants of God. 

Personally, I feel well in the Gospel. Like Elder Ben E. Rich, I can say , that there never was a time in my life when I was so well satisfied with the Church of God and the administration of His servants as I am today. I rejoice in the fact that I have a testimony for myself that this is the work of God. I hope I shall always prove trua and faithful to it; for I can conceive ot no worse spectacle than for the Saints to tear down the work of their fathers. I have rejoiced in the spirit of this conference and in the spirit of the brethren who have spoken. I testify that this spirit is of God. I pray God to bless us as a people, especially the young, that we may be true and faithful, and that the spirit of this conference may go as a great ground swell and penetrate throughout the length  breadth of the land, and stir up the souls of the people of Zion unto faithfulness, to seek God and keep His commandments. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

I very much desire to say the right thing- at the right time. I may possibly speak by parable. Now, I intend to say just what the Lord will help me say. One parable is that I do not want a rosewood casket. I am willing to be buried among the people in a plain casket, and all I want inscribed on the headboard of my grave is that I have been true to this Church and to the Priesthood of God, and have walked in the footsteps of my father. 

I once read a beautiful article about anvils and hammers and I copied some of its sayings; but I have never used them, although I have carried the copy until it is nearly worn out. I now quote as follows: "Every man in the world who gives blows must take blows, and until a man becomes as good an anvil as he is a hammer he fails to be thoroughly fitted for his work." 

I was born in this. Church, and if there is any one thing that I am proud of it is that I am a member of this Church. You Latter-day Saints know well how proud I am of my parentage. When I stop believing in my father and mother, I will stop believing in the human family; for where they go I want to go. I love this work. I may not love it quite so well as some men do, but I hope I will always be given the credit of having integrity, and support and sustain the Priesthood of God. 

I will tell you how I was brought up, and then you can make borne excuse for my general makeup. A lot of us boys used to meet up in the Eighteenth ward, right where now stands the Lafayette school— that beautiful building which cost over $170,000. I was educated in a very small building on the same block. We had a brother that was somewhat of a general, and he trained us boys— that is, when father ^ivas away. He would get us behind  barn, where no one could see us; then he would put a chip upon one of our shoulders and tell one of the other boys to knock it off, then we would fight. That was part of the training he gave us, and when we asked why he did it, he said it makes you tough. My father had a great garden and it was fenced in by a six or eight foot stone wall. Father told us we couldn't have any of the fruit, so we got it anyhow, and I will tell you how we got it. This sfime brother of ours, took one of the boys and dangled him over the wall with a rope, and he loaded his shirt bosom and pockets with apples. One time, Father Tucker, the gardener, got after him with a willow, and lambasted him. Brother said that would make him tough. Now, I have a little boy— my oldest son — and when he was a child we always made him give up to every neighbor's boy that came in our home. These are parables that I am telling you now. We kept that up until he thought he had to give up everything in the world, and it made rather a coward out of him. He went to school, and the boys found out they could v/hip him; and they did so, until I told him that if he didn't take his own part and fight, I would whip him. Not long ago he came home with his thumb out of joint, and, forgetting all about my religion, I said, Did you whip him? He said, yes. Then I gave him some fatherly counsel. 

Now I grant, my brethren and sisters, that sometimes we have to endure, and I presume that if we live the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ we have to endure all things; but it requires a very prayerful heart to enable us to endure some things. I realize that the Congress of the United States, the president of the United States, and the committee on privileges and elections, have their duty to perform. I do not object to those things, for it is a doctrine of the Church that we sustain the law of the land, and we have done it, although we have fought valiantly for the principles that were revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith; and I am proud that the people fought it out until it was decided that some parts of our religion were unconstitutional and would not be permitted. But the thing that I object to is, for every little gutter-snipe that comes into the country to think that he can kick and maul and abuse us. I occasionally feel a little like Joe Rich did once when they abused his father, Apostle Charles C. Rich, who spend a great part of his life as a pioneer in that hard country of Bear Lake, who used to come over the mountains on snow shoes in order to attend conference, 'who used to grind his wheat in a little coffee mill in order to have bread, and whose wives and children lived in log houses with dirt roofs, for many years. Joe went down to a cer"v tain newspaper office and demanded retraction. He told them if they didn't retract he would turn the whole family loose on them, and that he was the smallest one in the family and the biggest coward. The retraction came. I am not saying this to be sensational; I tell you, if it were not for that man of God, Joseph F. Smith, restraining his children, and they being obedient unto him. there would be some men horsewipped today. But, he is a servant of God. I have known him all my life. I have known every man who has presided over this Church from President Brigham Young down, and I know they have been men of God. 

Now, I realize that every man who strikes blows for power, for influence, for institutions, for the right, must be just as good an anvil as he is a hammer. If he is not, he may properly conclude that he has no very important mission in the improvement and progress of the race. If private and instituted sin, error, prejudice and wrong would stand quietly and let us batte? in their sides, or knock them down, reform would be easy; but they always object to this mode of treatment, and any man who attacks them must calculate on his powers of resistance, or his power to bear without flinching the blows he will receive in return. 

We have no small mission to perform. I honor Joseph Smith the Prophet for his bravery, for his courage, for his . He had a message to deliver that was in conflict with sin and wickedness, and it came in contact also with all the man-made religious organizations of the world. But God had revealed it to him, and he would not deny it, though it cost his life. Do you thin* we can continue proclaiming this message—can we Elders continue telling the world that God did appear to Joseph Smith, and that He did reveal these things, and expect they will receive us with open arms? Never. But notwithstanding it is our mission to treat them kindly, to carry the olive branch in our hands, to preach the Gospel ana to deliver this message. At the same time, brethren and sisters, we must have backbone. The people assembled here are those who generally attend to their duties, who go to quarterly conferences, and pay their tithing; but 1 tell you there are some people in this Church who do not pay their tithing, do not attend conference, do not listen to the words of the Prophets, and do not work for the salvation of the souls of the children of men, and they are the ones that are shaking in their shoes at this very time. I hope the ship will stop just long enough for them to get off. The door is wide open; and, as someone has said, "when you want to go to hell, black your boots and go like a gentleman." If I leave this Church I hope I will have manhood enough to leave it like a man, and not be a traitor and fight the people. I said to one man once, "You have a right to leave this Church, and it is a very simple thine to do. Just notify those in authority that you desire to withdraw." It is our business to treat all such kindly, to sympathize with them, and if possible to uplift them; but I do not like a traitor, and never did. 

I am going to read some more to you: "I think there is a contemptible, quiet path for all those who are afraid of the blows and hammers of opposing forces. There is an honorable fighting for any man who is not ready to forget that he has a head to be battered and a name to be besmattered. Truth 

ELDER J. W. 

wants no champion who is not as ready to be struck as to strike for her." 

Any of these backboneless people, any who are afraid that God's work will not triumph, had better get in the background, and let those that have courage stand in the front of the battle. Of course, I might be the first one to run; I have not been tried yet; but I know I will be tried if I stay in this Church. I know that I cannot live on borrowed light. You can talk and preach and expound until you are black in the face, but if you do not know that Jesus is the Christ you will never stay in this Church. 

I want to read one more Quotation and then I will quit: 

"The more one reads of the newspapers the less clearly one sees. There are days when having read them and admitting that one believes their word, the reader will see himself obliged to draw this conclusion: Decidedly, there are none but tarnished men everywhere. There are no men of integrity, but some of these chroniclers. But that last conclusion will fall in its turn! The reader would have before his eyes a spectacle analagous to that represented in the caricature called the 'Combat of the Serpent.' After having devoured everything around them, two reptiles attack each other and begin to swallow each other, so that there remains in the battle field but two tails." 

I guess we know where to apply this. There is one morning paper in this city that has treated us reasonably fair, and they know how well they are succeeding in their fair treatment. As far as I am concerned, I want to be broadminded enough to open my arms to tht stranger, and to treat him kindly; but, I will not sustain a man who will lie, abuse, and deride this people. It is our business to sustain this work, and it is our business to uphold this State and nation. 

May God bless this people. May He bless the authorities of the Church. It is not often I bear my testimony, but I want to tell you today that I know this work is true. I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God. I honor and love his memory, although I never saw him. I have been acquainted with all the Prophets of God from the days of President Bi-igham Young down. 

McMURRIN. 55 

They have been kind to me in my childr hood and in my manhood. It does not matter much to me where the place is that they have gone to, but I want to tell you they are good enough company for me, and I do not want to go with any others, because I would be lonesome. God bless you. Amen. 


