Morning
07 04 1898


ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. 

The Holy Spirit makes all things clear— The Gospel embraces everything needed for the advancement of man— Good effects of home missionary work — Necessity of wisdom ind union in temporal affaiFS ( 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I am pleased to meet with you this morning, and I trust that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord during the few moments that I may address you, as our brethren enjoyed that Spirit yesterday. I have no desire to speak a word that cannot be heard by every soul that is here this morning, and 1 have no desire to speak a word that  not be dictated by the Holy Spirit of God. We have learned in our experience how easy it is for men to speak to the edification of the Latterday Saints and those who are seeking the truth when they are inspired by the Spirit of Almighty God; but with all the oratory and learning of men, they are not able to convert those who are honest in heart, except they possess this Spirit. The men who have had the greatest success in converting souls to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have not been men of very great learning; they have been men who have been taught of God, who have been God-fearing, humblei and willing to give unto Him the honor and the glory for all they were able to accomplish. So I desire this morning to possess that same spirit of humility and the Spirit of the Lord, that I may be able to edify the Latter-day Saints for a few moments and to touch upon some points that will be for the benefit of the people in general, or of some of us at any rate. 

In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there is everything. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I believe, that is necessary for our happiness here upon earth and for our salvation in the future. Within its organization we can find everything to keep our minds occupied, everything to instruct us in every labor of life, and the Spirit of God to guide us in all that we undertake to do. A great many ministers who are not of our faith have made comments upon the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and some of them have remarked that all that was necessary to thwart our purposes and to bring to naught the work that has been set on foot by the Lord was to show up our principles; yet those who make such comments have always been of that class that have never undertaken to expose any one of our principles, they knowing full well that the principles of the Gospel which they Iiave investigated are founded upon Scriptures and upon the word of God. AH the comments that I have ever lieard or read that our enemies have ever made upon the doctrines of Jesus that they have avoided the direct bringing to light of any one of the principles in which we believe; but they "have made incorrect assertions, they liave misrepresented us in various ways. This may be because they have not thoroughly understood our motives. 

I have in my pocket a slip of paper clipped from the Portland Oregonian of March 26th, giving the opinion of one Mr. Stone, the secretary of the Young Men's Christian association. His comments are very much of the character I bave mentioned. He says that the Mormons who have been members of bis association have not been permitted to vote or hold office because they are not considered as Christians. We are excluded from the pale of the Christian churches, as they term it, and therefore our people have been excluded from voting or holding office in that assocation. 

I would like to say a few words upon this matter, inasmuch as the Latterday Saints are given to joining these various associations and societies that are not part of the Church of Christ. In this city alone we have a great many young Latter-day Saints — at least, they are the children of Latter-day Saints — who belong to these various associations. Now, we have no objection to people believing as they desire. 

At the same time it is our wish that the Latter-day Saints should grow up with a knowledge of the Gospel. First implant the knowledge of the Gospel of Christ within their hearts, and then they cannot be contaminated by error, if they are true and faithful to the principles of that Gospel. In various places throughout the Stakes of Zion we find that the Latter-day Saints have been given to joining secret so> cieties as well as other associations. This is forbidden by the Priesthood of the Son of God. There is all of the brotherhood and all of the insurance, if you please, contained in the Church of Jesus Christ that are necessary for us. It is a fact that there are Latterday Saints, in Salt Lake City and elsewhere, who cannot find time to attend to their duties in the Priesthood, but do find time to attend to their lodge meetings. We are running wild in this respect. Irreverence for the Priesthood of the Son of God is growing out of this. Those young men who attend lodge meetings and do not attend their Priesthood meetings, what reverence do they have for the Priesthood of the Son of God? They have very little, if any, because they have never learned to reverence that Priesthood. 

Our missionaries, whose number has been increased some two hundred in the world during the last year, have also been performing a great work at home. One hundred and forty have been sent out among the Latter-day Saints in the various settlements, to bring in the indifferent and those who have been negligent in their duties, ana to try to get them to take a live interest in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to join the various Improvement Associations. The effect that this corps of missionaries has had upon the people in general has been reported as being very good. Not only the Toung Men's and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement associations, but the various Priesthood meetings have been better attended than ever before, or for years before, at any rate. The Presidents of Stakes have reported, in many instances, that the Sabbath schools also have been improved through the work of these brethren, and also that the people have shown a more liberal  in the payment of their tithes and donations. They have received a general wakening up in their religion. I have ofttimes wondered how it is that we could afford to send so many missionaries abroad to preach the Gospel, and at the same time neglect our young men and young women here in Zion. When people are converted abroad and are brought to Zion, they see the example of some of the young, and they apostatize on account of that. Therefore, it has been deemed wise by the brethren to send out these missionaries, that they might go into the homes of the Latter-day Saints and teach them the Gospel. We understand that there are a great many quorums of the Priesthood that have not been able to discharge their duties as they should have done; the Teachers have not in all cases visited the Saints as they might have done; the Priests have not gone from house to house and expounded the Scriptures as it is their duty to do; and one of the difficuties has been that the members of the various quorums have not had anything to do. Inactivity is death. Wherever there is a body of people upon the face of the earth that has nothing to do, that quorum or body will die spiritually. The Spirit of God will not be with men who are inactive. The Spirit of God is a spirit of progression. Therefore, my brethren and sisters, we can see the necessity of the work that these missionaries have been performing here at home. We cannot deny but that there has been great need of this work. And they have worked just as zealously, for aught I know, and in many cases I know they have — as they would have done upon foreign missions. If we could keep those Elders who have returned from missions and the various quorums of the Priesthood at work, there would be little doubt as to the final outcome of this work. We wish to grow at home as well as abroad; not simply send our Elders abroad to preach the Gospel, but also encourage their work here, that the people may have their interest renewed in the Gospel and every man be at work. The organization of the Church of Jesus Christ is so complete  it reaches every man and every woman and every child. 

Some things were spoken upon yesterday of a temporal nature that might be taken to heart to good advantage by all of the Latter-day Saints. We cannot separate our temporal salvation from our spiritual salvation. We should be a people who believe in enterprise, in benefiting each other and sustaining each other. There is one thing in. connection with this that I would lika to mention. There has been too much enmity or jealousy among the Latterday Saints in relation to things that have been started for the benefit of the people. For instance, we go into a village and we find a blacksmith or a carpenter who has been doing a good work and able to earn a fair wage, perhaps he has become well off. Then our brethren get jealous of that brother becaue he is progressing, and the> will start up a shop of the same kind next door to him, or very near. The result is, the profits have to be divided, and there is not enough for either of them perhaps; whereas, had they gone into something else, they would have been able to assist in the general prosperity. Our people at various times get a mill craze. They get a sawmill craze, or a creamery craze, or something of that kind; and because of their lack of union, they are cutting, each other's throat financially. It appears to me that there is in the organization of the Church of Christ everything necessary for our temporal salvation as well as for our spiritual salvation, and if we would only make use of this beautiful organization, it would not be as we find it today, our people underbidding each other till their contracts are let so low in various places that they are unable to fill them. 

Only a short time ago I noted in one of our valleys, which furnished supplies for Fort Duchesne, that on account of their lack of union in temporal affairs, they had underbid each other until the man who had secured the wood contract was unable to fill it, and his bondsmen had to do so. So it is in relation to the grain, and to the flour, and everything that is produced. When the stores made these contracts, the people got the idea that they were making too much money and getting rich, so they went in and underbid each GENERAL CONFERENCE.  on government contracts and got them down to such a low figure that they could not possibly afford to deliver at the price contracted for. This is a suggestion, I believe, that it would be well to give consideration in various places. We find that mail contracts in Utah are contracted for, in many instances, by men who do not live in the State. The last ones that were let were awarded to men in Kentucky, and they sublet them to our people, who do the work for less than what their horses' feed will cost them, if their horses were fed as they should be. Therefore, we do the work and some one else gets the money. These matters pertaining to our temporal welfare, I believe, should be given attention by the Presidents of Stakes. We should not be jealous of our brethren and sisters when we see they are progressing and prospering. We desire that they should do well. We should desire that not only they should do well, but that all Israel should do well, that we may become an independent people, and not be the payers of interest, but receive interest; that we should have money to loan, instead of borrowing and having the shingles mortgaged over our wives and children as they are today in many cases. 

I pray that the blessings of God may rest upon this people, that we may be blessed spiritually and temporally; that the power of God may be manifest in this Conference; that the brethren m-y all speak by the power of the Lord; that His Spirit may be with each and every one of us; that we may take to heart the instructions that are given in this Conference, and carry them to our homes, that this Conference may be the means of refreshing us, as our Conferences always do, to cause us to be a more moral people, a better people in every respect; which may God grant, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

ELDER M. F. COWLEY. 

The hand of God in past and current events — The missionaries abroad — Mutual improvement work —Peace departing from the earth — Repeniance needed. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire your kind attention, that I may be able to make you hear. My voice is not very strong, and we are reminded that we  talk loud. I also desire your kind faith and prayers, that the Spirit of the Lord may suggest all that is said. 

The work of the Lord is so broad and comprehensive that it meets the requirements of the Saints in all conditions of life and in all places, and it is impossible for us to have any measured instructions, or anything prearranged. We are supposed to speak and to counsel by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and every Latter-day Saint that assembles in this Conference is under obligation to take an active part in the proceedings of the Conference, in the way at least of having his mind clear and free from outside influences, and come here with a desire to be instructed and to receive the word of the Lord through His servants who are called upon to address us. 1 have rejoiced in the instructions of this Conference thus far. I have a testimony in my heart that every word which has been spoken and every suggestion which has been made is appropriate. 

I recognize the hand of the Lord in the events that are occurring in the midst of the Latter-day Saints, and also abroad among the nations of the earth. It was stated yesterday that the Lord had delivered His people from every kind of oppression, so far as we had gone. To my mind, this is a very striking evidence of the divinity of this work and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and He will deliver His people from every condition that is not as it should be, provided we do our duty. There is nothing more important to the Latter-day Saints than to understand oui individual duty and to perform it every day. It is by compliance with the simple and plain obligations that the Gospel enjoins upon us that we are entitled to the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth and to establish us against every influence that may be brought to bear to destroy our faith and to turn us aside from the path which leads to eternal life. 

This is the day of the Lord's preparation, and the work of preaching the Gospel is being accelerated in the nations of the earth. I have enjoyed myself since our last General Conference in traveling among the Elders of the Southern States, principally, and  touching briefly the mission of Colorado, of the Northern States at Chicago and Cincinnati, and of the Eastern States in the city of NewYork. I have witnessed a good interest being exhibited by those young Elders who are abroad preaching the Gospel in those sections of the country. And I may say the same of the Northwestern States mission, comprising the states of Oregon, northern Idaho and Washington, where I visited a few days ago in company with Elder John Henry Smith. In all of these missions we have found a good spirit among the Elders; and I am happy to bring this report to the fathers and mothers of the sons and to the wives of their husbands who are abroad preaching the Gospel in the nations of the earth. The Elders usually are contented in their missionary fields. They labor under the influence of that testimony which gives them to understand that their mission upon the earth is to preach the Gospel, to assist in the gathering of Israel and in the establishment of the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth. But one of the causes which lead Elders at times to be homesick is the letters which they get from their peonle at home. The Latter-day Saints should not in this way discourage those who do us the honor of representing the work of God among the nations of the earth. The letters that are sent abroad by wives, by fathers, by mothers, by brothers, to the Elders that are preaching the Gospel, should be letters of encouragement, and not discouragement. I labored with one Elder many years ago, in the state of Virginia, who had a large family of children. His wife was a good Latter-day Saint, with a great deal of faith; and whenever she had any sickness at home, she kept it from the knowledge of her husband until the patient was well, and the Lord blessed her in so doing. 

I have read in the newspapers of late the comments of ten ministers of modern Christianity, published in Portland, Oregon, where Brother William Parkinson and his brother were preaching the Gospel. Their comments were on this wise: that the Latter-day Saint Elders were preaching doctrine that was common to 

Christianity, but the distinctive features of Mormonism were kept in the background. I want to say that there is not a principle in the Gospel that we have espoused that is not distinctive from the religions of the world. There may be a common acceptance of the mission of Christ as the Redeemer of mankind; but the very principle of faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ is exemplified in the Elders traveling and preaching the Gospel without money and without price, and the faith which they manifest in doing this in the Southern States is a standing rebuke to those who preach for money and divine for hire. People said to Brother Lyman and myself, in the Southern States and elsewhere, "Why, we could not expect that our ministers would do as your Elders do, travel and preach, going on foot from place to place and from house to house, not missing the humblest and the poorest in the land, without remuneration of a financial character." This is the principle of faith exhibited in these young Elders, and we ought to encourage this principle, and show our faith, when we are called upon to carry the Gospel abroad, by going and performing the duty assigned unto us to the best of the ability with which the Lord shall endow us. The statement was made by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph in the commencement of this Church, and repeated many times in revelations given through him to David Whitmer, to Oliver Cowdery, to Ziba Peterson, and to other men, that the harvest is great and the laborers are few. That statement is true today. Notwithstanding the expansion of the Church, and the thousands of Seventies whose business it is to carry the Gospel and to be especial witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world, and the thousands of Elders from which their ranks can be supplied — notwithstanding that, the cry of the presidents of the different missions is for more Elders. I believe that Brother Kelsch, of the Northern States mission, has about 150 Elders in his mission, and says that he could use 500 as well as not. The president of the Northwestern States mission, Brother Parkinson, desires more Elders in that mission; they only have about 18. Brother Elias Kimball says that he could use in the Southern States 1,000 instead of 500. I suppose that a similar testimony could be borne by the presidents of the various missions in Europe and on the Pacific islands. This should inspire us, my brethren and sisters, with a desire that our sons shall acquire a knowledge of the Gospel. 

I am glad to see that while this demand exists abroad, there is a corresponding increase of interest at home in the Stakes of Zion, which has been so encouragingly manifest this past winter by the missionary work accomplished by the representatives of the Mutual Improvement Associations, who have been traveling in the various Stakes of Zion, getting right to the hearts of the boys, on the street and elsewhere, and endeavoring to show them the propriety of taking an interest in the Gospel, the necessity of laying aside every evil habit, and of cultivating in their hearts the spirit of purity and of righteousness, that they may enjoy the Spirit and power of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I understand that many of these young men, through their labors, have developed a marked talent for missionary work, in drawing into the fold of Mutual Improvement young men who had hitherto been indifferent and careless in regard to this work. This missionary talent should be cultivated, developed, and encouraged by the Latter-day Saints wherever it exists. I believe, through their labors, they have added to the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Assocations throughout the Stakes of Zion about thirteen thousand members to those that were already enrolled. This Is a glorious work. I have heard reports of the excellent labors of Brother Alphonso Snow, who labored in the Oneida Stake and in parts of Cache Valley. Good reports come from him and his associates in that work. I understand that the Elders who have labored in this Stake and in the southern Stakes of Zi>on have also accomplished a good work in their efforts among the young men. I rejoice in this. I commend the young men for their work in the cause of Mutual Improvement. 

As I said, the Lord is preparing the people. He is also preparing the na of the earth. I wish to read a passage that comes to my mind before I sit down: 

"And again, verily I say unto you, 

inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh." 

That is, the things of the Gospel, the revelations of God to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the introduction of a new dispensation and the authority of God establshed upon the earth to call men to repentance, and to administer by such authority and power that when men are baptized in water they shall receive the remission of their sins, provided they are honest, and they shall have the gift of the Holy Ghost by the imposition of hands. This is the character of the dispensation committed unto us in these last days. The Lord says, "I am willing to make these things known unto all flesh." He has been making them known for the last sixty-eight years. He has been placing the people under greater obligations by sending the glad tidings of eternal life, and it has been, to a great extent, rejected, although now the barriers that have been established and maintained by the priestcraft of the world and by other influences have, to some extent, been broken down, until the Elders are reaching the honest in heart and bringing many of them to a knowledge of the truth. The revelation continues: 

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is. not yet, but is at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion; 

"And also the Lord shall have power over His Saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world." 

Now, peace, to some extent, is being taken from the nations of the earth. There are rumors of wars in the land. There is agitation among the nations of the earth. These things have been predicted by the prophets of God, and 

1 testify that every prophecy that has been uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, so far as the wheels of time have brought it due, has been verified to the letter, as much so as any  that was ever uttered byMoses, or by Isaiah, or by any of the ancient prophets of the living God. War will be poured out upon the natrons of the earth; and it shall come to pass among the wicked that every man that will not take up his sword against his neighbor must needs flee unto Zion for safety. There shall be gathered unto Zion out of every nation under heaven, and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another. If there is anyone that doubts the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph, I want them to read that prophecy, and to remember that the day will come when the people on this land of Zion will be the only people that shall not be at war one with another, and that the day will come when those that will not fight against their neighbors will take up their flight to Zion, that they may find a place of safety. This prophecy agrees with the prophecy contained in the 4th chapter of Isaiah and also in the 13th chapter of Isaiah, where he speaks of the judgments of God that shall come upon the wicked, and that there shall be desolation among the children of men, because of their pride, their haughtiness, and their wickedness. 

Brethren and sisters, judgments begin at the house of the Lord. Let us, therefore, repent of our sins, repent of our folly, of our pride, of our hypocrisy, our inconsistency and our selfrighteousness in sitting in judgment upon others, while in our own hearts there are faults and in our own eyes there are many beams. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this work. I have a testimony of its truth. I am glad to say that we are not idle in our ministry; that we rejoice in our labors; that we are desirous of being a benefit and a blessing to the Latterday Saints, that they may profit by the ministration of the servants of God. I bear to you my testimony of the truth of this work. I bear to my young brethren a testimony concerning this work and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. To the young people especially I say, if you will take interest in this work, if you will seek unto God, in humble prayer, and peruse the Book of Mormon with a prayerful heart and these other  of God, you shall receive a testimony of the truth, and you shall know for yourselves that this is the work of God, and that it has come to stay, to extend abroad, and to establish itself throughout the nations of the earth. May God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG. The spirit of the world opposed to salvation— The spirit of war abroad and of peace in Zion. 

It is a time of rejoicing with the Latter-day Saints; for God has been merciful unto us as a people and as individuals we have been blessed and there has been no time in the history of the Church when we had greater cause to serve the Lord than this day. I am aware of the fact that there are forces exercised in behalf of the Church of Christ, and also that opposition is beginning to rear itself again more visibly than we have experienced for several years. Everything that has been spoken here in this Tabernacle yesterday and to-day has full force and is true, according to the ideas that I have; and every prophecy of God contained in the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Bible, and also the oral instructions we receive, will be fulfilled. God is directing His servants in establishing His work upon the earth. There are obligations resting upon us that other people deride, scoff at, and treat as a thing of naught, when those very obligations prompt us to use our means, our time, and every energy of our natures in the labor of saving souls. Yet the world oppose us in this, and do not love us, because the spirit of the world is opposed to salvation, wealthy and poor, the high and low, the brethren and sisters in this Church are gathering treasures; they are laying up treasures; they are banking with our Father and God. No matter who they are, the deposits are being made, and the books are kept correctly. The debit and the credit is there, and we cannot escape it. Revelation has been given to us and great favors shown, for a particular and a distinct purpose, because God has chosen us out of the world, and they do not love us. But a work is given unto this people designed to benefit every human being that has lived or that lives upon the earth. It is not confined to the few millions that dwell upon the earth today, but it extends into the spirit world. I care not what we say or what we do, it will be to our own exaltation or to our own condemnation. The night will come when no man can work. But the day is given to us in which we labor. I find in my immediate circle of relatives and friends that which I witness among the people — a desire to do right. "Oh! I want to do good; I want to live my religion." But we do not live it. It has been said that that lower place is paved with good intentions. We do not live our religion. Need this people to be beholden to any race of men, to capitalists, to business men, to combinations, to trusts, or to any society outside of their own limits? No. There is a magnificent whole, complete in every particular planted in the midst of this people, which is unassailable, only so far as we admit the enemy in our hearts. The only vulnerable place in our armor is where we ourselves leave it exposed, because God has armed us at all points. He has made us impervious to outside attacks. But when we boil Inside, destruction waits upon us. 

What are the signs of the times? All people will be at war, save the people in Zion. What will preserve the people in Zion? When Brother Cowley read a portion of that revelation in relation to this matter, I asked myself the question, what will make peace in Zion? Is it because we find disunion here, because we strew our ways to strangers, or are in debt, or harassed upon every side, or we yield to temptation, or we affiliate with those who will turn and rend us? Will this bring peace to Zion while all shall be at war around us? Oh, no! We all know that peace will be here because God has given it for the righteousness of His people, the union of His sons and daughters, to whom He has delegated the greatest work -ever committed to men upon the earth. That is why peace will be in Zion. It occurred to me to read a few verses from the Book of Mormon in relation to this matter. Lehi, speaking to his family, says: 

"For, behold, he said, I have seen a vision, in which I know that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem, we should also have perished. 

"But, he said, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children for ever; and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land, save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound, cursed shall be the land for their sakes; but unto the righteous it shall be blessed for ever." 

Will these words come true? Do we see today the fulfillment of the promises of Lehi, a man who led his family, under the hand of God, to this land which is choice above all other lands, for the purpose of establishing a people here who should, under the providences of God, write these writings, deliver these prophecies, hide up this volume, to come forth in the latter days to a people who should be established upon this land, and who should bring the Gospel to the seed of Lehi and spread it abroad to the nations of the earth; who should gather upon the land of Zion, and have peace and joy, though mourning over the tribulations of their brethren? Peace shall reign in Zion if we are righteous. But if iniquity abound here, where is peace promised to the Latter-day Saints in that event? I know of no place or refuge upon the earth that will not be affected when iniquity abounds in the hearts of the sons of our Father. Is that not so? 

"And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an inheritance." 

And Lehi goes on to prophesy in relation to this matter. 

We are threatened with a war. The nations of the earth are threatened with war. Turmoil and confusion are in our own land. We are strewing our ways to strangers. Your sons and my sons are joining with those who are not of our faith, and I testify that it is a source of infidelity in the minds of those who do these things. God will have a people that will serve Him, and they will be a righteous people, and the land will be blessed; for I testify to you this day that Zion will be weeded, the iniquitous acts of men will bring their own destruction, and Zion will be cleansed before this great and dreadful day comes when war shall be among all nations, and in Zion there shall be peace. 

God give us grace to understand the signs of the times, and to know that we have no time to spare; that the time is now when we must prepare ourselves, that when those who desire peace flee unto us they will not find us wanting, but the faith and power of God will be in the midst ot the people, to the salvation of every soul that seeks to dwell in peace and serve God in an undisturbed manner. May grace abound in our hearts, and peace be in our homes, in the hearts of our wives and children; and may we set our faces as a flint to serve God with undivided hearts, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 

Great cause for serving the Lord— Righteousness brings peace— The war spirit among the nations. 

My brethren and sisters, with you I have rejoiced exceedingly in the services of this Conference, and my heart has been made glad by reason of the outpouring of the Spirit of God upon His servants. I have felt for myself very much encouraged by the words that have been spoken, and have felt reproved when reproof has been administered. I rejoice that my spirit has been so far responsive  the spirit manifested through our brethren who have ministered unto us. Great truths have been spoken; great testimonies, far reaching in their effects in the earth, have been delivered; and it does seem to me that the voice of warning is being sounded through this Conference to the nations of the earth. 

While the brethren were speaking this morning the following passage in the Doctrine and Covenants came very forcibly to my mind. It is found in the 88th section. The Lord addresses the revelation to His servants who were engaged in the ministry, and it contains instructions to them; and in this particular part the Lord said: 

"Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord come; 

"For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man, and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light, and the moon shall be bathed in blood and the stars shall become exceeding angry, and shail cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig tree. 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people, for after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground, and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." 

This revelation was given in the year 1832 — 66 years ago; and has been Cod's voice unto the nations of the earth. If it was wisdom in Him so long ago to place upon record this His word, how much more important it is, after the lapse of more than half a century, that it should be repeated, and especially in view of the commotion that exists among the children of men, when great dynasties seem to be crumbling to pieces, and when nations have been arming and equipping themselves for war, and when there is evidence of the elements being disturbed, and when by experience the inhabitants of the earth may know that destructive elements may sweep over the land at the will of God. 

I wish to bear testimony to you that the testimony of the Spirit of God to my heart is that there is a wonderful significance in the opening of the way for the proclamation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ among the nations. The Lord hath softened the hearts of the children of men, and in fulfillment of the prediction of His servant, President, Prophet, Seer and Revelator of the Church of Christ, hath broken down the barriers and opened up pathways for the servants of God, that they might cry repentance unto this generation, and that the warning might be sounded in their ears before judgment shall be poured out upon them. The Lord in this generation hath not left Himself without witness unto the children of men. He has not only given this word that I have read to you, for His servants to make proclamation of among the inhabitants of the earth; but He has gathered together a people from every land, brought here by the proclamation of this warning message, and hath in this manner builded a monument of warning unto this generation. It seems to me that He has taken more pains to proclaim unto the present generation of men the judgments that are in store for them than He did in the days of Noah; for if the teachings of Noah and the building of an ark were a witness unto that generation of thtdestruction that was threatened, surely the gathering together of this people, together with every temple that they have erected, and every mighty Conference that they have held, is God's witness and voice unto the inhabitants of the earth that the controversy He hath with them is most surely to take place. 

I want to bear my testimony to you, in connection with my brethren, that the Gospel is true; that there is virtue and power in the work of God, and that my confidence in its accomplishing that which hath been decreed con it is most supreme. And I ould, if I could, join with you all in sounding this warning unto the Inhabitants of the earth, that the hour of God's judgment is at hand; and He is vindicating His word and hath given unto the people due warning and an opportunity to repent. I trust that He will continue to do so — continue to soften the hearts of the children of men and to leave open the gateway to their hearts until this work of warning shall be thoroughly completed to His own great satisfaction. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. The hymn which begins, 

For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God, our fathers' God, 

was sung by the choir. 

Benediction by Elder George Reynolds. 
