Afternoon
06 04 1898


PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

Necessity for Divine assistance — Leading object of our present life — The Saints should be progressive — The United Order. 

I take pleasure in occupying this position a short time, and with the aid of your prayers and the exercise of your faith, I would like to say something- that will prove of mutual benefit. It is the privilege of Latter-clay Saints who have entered into covenants with the Lord, who has revealed Himself in these lattsr times, to constantly improve, and especially under circumstances of the present where we assemble together and can exercise our faith in the interest of those who address us. And no Latter-day Saints should withdraw from an assemblage of this character without having received something that will be of importance in the future scenes of their lives. In and of ourselves we cannot possibly comply with all the commandments that God has given unto us. Jesus himself could not without divine aid from His Father accomplish His work. He said on one occasion, "I can of mine own self do nothing, as I hear I judge and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will but the will of the Father who sent me." And we, if it was necessary for Him, our Lord, to have divine assistance, will fmd it all the more important to receive His assistance. And in every circumstance and condition surrounding tru» Latterday Saints, while in the performance of their duties, they are entitled to supernatural aid from the Holy Spirit, to help in the various conditions surrounding them, and in the duties that they are required to perform. 

It is a mighty and glorious work in which we are engaged, and its benefits, so far as we accomplish the labors assigned us, are attended with the highest advantages to ourselves. I cannot imagine anything ihat is so vastly important as to work for and obtain one's own individual exaltation ond glory. That undoubtedly Is one great purpose for which we came into the world. When we lived in the other life we had no doubt some understanding with reference to our duties in this life when we were permitted to come to this our second estate. 

And very likely we put ourselves under certain obligations that we would discharge certain duties devolving upon us when we came here into our second estate. And we had rendered ourselves worthy to come upon this earth for the purpose of securing those blessings that could only be obtained by observing the laws pertaining to our present estate. There are many important things required at our hands, and many things which we can do, when assisted by the Spirit of the Lord, which may at times seem almost Impossible to accomplish, and no man or woman should be discouraged when they feel that they cannot complete what they would like to perform, but we all should do what we can toward carrying out the grand work for which we are here. Paul said, he pressed forward toward the mark in the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Now this is a very good principle for us to keep constantly before us day by day, month by month and year by year. We should labor for perfection so far as possible, and seek to go onward. There is no man or woman who can stand still any great length of time. In this path over which we are moving we are very likely to go backward if we undertake to stand still or act indifferently. We must push forward, because as the Church moves on, it is very evident that things of a more difficult char' r are occurring constantly, and we will find it far from easy to overcome ♦hem. Unless we improve as we move along we will find it very difficult to magnify our callings and to perform the work required at our hands. Latter-day Saints should not permit themselves to stand still. It is a privilege we have to serve the Lord and enjoy His spirit in our labors, but many of the people lose that portion of happiness that they might enjoy because of not reflecting seriously upon their duties and acting wisely and prudently. 

We are told that the Lord will reveal unto our minds things past, things present, and things to come. There is a certain amount of qualification that could be had by becoming possessed of a knowledge of things that are past; that is to say, in reference to ourselves, to the things  have done in the past — those duties imposed upon us. There is a satisfaction and an enjoyment in such reflections. And then when we reflect upon the future, and the exaltation that the XiOrd proposes to bestow upon us there is joy in that. There is great enjoyment to be had in having done right in the past and meditating upon the fact, and feeling that we are doing right now, because it is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint to know when he is doing that which pertains to the things of the Lord. If our past conduct has been such, and our present conduct is such that we will be entitled to receive glory and exaltation, and have our bodies free from disease and death, and be crowned with immortal glory in the midst of -our wives, children and friends, worlds without end, these are contemplations which cause us to enjoy ourselves. This is the way Latter-day Saints should live. At present a great deal of trouble, anxieties and vexations are experienced by the Latterday Saints, but we want to overcome these things and be qualified for the important duties required at our hands. The man who is sick is disqualified to act in things required of a healthy man. There is this privilege that every Latter-day Saint should seek to enjoy, to know positively that his work is accepted of God. I am afraid Latter-day Saints are not much better and perhaps they are worse than other people if they do not have this knowledge and seek to do right. 

Paul was caught up to the third heaven, and he heard and saw things that were of the highest advantage to him, and, although he was not permitted to say what he saw and heard there, on account of the hardness of the hearts of the people, we can see the effects of it in his teachings and writings in that day. Paul said: "Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God." Well, that was an extraordinary expression for Paul to make at that time, but there was something in it. John says: "Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when He shall appear we shall be like Him, for we  see Him as He is, and every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself, even as He is pure." 

Every man having this hope in him purifies himself. There then naturally arises a determination to work for that high and noble position, to work foi those wonderful promises made, ^here is an inducement to pursue a course of righteousness. 

In this system of religion that you and I have received there is something grand and glorious, and something new to learn every day, that is of great value. And it is not only our privilege but it is necessary that we receive these things and gather these new ideas. This Church, in its travels from the beginning, has passed through, as was told by President Cannon this morning, the most severe trials which tried the heart and soul of every man and woman in it. Now if we had not been pretty fair Latterday Saints in the past we- could not have done as well as we have, and we could not have looked back with so much pleasure on what we have accomplished. When we get into the other life and look back upon our past s, which we will undoubtedly understand, some of our actions will be of the highest pleasure to reflect upon, and will add to our enjoyment in the future life. For instance, Abraham, hen he reflects upon what he accomplished in this life, when in obedience to the command of God he took his only son, through whom he had been promised glorious blessings, up on the high mountain and was about to sacrifice him. The Lord praised him for doing this. Now if Abraham had not been faithful for some time before this happened he would not have been able to accomplish this thing. We ought to improve ourselves and move faster toward the point of perfection. It is said that we cannot be perfect. Jesus has commanded us to be perfect even as God, the Father, is perfect. It is our duty to try to be perfect, and it is our duty to improve each day, and look upon our course last week and do things better this week; do things better today than we did them yesterday, and go on and on from one degree of righteousness to another. Jesus will come by and by, and appear in our midst, as He appeared in the day when upon the earth among the Jews, and He will eat and drink with us and talk to us, and explain the mysteries of the Kingdom, and tell us things that are not lawful to talk about now. 

We are going back to Jackson county, Missouri, one of these days. Now if it was proper to wish it I would r.ot care if it was tomorrow, if word should come for us to go back to Jackson county and build up a great city there. The day will come when Latter-day Saints will be selected — all may not be called at once, but those who are worthy will be called. There will be no poverty in that day. There will be plenty of food, clothing and other necessaries of life; and the father who has a family, if called suddenly to depart this life, will know that his wife and children will be taken care of, that provision will be made for their sustenance and comfort. But this is the United Order that we sometimes hear mentioned, but the time perhaps has not yet come to establish it. But the Latter-day Saints will never be satisfied with any other arrangement that might be proposed. The nations of the earth have for a long time been trying to establish some principle by which they can be financially sustained, united and live in peace, but have not succeeded. But the Lord has revealed a principle clearly and definitely so that there will oe no mistake about it. The system will bring financial union to the Latter-day Saints, and we will be satisfied with it as we are now with the principles of the Gospel. It will suit us. It is something that is natural. And then you and I will have no trouble about our children's temporal welfare. This will take place and whoever goes to Jackson county will meet with that sympathy and friendship that were not met with in early days, and because of Ihe absence of which the people were allowed to be driven out. 

These are things for the Latter-day Saints;ind fcr every man and woman to think about, and we should cumm.-nt' t-> prepare and fit ourselves (Vr the United Order. As far as spiritual things are concerned we are pretty well united, but when it comes to temporalities we often differ. But you  see the day, if you live properly, observe the Word of Wisdom a»id *o that which is required, you wnl go back to Jackson county, many of you whom I am addressing this afternoon. I am sure of this. 

God bless you brethren and sisters, and also President Woodruff, the most remarkable man that dwells on the face of the earth, and whom the Lord has most wonderfully blessed during all the scenes of life. It is grand and glorious to think what the Lord has accomplished with Brother Woodruff, and with the Saints generally. God bless you, is my prayer continually, Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. The need of inspiration — The true pjth of duty. 

It is a source of pleasure to me to once more meet with the Latter-day Saints in General Conference, and 1 hope that what shall be spoken here this afternoon may be for our mutual benefit. It has ever been my desire in addressing the Latter-day Saints, that my mind might be lighted up with the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. I realize that, in teaching the people, unless the speaker is inspired of our Father in Heaven it is impossible to say anything that will be of benefit or worth to the Saints. I have nothing particular upon my mind that I desire to talk upon in addressing you this afternoon. I have enjoyed the remarks of the brethren who have spoken thus far during this Conference, and I hopt= that during its continuance we will be blessed with the light and inspiration of the Spirit from on high. I rejoice in the many testimonies of the truthfulness of the Gospel that I have received. I rejoice in the evidence that comes to me from time tO' time, in my labors, of the goodness of God to me and also to you — to one and all. I find, in mingling with the Latter-day Saints, that all who are striving to keep the commandments of the Lord are abundantly blessed, and they realize that our Heavenly Father is with them, and rejoice in their hearts because of His goodness toward them. 

When we stop to contemplate the great hardships that our fathers and mothers have had to pass through in establishing the work of God in the earth, it should cause us to be thank because of our comparatively pleasant surroundings. I sometimes feel that we know but little of their sorrows, and of what they have had to endure. When we realize how easy it is for us to live we cannot begin to imagine what hardships they have had to pass through. I am truly grateful that I have not been called to endure such trials. I never had a desire, myself, to have experiences of this kind. We sometimes meet people who say they would like to have witnessed the trials of the early Saints and taken a part in them, but I have no wish to nominate myself for a martyr. I tell you what I do desire; it is to be tested and tried only so far as is necessary to qualify me for the duties which have been imposed upon me, and to gain an exaltation in the presence of my Heavenly Father. 

I regret exceedingly that from my earliest recollections I have had to listen to the servants of the Lord pleading, with very little success, with the people to live their religion. My own counsel and advice to the Latter-day Saints have been to do their duties towards God and to keep the commandments that He has given them. Notwithstanding the brethren have labored hard to teach the Saints their duties, and have frequently repeated the commandments of the Lord unto this people, many of them have not yet learned the necessity of performing their duties. I believe if I were to call for those people here today who have been taught and believe all the revelations contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants to be the inspired words of God, and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, nearly all who are in this congregation would raise their hands and say they knew these things to be true. But if I were to call for all those who had been absolutely honest with God in keeping His commandments, I am afraid a majority of the congregation would not raise their hands. If I were to ask for those who observed the Word of Wisdom, and who did not spend a portion of their means for tobaco and liquor, and who paid an honest tithing to the Lord, one-half of those here today would, I am afraid, fail to lift their hands. A great majority would answer that they had received their endowments in the tem of God, that they had entered into covenants with the Lord. They know the covenants that they have made with our Heavenly r ather, and how many are there who carry out these covenants that they have entered into? I have heard a great many people, in my time, pray unto the Lord for blessings. And they would dedicate their time and strength and all that they possessed for the onward advancement of the Kingdom of God, but when they are called upon to help the Church in a financial way they are very careful to keep their means hid from the Lord— they keep it for their own advancement. We are not ready and willing to keep the commandments of God, but we are ready and willing to carry out our own wishes. We do not ask what it is desired that we should do, but generally suit ourselves as to what we would like to do. Is this right? No, it is not. I feel that there is plenty of room for improvement, and we should improve. 

We heard this morning about some of the trials and tribulations our fathers had to pass through, and President Cannon said he expected to see the day when our financial troubles would vanish, as our other troubles have disappeared. I have faith that all those who have been honest with God in the past will scon be delivered from the bondage of debt. I expect that a great many of the Latter-day Saints, before the clay of that deliverance, will be made to remember the covenants which they have made with the Lord. They have not been honest with the Lord. As one of the inspired men of old said, the people had robbed the Lord in their tithes and offerings.. I say when the Latter-day Saints will pay an honest tithing unto the Lord there will be no need of talking about debts and of being in the bondage of debt. But the trouble is we do not do it. Scores of men compromise with the Lord on the basis of 10 cents on the dollar, and they rob Him of the other 90 cents. They discount their debts to the Lord 25 per cent. Why, a man would be ashamed of himself to go into Z. C. M. I. and ask it to knock off 25 per cent from his bill, but with God they discount their bills 10 cents, 25 cents and 50 cents on the dollar, and then call themselves honest. I wish the Lord would inspire us with GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

3 determination to be honest, and that the brethren could inspire this feeling among the Latter-day Saints, so that we would all try to be upright witl the Lord. A man will say, "I owe m> neighbor and must pay him before 1 can settle my tithing." Well, I know i owe lots of my neighbors, and they try to collect from me. But I owe God an honest tithing;. He has given me a testimony of Jesus and a hope of eternal life, and I intend to pay Him first and my neighbors afterwards. It Is our duty to settle with the Lord first, and I intend to do it, with the help of my Heavenly Father. And I want to say to you, if you will be honest -with the Lord, paying your tithing and ^keeping His commandments, He will not only bless you with the light and inspiration of His Holy Spirit, but you will be blessed in dollars and cents, you will be enabled to pay your debts, and the Lord will pour out temporal blessings upon you in great abundance. 

May the Lord bless and guide us by the inspiration of His Spirit always, is my prayer in the name of Jesus 'Christ. Amen. 

ELDER FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS. 

Early Church experiences— Revelations of the Gospel—Faithful payment of tithes— New wine in old bottles— Destiny of our children— A work for all to do. 

I esteem it a very precious favor to be privileged to meet with the Saints In their general Conference; indeed, at all times in their assemblages; and being called upon to speak to you thia afternoon, I greatly desire that measure of the Spirit that will enable me to speak to your edification, as I realize that without it our time will be unprofitably spent. We have had, since the opening of this Conference, a great deal of precious instructions, and recalling of past circumstances to refresh our minds with things that are important and profitable unto us. 

I was thinking, while listening to the former speakers, how it was with us in the beginning of this work. People that are born into the Church now, enter into the various temporal pursuits, such as have been spoken ot by previous speakers, and they seem to think the duty of paying tithing is simply *a matter of convenience. Out  born in the Church now, a good many of them, do not enter into the spirit of this work as it was entertained in the beginning. 

Now my mind is carried back to the time when the Gospel came to me and to my kindred, in the state of Massa chusetts, in the year 1838, when 1 embraced it. The way we looked upon these things was somewhat on thia wise: We were willing to have our names cast out as evil. If we had any earthly substance at all ws, were willing to lay it upon the altai of sacrifice for the Lord, who gave it to us. We dedicated it unto Him foithe establishment of His Church and kingdom. We did not stop there. The law of tithing had not been revealed at that time; but, in addition to the good name that we held among our friends and neighbors, we gave a,ll that we had and then we placed ourselves upon the altar with whatever we had, or should have, to be given to the Lord in consideration of the blessed Gospel that he had revealed to us. We felt that this was our reasonable duty, as well as our acceptable service. It was with that spirit that people joined the Church in those days when the Gospel was presented to them. It was in those times that Presidents Woodruff and Snow and others embraced the Gospel, when it was first preached among the people. We gave everything to the Lord, feeling that it was not our own, but belonged to Him, to do just as He wished with it. We started in to keep the commandments and were baptized for the remission of our sins, and we received the Holy Ghost as a Comforter throughout our future lives; and then, when we came to that, oh! how we felt paid for everything .that we had done, and for every sacrifice we had made! 

I remember well the first testimony of the Holy Spirit that was given to me, in the first blessing of healing that was conferred upon me when I had been laid up with sickness for a long time. It was between Grand Prairie and Missouri, during a snow storm, such as we had last Sunday, with from four to six inches of snow on the ground. I was traveling on foot to Missouri. I recollect, on that blessed, snowy day, how glorious all things were to me. Although at this time  Prophet had been put in prison, and about thirty of the brethren were also imprisoned, it was revealed to me that this was the work of the Lord, and that God was going to bring' it out triumphantly. I knew the Gospel was true, although I had not yet seen the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Lord revealed it to me, and I knew that Brother Joseph was a Prophet, not by man's testimony, but in the same way that Peter knew that the Lord Jesus Christ was the Savior, when the Lord asked, "But whom say ye that I am?" and Peter answered, "Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God." And Christ said, "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." I had prayed to God for a knowledge of this Gospel, and when I received this blessing I felt that if I owned the world I would willingly give it to the Lord for the furtherance of His work. When we received the Gospel and the testimony of the Holy Ghost, we realized that we had indeed found the "Pearl of Great Price," and the weaver of God was upon us and in our hearts. How glorious it was to listen to the inspired men in that day, expounding the Scriptures and explaining the prophecies made by Daniel about the stone being cut out without hands. We entertained no idea of the circumstances that would attend the rolling forth of that stone spoken of by Daniel, which was to roll forth and fill the whole earth. We were but few in number then, but have now lived to see the Church grow from a few hundred to some 250,000 souls. 

The law of tithing was not revealed at that time, but we were commanded to carry on the work with our means. The Temple at Kirtland was built in this way. The Saints did all the work they could on the building, and then went out and obtained work here and there, and with the money they earned they purchased those things that were necessary for its completion. It was done by sacrificing all that they had; and when we had done all that we could do, Oh! how joyous it was to know the Lord accepted the work, 

when He stood upon the breastwork  the Temple, conversed with the Prophet Joseph and Oliver, and revealed to them their duties, and informed them that the Gospel should go from there and be preached throughout the nations of the earth. It had not then he preached throughout the United States even, because the northern men were called abolitionists, and the southern slaveholders had no use for us and would not tolerate us, but now it can be spread throughout the nation. 

What an easy thing it is to pay ten per cent as a tithing unto the Lord! I think this principle should be taken into the Sabbath schools and the Mutual Improvement Associations throughout Zion, and taught to the young at home. They should be taught that this is one of the means of salvation in the Church and Kingdom of God, and if they are thoroughly taught this principle while young they will take to it just as naturally as small ducks take to water, but if you wait until they grow up before teaching them to pay their tithing, they will want to keep it in their pockets. They see father do it, and if father may do it, certainly it is not wrong for the boys to follow the father's example. 

Now this great work we are engaged in, my brethren and sisters, is truly wonderful. The Lord's Spirit has gone forth among the children of men, and they are beginning to listen to* the Elders. The Lord has shed forth His Spirit upon the nations of the earth, causing mankind to look for the coming of the Lord. The Lord has taught us through revelation to pray for His coming with His Kingdom and power (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 65;, that we may be prepared for it, and that we may be in a condition to receive further revelation as our circumstances require. What have we had given to us since we began to pray for these blessings? Why, my brethren and sisters, it has been a stream of revelation ever since. When I first heard the Prophet speak, it was a stream of revelation to me. He was placed in prison, and, when he re^ ceived his liberty again, he went right to work shepherding the Saints at. Nauvoo and round about there. In those days we had not heard of baptism for the dead. I remember when the Prophet brought forth that doctrine. To some it was so strong it was like putting new wine into old bottles, some of them broke and the wine spilt out, losing both bottle and wine. We could not fully comprehend so glorious a principle. We did not receive everything at once, but it was given to us line upon line, and in this way it has been coming to us ever since as our circumstances have required. 

Now, are we living up to these things as fast as we get them? And are we living by "every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God?" Are we preparing ourselves for the work that is before us? Are we just in the work of preparation? I look upon it that our children who are just growing up as intimated by President Snow, are the ones who will be permitted to build the New Jerusalem. You know the world has departed from the Lord and from the principles employed in building up Enoch's city, and we and our fathers have wandered from the Lord in our spiritual affairs. And we are trying to be converted to the will of the Lord in our spiritual things, so that we may become converted in temporal things. We are trying to understand the Gospel as Enoch understood it and as Christ understood it, and to do business as they did it, living in co-operation and managing our affairs in the same way, but many of us are not willing to be taught in temporal matters. We should seek to carry out the commandments of the Lord. We must teach our children, our families and friends and unite in building up the Kingdom of God. 

We sometimes forget these things are required by the Lord in building up His Kingdom. They are the material things God requires of us. For our earthly existence, and for the fruits of the earth that the Lord gives us, and for everything we should be thankful. We are educating our Sabbath school children to grow up and qualify themselves to become apostles, judges, bishops and all manner of officers in the Church that shall be needed to rule the Kingdom of God. And our young men should think upon these things and remember that some time the power and authority will come upon them to enable them to discharge these various . This is the precious land of Zion, to be occupied by God's people. When we first came here, we could scarcely imagine that we would become 250,000 in number. What is it to be in the next sixty years if we continue our teaching the word of the Lord? We should realize that we are in a state of preparation, preparing our generations after us to live better than we, and to become sanctified in the Church. 

We ought to have a generation in a little while prepared to go down and build up the New Jerusalem, according to the promises of the Lord in revealing the everlasting Gospel unto us. We are living too much upon the fractional part of the faith, as Brother Grant has been telling us. We should know that our course is right, and then continue in it. It is not half so important for our neighbors to know that we are honest as it is for ourselves to know it. We should prepare ourselves to build up Zion, and we ought not think these things so far off as we do, for it will not be long before we are called upon to do this work. We ought to raise men that are fully qualified to go into the world and build up the Church and spread the Gospel, thereby building up Zion. We should be willing to work to this end. We want to increase our 1,700 missionaries now in the field until we can get 200,000 out, and until the work of the Lord can be echoed from sea to sea, and from the north to the south. I want you to understand, brethren, that we have not come to a comfortable place, to squat down on it not to move again, but we should labor and send forth the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and help to build up Zion, and the man who is too old to go abroad should work here and help the younger men to go. 

There is work for all to do. It is our duty to teach righteousness in the earth. It is your business as truly as it is the business of President Woodruff or any of us, to preach and work righiteousnes in the earth. I delight in the work of the Lord. We have a great work in hunting up Elders to send abroad to preach to. the people. Our Elders should feel that we owe a duty to the human family. It is our duty to help to gather Israel and help to build up Zion, not with the tenth of  incomes only, but with all that we have; directly and indirectly we should give all. 

Well, we are beginning to see what is before us. We are beginning to understand what blessings await those who are faithful and truthful in all things, and to understand what our duties are. 

I pray that the Lord will impart strength unto us, and inspire us in our duties and make the fruits of our labors to be seen in our present life. And I pray the Lord to bless us with His spirit while we are together, so that Israel may read of the good time we have had. And I want to tell you, brethren, that these things spoken of regarding the coming of the Lord are not so far off. We have been praying to our Heavenly Father, whom we do not behold; but His Spirit is here and He answers our prayers, just as when we talk through a telephone we are answered, although we do not see the person with whom we are talking, and  it is with our Heavenly Father. The three great patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, started with a small beginning, and revelation tells us that they have become Gods, and the promise was given to -them that their seed should be as numerous as the sands upon the seashore. We are their children, and are not the blessings of Abraham, Issac and Jacob our blessings? It is our privilege to be exalted in the presence of Father Abraham. We have great encouragement to work righteousness and to qualify ourselves to teach the nations of the earth the Gospel. God bless you. May He bless us all and inspire us to labor for eternal lives, and may we be saved and exalted in His presence with all the faithful men and women who have lived. I ask it in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, Let the mountains shout for joy. 

Benediction by Elder Angus M. Cannon.