Afternoon
08 04 1898




ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

Restoration of the Gospel— Its promises to the obedient — Joseph Smith ^ent of God— The Word of the Lord unto all people — Wo must give onr hearts to God. 

"There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the 

Jews: 

"The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto Him, Rabbi, we knoAv that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. 

"Jesus answered and said unto him. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 

"Nicodemus saith unto Him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born? 

"Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water, and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. 

"That which is born of the flesh, is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit, is spirit. 

"Marvel not that I said unto thee. Ye must be born again. 

"The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth; so is every one that is born of the Spirit. 

"Nicodemus answered and said unto Him, How can these things be? 

"Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? 

"Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness." 

It has been demonstrated at this Conference that the same Spirit that existed in the primitive Chruch exists in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today. The testimonies that have been borne by those who have addressed us have all given witness of the same thing, that we are living in the dispensation of the fullness of times. We are bearing oui testimony to the world that the angel that John saw on the Isle of Patmos, when he received that wonderful revelation, showing things that should happen hereafter, has come. In that revelation was given a description of the Church of Christ going into the wilderness, the Priesthood being taken from the earth, Rev. XII, the establishment of false systems that would made all nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Rev. XVII. Jchn also saw a mighty angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to those who dwell upon the earth, crying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come. Rev. XIV. We testify that this angel has come, that this everlasting Gospel has> been restored, and that the Gospel of the kingdom is being preached by the Latter-day Saints in all the world for a witness. We take unto them the glad tidings of great joy. We call upon mankind everywhere, no matter what their profession may be, to worship the living and true God, who hath spoken in these last days. We cry unto them repentance, reformation, to cease from their evil ways, and to worship the living and true God, and to obey His Gospel. We entreat them to be baptized by immersion for the remission of sins, that they may enjoy the blessings resulting therefrom, and that they may be sanctified by the precious blood of Christ, which follows the water, and be prepared for me reception of the Holy Ghost. We promise unto them if they will obey this form of doctrine; if they will humble themselves before the Lord, and seek wisdom at His hands; if they will give unto the Lord the broken heart and the contrite spirit, they shall know, as we know, that these principles are true. 

We are sending our missionaries all the time, and when they return they v.<*n testify that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith wa& a true Prophet sent of God. If they did not know it when they staited out to preach the Gospel, they obtained this information before they came back, simply because our Father in heaven is doing His own work. It does not require an artificial education  prepare a man to declare the word of the Lord unto the peopie. It is not by wisdom, it is not by might, it is not by oratory, it is not by logic; but it is "by my Spirit, saith the Lord." Our message unto the people is on<; that every individual is interested in, no matter what his profession may be. The word of the Lord is to. every individual. As the Lord Jesus Christ said to His ancient Apostles, so He hath said in these last days: 

"Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature. 

"He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." 

You may ask why this condemnation should come unto the people. Simply because it is not our message; it is the message of God Almighty'. Whoso receiveth us receiveth Him; whoso rejecteth us rejecteth Him. 

The great problem before the world is, was Joseph Smith sent of God, or was he not? No matter how much you may vilify him, no matter how much evil may be said concerning him, it is a solemn fact that he was sent or God, and we bear testimony that wt know it. We have been gathered out of the world. We were Catholics, we were Protestants of various denominations, and when the word of the Lord came to us we obeyed it. A great many of our friends rejected it; but those of us who have obeyed it have this living testimony that we know that God lives, we know that Jesus is the Christ, we know that Joseph Smith was a true Prophet of God, and we know that the Church of Christ, in its present organized state upon the earth, is the Church of the Redeemer, and that the signs follow the believer. Test our principles. As far as we are concerned as a people, we are a variety. The wheat and tares are growing together, are they not? The wise and the foolish virgins are living together, are they not? But the Lord's own love Him and keep His commandments. They do not rob Him in tithes and offerings. They are consistent tu their profession and in their faith. They hear the word of God and do it. Although none of us pretend to be good (for our Royal Master said that no one was good save God), still by way of comparison we say we have the good, the King's own, those who love Him and keep His commandments. You may know them when you take them by the hand. They are filed with thanksgiving and praise to God for the redemption that He has wrought out; and we say with the Psalmist of old: 

"O give thanks unto the Lord, for "he is good; for His mercy endureth for «ver. 

"Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the Tiand of the enemy; 

"And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south. 

"Oh, that men would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!" Ps. CVII. 

We are the redeemed of the Lord. We have accepted of the principles of redemption, and consequently have been sanctified in the precious blood of Christ. Those who love God and keep His commandments represent Htm and the Lord Jesus Christ. They love one another, and they are known "by their works. Their faith is manifested by their works. Then we have a class that are not so good, that aie not so faithful. They have not the faith of the Gospel so much as this first class, who represent the celestial kingdom. But they are those who rob the Lord in tithes and offerings. They are those who are not valiant for the testimony of Jesus. They are those who do not magnify their calling. Consequently we say they are not so good. Then we have another class, I presume, representing the telestial. They are good for nothing. But we call them all good. These are the simple facts In the case. We manifest our position by our works. This immense congregation here, I suppose we represent the different degrees of glory. It is to be hoped not. It is to be hoped that we represent the celestial kingdom. But according to the testimony of the Spirit that was manifested here by some of the brethren who spoke, there are quite a number who profess to be Latter-day Saints, but are not of the celestial , simply because they do not love God and are lukewarm. 

I do not know how far we may be justified in going into debt; but we were admonished years ago by President John Taylor to keep out of debt. We are too generous. We are too thoughtless. There has been an immense amount of means spent for educational purposes. It is a good thing, if we do not get an artificial education. I regard the education of the world as an artificial education. You do not see faith manifested; you do not see the power of God maifested. You have a people that are lifted up because of their scholastic attainments, like men are lifted up when they acquire the riches of this world. They are lifted up in pride, and think themselves better than those who have not been so fortunate as themselves to obtain that class of an education. I say it is an artificial education. If we are going to redeem Zion, we will have to redeem it by faith. And Zion could be redeemed today if we would live the principles of the Gospel. But as long as we are hearers of the word and we do not do the will of the Lord, Zion will never be redeemed by us. It will be redeemed by the laws of the celestial kingdom. If we cannot live the laws of the terrestrial kingdom, how is it possible we can attain to celestial glory? If we cannot live the condition that lead to the celestial glory, we cannot obtain it. If we cannot live the principles that lead to the terrestrial glory, we cannot attain to it. 

This Gospel of the kingdom is to every individual, whether they are Jew or Gentile, bond or free, Catholic or Protestant. It is the word of the Lord to them to cease from all their evil ways; and all their false worship, and from teaching for commandments the doctrines of men; for the Lord has stretched forth His hand again. As He declared by the Prophet Isaiah: 

"For as much as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, ana their fear toward me is taught by tht precept of men; 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder, for the wisdom of their wise men shali perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." [Isa. XXIX, 13. 14.] 

Here is an object lesson — the gathering of this people today at this Conference, under the shadow of a Temple of God, pointing to the nations that God has restored His Priesthood and given authority to men to officiate in the ordinances of the House of the Lord. Here is the fulfillment of the prophecy: 

"And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say. Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths." [Isa. II, 2, 3.] 

That is what I came here for. That is what my fellow laborers came here for. We came to this country to learn the ways of God and to walk in His paths. We had a testimony given unto us in the lands where we were born, God revealed himself unto us by the power of His Spirit, and bore testimony to us that Joseph Smith was sent of God. We testified of this forty-five years ago, and have been testifying of it ever since. We do not beguile the people. We are their friends. We do not teach them incorrect principles. We do not distribute in various counties anti-Catholic tracts or anti-Protestant tracts. We have respect for every man's opinion. We show him the better way. If he has something good, we show him there is something better, we have the truth, the light and the way, and we invite all mankind to come and assist us in the establishment of the righteousness of God upon the earth. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, the Lord requires our appreciation. He wants us to appreciate Him and His loving kindness. He wants us to acknowledge His hand in all things. He wants our hearts. He wants us to love Him and keep His commandments. This is the word of the Lord, will we do ? Will we cease from our contention? Will we cease from our backbiting, our evil speaking? Will we cease from all evil and learn to do right, and walk in the light as He is in the light, that we may have sweet fellowship with each other, and that the blood of Christ may cleanse us from all sin? This is the question that comes to every individual. The word of the Lord is to us individually. Will we love Him and keep His commandments, and seek to establish His Zion? It is no use coming to Conference and hearing the word of the Lord unless we do it. There have been powerful testimonies borne here from the commencement, when President Cannon referred to the fulfillment of prophecy. It is common amongst us. We have the testimony of Jesus and it is the spirit of prophecy. We do not say this boastingly; we say it because it is true. We understand our own nothingness, our own insignificance, and that we are entirely dependent upon God our Eternal Father. We do not profess to any partlculai virtues; but we are striving to love God and keep His commandments, and to glorify Him in our good works. We preach the Gospel of righteousness; and we are just as much responsible to carry out these principles as those unto whom the word is given through, us. The Lord will have our heartb, and He will not allow us to put our affections upon anything that would overshadow our affection for Him. 

Let me say, in conclusion, that the principle of tithing is a correct principle. The Lord requires one-tenth of everything that He gives to us. I never heard this principle more simply explained than by one of our good sisters in teaching a Primary class in the Sabbath school. She said to the children, "Supposing your father was to give you ten apples, and he asked you to give one of them back again, and you would not do it, would you not be considered very covetous?" Why, they smiled to think that the father should give them ten apples and they should be unwilling to give him one back again. That is just the position we are in when we are not willing to obey this law. The Lord requires one-tenth of everything that in the dispensation of His providence He gives unto us. That is all He asks, and that we should have our ears open to the cry of the widow and the fatherless, that we should be generous and large-hearted, that we should not be covetous. Can you not understand this principle? We want to give Him half, or a quarter, or we want to bite a piece off the apple and give it to Him. Anything but what is due Him! Do not, for our own sake, make this record. As we value our happiness and our own advancement, let us be true and faithful in the discharge of our duties, and not rob the Lord our God; for everything that we have is given unto us by Him. And He has declared that if we will love Him and keep His commandments, we shall prosper in the land. Do you believe it? I bear testimony that the law of tithing is true. "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." [Mai. Ill, 10.] 

I can bear testimony to the truth of the remarks of Brother Merrill, that if a man will love God and keep His commandments, He will deliver him from all evil and from all his financial troubles. We exhort the world to do this; but here are a number of people, gathered from the north and the south, the east and the west, and they demonstrate that they do not appreciate it. How do they demonstrate it? By robbing Him in tithe» and offerings; by being slothful in their duties; by being indifferent to the magnifying of the Aaronic and Melchisedek Priesthoods. And Zion can never be redeemed under such a condition. I say to all, especially to myself, repent, and let us turn over a new leaf; let us cease our slothfulness, our indifference, and let it be manifest to Almighty God that we appreciate His loving kindness, that we appreciate His redemption, that we appreciate the glorious hope of everlasting lives, in a glorious resurrection, by our works being coupled with our faith to the glory of the Father, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Impetus to mutual Improvement— Organization of home beneficent societies— The crisis in o>r National affairs. 

I do not remember having heard a single word, either read or spoken, by our brethren during this Conference that I did not endorse. It seems to me that each one of the brethren has presented some item that should cause us to reflect seriously upon the goodness and mercy extended unto us by our Heavenly Father. The aged who heard the cry in the land from whence they came, "Come out of her my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues," should rejoice, and their children and their children's children should continue in that rejoicing. One suggestion contained in the remarks of Elder Merrill this forenoon, of the brother who would have been pleased to have taken from his swill barrel the food that was applied in the direction of providing for domestic animals, is one, probably, that hosts of young people whose homes have been in this mountain region, cannot as yet fully appreciate. Fathers and mothers of mature years may appreciate this suggestion; some of our brothers and sisters who have been unsuccessful in securing proper labor, within recent years, may have been made to taste in some limited degree these conditions, as did the early Pioneers in their experiences — the blessing that a well-stocked swill barrel would present to the hungry man or woman. Each suggestion presented for our consideration during this Conference has been of a practical character, whether applied directly to the temporal conditions that surround us in life or to those conditions that we speak of as spiritual. The labors and ministrations of the past few months by quite an army of young men, under the direction of President Woodruff and his aids, who made a tour of the various Stakes in Zion, and visited the homes of the people, interviewed their sons and their daughters, and awakened an interest in the minds of those sons in those associations established in connection with the work of God, and the calling in, as suggested  the remarks Of one of the brethren, of about 13,000 souls, give to us the possibilities of missionary work among the covenant people of God and present before our vision the opportunity to consider the possibilities that attend the spread of the truth among those spirits who have been forgotten and reared among that gathered Israel who have been called to come forth from among the people of the world. Many received and believed the testimonies of our young brethren whose hearts and minds were bent upon arousing to life by nurturing it, the Gospel that had been planted in the breasts of the number that I have named. It cannot be anticipated that the brief but earnest efforts made during the winter season to gather the young men into these associations organized for them can have accomplished all that should be desired in connection with this matter. But it is a matter of joy to those who have been engaged in this ministry, that our Father did sweeten their words and arouse to reflection the hosts of young men who will remain earnest and devoted laborers within this fold, and who, perchance, will be found whenever they will be needed in connection with the development of the work of God, using the talents with which their Maker has endowed them for the furtherance of His purposes. There remains, without doubt, large numbers who may have been aroused temporarily to reflect upon the sacred obligations of the Gospel, and who may have fallen temporarily from grace to be followed by the laborers in these various fields with a devotion and earnestness that shall cause them to continue, at least, to strive to know more fully of the work of God. With their hearts gladdened and their minds aroused, their understandings educated, the spirit of truth distilled upon those minds shall fasten there, that none of them, perchance, may fail in the receipt of the impress of the Spirit of the living God in such form as to brighten their entire lives. 

I trust, my brethren and my sisters, fathers and mothers, Bishops and counselors, Presidents of Stakes and High Councilors, that the work that has been inaugurated in this direction 

— which calls from the den of infamy, from the places where loafers congregate and from the places where evil and crime is begotten, through the gathering together of young men and young boys, assailing each man in the spirit of that missionary labor which has called so many during the brief period of the last winter season to at least enroll themselves in the hope of a nobler and better development of themselves, and all maintaining the spirit of that work who have been aroused from the sleep of idleness to the understanding of the relationship of the Holy Spirit, will continue their ministrations until every son and every daughter in Zion, every stranger within her borders in every home shall hear the voice of testimony making its declaration that God indeed does live, and that His holy truths restored in these latter days are surely among the children of men. I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the same spirit that has actuated these young men who have gone forth to prove Zion, to test the faith of parents, to scatter the seeds of life, to point out the way of the Gospel of the Son of God, will have touched your hearts in such form that in no home where the truth of the Gospel has come shall the father or mother, the son or daughter fail in any degree, having received the sweet influence, heard the still small voice of the spirit, to nurture and care for and develop its force and its power within their breasts. 

There is another item that I have upon my mind, upon which I wish to speak for a few moments, as I discovei in my associations among the peopie that there is a continuous tendency for our young men, as wall as many of our middle aged men, to ally themselves with the various organizations, clubs and societies formed outside of the Church, many of them for the purpose cf insurance, that they f may be enabled to secure, perchance, a few hundred dollars in the interest of their families, should accident happen them, or in their own interest provided they are enfeebled and unable to discharge the duties and responsibilities that attach to them. It seems to me that in every Stake of Zion there is ample capacity to organize mutual aid societies within our own circles, among oui own members, and retain at home any profits that may ar«se from stitch organizations. All the organizations of this character within our State are sending off hundreds of dollars to aid in the maintenance of people in other sections of the land. We have the skill, we have the ability, we ought to have the practical common sense, to be able to form and adjust these associations within our own circles. One hundred men, or three hundred, paying their dollar a week or dollar a month into a fund manipulated and managed by themselves, within their own circle, and thus utilize to profit and aid their brother who may be afflicted, or to pay to a sister should a brother be removed from the home circle. As it is, these organizations are reviving their money and sending a certain percentage continuously to the heads of the various societies from which they receive their organizations, and keeping a portion of it possibly at home. I believe that care and attention should be bestowed upon these matters, and the formation of membership in those organizations that look after and guard you in some measure should not occur among the Latter-day Saints, but I would not arouse a spirit of antagonism in this respect. It is just as legitimate, just as proper for you to form your organizations in your circles in which you legitimately move as that others should form them and you pay tribute to them. 

I desire to raise my voice in commendation of the position that has been assumed by President McKinley and his cabinet on the question affecting Spain, and to say to you, my brethren and sisters, it should be the prayer of the Latter-day Saints that our nation be preserved from war, and that the efforts to maintain peace should be carried to the utmost limit before bloodshed should be resorted to. I trust that this feeling pervades the hearts of the people called Latter-day Saints, and that all of us feel within our souls a determination to stand for the principles of right, and sustain our government in every proposition of liberty, justice and mercy and the maintenance of these principles of righteousness, the prevention of the  of blood, to the most reasonable extreme. I feel, my brethren and sisters, to thus give utterance to the sentiments of my own heart and mind upon this question, and that the prayers of the people should go up in an appeal that God shall guide the destinies of this great government in such form that its mission of liberty to the human race may be accomplished, in that way that life and property, and happiness and peace, and not bloodshed, shall come to the children of men. We recognize our Father's purpose in connection with the development of this work, and the world receiving the message we have to bear will be remembered by Him in the wars and rumors of wars that shall exist among the nations, and in the seas heaving themselves beyond their bounds. But we claim, with hands lifted to high heaven, that we believe the Constitution of the United States was a revelation from God, and opened the door of liberty in such form that His sons and daughters should be permitted to possess every right and every privilege that mortal should be permitted to enjoy in the flesh. The extension of these sentiments and these views lie dearest to the heart of every man and every woman who has become conversant with the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I trust that we will not permit ourselves in the midst of the excitement that arises to shout for bloodshed, but on the contrary to desire that God shall direct the hand that has been placed to guide the destinies of this nation at the present time, and make the minds of leading men of the nation wise and broad and firm upon the principles of right. 

May heaven's peace and blessing abound in every heart; may God be glorified, the' truth spread, liberty increase, justice and mercy abound, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

At the conclusion of Elder Smith's remarks the great congregation arose and, with the choir, sang, with deep feeling, 

"My country 'tis of thee, 

Sweet land of Liberty." 

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF 

Origin of Zlon'sj camps— Notable prophecy by Joseph Smith — Christ to come to the Saints In the mountains. 

In 1833 the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was driven out of Jackson County, Mo., for the word of God and testimony of Jesus Christ. There Bishop Partridge was tarred and feathered by the mob. That was the time of the falling of the stars jn that country. Soon afterwards Bishop Partridge called for volunteers to go to Kirtland to see the Prophet. Two men volunteered out of those who had been driven from Jackson County. One was Parley P. Pratt and the other was Lyman Wight. They went to Kirtland and laid before the Prophet the circumstances, and the Prophet called these two men, and others, to go abroad and gather up the strength of the Lord's house and to prepare the camp of Zion. Parley P. Pratt came to my house. I had just been* baptized. I was engaged for a year in furnishing lumber by contract. Parley P. Pratt told me it was my duty to lay aside all my temporal matters, go to Kirtland, and join Zion's camp. I obeyed his counsel. I arrived in Kirtland on Saturday and there met with Joseph and Hyrum Smith in the street. I was introduced to Joseph Smith. It was the first time that I had ever seen him in my life. He invited me home to spend the Sabbath with him, and I did so. They had meeting on Sunday. 

On Sunday night the Prophet called on all who held the Priesthood to gather into the little log school house they had there. It was a small house, perhaps 14 feet square. But it held the whole of the Priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who were then in the town of Kirtland, and who had gathered together to go off in Zion's camp. That was the first time I ever saw Oliver Cowdery, or heard him speak; the first time I ever saw Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, and the two Pratts, and Orson Hyde and many others. There were no Apostles in the Church then except Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. When we got together the Prophet called upon the Elders of Israel with him to bear testimony of this work. Those that 

I have named spoke, and a good many that I have not named, bore their testimonies. When they got through the Prophet said, "Brethren I have been very much edified and instructed in your testimonies here tonight, but I want to say to you before the Lord, that you know no more concerning the destinies of this Church and kingdom than a babe upon its mother's lap. You don't comprehend it." I was rather surprised. He said "it is only a little handfull of Priesthood you see here tonight, but this Church will fill North and South America — it will fill the world." Among other things he said, "it will fill the Rocky Mountains. There will he tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who will be gathered in the Rocky Mountains, and there they will open the door for 7 establishing of the Gospel anions the Lamanites, who will receive the Gospel and their endowments and the &43yhSTs of God. This people will go into the Rocky Mountains; they will there build temples to the Most High. They will raise up a posterity there, and the Latter-day Saints who dwell in these mountains will stand in thi? flesh until the coming of the Son of Man. The Son of Man will come to them while in the Rocky Mountains." 

I name these things because I want to bear testimony before God, angels and men that mine eyes behold the day, and have beheld for the last fifty years of my life, the fulfillment of that prophecy. I never expected to see the Rocky Mountains when I listened to that man's voice, but I have, and do today. I will say here that I shall not live to see it, you may not live to see it; but these thousands of Latterday Saint children that belong to the Sabbath schools, I believe many of them will stand in the flesh when the Lord Jesus Christ visits the Zion of God here in the mountains of Israel. And while I bear testimony before God, angels and men, that mine eyes behold the fulfillment of the revelation given that night, I just as much believe the remaining part of it will be fulfilled as I stand here in the flesh. I rejoice at seeing the progress of the work that lies before us. There is a great work before this people in the fulfillment of these prophecies that have been given. Joseph Smith was full of revelation. He foresaw this people, and this work until it was wound up. 

My prayer to God is that we may pursue such a course that we may enjoy and receive all these blessings, and our posterity after us. Amen. 

ELDER FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

The volume of progress Increasing — The Renins of peace and the 8 lrlt of patriotism— Portents of war— Hospitality of southern people— Salvation and life In the Gospel . 

The time of this Conference is very precious, but it is sufficient for us to bear our testimonies to one another and to speak of the goodness of the Lord. This is a great day in Zion; a great day for Israel. This is the nucleus of the work of our Heavenly Father. This Tabernacle, this great Temple, this great people gathered together, is the great center for the work of the Lord in the earth, and the honor and the glory shall be the Lord's and not ours. The work is progressing more rapidly than ever before. We are working harder abroad and at home. The Presidency and the Apostles, and home missionaries and foreign missionaries are all laboring diligently, and their efforts are being crowned with success. 

The time will never come, probably, until the Savior appears, when we will not have difficulties to overcome and trials to pass through. We are here for that purpose, and every trial that has been given to us, of every nature, has been for our benefit, and has tended to try and prove us. We may be tried in war as well as in peace, but we should be peacemakers. "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God." We want peace. We should preach peace, teach peace, pray for it, live for it, and do everything on earth for peace that is honorable before we engage in war. We love our country. We love our kindred and friends, like other people, and are willing to serve our country; and there is no doubt, if the difficulties are to commence at the house of the Lord, that the Latter-day Saints will be proven in this regard. So far, we have not had occasion to engage in the wars of our country to any very  extent, but when we have been called upon we have always responded; and if our nation should be In trouble today, as It seems to be threatened, the government of our country will find as generous a response from this State as from any other state in the Union, according to the number of the people; for we love the institutions of liberty and of freedom. But we want peace, because we are a peaceable people, and we want to preach the Gospel that has been restored to us. The authority of the Lord has been conferred upon us that the Gospel may be preached among all nations. That is our mission, and we don't want war. The mothers don't want war. The fathers don't want war. We wish to avoid it if it can possibly be done. We desire to be numbered among the peacemakers who shall be called the children of God. Our faith should be exercised to obtain peace and to maintain it in the earth; for war is terrible. It was terrible when there was war in heaven, and the rebels were overcome and cast out, and then peace reigned there. War may come to our country. Rumors of wars are heard in every land. We will see what the Savior says in regard to this matter: 

"For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. 

"And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple; and His disciples came to him for to shew him the buildings of the temple. 

"And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? Verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. 

"And as He sat upon the mount of Olives, the .disciples came unto Him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of Thy coming, and of the end of the world? 

"And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. 

 "For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. 

"And ye shall hear of wars, and ruELDER ERA AC. 

mors of wars; see that ye be not troubled; for all these things must come to pass, but the end Is not yet. 

"For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes in divers places. 

"All these are the beginning of sorrows." 

"Watch, therefore; for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. 

"But know this, that if the good man of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken up. 

"Therefore be ye also ready; for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. 

"Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due season? 

"Blessed is that servant, whom his lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. 

"Verily I say unto you. That he shall make him ruler over all his goods. 

"But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth hib coming; 

"And shall begin to smite his fellowservants, and to eat and drink with the drunken; 

"The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of, 

"And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 

We have heard today from President Woodruff the words of the Prophet Joseph, spoken sixty-five years ago. He told at that time what we see today, and that this is the preparation of the people of God for the coming of the Lord upon the earth. And He will come, and His coming will not be delayed. The end, however, is not yet, but approaches. And it is important that those who have received authority from heaven should be like watchmen upon the walls of Zion, and speak forth to the multitude when God commands, and say, be not troubled, for the end is not yet. Be not troubled because there are wars and rumors of wars in the earth, for these things 

'S M. LYMAN 59 

must be; but let Ud attend to our labor and let us pray that this cup of trouble and war may pass, because It would be terrible. It always has been terrible and it will always be, to the end, when wars and trouble come. Christians should always pray and labor for peace. The last thing for Christians to ever do is to fight for peace. 

When I listened to President Smith this morning relating the experience of an Elder who had been traveling here without purse and scrip, and how generously he was treated, I could not help but remember how not only one Elder was treated in the Southern States, but how the Elders were treated by the forties — not in a city like Salt Lake City, but in the country where people were sparsely settled. They would take in forty and fifty of us at a time, and they were not Latter-day Saints either. They would feed us, and lodge us, take care of us and move us for four days at a time. They did this in numbers of instances in the Southern States. The Elders there are feeling splendidly, and their influence among the people and th-? officials of the country is good. The great change that has been wrought in the hearts of the people in that country is remarkable, since President Woodruff announced, at the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, that that great change would come. It has come, and the word of God through him has been fulfilled and continues to be fulfilled and will be to the very letter. The words of the Lord will all be verified that are contained in this sacred book (the Bible), though infidels and others may war upon it, it is the truth, it is the word of God. Men may do as they please with it, but it contains the truth. And it contains the history of the dealings of God with His children. The same is true with regard to the Book of Mormon and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. Men will war upon them, as they have upon the Bible, but they will not war any more successfully or industriously. For these books, be it known, contain the words of the Lord. I bear my testimony to their truth and divinity, and to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and of the mission of the Prophet Brigham Young, and of President John Taylor and of President Wilford Woodruff, Prophets of the Lord, and their brethren who are here. I bear testimony to the divinity of youi mission as well as ours. For your mission is just as sacred as ours. You are the children of God. You have had His testimony and spirit burning in your souls. He has endowed you richly with it— all of us more generously than we deserve. He has thus led us and He has established and settled utj in the truth. 

In the doctrines of the Gospel there is salvation and life, and they meet every requirement of the human heart. There is not a thing that the soul of man or woman needs in this life, or in the life to come, that is not met in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and this organization which is so perfect and so complete. We can therefore afford to be generous. I did thank the Lord when I was in the Southern States and in the Eastern and Northern States, that I could stand before those people and invite their ministers to come to Utah and we would offer them congregations and an auditorium such as cannot be found elsewhere in the United States. We invite them to come and lay their doctrines before the people. We want to know what the doctrine of the world is. We don't want the people kept in ignorance of what there is in the earth. If it were so would we be found putting, today, in our magazine for the young people, what we are publishing — the doctrines of Catholics and of Protestants of every denomination, written from their own standpoint, and laying them before the people? Our pulpits are open to all men of reputable standing in the world, who are made welcome to talk to us. It gave us strength and an influence in the earth to be able to state these facts. Why, there is no such sight to be seen in the world as this Tabernacle of the Lord. There is nothing to compare with it. In its design it is remarkable. Just realize what has been accomplished by a poor people. And if we be poor today, the way is open to us to have all the means we need. We should retrench in our living, and save means. There is means in abundance and to spare  the Latter-day Saints today, to meet all the obligations of individuals and of the people generally. And we ought to so order our lives in harmony with the instructions given us today by Elder Merrill, which are so choice, that we may meet our obligations. Let those who have ample themselves assist those who have not. And let them live together as one family and bring salvation to each and all. The very Words of Wisdom given to us for the temporal salvation of the people would, in three years, meet all the obligations of this Church and of every member in it, if we would observe that counsel. Not only to save the means that are spent for tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor, but to eat less of meats and let the meat be sold to others, and let us live upon the fruits and vegetables. There is a fortune in these things for the people, and in this way we can easily become free. We ought to be the most independent people upon the face of the earth for means of every kind. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters, and to bless ut> during this Conference. Oh, how 1 thank the Lord whenever President Woodruff stands up and talks to the Church! And we want that voice for so many years yet to remain among us. We do not want his voice stilled. For the voices of the others of the older ones have been stilled who bore the Apostleship in the days of the Prophet Joseph. President Woodruff is the only man living that enjoyed that honor during the life of the Prophet Joseph. Let me exhort you, my brethren and sisters, to be indeed Latter-day Saints. Take care of yourselves individually and be Saints of God; and remember if we do not survive until the coming of the Son of Man, we are. then, anyway, in the very condition we ought to be in to pass, away. We are ready to die and to meet the Lord. It is as necessary that we should be ready to meet Him on the other side, as to be prepared for Him at His coming here. But He will come, and He will come in the presence of the nations of the earth. They shall know it and shall fear and tremble at the coming of the great God to reign upon the earth. This is my tes to you and to the world. And I speak as one who is authorized thus to speak of the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. God bless you. Amen. 

"The Holy City," was beautifully sung by Brother George D. Pyper. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Praise God from Whom All Blessings Plow. 
