Afternoon
07 04 1898



PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF 

Strange personal experiences— Preserved by the revelations and power of God — Incidents of a remarkable ministry— Great change coming over the earth— The work of God progressing. 

[At President Woodruff's request, President Cannon read the 1st Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants.] 

I want the attention and the prayers of the Saints who have assembled upon this occasion. I have been sick and very weak in my body for a month past, and did not feel that I would be able to attend this Conference till the day before it opened. I have been blessed in this respect to be with you. I desire to say some things to vou, and perhaps some strange things, too. I feel disposed to> say something about myself, to give you a little of the history of my life, because of what I may want to say,  I get through, to the rising generation of Israel. My remarks may be very eccentric to any but Latterday Saints, and to them also, I expect. 

I suppose when I was born the devil knew what I should be called to do; for there has been from the day I was born until the present two powers with me — one to kill me, the other to save me. I stand before you today a pretty sound-looking, for a man ninety-one years of age. I stand before you with a body in which almost every bone has been broken except my back and neck. I have had through my life a power after me to take my life. When I was about three years old I was pushed into a caldron of boiling water, which had just been taken off the fire. My grandmother took me out, and my skin all dropped off excepting off my head and feet. I was wrapped up for months in cotton and oil. That was the beginning of my troubles. When I was twelve years of age I was drowned; at any rate, I lay in thirty feet of water long enough to drown anyone. After several unsuccessful attempts, I was brought up out of the water. This was under the Farmington mill dam. I was just as dead as I shall be thirty years hence. I lay on my back and saw the sun go out, and passed through all the sensations of death that any man would in drowning. After an hour's labor, I was brought around to life again. I shall not go into the particulars of many of these things, but I have passed h what may be termed death a number of times in my life. When I was 15 years old I was in one of those Connecticut blizzards. I walked four miles through a wood into the open country, and I sought some place where I could hide from the storm and rest. There was but one house within a mile of me — that was the poor house, which was about twentyfive rods away. The man was moved upon to go up in his garret to get some pennyroyal to give to a sick woman, and he felt led to look out of the window. He saw me crawling into the hollow of a big tree. He knew what the result of that would be better than I did. He took his horse and sleigh and came to me, and when he got there I was asleep, and he preserved  life. When I was 14 years old I was bit by a mad dog, and ought to have died; but I did not. So I continued on, until I can say that I have broken both of my legs, one twice; broken both of my arms, breast bone, several ribs, and altogether been through a pretty hard experience for a man who had to be called to preach the Gospel, at least. I was a miller by trade. I have been in two water wheels under full head of water, and I suppose I ought to have been killed in either of them, but I was not hurt. 

That preserving power has followed me all the way through my life. It has been with me upon my missions abroad as well as at home. It has followed me until the present day, and I have been placed in a great many strange places. 

I was ordained to dedicate this Salt Lake Temple fifty years before it was dedicated. I knew I should live to dedicate that Temple. I did live to do it. I had a great desire in my boyhood to receive the Gospel of Christ, to see a prophet or somebody that could teach me the Gospel of Christ as taught by the ancient Apostles and as. I read of in the New Testament. 1 desired this with every sentiment of my heart, and on the first Gospel sermon I ever heard I was baptized, with my oldest brother. I immediately went to Kirtland. I was in Zion's Camp with the Prophet of God. I saw the dealings of God with him. I saw the power of God with him. I saw that he was a Prophet. What was manifest to him by the power of God upon that mission was of great value to me and to all who received his instructions. I will refer to one instance. A short time before we landed in Missouri Joseph called the camp together. He there prophesied unto us, and told us what lay before us. He gave us the reason why chastisement was before us. He says: "You consider me a boy with the rest of you. You have not realized my position before the Lord. But there is a chastisement before this camp." He told us that this would come upon us because he had not been obeyed in his counsels. In one hour after we landed in Missouri and pitched our tents at Mr. Burkett s, one man began to fall here, another there, and in a few moments we had a dozen of our camp stretched upon blankets with the cholera. The Prophet of God, when he saw this, felt to smypathize with them, and he and Hyrum laid their hands upon Brother Carter, the first man that was taken sick, but as soon as they did it they were seized themselves, and they both had to leave the camp. He said afterwards: "I told you what was coming to pass, and when affliction came I stretched out my hand to stay it, and I came very near falling by it myself." That mission was very interesting to me. 

I want to say here that in all my life since joining this Church and kingdom, notwithstanding these powers that have been with me to kill me, I have always had the revelations of God with me. That is something I want to talk about to Israel before I get through. The power of God has told me what to do and what not to do. While the devil has had powei to afflict my body very seriously, th?re has been a power with me that has saved me through it all. And, whenever I have had the Holy Spirit with me to tell me what to do, I have had to do that. By that I have been saved. By listening to that still small voice I am here today with you. There are two reasons why I am here today. When I went back after the pioneer journey, President Young said he wanted me to take my family and go to Boston, and stay there till I could gather all the Saints of God in New England and Canada and bring them to Zion. That was the mission he gave me on my return from the pioneer journey to Winter Quarters. I went in the spring, as he told me, and took my family. We came one evening to one of the brethren's houses in Indiana. Several of us were th-?re. Orson Hyde had a team as well as myself. We drove into a long yard. I set my carriage within six inches of his. I had my wife and children with me. I tied my animals to an oak tree on the other side of where we camped. I went to bed in my carriage. As I laid down, the Spirit of the Lord lold me to get up and move my carriage. 1 did not ask the Lord what He meant. I did as I was told. The same 

Spirit told me to go and move my animals away from that tree. I did that. My wife asked me why I did it. I told her I did not know. I had not been in bed twenty minutes when there came a whirlwind and took thai oak tree, which had stood there perhaps fifty years, split it right through the trunk, and it swept through both of those fences where my carriage had stood. It never touched Brother Hyde's carriage, but it would have crushed me and my family to the tarth if I had not listened to the voice of the Spirit. After spending two years and a half in New England and Canada, getting the Saints out, I started back with the last lot, about a hundred, from Boston. We landed in Pittsburg at dusk. We were anxious not to stay there, but to go on to St. Louis. I saw a steamer making steam ready to go out. I went to the captain and asked him how many passengers he had. "Three hundred and fifty." "Could you take another hundred?" "Yes." I was just about to tell him we wanted to go aboard when that Spirit said to me, "Don't go aboard that steamer, you nor your company." All right, said I. I had learned something about that still, small voice. I did not go aboard that steamer, but waited till the next morning. In thirty minutes after that steamer left, it took fire. It had ropes instead of wheel chains, and they could not go ashore. It was a dark night, and not a soul was saved. If I had not obeyed the influence of that monitor within me, I would have been there myself, with the rest of the company. The Thirteenth ward would not have; had an Atwood for a Bishop; the Church would not have had a Leonard W. Hardy as Bishop. They were both with me, and their families, including Brother Samuel Hardy, who is in St. George now, upwards of ninety years old. I never disobeyed that Spirit but once in my life; I did it then through the urgency of other persons, and it nearly cost me my life. I have been acquainted with this Spirit. It was not the blow of trumpets noithunder and lightning; it was the still small voice to me. All the way from my boyhood I have been governed and controlled by that Spirit. My missions 3 J  been by that Spirit of revelation. I was told to go to Fox Islands by that same still small voice. In the time of the great apostasy in Kirtland the Spirit of the Lord said to me, "Gel you a partner and go to Fox Islands." I knew no more what was in Fox Islands than what was in Kolob. 1 went there, however, baptized a hundred and brought them up to Zion with me. It was upon that island where I received a letter from Joseph Smith, telling me that I was called by revelation to fill the place of one of the Twelve who had fallen. You will see it in the Doctrine and Covenants. That thing was revealed to me before I received the letter from Joseph Smith, but I did not feel disposed to tell it to any mortal man, for I knew it was my duty to keep such things to myself. Through all my life and labors, whenever I have been told to do anything by the Spirit of the Lord, I have always found it good to do it. I have been preserved by that power. That power was with me when I went to Herefordshire. I was preaching every night with Brother Cordon, and one night we held a meeting in the town hall at Hanley, in Staffordshire. The Spiritthat still small voice — said to me, "This is the last meeting you will hold with this people for many days." I told the congregation so when I got up. They were very much astonished, and asked me where I was going. I told them I did not know. After, I went to ask the Lord what he wanted of me, and He told me to go to the south. That was all the answer I got. I took the stage and rode eighty miles south. The first man's house I went into was John Benbow's. I had not been in his house fifteen minutes till I understood why the Lord had sent me there. There was a people broken off from the Wesleyan Methodists, who had banded together and called themselves United Brethren. They were watching for the coming of the Son of Man, watching for the Gospel of Christ, as they read of it in the New Testament. The first thirty days after I got there I brought into the Church some two thousand, with fifty ministers, and all their chapels, licensed according to law, were in my hands. There was no blowing of trumpets about that. The Spirit of the Lord told me to go there, and when I got there I saw why I was sent. 

That is, perhaps, enough to say about those things. Now, I want to say to this congregation, to the young men of Israel, to the Elders of Israel, to all our missionaries, the day has come when the God of heaven requires at my hands, as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to say unto you, it is the will of God for you to take this course. Get the Spirit of God before you go on your missions or anywhere else. Get the spirit of revelation with you. And when you get that you are safe, and you will do exactly what the Lord wants you to do. I have felt strongly impressed to say that to this Conference. What can you do without revelation? We cannot do the will of God and accomplish what is required of us without it. We will make no mistakes if we pursue that course. That spirit is with the Apostles, and with the Elders of Israel who are true and faithful. The rising generation should labor to obtain the Spirit of God. Get it within you and it will be a continual monitor with you. 

That is one reason, brethren and sisters, why my life has been preserved. I will tell you another reason. Of course, this is my own reason for it. One reason why I am here is because the Lord has chosen the weak things of this world to preach the Gospel, to do His work, to build up His kingdom. I do not think He has ever had a weaker instrument on earth to work through than myself. The Almighty has known that never for a minute since I have been a member of this Church have I had any power to take any honor or glory to myself with regard to anything that I have been enabled to do in the work of the ministry or elsewhere. Why? Because I have known it has come from God, and not from me. And no other man who has engaged in this work has had any power of himself. This power has come from God unto us, whereby we have been enabled to do the work He has required at our hands. 

There is a change coming over the earth; there is a change coming over the Christian world; and It is at our door. You read the revelations in the Bible, in the Book of Mormon and in the Doctrine and Covenants appertaining to our day and the generation before the coming of the Son of Man. War! Yes; war is one of the troubles that belong to the generation in which we live. It will come to pass, and no power beneath the heavens can stay it. Who cannot open their eyes and see the change in the things around us? Read these revelations — the revelation just read by Brother Cannon, and the others in these books. The God of heaven has set His hand to carry out these great purposes that you read of. They are as sure to come to pass as that God lives. There is no power on earth, nor beneath the earth, nor anywhere else, that can stay the fulfillment of these things. And they are at our doors. 

I am anxious that the Latter-day Saints shall round up their shoulders and bear off the kingdom of God. Many in the world have labored to try the overthrow Mormonism. They have driven our people from their lands. They have persecuted and afflicted us. They have put some to death, for the word of God and testimony of Jesus. But they have not thwarted the purposes of God in any of these things. The Lord, in His mercy and wisdom, has led this people to these valleys of the mountains. It is ordained of God that Zion is to be established here. Here is the Tabernacle that the Prophet spoke of as a covering from the storm and the wind, etc. These temples are here in fulfillment of prophecy. We have four of them in this State. President Young was honored of God in the establishment of these things. He lived long enough to dedicate the corner stone of this Temple on this bk ck, into which the Latter-day Saints go and deliver their friends who are in the prison house, and attend to the ordinances of the house of God for them, in fulfillment of the ancient Prophets, who spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, to the effect that saviors should be raised up on Mount Zion in the latter days while the kingdom is the Lord's. Zion has got to arise. 

"Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains; for the Lord hath comforted His people, and will have mercy upon His afflicted. 

"But Zion said, The Lord hath for me, and my Lord hath forgotten me. 

"Can a woman forget her suckling child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee. 

"Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls are continually before me." (Isaiah, 49: 13-16.) 

All that has been spoken concerning Ziion will come to pass, and you and I today are witnesses of these things. 

We are here for salvation and eternal life. We are here to obtain those great blessings which Saints of God In every age of the world have obtained when they have obeyed the commandments of God. Shall we fail? No, we shall not if we do our duty. The Gospel is just as good today as it was in the days of the Savior. As to the glorious blessings of the Gospel of Christ, they have been unpopular in almost every age of the world. Take Christ Himself: where was there a more unpopular man than the Savior of the world in His day? And His Apostles were unpopular. They were put to death for the word of God and testimony of Jesus Christ. Nevertheless, Christ was the Son of God; and the Saducees, the Pharisees, the Essenes, and all the sects that warred against Him were cursed and many of them were cast down to hell, while He remains as the Savior of the world, and received the honor and the glory which His Father had ordained for Him. I want our young people especiallv to remember these things. Those who are going upon missions must not neglect them. Unless you have the Holy Ghost with you when you go out to preach the Gospel, you cannot do your duty; but when you have that you are safe, go where you will, and your words will have their effect in the hearts of the honest and meek of the earth. 

Brethren and sisters, I feel to thank God that we are as well off as we are. I feet to thank God that we are in the position we occupy in these valleys of the mountains. Here is a safe place. While in the dedication of that Temple I saw the judgments of God that were about to be poured out upon this gen. They will come to pass. I read the other night of a terrible flood. Who ever heard of such a flood in America before? These floods, and troubles and tribulations are increasing in the earth, and they will increase until this scene is wound up. I pray God my Heavenly Father to bless you all, to inspire our hearts, that the vision of our minds may be open to comprehend the position we are in and the responsibility we are under. The eyes of all heaven and earth and hell are over us. The eyes of the devils are over us. They labor for our destruction; but they have not power to do it. We are in the hands of God. He holds the keys of the destinies of the inhabitants of the earth, and He will bless the righteous, no matter who they are nor where they are. I am thankful to listen to the teachings that I have heard at this Conference from the Elders of Israel. I rejoice in the progress that has been made during the past year in the Church abroad. There has been an addition to the Church that we have never met with in any other year since the organization of this Church. And here at home there has been a great addition. Our sisters have labored faithfully in the Primary Associations, in the Mutuallmprovement associations, and in every capacity in which they are called to labor. The blessings of God are with them, and they are doing much good. The Sunday schools have also added to their numbers. They have now over one hundred thousand members. The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, as has been said, have an addition of about thirteen thousand as a result of their labors the past year. God is blessing those who labor among them. If you can save a soul from death, what blessings you will have with that soul. As the Lord said to Oliver Cowdery, "If it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father." We should continue in this labor, that we may gain the salvation of the souls of men. Inasmuch as you will do this, the blessings of God will attend you. Zion has got to arise or fall. Which shall it be? The proclamation of the Gospel of Christ  in favor of Zion. All the revelation* appertaining to thiB day are in favor of Zion, and of preparing the way for the coming of the Son of Man. And Zion will arise and shine. 

God bless you, one and all. Let us do our duty and seek to magnify our religion, that when we get through we will rejoice in that. It is better to be on the Lord's side than anywhere else. I want salvation. I want to meet my forefathers and my friends whom I have labored here to redeem, who never heard the Gospel in their day and generation. God has given us this privilege. We have Elders of Israel laboring in all these temples day by day for the salvation of the children of men. We have been blessed in this labor, and we will continue to be blessed; and when we get on the other side of the veil there is not one of usbut will rejoice for the good we have done. May God bless you. I feel to bless the Latter-day Saints, as far as I have power to bless. Our daughters and our mothers are laboring for the salvation of Israel in their line, and scare the Elders of Israel in their line. But we want to increase and continue to increase, until we have power in the earth to gather up all the honest and meek of the earth. God bless, guide and direct us all in the path of ' truth and righteousness, for Jesus' sake. Amen. 

At the conclusion of his remarks the vast congregation arose en masse and in unison with the choir, sang: We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Providential preservation of President Wrodruff — The Church controlled by the power of God — He vindicates His servants — Trouble results from disunion — Selfishness defeats Itself — The Church will be cleansed. 

The instructions that we have heard during this Conference have been accompanied by the testimony of the Spirit of God, and I esteem it as a great privilege that we have had this afternoon of listening to the testimony of President Woodruff. If we have not all heard that which he has said, we shall have the opportunity of reading; it. I think it ought to be esteemed as a great pleasure and satisfaction for the Latter-day Saints to hear his testimony. President Woodruff is the only surviving Apostle who held the Apostleship at the time the Prophet Joseph lived. He is the only man living who received his endowments at the hands of the Prophet Joseph. He is the only Apostle living who entered this valley when it was penetrated by the Pioneers. To have him survive as long as he has, and to stand as a witness in the midst of this people, is a great boon to the Church. There has been, without doubt, a providence in his preservation. The Lord has had a purpose to accomplish. His testimony, which has so often been borne and listened to by the members of this Church will have a lasting impression and influence upon the Church. I am, therefore, for one, greatly pleased to hear him once more address a congregation so large as this at our General Conference. If we had been asked years ago as to who would be likely of the Apostles to survive until now, we perhaps would not have selected President Woodruff, because he was a man advanced in years, and, as he has related to us today, had passed through so many scenes of trial and had labored so hard physically, and had so many narrow escapes for his life, that it seemed almost impossible that he would survive all the others. But, as he has told us, upwards of fifty years ago, while in Boston on a mission, the Lord revealed to him concerning this Temple. 

He has not related that which I have heard him speak of at other times. There was a discussion concerning the material of which this Temple should be built. Some of the brethren advocated one material, and some another; and it looked as though it would not be built of granite. But President Woodruff had seen it in granite, and he knew while this discussion was in progress that when the Temple was built it would be built of that material. He also had dreams before the Temple was finished concerning the duty that had been assigned to him. The keys of the Temple had been given to him by President Young, and he was told to open the Temple, so that the people might go in. 

Under all the circumstances, has there not been a providence in this? Our God does not permit things of this importance to happen haphazard, and without His overruling power and providence being manifested. He has selected His servants, and He hae. assigned them their labors; and He will preserve them from accidents and from death until they shall accomplish that which they have been sent to perform— to fulfill the mission that has been given unto them. There is no such thing as accident in these matters. It is not by chance that these occurrences happen; but there is a providence which the Lord exercises over His people and over the affairs of His Church, and over all things that happen. They are controlled by His power for the accomplishment of His purposes. He gives unto us our agency, and that agency we can exercise to the fullest extent. There is no limit placed upon it. It is contrary to His mind and will and to the plan ot salvation that there should be a limit placed upon man's agency or upon its exercise. But He controls the results. As President Young so often told us, He controls affairs so as to bring to pass His purposes and His designs; and there is no power that can prevail against Him and the fulfillment of His purposes. He supplements man's weakness, man's shortsightedness and man's inability by His strength, foreknowledge and almighty power. These men whom He has chosen to be His Apostles are weak, fallible men. 

As President Woodruff has told us, the Lord has chosen the weak things of the world, that they might not glory in themselves nor in their own strength; and the man that does claim the glory takes steps to destroy his influence and to lose his power and gifts. . The Lord will not bless> men who seek to take the glory to themselves. These men are fallible, and subject to all the infirmities of human nature; but God has chosen them, and when they do the best they can, seeking to Him for His Spirit, He inspires them; and where they come short He makes it up by His blessing. That which would seem to the natural eye to be a mistaken course or polic> He overrules and controls for His . That has been the course in this Church from the beginning. The men that have instructed the people, from Joseph himself down through all the ranks of the Priesthood, have been fallible men; their judgment has been imperfect; their conclusions have perhaps not always been as they should have been; but if they have acted according to the light they had and the Spirit that God has given them, and they have sought the Lord for His blessing and guidance, then He takes charge after that and He brings to pass according to His own good will and pleasure, and His power and wis.dom are manifested in that which takes place, so that we are perfectly fe. If it were not for this, we would be appalled at the responsibility that rests upon us. Any man who feels the weight of responsibility and thinks of the dreadful consequences that might attend a misstep, could not endure it if there were not something behind him to sustain and buoy him up. President Woodruff could not stand under the pressure of the responsibility upon him, neither could any other man who may be near him or connected with the Apostleship and the Priesthood. 

But there is this reflection all the time: God can be trusted. God will see to it that His servants are not put to shame; that they do not become a spectacle in the midst of the people — before the Saints or before the world. He has never left His servants at any time. God be thanked this day for this! He has never allowed them to be covered with shame and confusion through failure. But He has sustained them, and He has borne them off victorious, under all circumstances, when they have served Him and appealed to His Holy Spirit to guide them. And He will do it from this time forth until the Lord Himself comes to reign on the earth. This will be the result if we continue to serve Him. Hence it is that the people are required by the Lord — with these evidences before them of what God has done and the predictions that have been fulfilled — to listen to the voice of His servants, to accept their counsels, to seek for His word through them, because He has given them power and the author, standing in His stead in the midst of the people, with the full weight of responsibility upon them. Let me ask tins congregation, can you put your finger on a time when the people of this Church have listened to the counsel of the servants of God that they have had reason to repent of it? Tou all know that no such thing has ever occurred. In every instance, in the deepest peril, under the most trying and dark circumstances, when the people have listened to counsel God has delivered them and brought them through safely. This you all know. Hence it is that God designs and desires that His Saints shall listen to the voice of revelation, to the voice of His Prophet, to the voice of men whom He has called to act in His stead in the midst of the people. And great condemnation will fall upon those who do not do this. 

Of all people upon the face of the earth we should be the most united. In union is our strength. But we are not united as we should be. And it is this that brings trouble to us. The disunion of the people is the source of all our trouble. The Lord desires to have us a united people, the people that will listen to His voice. And what does this mean? Does it mean tyranny? Does it mean oppression? Does it mean the taking away of any human being's rights? Does it encroach upon the liberty of any soul? No, it does not. It never has. Tt never will, because the Priesthood of the Son of God is not a tyrant. The operations of that Priesthood are beneficent under all circumstances. Look at the prosperity of this people. See how God has blessed them when they have listened to counsel and been guided aright. All our prosperity is traceable to this. Our misfortunes are traceable to our disobedience and neglect. Everyone knows this that has any faith whatever in the work of God. There is nothing asked of any man that he cannot do with the utmost pleasure and with the freest exercise of his agency. It has been so from the beginning, and it will be so to the end. 

We were told this morning, by Brother A. O. Woodruff, of the division there is among the people in many directions. It is a pitiable sight that among the Latter-day Saints there should be such things, such division, such selfishness, such injury done by one to another. It is wrong, and we should avoid it. It is contrary to the will of God that we should be in this condition. We grieve His Holy Spirit when we yield to this spirit that divides us and arrays us one against another. "We ought to understand that selfishness defeats itself; that God will bless men who love His work and love their fellow men, and who do not allow selfishness to predominate in their hearts. That has to be extinguished among  the Latter-day Saints, if we ever would be the people that God has said we shall be. I believe the Lord will weed out from our midst all who contribute to this division among the people of God and who will not dismiss these evil influences. Unless we are a united people we will not prosper temporally; we cannot prosper spiritually. We must love the Lord with all our heart, and we must love our brethren as we do ourselves. If we do not attain to that we cannot reach the standard He has raised for us. I do not expect that any of us will get into the celestial kingdom until we have this Spirit and are imbued with it and carry it out literally in all our associations and dealings with our fellow men— until, in fact, we shall be a united people, living in the United Order, which must be established before the reign of righteousness can be ushered in. 

We come to these General Conferences to be instructed in these principles, to have our minds refreshed, to hear the testimony of the servants of God, and we ought to go away impressed with these principles, and profiting by them sufficiently that we will make them a part of our lives. We have been called as Latter-day Saints. By the miraculous power of God we have been gathered from the nations of the earth. It is the greatest miracle, it may be said, that ever was seen by the human family. It is stupendous. It is something unexampled in the history of our race. And there is a grand purpose in it, which God has revealed. He is gathering from the nations of the earth the elements that are necessary to lay the foundation for a new era, to prepare the way for the coming of the Lord, for the establishment of the reign of righteous. Yet, notwithstanding, the nations behold it, Satan darkens their eyes so that they cannot see its grand import. But to us the Lord has revealed this. And there is this remarkable fact connected with this: almost every man and woman that comes from the nations has, himself and herself, received a testimony that they ought to do this. They have done it under a divine impulse; not by any human force that has been brought to bear upon them, but by an inward force that has appealed to their souls, coming to them irresistibly from God. These elements are being gathered from the nations of the earth in this miraculous manner to accomplish the purposes of our God. But there will be a cleansing in the floor— in the garner, as it were. The work of cleansing is now going on. The net gathers a great many kinds of fish; but the bad fish will be thrown out. Having received these testimonies, and being in a position to know for ourselves concerning the work of God, it is for us to square our lives to make them agree with the principles of righteousness. As was read this afternoon, "My Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of hosts." There never has been a time in this Church since it3 organization when the Latter-day Saints have been preached to with such diligence as they have been of late. The Twelve Apostles are traveling constantly, visiting conferences, and the other brethren that are actively engaged in the ministry are doing the same. The people are being warned and taught, it seems to me, with a diligence and with a faith and power that I have never seen before in the Church. I do not think the Church ever was preached to as it is being preached to now. And this cannot be done without condemnation following those who resist the influence of the Spirit of God, and who harden their hearts against the teachings of God's servants. 

God help us, brethren and sisters, to be faithful to the truth, to cling to it, to love the Lord with all our hearts, to serve Him with all the diligence we can; which I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem. 

Light and Truth. 

Benediction by Elder Seymour B. Young. 