Overflow
10 04 1898


ELDER DAVID H. CANNON. 

I trust that while I shall endeavor to address you, I may have the benefit of your faith, that our Father may suggest words to my mind that will be beneficial to those who are here as* sc-mbled 

I have re joiced very much in the testimony of the Holy Spirit that was manifest through the Prophets and Apostles of God who have addressed us during the " t rious meetings of this Conference. And I feel that, so far, it has been t<> me one of the best Conferences that it has been my privilege to attend, because of the plain manner in which our duties have been made manifest to us as a people. And 1 felt, when listening to our venerable President Woodruff in his testimony regarding the financial condition of this Church, that I would not only myself endeavor to do my duty and pay my tithes and offerings, but that 1 would use my influence with those whom I associate with in the Stake where my labor calls me, to get others to do likewise. For I believe it to be a veritable truth that if we as a people would draw near unto the Lord and observe the commandments that He has given to us more strictly, greaterprosperity would attend our efforts, and we would become free from the thraldom of debt with which we are ait the present time oppressed. 

I am satisfied that this work with which we have become identified, is "the power of God unto salvation" to all who will render obedience to its requirements, and that it is destined in the due time of the Lord to revolutionize the whole world and bring mankind generally into a condition when "every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ," to the honor and glory of God our eternal Father. 

At the time of the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, I remember with a great deal of pleasure the promises that were made to the people by President Woodruff, that if we would go forth from that time and seek to keep the commandments of God, and conform our lives to the requirements of the Gospel, that our sins as a people though as scarlet should become as  as wool, and that we should be free to serve God, and have greater influence in the midst of the nations of the earth, and that the persecution that is being brought to bear upon the people would cease. I say I remember these predictions with a great deal of pleasure; and I have watched with equal satisfaction the fulfillment of every prediction that was ever made to the people. Wherever we have gone forth laboring to promote righteousness in the earth, God has blessed our labors, and His Spirit has attended His people in their undertakings. His servants have gone forth to the nations and have had influence and power wherever they have traveled, to an extent that was never before experienced since the organization of the Church upon the earth. And if the Saints continue to improve in their lives, as a people, this Spirit will continue to increase, and more success will attend the preaching of the Gospel. 

I notice in traveling among the Saints and in our experience in the Temple, in the House of God, at St. George, where my labors are more particularly known, that there is a great improvement in the people with regard to the work that is necessary for the redemption of their kindred dead. Many more people are coming to the House of the Lord. Many there are that are desirous of obtaining their genealogical records, that they may be able to perform the work necessary for the redemption of their kindred dead. The spirit of this labor, I believe, is increasing throughout the Stakes of Zion, as also in the nations of the earth. And, while I do not believe that it is proper for us as a people to turn our attention exclusively to any one direction, to carry out one branch or one part of the Gospel, yet I believe that as a people we need to disturb ourselves a little in regard to this vicarious labor. I have said very many times, when addressing the people, that I do not know what the Saints would do if called from mortality and permitted to meet their kindred who have preceded them to the spirit world, I do not know what excuse they could offer for not having done more for the amelioration of their condition; because, in many instances,  people have lived within the shadow of the Temple, in close proximity with the House of God. The people have been reminded of their tithes and offerings wherein the Saints could place blessings and endowments in the Holy Priesthood in the hands of the kindred dead, and some have been perfectly indifferent in regard to this matter. In many instances men and women Who have considerable of their genealogies have failed to go into the Temple to do the necessary work. There are other instances where they have done all that they could do. To these I have nothing to say, but to the ones that have failed, and who do not attend to anything In this line. I have been wondering what these would say if they should be summoned to the presence of their friends in the spirit world. We believe that we have identified ourselves with the Gospel of the Son of God. We believe that it is necssary for a man or woman, in order to be eternally saved in the presence of our God, to go down into the water and be baptized for the remission of their sins; then receive the imposition of the hands of the servants of the Lord, for the reception of the Holy Ghost; and all that is necessary to save a person in immortality in the Celestial Kingdom of our Father, is equally necessary for those who have died without a knowledge of the precious principles with which you and I have become so familiar. And if the Elder who goes forth to the nations of the earth experiences joy in meeting those that he has had the privilege of conductine into the waters of baptism, I say if he experiences joy at reaching them, how much more joy will he experience when he meets those individuals into whose hands he has placed keys of power and Priesthood that will enable them to pass from their present condition into the presence of the Father and partake of glory and immortality in His Celestial Kingdom; not only going down into the waters and being baptized for the individual who is unable to receive this ordinance for himself or herself, but coming up out of the water and receiving the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and if it be a brother of suffiX/ A' //. CONFERENCE.  age, receiving the Holy Priesthood for him, and then all the other blessings that are necessary for him to enJoy. I say that If an Individual has joy In meeting them, what joy will they have when they meet the Individual who performed all the ordinances that saved them, doing the work for them vicariously. I cannot think of anything that would be of greater joy to the person when he meets his friend than this labor would afford. Then we have the simpler ordinances, that we term simple because they are so easy of accomplishment, by which they can have sealed husband and wife for time and all eternity, and have conferred upon them the privilege of coming forth in the morning of the first resurrection, clothed with glory, immortality and eternal life and all the blessings of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all the other blessings that pertain to the new and everlasting covenant. Then if they have had children and the children have passed away without a knowledge of the Gospel, they gather the names and do the work that is necessary for them, and seal the children to the parents, and this is the work that was spoken of and looked forth to, when the Prophet Elijah should come to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. Now, this is why the Latter-day Saints build temples: They are calculated to exalt us in the Celestial Kingdom of our God. But there are labors for us to perform which should occupy every moment of time that we have to spare, going forth and laboring in whatever capacity we may be called upon to labor. And as the Lord blesses our labors, we should take a tenth of that which we receive and pay it to the storehouse of the Lord; then pay our fast offerings, that there may be plenty in the hands of the Bishop to provide for the wants of the poor in the ward where we reside; then going forth and performing every duty that is necessary for us to perform. If there is anything that has caused, my heart to rejoice in my labors in connection with this people, my brethren and sisters, it is the provision that God our Father has made for the redemption of mankind, both living and dead, and the opportunities that are  the people, those who are so disposed, of laboring to bring about His purposes upon the earth, assisting in accomplishing that which is necessary to firmly establish this Gospel in the earth. And if we do, as a people, all that is necessary for us to do, that is in our power, the heavens will be opened and the blessing of the Almighty will descend upon us, prosperity will atend all our labors, and we will have that peace of mind and that contentment and joy in contemplating the great plan God has instituted for the redemption of the people. I say we will have such joy in contemplating these things that will make us so happy that we will never regret laboring for Him and for His purposes In the earth. 

May God bless you, and may we as a people ever remember the importance of the age in which we live, and not lose sight of the signs of the times in which we live, and may be perform our duties to His acceptance, through Christ our Lord. Amen. 

At the close of Elder Cannon's remarks the general authorities of the Church were presented by Elder Seymour B. Young, and sustaind by unanimous vote. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

My brethren and sisters, I see in this assembly a large body of our Seventies, whom I am very glad to welcome to our General Conference. 

Some four or five weeks ago and also a month previous to that date, we published an invitation for the Seventies to meet with us in this hall, on Sunday,the 10th inst.,at 2 o'clock p.m. And I find that very many of the Seventies have come to accept of the invitation, and are here this afternoon. 

Yesterday the First Presidency advised us not to make of it an exclusively Seventies' meeting.but to have it an overflow meeting as usual, for the benefit of all the Saints that might wish to assemble. Consequently their suggestion was the keynote to us, and we cheerfully and gladly adopt the counsel they gave us on this matter. But I believe that there was nothing in their minds to prevent us from  whatever we considered necessary to say to our brethren of the Seventies who should assemble here today. 

Then, by way of conveying some of our wishes to the Seventies that are scattered through all the Stakes of Zion, we wish to remind you that we have 1,700 brethren, and nearly all of those are Seventies, laboring in the ministerial field today as missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ. They are laboring in all the states of the Union, they are also laboring in all the Scandinavian countries, that Is, in Denmark, Sweden and Norway, also in Germany and in Holland, or the Netherlands; also a small corps of missionaries are now laboring in the Holy Land, under the direction of Apostle Anton H. Lund. We have a large corps of missionaries in the British mission, and upon the Sandwich Islands, upon the Society Islands, upon the Samoan Islands, in New Zealand, in Australia and pretty much in all the civilized world wherever Christian nations are known, and wherever Christianity is preached. "We have missions in all those lands and islands of the seas representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We hope that our brethren of the Seventies have become impressed with the fact that they, to a large extent, are the missionary corps of the Church, and from these quorums of Seventies the brethren are chosen who go out on missions; or if they are chosen from the Elders' quorums, when they are sent forth they are ordained Seventies, and sent with the Gospel message to the nations of the earth — as minute men, calling upon the people of the world to repent of their sins. We have some very excellent missionaries in the field today. But we want to impress upon the minds of our brethren who preside over these quorums and those who are members of the same, and also upon the minds of the Elders the necessity of us all preparing ourselves to be better missionaries in the future than we have been able to send out in the past. We desire an improvement all the time. We desire that our brethren should be imbued with the spirit of improvement, and that in every Elder and Seventy that is called out, the Presidency of the 

Church and the Apostles shall find a fit representative of the Church of Christ, and a man that knows the hope that is within him and can give a reason for that hope in good, intelligent English language, or in whatever language he may be called upon to teach the Gospel, and that will depend upon the nation or people to whom he is sent. Now, in connection with this, I want to suggest to my Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and German brethren, and brethren from the islands of the sea, that you maintain the gift and power of speaking you: own native tongue or language in your family circles. And those who can speak German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian or French and who are natives of these countries, that every one will maintain their native tongue and dialect, speak it in the family circles and train their children to speak the same as well as the English, so that when they are called and sent out our young Elders may be prepared to preach and teach immediately, and thus gain an advantage in time, and time saved is expense saved. And those Elders who come from foreign missions and who have been in the habit of speaking foreign languages, by all means take every opportunity to speak in those languages that you may maintain the knowledge you have gained while you have been in a foreign nation, and continue to be able to speak fluently those different dialects and tongues, that when you are again called you will be prepared to go immediately into the field and labor as efficient Elders, having a thorough knowledge of the language in which you are called to teach. We also wish our Seventies and Elders to learn all they can, to make themselves proficient by attending to their Mutual Improvement Associations, and their Sunday schools, for in both of these institutions are to be found wonderful facilities for learning the principles of the Gospel, that they may be able to give a reason intelligently for the hopes that are within them. As I have said before, mutual improvement and individual improvement are the order of the day. 

Now, in regard to dealing with members of quorums who are careless or delinquent: There was a brother came to me today und presented his recommendation from a quorum in the south, also his genealogy, which was taken from the quorum record, and he stated that he had been Identified with no quorum since leaving the south, and that was as much as eight or ten years ago. He said. "I have been very careless, but I hope the brethren will not cast me off. I have been a wanderer, a trader, a stock man, and I have been wandering around all over creation and not attending to my duties as a Seventy during all that time: yet I would like very much to be received into a quorum, where I am going to locate, and I would not like to be cast out from the midst of my brethren." I said, "Brother, there are no persons that I have ever met that were too old to repent of their sins, of their baekslidings, careless ways and to turn over a new leaf, serve the Lord and keep His commandments. If you are one of those who desire to do this you can certainly receive the benefit of your good resolutions; and if you will prove to your brethren that you are indeed repentant and that you will do better, they will have no desire to cast you off." The Gospel of life and salvation is a Gospel of repentance. Jesus truly said, when Peter asked Him how many times we should forgive our erring brother, and said as a suggestion, shall we forgive him seven times? Jesus said to him, not only shall you forgive him seven times, but you shall forgive him seventy times seven, if he repent. Now, this is a wide latitude, and I am not responsible for it; but I am satisfied in this matter that it is a very great and inestimable favor and blessing that the Lord has given unto His children, that as often as they will repent and forsake their sins, He will f -rgive them. We all need to repent every day of our lives, and we all need Ibe spirit of repentance, and we all ought to cultivate this spirit r»f forgiveness one to another. For the Lord has said, "If you forgive not each other his trespasses, the Lord will not forgive you your trespa^se-i.' Now, In dealing with scattered and careless members of Seventies, we dtsire, as we have ir.strurt.il nr b ethr^n y ihe presidency of these quorums, that these brethren shall be labored with, that  shall be sought after, that they shall be earnestly taught with humility and kindness the way of life, that they shall be admonished from time to time in the quorum meetings. If you cannot get them to act with you, go to them and meet with them in their own houses and labor with them by their own firesides in the spirit of meekness and love unfeigned, seeking their welfare and salvation, and only desiring that through their repentance they may be forgiven, and learn to lay hold of the spirit of the Gospel. 

There has been very much said during this Conference regarding the way that we show our determination to be in accord with our brethren, to be in unison with them, to be united with them in every good word and in every good work. And who has not felt his heart or her heart burn within his bosom during the services of this great Conference, in listening to the voice of our President, Wilford Woodruff, and hearing his admonitions? He stands a living monument of God's mercy and pleasure in preserving his life and keeping a living witness within his breast of the truths of the Gospel that he embraced when in the days of his youth; always maintaining that same living witness that the same light burned brightly, for it has never gone out of his heart for one moment since he received it. See what a witness and testimony he has borne of these facts to the people during this Conference. I say never for one moment has the light gone out of his heart, and I do not think it has ever burned dimly; for the power of God has been manifest in him from that day and hour unto the present time. See the watch-care of the Spirit of the Lord and of the holy angels of God's presence, how they have been over that man and guarded him and preserved him to do the work that he is called upon to do at this stage and in this age of the Church. And so I believe we might testify of those associated with him — his Counselors and the Twelve Apostles, today. They have shown by their works, labors, teachings and constant endeavors among the people to lead, guide, counsel and admonish in all meekness and in all humility and by the power of God manifested to them, that their lamps  never grown dim, but that the Spirit of the Lord has burned within their hearts all the time; and there is burning within their hearts today a desire for the welfare of Israel, a desire for the gathering of Israel, a desire that the Gospel may be preached in every land and that the chosen seed of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob may be gathered from all the nations whither they have been scattered. Now, this is the course they are taking.and what ought we to do, my brethren and sisters, and especially my brethren of the Seventies and Elders, what ought to be our course in life? Should we not possess in our hearts the same light and the same love of truth that they have evidenced, and should we not stand shoulder to shoulder with them and be united in all things with our brethren who preside over us, seeking diligently to know the mind and will of the Lord, and be led by that Spirit which comes from Him all the time, into the way of life and truth, making our words and actions agree entirely? And when we testify that we have received the Gospel, that we have a living witness in our hearts, should we not keep that lamp constantly and brightly burning, that it may never grow dim through carelessness on our part? 

I wish to remind you today, my brethren of the Seventies, that there is a very great necessity for every one, every president and member of these quorums to be united together and to be ready for the word of counsel from our file leaders all the time, and to prepare ourselves for any field of action or labor, or any duty that we may be called upon to perform. Let us remember another thing, that though we may be called upon to perform some political duty or labors that are secular and not connected with our calling as Seventies, this should not take us outside of the influence of the Church nor of the brethren who preside over us. "We should be subject to the laws of the Lord, to the law of the Gospel, which means a determination to carry out all the requirements made of us and to perform every duty as servants of the Lord. Let us feel that we are in duty bound to so conduct our lives that no reproach may  to us, and that we shall not bar ourselves from having the light, even the lamp of the Holy Spirit constantly burning within our hearts. I felt called to make these remarks, for I have seen with some sorrow, recently, that some of our brethren who are in political positions have turned a deaf ear to the admonitons of their brethren, and who have seemingly put at defiance every wish or suggestion that might be made to them. And I want to raise my voice in admonition to my brethren about the matter, and to call the attention of the Latter-day Saints, one and all, to the fact that we owe allegiance to our heavenly Father, and that between us and Him stand our brethren who preside over us, and that if we wish to maintain an influence with God and with the heavens, we must subject ourselves to the counsel of our leaders, and labor diligently and faithfully in the cause of Christ. May the Lord bless us and help us to do good, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL. 

I pray the Lord that I may be wise in what I shall say, and be under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord; for I have no desire to express my own feelings. 

I frankly confess that I am disappointed; and when I am disappointed you find it out, for it shows upon the very lineaments of my face. I am not like a brother I once had — and he was the only one I ever did have like that — when he was disappointed and felt badly, he could whistle and sing. 1 cannot whistle or sing when I feel disappointed. 

I have not learned the lesson of obedience yet, but I shall before I get through. It is our duty when we are confronted with anything that we do not understand, or go against any obstruction, to plow around it. I have always been accustomed to going over it. If I ran against a snag when plowing, it did me a whole lot of good to see my team pull, to test the plow and see how good it was. I have broken many a plow and done considerable damage by not plowing around the obstacle. There is an animal that when It reaches out with its feelers and runs against anything, it pulls Its feelers hack and crawls Into Its shell, and I suppose remains there and reflects until the scene changes. 

Now, we were very desirous of meeting with the Seventies in a special conference meeting. We are not deprived of the privilege of talking to them as It Is; for the brethren of the authorities have seemingly reconsidered the previous arrangements we made. It was with their consent, (I desire that fully understood by the Seventies), and their full approval that this notice was sent to you to be here, at 2 p. m. today. Out of it great good has come, because hundreds of Seventies would not have been here had it n^t been for the notice. Some have come long distances and they have been fully rewarded by what they have heard. If they will follow out the counsels that have been given to them by the Presidency of this Church, and by the Apostles, they need no further instructions from us, because when they return to their homes they will not neglect their duties a* Latter-day Saints. You know, we should be like clay in the hands of the potter. We have got to be ground, moulded and fashioned into a vessel of honor. And a great many of us are lumpy, although some of these old Seventies have been ground for sixty years. It has taken a long time to grind them, so that they will become tractable like little children. It will take just as long, perhaps, to grind ah the lumps out of me, and other young men. 

I have a testimony that the Gospel is true. I can preach it a great deal better than I can live it. Under the influence of the Spirit of God men often say things that are a marvel to them. "Sudden strokes of ideas" come to them when they stand upon theii feet that they never thought of before. It may be very sudden and brief; but every man that has spoken under that Spirit knows there is such a thing as the Holy Ghost; that is, the Spirit of inspiration and revelation. That is the lesson that we have to learn. 1 often think of our Elders that you have sent out into the world. Many of them were wayward, careless, and indifferent; their parents were unable  touch their hearts in some instances. They seemed determined to have their own way, even though it be a bad way. When a father or mother said anything to them about their bad associations, they would not believe it. I have done so myself when I was wayward, and when my mother counseled me that those young men were not proper associates for me, I could not believe it. I sympathize with a young man that has had bad companions and improper associates. Yet, when those young men repent of their sins, and get a glimmering of the spirit of the Gospel, they are just like clay in the hands of the potter. And, as one of the Apostles that has lately visited the Southern States stated to me, that when he compared what he saw in the South with what he had seen at home, the Southern mission grows bigger and larger every day. Yes, and it will keep growing larger, too. It is not the only mission on the earth either, for they are all growing larger. 

Now about your boys. I have labored among the Elders who are working in the South and I have never seen the time in my Ave years' experience there, that Elders have rebelled against the counsel that was given them. They sometimes put their own interpretation upon that counsel, but always acted to the best of their ability. When a man does that, he does pretty well; he is trying to do right and to carry out the instructions. I never had a difficulty in the South with an Elder, excepting one. He told the people things that never did transpire and never will. That was the only time I had occasion to say a harsh word and to correct an Elder. I have never felt the Spirit so manifest at home as 1 have when surrounded by our Elders in council meetings in the mission fields. It is often asked, Wbat are they doing in the South? I speak of it because I am familiar with that mission. I am familiar with the workings of the South. There are few men as familiar with the Southern States mission as I am; because I have been in touch with it almost constantly for the last seven years. We find they are trying to educate your five hundred Elders to pay their tithing, and it is surprising how people criticise the President of that mission on that subject. If some of the kind people are moved upon by the Spirit to give your sons money, they pay their tithing, and it is sent to Chattanooga. And you will find every one of these Elders' names upon the tithing records. They paid a large tithing last year. The Lord will open the way before the Elders. They will not suffer in the South. They are treated like kings. What is the reason? They have struck the key note, and I hope they have struck it everywhere in the world, and that is, to pray, fast, travel without purse and scrip, pay their tithing, and climb out of old ruts. I heard that a missionary committee of brethren have been appointed to counsel with the brethren ot the authorities, so that the European mission can be placed on a higher platform. It makes my heart rejoice. I wish they would take the headquarters in Liverpool and place it on a hill somewhere, that it may be seen. I pray the Lord to move upon His Elders that they may reach a higher standard ot perfection. God intended His people to be progressive, and He never intended them to locate themselves in the slums of the world. And I told the Elders laboring in the South so. God does not ask you to go in the slums and remain over night, getting contagious skin diseases that are prevalent in such places. You can visit them, but I ask of you Elders, to go in respectable places when upon your missions, for you are servants ot God. And if people do not keep themselves clean they are unworthy to have our Elders sleep in their beds. I would rather rest in the woods. Our Elders, through their great kindness, have brought upon themselves skin diseases that have afflicted them for years and years, and the Lord does not require it. The Holy Ghost will not dwell in unclean tabernacles, nor in unclean places. 

I desire to tell you how the South got out of trouble. Tou know the difficulties that Elder John Morgan coped with. And let me say here, that man laid a broad foundation, and no man can take the honor from him, because it is his, through his faith, perseverance and the blessings of the Lord. He worked under great difficulties, that very few men in this Church have met , except the early Apostles and the men who commenced this work. He went to the South in abject poverty, and he made railroad officials his friends, and he built up a reputation for honesty that can never be shaken. He made business men his friends, from which associations all his successors have received benefit. The Chattanooga Times, in 1884, when bitterness was at its highest ebb, said, to shake the hand of John Morgan was to be his friend. I was introduced to a passenger agent at Memphis, Tenn., by the general passenger agent of the East Tennessee railway, and he said, "I can give you no better recommend of Mr.. Kimball than to say, if he applied to me for one thousand railroad tickets to Salt Lake City, and had no money with him to pay the same, I would feel perfectly secure in letting him have them." This is the reputation John Morgan established in the South. His successors have followed in his wake. 

The Latter-day Saints do not fully comprehend the persecution, hardships and difficulties Elders Morgan, Roberts and Spry had to meet. They and the Elders laboring under their direction were hounded, hunted, whipped, shot at, and some were killed. I stand before you as a living witness of these things. 

I was in the South on my first mission in the year 1884, and it was the dark period in the life of the mission. Hardly a day passed, that letters were not received at the office at Chattanooga, stating that Elders had been threatened, whipped or surrounded by mobs, and Elders would ask if they should hold the fort. All that could be said was as Jesus had stated, "When they persecute you in one place, flee ye to another." 

The Lord, through His servant, the Prophet Wilford Woodruff, told you Latter-day Saints, at the time that great Temple [pointing to the Temple) was being dedicated, that the bitterness would be taken out of the hearts of our enemies, and their hearts would be softened towards us. 

The Elders who were laboring in the South at the time of the dedication, and there were 160 of them, testify that a very marked and radical change has. taken place in their experience, for the wmds of the Prophet are being fulfilled. 

Some Elders now laboring In the South fancy tli.y arc the only ones who ever traveled without money. Elders were never more faithful, energetic ami persevering than at present, yet thousands of Elders have been just as true and faithful. 

I tilled my first mission, and thought money was an essential, which to some Elders it Is, yet the only time I laid out in the woods was with a $10 bill in my pocket and I thanked the Lord when the money was gone. 

Brethren and sisters, cease yout severe criticisms of the Presidents or missions. Stop finding fault, and refrain from troubling Elders about their returning home. They are being educated in the Gospel, and being taught to obey the laws of the Lord, that seemingly cannot reach their hearts at home. And this rewards them for all sacrifices. Our sons are there being taught to obey the law of tithing. Some of our good brethren's names would not be found on the tithing records if their wives did not pay tithing on egers and butter. 

In conclusion, I desire to state that I feel well and honor and respect men who love God and keep His commandments; men who are truthful, honest and do not fear men. I love great generals and leaders like Moses, a man who loved God, and followed His counsel, yet was not afraid to express his views. The Lord loved him because of his manhood, and loyalty to Hia people. 

I desire to say to you, Seventies, and the Latter-day Saint" the closer I get to the Presidency of the Church and Twelve Apostles, the more I love them, because I know they are kind men, and they love God, and they love His work and His people. That is my testimony. If you have feelings against the brethren, go to them. If your brotheioffends you, go to him. Try to fix things up and do not let us have jarrings and bitterness, do not let us have apostasy in our hearts. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER MARRINER W MERRILL. 

I wish to say a few woris in testimony, relative to what President Sey B. Young referred to To my mind what he referred to is quite an important matter: With regard to the foreign people, the Scandianvian, German, French and every people who speak foreign languages, teaching their children to speak the niothir tongue, to speak the foreign lmguage that the fathers and mothers are acquainted with. In some instances where the mother is acquaintej with the foreign language and ..he father is not, or the father is acquainted and the mother is not, a great d-;al of pains should be exercised by th ? parents in teaching their children their language. We are sending Elders to different parts of the world; and a grftat majority of our Elders, I believe, have to learn a foreign language, if they ar<J sent to a foreign country. This should be measurably avoided in the future, because our foreign popularion is scattered all over the country. » r e have a great many Scandinavian and German people in the country and I am sorry to say that a good many of. those people who emigrated here a number of years ago have utterly failed to teach their children their own language. 1 had occasion a short time ago to look for some missionaries to go to Sweden, Norway and Denmark, and. of course, among that class of people I expected to find young people able to speak their mother tongue, but in this I was sadly disappointed. I only found a very few that could speak their mother tongue. In no case did I find any one that was reared up and born here and of foreign parentage, that could read the language. Now, I think this is a great mistake. The children may just as well learn two languages as to only learn one, and they can do it quite readily when they aie young. I remember marrying a couple, I think it is about thirteen or fourteen years ago; the brother was an American and the sister a Swedish lady, and she could talk English very fluently, as also the Swedish language. When they came to get married, I asked them if they would promise me, should they be blessed with children, that they would teach those children the mother tongue, that is, teach them the Swedish language. Of course the brother could not speak that language. They promised me that they would.  I took occasion to visit them about six weeks ago, and after hunting them up I went into the house to renew acquaintance. Of course they knew me, but I would not have known them. I asked them about it, and the mother said, "Yes, we have four children," they had lost one or two, 'and every one of these can now talk Swedish to you, if you can understand them." They brought those children to talk and sing for me, and the little children were quite young, the oldest being about twelve years old, or nearly so. The mother said they talked very correctly. Of course 1 could not Judge as to that, but suffice it to say they could talk their mother tongue; and that sister carried out and kept the promise they had made, to the very letter. The father comes in and takes the little girl on his knee, but he does not know a word she says. I was very much pleased in listening to thsse children talk their mother tongue. Now this will apply to all the foreign brothers and sisters. You brethren that have been to Germany, do not forget the German language, the language that you have so studiously acquired when you were preaching the Gospel. Now, the German people are quite numerous in this State, and every one of them ought to take greater pains in teaching their boys their own language. Now, Brother Young referred to this, and I thought you were not impressed with the idea so fully as you ought to be with regard to this important matter, for I tell you it is important. There was a young man raised by the side of me and his family lived by the side of me for forty years; they had a family of boys, and they were good boys too, Both father and mother were Norwegian. A little while ago one of the boys was sent to Norway on a mission, and it was with a great deal of difficulty that he learned the language. He had not learned it at home and did not make a success learning it on his mission, did not make a success learning his mother tongue. Now, if you take children in their infancy you can soon teach them a foreign language. Talk in that language to the baby and it will soon learn what you are talking about. Now, this thing ought to be observed throughout the whole Church. We are here to preach the Gospel to all , nations, kindreds, tongues and tribes. If we can learn the language here at home, how much better it is than to spend months when you go abroad to learn the foreign language. You people that know the French language ought to cultivate it and not forget it, but practice, talk and read it. The Germans ought to read their language and have the children read it, and so with the Scandinavian people. They ought to have books and teach the children to read the language as well as to speak it. It is one thing to read it and another thing to speak it. It is not everybody that can speak it that can read it correctly. We ought to take these matters into consideration. I think we have time to devote to this important matter. Now I think that is enough. 

I want to say something in relation to what Brother David H. Cannon, President of the St. George Temple, said. 

Temple work has been my theme and labor for a great many years, and, of course, those subjects naturally impress themselves upon my mind. It is a very important matter, laboring in the interest of our kindred dead. We feel sometimes that we have done a great amount of labor in the Temple. We have four Temples now in operation, and they are open most of the year, and people are going there, but we are just commencing now; we will continue during our life time to work here, and the life time of our children, and the life time of our children's children, and then through the Millennium, and how much longer I am not prepared to say, but suffice it to say the work will go on and continue to go on during these periods. Now, I suppose there are people here in this congregation that have almost lived under the shadow of some Temple, and have done nothing. You are liable, as well as myself, to be called to the other side to meet your children and relatives that have died without the Gospel, and who will, no doubt — no question in my mind — receive the Gospel if we will give them the opportunity. 

Now I want to exhort you, my brethren and sisters, to consider these matters more seriously. Remember the obligations to your ancestors. If it had not been for them, you and I would not have nn existence. Remember our kindred, and our fathers, and see to it that the hearts <>f the fathers are turned to the children and the hearts of the children are turned to the fathers. God bless you. Amen. The choir sang the hymn: 

Oo, ye messengers of glory, Run, ye legates of the skies. 

Benediction by Elder M. W. Merrill. 
