Afternoon
02 10 1937

Saturday, October 2, 1937. 

The fourth session of the Conference was held at 2 o'clock p. m., Saturday, October 2. 

The Nebo Stake Choir, under the direction of Elder Carl Nelson, furnished musical numbers for this meeting. The opening selection was "Recessional." 

Elder Herman Bunderson, President of the Box Elder Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

Vocal duet, "The Morning Breaks," by Golden Taylor and Freeman Bird. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

A few months ago I was discussing a Priesthood project with Bishop William R. McConkie. I asked him for suggestions as to how it might be put over. His answer, I thought, was very wise : "Brother Merrill, that project will easily go over if there is sufficient faith developed in the members of the Priesthood." NEED OF GREATER FAITH 

I have thought of that many times since, and have concluded that if there is one thing more than another that perhaps we need in the Church today, it is greater faith. I was very heartily in sympathy with what Elder Stephen L Richards had to say yesterday about that subject. We are all greatly concerned with the faith of our youth. We are all greatly concerned with guiding and protecting them from those influences that will destroy their faith. 

We are concerned, not only with the faith of the youth, but we are concerned with the faith of all our people, particularly those that bear the holy Priesthood, because the records show that there is a very great apparent lack of faith, as judged by works, and it is works, we know, that is the standard in the Church by which we shall be judged. 

So the question arises : How can we develop faith ? May I say, my brethren and sisters, that there is one means, I think, that is all too generally neglected in the Church, and that is prayer in the home. I speak from my own experience, largely, and observation, when I make that remark, because if experience has taught me one thing more than another it is that God does hear and answer the prayer that is made to him in faith, if the prayer is accompanied also with the desire to fulfill all the conditions of faith 

Faith, like many other things, is a gift of God, we are told, so some people say: 'Why worry? If we haven't faith, God has just denied it, and we are not to blame." Do we not know that everything that we have comes from God — our homes, our families, any talents that we may have, health, and everything else that we enjoy? If we violate the laws of health can we expect to have health? If we violate spiritual laws can we expect to enjoy a high degree of spirituality? 

Faith is one of those spiritual gifts that I believe is based upon law. We learn, from the teachings of the Prophet Joseph, that if we get any blessing from heaven, it is because we fulfill the conditions upon which that blessing is based, and that is a truth that not only comes from the mouth of our Prophet, it is also a truth that has been established by scientific research. Every investigator in the field of material science knows that when he fulfills the conditions he can predict the results, and if the conditions vary, then the results will vary, and when the conditions are completely fulfilled the result will be realized completely. So faith is one of those gifts that we may acquire, that we may cultivate, only if we fulfill the conditions upon which faith is based. 

FAITH BASED UPON INTELLIGENCE 

Now, I believe, my brethren and sisters, that we can appeal not only to our emotions and to that obedience to conditions that we might say springs from emotion, but we can also appeal to the intellect. The God whom we worship is characterized by intelligence. That is his glory. We are his children, literally his spirit children, and in the great law of the universe, in the biological field, at any rate, we have  — this has been revealed to us by scientific research — that like begets like. As children of our Father in Heaven we possess, in embryo, at least, his attributes. We possess intelligence, which has been given to us to be developed and to grow. 

We have in the Church a saying that we very frequently repeat : "As God now is, man may become," a beautiful statement of the great law of eternal progression. I believe that in this matter of faith we can ippeal to the intelligence as well as to the emotions, and I believe that if we are going to have our faith firmly established on an enduring rock, it must be based upon the agreement of our intelligence with our emotions. 

EVIDENCES OF JOSEPH SMITH'S INSPIRATION 

That brings us to the question, is this God's work, or is it not ? Was it set up by God-inspired men, or was it set up by Joseph Smith, who was self -deceived and might have been a fanatic ? Well, of course, that is a very hard saying, but anyhow, it is either one thing or the other. It is either God-inspired or else Joseph Smith was a fanatic. I can not see how we can logically escape the conclusion. 

So the question is : Is it God-inspired ? That brings us, my brethren and sisters, to the Prophet himself, and therein, I believe, if we make a careful study of the Prophet, of his life, of his works, of his achievements and character, we shall find that we cannot explain him except on the true basis that he was God-inspired. The Prophet, as we know, was not trained for his work, as the world considers training necessary. He was ignorant of the teachings of the scholastic world. He did not have the advantage of trained teachers, of laboratories, of museums, of art galleries, and all of the other influences and facilities that in this modern day are considered necessary to qualify a man for an important job. 

But what did he do ? That is the question. Well, I think in looking at the Prophet we might look at internal evidences and external evidences. When we look to internal evidences we are looking to those that operated with Peter. You remember when Christ asked : 

Whom do men say that I, the Son of man, am ? 

And they said, some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 

He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am ? 

You remember the answer : 

And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. 

In other words, the surest, the best method we have of convincing ourselves that Joseph Smith was genuine is the spirit of inspiration and revelation. Every believing soul who will humble himself and ask in faith, and try to fulfill the conditions necessary to get an answer, can receive it and will receive it. It is by divine inspiration that President Grant yesterday morning was able to declare that he knew that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet. That was the same method by which Brother George F. Richards was also able to testify. All the brethren who have borne their testimony in this Conference received that knowledge in that way — a sure, safe way. 

But to many, trained by the methods by which the public schools are now training our young people, that may not appear to be the right way. They want a materialistic way. Well we can appeal to external evidences that can be brought to bear in this case. What are they? We may look at the teachings, at the achievements, and at the character and the personality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and then we find, with respect to his teachings, that he knew more about the spirit and the truth of the Holy Bible than all the trained theologians in the world. We remember that in his day frightful doctrines were taught — infant damnation; a literal lake of fire and brimstone, into which those who knew no law were pitched and would remain eternally, because they had not died with a profession of faith upon their lips. It did not make much difference what their conduct was, if they had not confessed the name of Jesus Christ. Frightful doctrines! Horrible! 

Well, what did the Prophet teach about those things? What did the Prophet teach about many other things? There is one thing that he taught that I think reveals the justice, the mercy and love of God to a greater degree than anything else that I have known about — the doctrine of salvation for the dead. 

How many of the college trained, university trained theologians of the world could tell you what Paul meant when he said : 

Else why are ye baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all, why are ye then baptized for the dead? 

And when Peter said : 

For this cause was the Gospel also preached to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, and yet live according to God in the spirit. 

Who understood what was meant when Peter said that during the time of separation of the body from the spirit the Savior went and preached to those that were sometime disobedient in the days of Noah ? Who among all these scholars could tell what Malachi meant when he wrote of turning the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the fathers to the children ? Those doctrines that make a reality of what Brother Levi Edgar Young quoted this morning from the Pearl of Great Price : 

For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man! 

Do we want to say that God is going to fail, or will he accomplish his purpose? How could he accomplish his purpose, except for this beautiful doctrine, of which the Christian world knew nothing? They knew nothing then; they know nothing now. But in teaching that doc, that the work of redemption will go on in the world of spirits, in cooperation with the work here, and thus that the gates of heaven will be opened to all who fulfill the conditions, either in this life or in the life beyond, what does it reveal? It reveals that God does love us, that he has provided a way, that his purposes will be accomplished, and that the great majority of his children will be saved, with some degree of glory. 

Who knew about those things ? Well, that teaching of the Prophet Joseph Smith alone stamps him, in my judgment, as the greatest religious teacher that has lived in mortality since the days of the Savior. 

SOME ACHIEVEMENTS OF JOSEPH SMITH 

But it is not for his teachings alone that we can regard him as being a remarkable, outstanding man. We look to his achievements. We find that in the short period of fifteen years, from the time that he began to translate the Book of Mormon until he met his death at the hands of foul assassins, he did a work that cannot be explained except on the ground that he was divinely led, taught and inspired, or else that he was a super-man, greater than any mortal that has ever lived upon the earth. 

What did he do? Led his poverty-stricken people, who were persecuted and driven during all of that time, laid out cities on new and beautiful lines, built two temples, set up a well-nigh perfect church organization, counseled, administered to and comforted his persecuted people, while he himself was almost continually persecuted. His literary work alone was in quantity, and certainly in quality, enough to occupy the full time of any man of college or university training that we know anything about during a full life-time. Six volumes of Church History; translated the Book of Mormon; wrote a book of revelations containing truths that indicated a far more complete knowledge of the plan of salvation than all the teachers of Christianity since the days of the Savior and his apostles had ever exhibited. 

Well, now, my brethren and sisters, when we contemplate these things and call them to the attention of our young people with an appeal that they go and study the Prophet from his beginning to his end, his achievements, his teachings and all that pertains to him, they will find something that cannot be explained unless they do accept the truth that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired and divinely taught. 

Take the translation of the Book of Mormon alone, translated in the short period of about seventy-five days. Well, a criticism was made that it was not punctuated and paragraphed. Do we not know that that is one of the strong evidences of the divinity of that work? Did you ever see, either in a photostatic copy or in the real thing any ancient writing that was paragraphed? Were the words and the sentences not all run in together? They did not have in those days — at any rate they did not exhibit in their writings — the modern mode of composition dividing into sentences, paragraphs, etc., with all of the marks that go with proper punctuation. They wrote right along continuously. Theref ore to charge that that work was the work of an ignoramus because it lacked those elements is to say that it was divine, because the translation was a literal translation. 

That great volume, written from translated dictation in the incredibly short time of about seventy-five days without what we find in modern manuscripts — erasures, insertions, etc., but just written right along continuously — stamps Joseph Smith as some one who was either God-taught or supermortal, as judged by all the standards that the world has set up by which to measure men. 

So I appeal very earnestly to our young people to study the Prophet, measure him, examine him by exactly the same standards that are given to them in their schools, colleges, and universities by which to evaluate men. And what will you conclude if you do that? I think you will at least conclude that he was a most wonderful man. As Josiah Quincy once said in his book, "Figures of the Past," pages 376 to 400 : 

JOSIAH QUINCY'S TRIBUTE 

It is by no means improbable that some future text-book, for the use of generations yet unborn, will contain a question something like this : "What historical American of the 19th Century exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his countrymen?" And it is by no means impossible that the answer to that interrogatory may be thus written, "Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet." 

The wonderful influence which this founder of religion exerted, and still exerts, throws him into relief before us, not as a rogue to be incriminated, but as a phenomenon to be explained. 

And he ends his chapter with these words : 

I have endeavored to give the details of my visit to the Mormon Prophet with absolute accuracy. If the -reader does not know what to make of Joseph Smith I cannot help him out of the difficulty. I myself stand helpless before the puzzle. 

Josiah Quincy, you know, was a trained man, trained after the manner of Harvard University, and trained in the wisdom of the world. He occupied an important position as Mayor of the City of Boston; and yet this is his statement. He made his visit to the Prophet Joseph in May, 1844, a very few weeks before his martyrdom, in company with Charles Francis Adams. He saw the Prophet, who knew not of his coming. He saw him exactly as you would find him on any day, and yet he was so influenced by the personality of Joseph Smith, and by his accomplishments, his achievements, that he could not explain him. 

RESULTS OF FAITH 

He was unexplainable from the standpoint of the world. To say that he was a fanatic, that he was ignorant, that he was untrained — all of which, of course, might be true, so far as his schooling was concerned, so far as his opportunity for culture in his boyhood was concerned —  he was born of honest parents, and he was reared in a religious home, where love and faith prevailed. They believed their Bible, and so when Joseph read : "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not . . . but let him ask in faith," Joseph believed. With what result ? With the result that he went into the woods to pray, in the same spirit and for the same purpose that we ought to pray, in humility, desiring the help of heaven. And he got it, so he claimed. Well, what was the claim ? The most glorious vision that has ever yet been given to mortal man, in which he beheld the very God of Heaven, the Father of all, and Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, gloriously revealed to him. He heard their voices. He received their instruction. Did he or did he not ? Was he mistaken ? Explain, if he was mistaken, how he got his wonderful knowledge of the whole field of the Bible, and its inspiration, and how he was able to teach the glorious things he taught. But he received the visitation of other heavenly messengers. Were these things true? 

ADVICE TO YOUNG PEOPLE 

As I say to young people, I say to you, my brethren and sisters, how can you explain Joseph Smith? I have only indicated an outline of the study that might be made, but I think it is the most important study that any young person, or any unconvinced older person might make. And if we will make it in honesty, in sincerity, with a desire to know the truth, asking God to help us — following the instructions given in Moroni 10 :4 — we shall certainly not be left in doubt as a result of a careful, thorough study; we must come to the conclusion that we have a sure and a solid basis for our faith. 

My brethren and sisters, let us get that faith. If we have it how can we be slackers in this Church ? How could any holder of the holy Priesthood be a slacker? Why not respond to the teachings that are given to us by the Presidency of this Church and the inspired leaders of this Church, and those that we may read in the standard works of the Church ? Why not respond and act, knowing of a surety that God lives, and that this is his work — a knowledge that all of us can acquire if we only will put ourselves in a condition to receive that knowledge. 

God help us to do so, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to stand before you in this capacity this afternoon, and bear my testimony, along with the brethren who have already addressed you, to the efficacy and the truthfulness of this wonderful work in which we are engaged. 

There are many things that might be said here this afternoon, many lines of thought that might be followed, and one wonders just what he may say that may be of worth and value to the congregation. It is no mean responsibility to stand here and occupy the time of eight or ten thousand people. You have come for a purpose, and if we fail to meet that purpose perhaps we shall fall under condemnation. 

The other day, some little time ago, I was talking with a banker who knew my father, and he wanted to express a word of appreciation for him, and he said : "He comes the nearest to combining religion and business of any man I know." He said: "For me, they don't mix. I am a banker." I wonder whether they ought not to. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of love. When Jesus was asked what is the greatest commandment, he said that the first and greatest commandment is to love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength. "And the second is like unto it; thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 

Now, we are here to hear about the Gospel, and perhaps to get some stimulus from the discussion, and if I could say anything that would make a single person go out of this Conference feeling more friendly toward his brother and his neighbor than when he came here, I would feel amply repaid. 

I believe that the Gospel of Jesus Christ has in it every element that is essential and necessary for the conduct of all the affairs of human activity. In other words, I believe that there is nothing that men do in honor before God, and essential to their development and well-being, in which that fundamental principle of love should not enter. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the plan that was given in the beginning, when the foundation of the world was laid, for the maximum and greatest development of mankind. Christ came to emphasize that thing, and to emphasize it by laying down his life, in love, for the redemption of mankind. And I firmly believe that if we would, that principle could characterize every worthy activity of life. 

I quite agree with my banker friend that if the purpose of banking is to squeeze out of the populace the last ounce of its lifeblood, so to speak, in interest, that they are inimical. But I believe that that is not the purpose of an institution of that kind. It should not be. It is here for the service of mankind, and when it fails to serve it fails in its purpose; and when it fails to appreciate man and its responsibility to him, it fails in its purpose. I believe that even such a cold-blooded institution as that could be and should be governed and administered according to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I believe that if men, the rulers of nations, could so eradicate from their hearts the greed and avarice that are likely to accumulate in administering business affairs, that even nations could live in peace and harmony and trust each other; that even nations could allow a weaker nation to subsist and exist in peace and lend it a friendly hand. 

I believe that all of the trouble that the world is going through , and all of the headlines that we read in such hideous black type in the newspapers, come about because men fail to appreciate that one principle. If we could only bring that to bear upon the activities of our lives, we would be happy and we would be prosperous, and would be courageous and fearless in facing the future. 

I think the greatest fear that men have, perhaps, is the fear that this avaricious spirit will cause somebody to come in upon them in their old age, and deprive them of the means of self-maintenance and the respect that goes with it. If every man knew that he could live to the end of his days with an opportunity to serve the Lord and his fellows, and eat and wear what was essential to his happiness, this would be a wonderful and an Utopian world. But it will never be until we introduce into our daily activities that principle of love. 

Sitting before me is a vast body of the Priesthood of God. Every one of you who has accepted that responsibility has allowed a servant of God to lay his hands upon your head and commission you to function in the orders of the Priesthood, and when you do so you either expressly or tacitly agree to serve God to the best of your ability. 

Now, if we, all of us who hold the Priesthood, could consciously constitute ourselves, as a body, to apply in our daily activities the principle of love, we could dominate the society in which we live until that spirit would be characteristic of it. 

I am sure that there is efficacy in that principle. I have seen it applied in instances. I have seen it in combat with the principle of greed and avarice, and I have seen it come off victorious. I have seen the man who allowed it to actuate his life, grow from one position of responsibility to another, until he commanded the respect of all his fellows. I know, because of observations, that it is a virile principle in human activity. 

I have had the experience of living in a — pueblo, I was going to say — in a population where the members of the Church so dominated the activities of that people that the spirit of love was paramount, and I have seen that people grow to independence, isolated by an imaginary boundary line in a foreign country. I have seen them develop along those principles to wonderful accomplishments, and I have seen the spirit of peace and love settle down upon that community, and watched its growth and development. 

I bear you my testimony that it is a principle of life and activity, a principle that can dominate our lives and enter into them, and I testify that when it does, peace and joy and harmony come into the lives of those who practice it. 

We have been told this afternoon that one of the needs of our youth — or yesterday, rather, we were told that one of the crying needs of our youth is more faith in the leaders of this Church. I want to bear my testimony this afternoon to that fact, and then I want to add that the leaders of the Church are worthy of that faith. I have been blessed, perhaps, greater than the average member of the Church, in the privilege of associating with the leaders of the Church during the time of my life, and I have associated rather intimately with the man who now directs the destinies, under the inspiration of God, of this body of worshipers we call the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have known his associates in the presiding quorums of the Church. And then I have had almost six years of contact with one of the bodies of the General Authorities of this Church, the First Council of the Seventy. I have met them all in solemn assembly in the Temple of God, and I have yet to hear fall from their lips an expression of an ulterior purpose. I have never heard, in their councils, any advice given but under the inspiration of God, if I could interpret that spirit. 

I know that they have your welfare at heart, and I believe that any man or woman who has no "axe to grind," who will come and investigate their lives and their conduct, cannot help but admit it. They try to exemplify in their lives the cardinal principles of the Gospel of Christ. 

Now, they do not pretend to be perfect, any more than I do. I do not pretend to come near perfection. But I do want to tell you that they serve you to the best of their ability, and if any man in the congregation, or outside of it, under the sound of my voice, which goes out over the radio, were asked to step into their shoes, the only thing he could do would be to serve according to his light and that which God might give him, and they do it in your interest and in mine. And God has blessed them, and he has carried this Church onward in that spirit of love and unselfishness and sacrifice. 

I doubt whether there is a man in those councils who sought the appointment, either personally or through his friends. It comes unbidden. It always comes as a shock to the man who receives it, and usually it requires the giving up of ideals and ambitions that he has had; to accomplish things in a field of labor to which he is attached; and every man surrenders that in a spirit of humility and service, and I think, as a people, we ought to honor and respect them, to trust them and to love them. 

If we will clean house and put our hearts in attune with the Spirit of God, go daily about our business, under the influence of that Spirit, God will bless us with contentment and a peace and a freedom from worry that we can get no other way. 

The Spirit of God is in the Church. The spirit of love is in the Church. While we may have some sordid experiences at times, they but try us, and if we will meet them in that spirit of love God will carry us through. While we may sometimes surfer loss and sacrifice, there is a development even in that which should make us love our God and our fellows more. 

I pray that God may be with us, that he may give us an appreciation of the Gospel that we have within our midst, the tool that is given to us, if we will, by which we are to carve out from the  of our existence a niche and a place in which to live. If we will try it we will find it effective. 

Benjamin Franklin once said that he learned as a boy, that if he ever wanted a man to take an interest in him, the thing he had to do was to let that man serve him some way. God stands ready to serve us through the instrumentality of this organization that we have. We stand as your servants, ready to serve you. We love you. If you will serve the Gospel that has been given to us, in that spirit, you will learn to love that Gospel just the same way. If you will give it your time and your talent, you will love it in proportion to the service that you give unto it. 

That is my prayer in your behalf, that you and I and all of us may freely give unto this great body and unto our God the service that we owe it and him, that in giving we may gain greater power to give, and greater love and greater satisfaction. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I sincerely trust that I may be led to say this afternoon that which will be best for me and best for all who are here. The Spirit of the Lord is in this great congregation, gathered together for the purpose of paying tribute to our Eternal Father, and to receive from him information and knowledge that will help us on the journey of life. 

Yesterday morning, during the sermon of President Grant, when he called attention to the fact that the Word of Wisdom was given by revelation for the well being of the people, I thought of how, from the beginning, the Lord has had a personal interest in his children and has directed them in both temporal and spiritual affairs. His first commandment to our father Adam, when he sent him out of the Garden of Eden into the world that was to bring forth thorns, thistles and noxious weeds, was concerning his daily labor : 

In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken; for dust thou art and unto dust shalt thou return. 

Later he called Upon Adam by his own voice and revealed the foundation principles of the Gospel, particularly the saving ordinance of baptism. 

The Lord visited him and said unto him : 

I am God. I made the world and men before they were in the flesh. 

If thou wilt turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, and believe, and repent of all thy transgressions, and be baptized, even in water, in the name of mine only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth, which is Jesus Christ, the only name which shall be given under heaven, whereby salvation shall come unto the children of men, ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, asking all things in his name, and whatsoever ye shall ask, it shall be given unto you. 

* * * 

Wherefore, [said he] teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. 

Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children. 

And we find in the revelations of God that Adam faithfully conformed to the trust that was given unto him, and he taught the word of God unto the children of men all the days of his life. And in time the Savior came, in the meridian of time, and he performed his work. 

Now we are told by John that there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. 

The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him : Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God; for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. 

Jesus answered and said unto him : Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 

And then he said further : 

Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. 

And in his revelation in this day he said to his Apostles : 

I say unto you again, that every soul who believeth on your words, and is baptized by water for the remission of sins, shall receive the Holy Ghost. * * * 

I say unto you, they who believe not on your words, and are not baptized in water in my name, for the remission of their sins, that they may receive the Holy Ghost, shall be damned, and shall not come into my Father's kingdom, where my Father and I am. 

In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we find a newness of life, as it was in the days of the Master. Men and women come into a new way of thinking. I have talked to hundreds of people who have been baptized into the Church, who had thought, before they came into the Church, that they were worshiping God, and that they were doing the things that were right. But they had no knowledge of God. They had never been taught that the Lord knew them before they were born, as he stated to Adam — that he made the world, he made men, and he knew them. It had never occurred to them that there was a real birth of the Spirit before the foundation of the earth was laid. They had never comprehended the fact that our Eternal Father is a personal being, and that we  made in his image, and that we are like him in form. It had never occurred to them that there was such a thing as the preaching of the Gospel to those that are dead, or that there is an eternity of the marriage covenant, in the form and way in which the Lord has decreed. There was no light, so far as the word of God was concerned, that had come into their lives. 

But after an investigation of these principles of the Gospel, after they had become acquainted with the plan of God, in part, and had received baptism by water, by immersion, for the remission of their sins, and had received the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, that witness which the Lord promised unto the children of men, through Peter and his Apostles, in their day, — when they received that inspiration and confirmation they came into a new world of thinking and worshiping. Men and women have testified to me by the hundreds that they could no more go back into their old way of living, or their former belief or understanding, than they could go back to yesterday. They were born again, born v of the water and born of the Spirit, into a newness of life, into a great world of activity, into an influence that came direct from God, our Father. And they felt it, no matter where they lived. In all the nations of the earth are men found who bear this testimony. 

Yesterday we heard the testimony of the President of the Church, who has just returned from his foreign mission, reporting that men and women are bearing testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet and of the work of God, in foreign lands. They themselves are no more a part of the world. They live among the people, of course, in the different nations where they are — as we do here. They associate with men and women who have not yet been permitted to see the truth. But because of their knowledge of the Gospel of Christ they are separate and apart. It is just another world. This is something to live for. It is something to plan for, a foundation upon which men and women can build for the great future that shall come to every son and daughter of God, no matter where he may be or who he is. 

This thing called mortality will come to an end. Men will go on, and those who have received the light of the everlasting Gospel will be better prepared to progress and grow than those who have not. How long it will continue before the children of men shall all have an opportunity I know not. There are millions of people in this earth who will never hear the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the flesh. But through the great plan of redemption that our Father in heaven has revealed in the day and generation in which we live it will be taught to them hereafter. For men on the earth shall seek for their dead and shall attempt to carry out the plans and purposes of God, and when those who have died are ready, they shall have an opportunity to accept the Gospel. 

The Gospel is a great and a glorious message. It is a powerful influence for good. It will shape the destiny of the human family here and hereafter. It will make men better merchants, better bankers, and better business men, and it will make church men better church men. It is the power of God unto salvation, and there is none who can afford to be without it. It is the word of God. it is not an eternal plan. It is not alone the doctrine of Jesus Christ, or his word alone, for he said : "My doctrine is not mine but his that sent me." He planned for it in the foundation of this earth and before, when he formed the great family that we call the human family, and made it possible for men and women to understand it even there and to have it revealed unto them here. 

There will always be contention in the world and among the nations of the earth, until we can come to a unity of the faith. Peace, I think, shall never come to this world until the Son of Man comes again, for nation shall rise against nation, wars shall occur, and famine shall be a part of the history of the world. But to those who keep the commandments of God, their paths will be made easy, compared to the ways of those who do not. They shall not forfeit anything that may be for their good. Trials often are for our good and should be endured by all. Trials make men realize more fully the responsibilities they owe to one another. 

This Church, the kingdom of God on the earth, is a growing church. The Lord is at the helm. He places those whom he wishes to preside. He raises them up from the days of their childhood and from their primeval childhood. They are not without his notice, for he knows them. The Prophet Joseph Smith gives us that information, and he received it from his Father. 

I bear my testimony unto you that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that those who succeeded him are prophets of the Living God, and the leaders of his Church; that President Grant is the prophet of God at this time and the leader of this Church and the mouthpiece of God unto the children of men. 

I bear this testimony in humility and in the love of God. Great are the powers of truth that the Lord has revealed, and they shape the destiny of every man who pays attention to them and who believes them. I say it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "For the Strength of the Hills." 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I desire to address myself more particularly to the second and subsequent generations of Mormonism and to consider with them, and with myself as one of them, the matter of our heritage. What is it? 

PIONEERS LAID THE FOUNDATION 

Our fathers came here to a land of forbidding desolation. Through grueling toil, rigidly imposed self-denial and incredible privation and sacrifice they subdued it, converting barren wastes into fruitful, harvestladen fields. Most of them have now passed on, leaving behind the visible evidences of their conquest. 

But the houses they built, many of them, have been torn down, or hare fallen into decay. The acres they tilled have passed into strange hands. Many of us have gone out away from the scenes of their achievements to be ourselves founders of communities and reclaimers of waste places. While we, and all among us, benefit immeasurably from the works they wrought, yet we may not have in a more particular sense, and in the very nature of things many of us cannot, have any part of the physical possessions they assembled. We have multiplied far beyond the possibility of such division or partition. Obviously these things cannot be our real heritage for they are not enduring but by possession are exhausted and by use are consumed. 

Our fathers themselves had left behind them houses and lands when they came here. None of these could they bring. But what mattered that ? They did bring with them the faith and the spirit and the power and the will and the purpose to subdue other lands, and to build new houses, to raise up other communities and to devise other means of supplying physical needs. These qualities of heart and soul could not be taken from them; they were beyond the grasp of the despoiler. They were the veritable treasures of heaven which thieves could not break through nor steal, and which, if incorporated into life, could never be corrupted by moth nor rust. 

They could have stayed where they were, retaining their houses and their lands, and could have escaped oppression and lived in physical comfort, by renouncing their convictions concerning the meaning and purpose of life. This they scorned to do, choosing rather to believe that if they sought first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, all these things they could provide. 

On this foundation principle they built. By adherence to it they triumphed. They recognized that no enduring society was ever founded on the basis of physical comfort, but that, paradoxical as it may seem, the supposedly nebulous, intangible spiritual things constitute the only solid foundation on which to build. They had the depth of conviction which gave them the courage to choose the spiritual and to make it the chief stone of the corner upon which to rear their commonwealth. 

A RICH HERITAGE 

The proper evaluation of the spiritual in the life of the individual and the society; the courage to abandon physical comfort when the choice lay between the abandonment of that and the abandonment of the soul's convictions; the faith that if they walked by the inner light +hey would end in triumph; the will and the purpose to conquer a desert, to walk fearlessly into the face of danger and to die, if need be, that the immortal soul might still be free — this is our heritage from them. In it all the heirs may share, howsoever numerous they may become, without fear that in possessing it either will deprive the other. Though multiplied descendants may depart these valleys and go to the outermost parts of the earth, they still may carry with them this heritage. It is one of the eternal indestructible verities of life that shall always endure. It embodies the great foundation principles upon which individual stability and community honor and national integrity must be built. 

Our fathers derived it out of their religion which taught them belief in God, the Ruler of the universe and the Author of their lives; it taught that life has a purpose and man a destiny which stretches out beyond the years of this earth life into the realms of eternity; that his existence here has for its purpose the development of all mental and spiritual powers latent within him, which can be accomplished by learning to think, to create, to deal intelligently with the forces of the universe; and above all to understand and help his fellows and learn to behave with justice toward them in all the concerns of life; that after death he would live again and enter upon a new life throughout the course of which he can go on acquiring knowledge, growing in power and understanding and intelligence without limit of time; that the only possession he can take with him into that new life will be the spiritual and mental power which he has gained by his diligence here. As expressed in a revelation in which they believed : 

Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

This is but a rational application of a principle well understood as governing in all human affairs. Mastery of natural forces can be achieved only by understanding and observing the laws by which they are governed. It is fair to conclude that spiritual and mental growth can be attained only by obedience to the laws on which they are predicated. If through diligence, observance of correct principles, discipline of the mind and of the spirit, a man attains to a fine development of personality in this life, surely it is not unreasonable to suppose that that will be his imperishable possession and glory in the life he enters upon after death. On the contrary, if through lethargy or sin his self-realization in this life is dwarfed, he shall be handicapped to that extent as he enters upon the new world. 

Actuated by these beliefs it is not strange that our fathers exalted spiritual development above material gain, nor that they should endure physical hardship and privation, cleaving to the soul's conviction rather than retain physical comfort at the expense of their deep-seated faith. 

Cooperation, mutual helpfulness, the uniting of their strength and their resources in their struggle for subsistence were elementary principles of conduct, which flowed naturally out of their religion. 

CONVICTION COMES THROUGH ENDEAVOR 

Their philosophy was one of individual salvation, spiritual and temporal. Every man had to know the truth for himself . His conviction  it is an individual affair, obtained through his own endeavor by conformance to the stipulated conditions. Only the individual himself can develop his bodily or mental or spiritual powers. No one else may do either for him. The necessary consequence of such belief is the development of self-reliance, industry and diligence, thrift and frugality. A society composed of individuals actuated by such beliefs and possessed of such qualities must itself become the expression of them. It was taught that the idler should not eat the bread of the laborer in Zion. But the apparent harshness of this creed is softened and tempered by admonitions to charity and kindness and help for the unfortunate. In the revelations by which they were guided one reads : 

And now, I give unto the church in these parts a commandment, that certain men among them shall be appointed, and they shall be appointed by the voice of the church; and they shall look to the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer; and send them forth to the place which I have commanded them. 

Behold, I say unto you, that ye must visit the poor and the needy and administer to their relief, that they may be kept until all things may be done according to my law which ye have received. 

And remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple. 

Self-effort is the condition precedent to individual advancement, but cooperation and mutual helpfulness are the facilitating means. It is the verdict of history as well as of religion "That there is no reasoned peace of heart, no balance and no safety in the soul, until a man in losing his life has found it, and has schooled and disciplined his interests and will beyond greeds, rivalries, fears, instincts and narrow affections," which is to say, until the spiritual assumes ascendency. 

SPIRITUALITY WITHIN REACH OF ALL 

The way to realization of man's spiritual self is the same for all. Young and old, rich and poor, all have to conform themselves to the law which governs it. That law knows no favorites and recognizes no exceptions. Money cannot purchase it for it is beyond price. To youth it makes no concessions. The aged may radiate its sweetness and serenity only if their lives have conduced to its unfolding. It may be had on the same terms by the rich and the poor alike. There are no other terms. Spirituality may not be defined. It may only be illustrated. It is a quality that exhibits itself in the poise and serenity of those who possess it. It reveals itself in those moments of high exaltation when a man's soul soars high above material things and wings its way into the realm of the infinite. It is that in man which gives him kingship over himself and makes him aware of his kinship with God. It was that in our fathers which gave them the courage to forsake their homes and their lands and their places of security to come to this cruel wilderness and to meet with fortitude and good cheer the pains and sufferings and distresses incident to their coming. 

Spirituality can neither bud nor bloom in a soul cankered by avarice and covetousness. He who would possess it must purge himself of these. It comes into fruition when nurtured by acts of mercy and love. 

THE RICH AND THE POOR WARNED 

This  religion which our fathers received and have forwarded and transmitted to us is a very practical religion. It takes note of the conditions upon which alone man's powers may be unfolded and his higher and better self realized, and then proceeds to provide the tasks and mark out the course necessary to that realization. Since selfishness and greed are fatal to spiritual realization, the rich are enjoined to give to the poor. Since envy and covetousness are equally fatal the poor are admonished to contrition of spirit and respect for other men's possessions. In the revelation it is said: 

Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: the harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! 

Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not sayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness and who will not labor with your own hands! 

No man, rich or poor, is justified under this doctrine in grasping out in insatiable greed for that which he has not labored to produce, nor in despoiling another of his possessions. But those who have are with cheerfulness to relieve the needy, who are to receive in gratitude without arrogant demanding. 

TITHES AND OFFERINGS 

A practical means of carrying out these admonitions is likewise provided. By revelation it was established as a standing law of the Church forever that all should pay one-tenth of their interest annually for the support of the poor, the establishment of the Church, and the forwarding of its work. Special contributions in the form of fast offerings are likewise required 

It may, I think, with safety be said that no person who fully obeys these two requirements can be wholly selfish or avaricious, nor can the carnal in him assume ascendency over the spiritual. Giving and disbursing to be orderly and effective must pass through established channels. This, too, is provided for in the Church our fathers transmitted to us. In this day when an extraordinary need has. arisen the organization is all ready, and for a hundred years has been ready, to meet it. The Church has undertaken to do so. The indicated sources of revenue are all sufficient to the purpose if the members obey the requirements. Let us resolve that no one of us will fail. 

CONVICTION GAVE COURAGE 

Inspired and impelled by the burning conviction that they had had given to them the truths of heaven our fathers had the courage to leave houses and lands, homes and firesides, friends and kinsmen and journey into the wilderness. They had the industry to wring from the desert a sustenance, the frugality to provide in the day of plenty for their needs in the day of adversity, the self-reliance to fend for themselves, the spiritual vision to work cooperatively for the common good, and the benevolence to help the .distressed. The example of these virtues they have bequeathed to us. 

God grant that we may be worthy heirs of so great an inheritance that, enlarged and expanded and added upon by our own contributions, we may pass it on to the generations to succeed us, I pray in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

Former President of the Southern States Mission 

It is a very great pleasure to be privileged to meet again with the Saints in General Conference. 

I love the Church. I love our leaders. I love the teachings of the Church, and I love the missionaries who labor in the mission field. It has been a great honor to be privileged to labor so many years with them in the Southern States Mission. And I love the Saints because of their wonderful sacrifices for this great work. I think it is an honor to be a member in this Church. I am very grateful for the opportunity that I have had of laboring in the mission field. I think it is one of the greatest privileges in the Church. I have often said that if the Prophet Joseph had given his life for no other thing than the establishment of the great missionary system of this Church, he certainly would not have died in vain. 

No one can be associated with the fine young men and women of the Church who go into the mission field, and see how marvelously they grow in faith, in understanding of life, and in good works, in the brief period of a mission, without realizing its worth to the body of the Church. As I have often said, when laboring among those young men and women, if they are not worthy to cry repentance to the world I know not where the Lord could find people worthy of such a task. 

Since having returned home, a few months past, to reside again in Zion, or the headquarters of the Church, I feel very grateful for my association with the fine Saints here at home. I am grateful for the wonderful faith and testimony that I find in the midst of the people here. 

But there are some things, as indicated by some of the addresses given at this Conference, that are more or less disturbing. While associating with some of my friends recently I was asked whether I was orthodox or liberal. I did not know before that we had two parties in the Church- It caused me to give considerable thought to the question; and when I listen to our brethren here bear testimony of the truth of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the truth of the Book of Mormon, and of the great work of the Savior of the world, I thank God that I am orthodox. 

In my business we do a great deal of exchanging, and if I were going to make an exchange I would want to know that I was getting something as good as I was giving. I have thought of the orthodox teachings of this Church, and I have never heard any stories, in print or otherwise, to compare with the story told by the Prophet Joseph Smith, save the story of the Son of Man. 

After the silence of ages, without any word from heaven, surely nothing in all the world could be so refreshing, so soul-satisfying as to have some one again come from God and speak to this world, and make again alive to us the reality of the existence of God and of the life to follow. 

If there were nothing more in the story told by the Prophet Joseph Smith than the visitation of Moroni, standing before him, a resurrected being, as far as we know, who had once lived upon this earth, to make real to us the fact that we shall live again in bodily form, and know each other, and possess the knowledge and experiences of mortality, I would rather have that knowledge than any philosophies I know of iri this world, outside of the orthodox teachings of the Mormon Church. 

Recently I heard this statement made: "Is it not rather absurd to think that we have to regard the Word of Wisdom as we have been regarding it?" If I were going to give up my faith in the Word of Wisdom I would want something in exchange for it that is better. 

I went into the home, recently, of some friends, to inquire as to their welfare, and found a broken-hearted woman and a broken home. Why ? Because disobedience to the Word of Wisdom had wrecked that home. I once read a statement by a man who said he had seven good reasons why he was opposed to liquor and to saloons. Three were daughters and the other four were sons. He said: "You cannot run a saw-mill without logs, nor a saloon without making drunkards of boys and drunkards' wives of the girls." 

If we give up the fundamental teachings of the Church, these orthodox things that we have been taught, — the principle of prayer and faith in God,- — what can- they offer us in exchange ? Think of when our loved ones are lying sick and at the point of death, if we had to give up the faith we have been taught from our childhood, that we can do as James of old said: "Call the elders of the church, and let them pray over him anointing him with oil, * * * and the prayer of faith shall save the sick." I don't know what men or women can offer us in their modern thought in exchange for such fundamental and comforting teachings. 

Now, I mustn't take more of your time. There are many mission presidents. I hope while I am here at home that the Latter-day Saints who know me shall know that I am a fundamentalist; that I believe in the orthodox teachings of this Church. The Savior once said, quoting from the prophets of old: 

Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. 

And in the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, he said: 

My word is sharper than a two-edged sword to the dividing asunder of both bone and marrow. 

I never listen to any philosophies of men that cause my soul to respond, but when I listen to President Grant and these leaders, who have spoken here in this Conference, there is something that goes through me like a shock of electricity, and I know that the word of God is sharper than a two-edged sword. 

I pray to God that I may be able so to live always that my soul will respond to such teachings, and that I might be a power for good in the midst of the Saints at home, now that my work in the mission field is ended. 

God bless you and our leaders and the missionary cause throughout the worlds I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER LEROY MALLORY 

Former President of the Tahitian Mission 

My dear brothers and sisters* it is indeed a great responsibility for me to occupy this position. I pray that during the few moments I stand here I may have the Spirit of the Lord to help me. 

I am indeed grateful to have had the honor to labor for seven years in the Tahitian Mission among some of the most wonderful people on this earth. I am thankful for the many things that they have taught me. I love them as I do my own kin. I bring you greetings and best wishes from them. The greatest desire in their hearts is to have the honor some day of meeting in person the General Authorities of this Church. They would love to come to our temples to do the work for their dead. They are praying every day for that opportunity. 

Our people are faithful and sincere. They have the faith of a small child. They kneel in prayer in absolute — I was going to say, knowledge that their prayers will be answered. I have seen their sick healed almost instantly. 

Our missionaries in that field are doing a splendid work, although we have many hardships to contend with, and much traveling. Those in our ranks have been few, but they have been faithful. They have done a splendid work. They are still doing a splendid work. 

We were certainly happy to have Brother Woodbury come into the field to direct them. He is a splendid man, and he is loved by those people. His good wife, I am sure, will do much to help the work along in that mission. 

The last four years have been years of depression, but notwithstanding that condition our people have been faithful. They have faithfully paid from their earnings their tithes and offerings, although they have not amounted to much in dollars and cents. In the last four years they have constructed five chapels in the mission. Many of the rocks used in construction were carried for long distances, upon the shoulders of our brothers and our sisters. I am sure, if you understood the conditions under which those chapels were erected, you would admire the faith and devotion of those dear people. 

You fathers and mothers who have sons in that mission, peace be in your hearts. Your sons are well. They are happy. They are glad to have had the opportunity of going to that mission. They have burning in their hearts a testimony of the divinity of this Gospel. They are loved by the people. There is no place in this world where the missionaries are more dearly loved or where their labors are more appreciated than they are in that field. I say the responsibility of our missionaries is great, but notwithstanding that condition they are continuing to go forward. 

I remember an incident that happened just about a year ago. I was talking to one of the leading attorneys of those islands, and in the course of our conversation he said to me : "Mr. Mallory, you know I have a son who has now reached the age where he must leave this colony to go to school." He said : "I would like to send him to America. I would like very much to place him in the home of some good Latter-day Saint family." By the way, this gentleman was not a member of our Church. He said : "I know that in that home he would be taught the things that my wife and I would like to have him taught. If some day in the future this boy could return to us as fine, as clean a man as your missionaries who have come to this field, my wife and I would be the most happy parents in this world." 

Another time the Governor of French Oceania was making an inspection tour of the Lower Tuamotu group. He called on one of the islands on which is located one of our largest branches. As his ship pulled up to the wharf he was met by our twenty-seven piece L. D. S. band. He was escorted through the town, which he found clean, and the houses well painted. He found no drunkenness. He found the people tending to their business. He asked the Chief how it was, and who had taught them to do those things. He was told the Mormon missionaries. He called the people together and said to them : "You people — it makes no difference to what denomination you belong — I ask you to listen to the advice and counsel of these Mormon missionaries. I promise you that if you do so you will continue to grow, to prosper, to have beautiful homes, a beautiful city, a nice place to live." 

Another time the same Governor was making a trip to another island. He wanted a certain man to be chief of that island. This man happened to be one of our Elders, a native missionary who was  on that island. In fact, he is the only man belonging to the Church on that island. 

When I visited the island, some time later, I asked him how it was that he had been chosen chief of that group of people, there being so many people from different organizations there. He told me when the Administrator came he asked : "Is there any member of the Mormon Church here?" This man told him that he was a member. He said : "I would like to talk to you." The result was he was chosen as chief of that island. The Governor stated : "I want a man on whom I can depend, a man who does not drink. I know the Mormon people meet these requirements. 

May the Lord bless us here at home and help us to carry on the good work, as our missionaries are doing in the field. May we ever heed the advice and counsel of these noble men who have been chosen to direct this great work. May we ever be worthy and willing to do the things asked of us, in our different branches, in our different wards, in our stakes, and ever be found in the line of duty, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

EXPENSIVE AND INJURIOUS HABITS 

We are all looking for a solution of our great financial troubles. Here is one of the troubles that cost us approximately $7,150,000,000 during the year 1936. The values given are approximate retail values. 

Alcohol: Between $4,000,000,000 and 5,000,000,000. 

Tobacco: Cigarets, 139,968,648,406 consumed in 1936. That means 139.9 cigarets a minute for every minute from the birth of the Savior until now. 

Cigars: 4,863,191,852, or 4.8 cigars every minute from the birth of the Savior until now. 

18,030 tons of snuff. 

(The fire losses in the United States for the year 1936, as estimated by the insurance companies, were only $30,000,000.) 

Approximate retail value of tobacco consumed in the United States in 1936, $1,500,000,000. Worse than burning up that much property, because every person that used tobacco injured himself. 

Coffee and tea : Coffee, 1,739,184,000 pounds. This is equivalent to 3 grams of caffein for every adult. 

Tea: 82,000,000 pounds. 

Retail value of coffee and tea together, approximately $650,000,000. 

Total for alcohol, tobacco, coffee, and tea, approximately $7,150,000,000 or seven and a fraction dollars a minute for every minute from the birth of the Savior until now. 

Do you not think the Lord knew what he was talking about when he gave the Word of Wisdom for our temporal salvation? If you do not, study more, read more, pray more. REGARDING TILLERS OF THE SOIL 

I was delighted with what Brother Widtsoe said this morning, and by the way, I thank the Lord that Brother Widtsoe gave me these figures. I did not know that there was that much used. 

The United States of America was cradled by the plowed field — a capable cradle. In the days of Washington and Jefferson it is likely that at least four-fifths of all Americans were farm folk. From this fact our first statesmen took effective cues. Thomas Jefferson, preeminent among our bards of prose, said: 

"Cultivators of earth make the best citizens. They are the most vigorous, the most virtuous, and the most independent. They are tied to their country and wedded to its liberty and interests with the most lasting bonds. 

"They are not soap-box orators, not one of them. A farm is what makes a man loyal to his country. A soap-box orator is a man that stirs up trouble. 

"As long, therefore, as they can find employment in that line, I would not counsel them to be mariners, artizans, or anything else." 

This saying lived long as the gospel of American leadership, as well as of politics. 

God grant that it may return. 

A FAVORABLE MAGAZINE ARTICLE 

I have been reading from "Roots of America," by Charles Morrow Wilson. I hope that the majority of you have read Mr. Wilson's article in the September 4th issue of the Saturday Evening Post. It is one of the most enlightening and splendid things ever written by a non-member of the Church in any of our magazines. The young man came to Utah and was in my office a number of times, and went down to Hurricane and looked into the marvelous work done by the people at Hurricane. Then he wrote this very favorable article — one of the best I have ever read. 

The Choir sang "The Lord is My Refuge," after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder Thomas E. Winegar, President of the South Davis Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock a. m., Sunday, October 3. 


