Afternoon
01 10 1937

The second session of the Conference convened promptly at 2 o'clock, Friday afternoon, October 1. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers furnished the music for this session, and sang as an opening number "Unfold Ye Portals." 

Elder David Smith, President of the North Idaho Falls Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "Sleepers, Wake! A Voice is Sounding," (J. S. Bach) was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have enjoyed the spirit and instruction of this Conference so far. I feel very happy, my brethren and sisters, in my religion — the religion of the Latter-day Saints, which has sustained me through a life of nearly seventy-seven years, meeting every religious requirement, supplying every religious need. I know that this work in which we are engaged is the work of the Lord. 

TESTIMONY 

I am very happy in the knowledge revealed to Joseph Smith in the beginning of this dispensation, when the Father and the Son appeared unto him. I know that that revelation is true. I know that God, the Eternal Father, lives and, contrary to the views of the great majority of mankind, he is a personage having a body of flesh and bones and spirit as tangible as is the body of man, glorified and exalted, the Creator of heaven and earth and all things therein by his Son, Jesus Christ; a God of love, of mercy, of justice, and of truth, who answers the prayers of his faithful children. I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Savior and the Redeemer of this world, chosen and ordained from the foundations of this earth, and that through his work all mankind are redeemed from the effects of the fall of our first parents. As the scriptures teach: 

Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead, 

For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. (I Cor. 15:21, 22) 

This resurrection is necessary in order that we may have bodies, reunited spirit and element of body, never more to be separated. In that condition we will be prepared to enter the kingdom of God, provided we meet the provisions made in the Gospel, that we yield obedience unto the laws and ordinances thereof, for the atonement of our Lord and Savior is to redeem us of our individual sins on condition of our obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

I know to my perfect satisfaction that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, having been thoroughly convinced by investigation and by the Spirit and power of God, and his works prove him to be a prophet in very deed, inspired of the Lord as he was in life. I know that those who have succeeded him in the Presidency of this Church have been God's mouthpiece unto the people, inspired from on high, and have directed the work of the Lord, as it has progressed and prospered continuously, and that he who stands at the head of the Church today, as its President, is a man of God, the mouthpiece and prophet of the Lord to his people and to the world, inspired from on high for the great responsibilities that rest upon him GOSPEL THE POWER OF GOD UNTO SALVATION 

This work in which we are engaged as Latter-day Saints is none other than the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which was instituted in the councils of the heavens before the world was; that which was taught by the Savior and his disciples; that of which the Apostle Paul spoke in writing to the Galatians when he said : 

But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other Gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. (Gal. 1 :8) 

It is the power of God unto salvation, temporally and spiritually, as has been already explained in this Conference. It is the law by which, all mankind are to be judged, and by it condemned or justified according to merit. Justice, therefore, demands that this Gospel shall be preached and taught to all men, or, as the scriptures say : 

Until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law. 

In the mercy and justice of God, our Eternal Father, this Gospel will be taught unto all men. Those who have not had the privilege of hearing it in the earth, have the privilege of hearing it hereafter, and inasmuch as there are ordinances to be received necessary to man's salvation, provision has been made in the Gospel, that all who are living shall, by genealogical research, find out and know their ancestors who are dead, and go into the temples of the Lord and there redeem them, by receiving for them those saving ordinances vicariously. 

This Gospel which we have received is the plan by which our Lord and Savior lived while he was here in the flesh. It made him what he was in life and what he is, enthroned in glory, at the right hand of the Father. It is intended to make us like him, to save us with him, joint heirs with Jesus Christ of all that the Father possesses. 

RESPONSIBILITY TOWARD OTHERS 

We have the responsibility, as Latter-day Saints, to preach this Gospel of the kingdom to all the world, as a witness, before the end shall come. For more than a century, the Latter-day Saints have been engaged in this important work, and many honest souls, from many nations and from the islands of the sea have, through the preaching of the Gospel embraced it and lived their religion. Many of them have gone faithfully to their reward. 

There are all about us today men and women who know not God, who know not religion — the true religion of the Master — nor salvation, of what it consists and how it may be attained. They are in deep spiritual darkness and are among the unfortunate of our Father's children. We as Latter-day Saints have received the light, and we know the way. The responsibility rests upon us to reach out for those who are groveling in . I think of the parable of the Savior, the rich man and the poor, and the consequences of neglect of the living to feed the hungry and to clothe the naked, and minister unto the human needs of mankind. That neglect is suffered for in hell and torment, so the scriptures tell us. and I remember, too, that we read, in the scriptures what the Lord had to say to Ezekiel. The responsibility was laid upon him, as a watchman upon the towers of Zion, to warn mankind, and he was told that if he did not do it their blood would be upon his hands. 

I do hope and pray that we as Latter-day Saints as a Church, and as individuals, may be able to wash our hands clean of the blood and sins of this generation, by looking to the saving of the souls of our Father's children, as well as our own. In looking to the interests and the salvation of others we are making for our own salvation and glory. We have our dead to be redeemed, a tremendous responsibility resting upon us. We are expected, I think, to do more than anyone of us is able to do, by going into the temple and receiving these ordinances. God has blessed us with the abundance of this earth, and I think he expects us to use liberally of the wealth that he has placed in our laps in the redeeming of our dead. This can be done by employing men and women whose financial conditions are such that otherwise they are obliged to labor for a mere pittance. A great deal of the labor that is being done in the temple is being done gratuitously. It is only one element of that work that we have to pay for — a proxy to do the work for us. And in employing this class of people, I feel that we are supporting and sustaining this great Church movement. We are feeding the hungry, we are clothing the naked. We are ministering unto those who are in need, and by so doing we place ourselves in that class referred to as being on the right hand of the Savior when he shall come, and to whom he shall say: 

Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world : 

For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat : I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink : I was a stranger, and ye took me in. 

There is an abundance in this world and to spare. The Lord has so said by revelation. Those of us who are fortunate should look to the unfortunate, for that is religion pure and undefiled. We ought to be willing to divide what we have, whether it be much or little, in order to prevent suffering among the children of men. This Gospel is one of love, of sacrifice, and of service, from beginning to end. Both the Father and the Son have set us a wonderful example with respect to these principles. As we read in the scriptures, 

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (John 3:16) 

The Son gave himself because of the love he had for the children of men. He said, ... I lay down my life, that I might take it again. 

No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. (John 10:17-18) 

Here is love supreme — perfect love, the love of a God manifest in a gift, the greatest that was ever given; his sacrifice, the greatest that was ever made; in service, the noblest, the most important that ever was rendered. 

We, our Father's children, are expected to follow their example. Nothing short of this will meet the requirements of the Gospel and make for our eternal satisfaction. 

May the Lord.help us to see our duty to ourselves, our duty to our God and to our fellow men, living and dead, to discharge ourselves faithfully while in line of these duties and responsibilities and make every preparation necessary for the life which is to come, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brethren and sisters, during the few moments that I stand before you, I trust that I may have not only an interest in your faith and prayers but that I may have from you an assurance of your desire to hear the truths of our faith and to further all that God desires you to do. 

As a child, I can remember these great gatherings, these conferences which we now are attending. I recall distinctly that there are two definite, fixed things in my mind which have stayed there from that day to this. Those two things were a knowledge that the Lord God had again come to earth and had spoken to his servant, and that Christ lived, and that through him we were actuated and did those things which God would desire us to do. Even as John has recorded concerning the Christ, so was the belief of .our people then and of our people now — that Christ did come, that Christ did live and that he and his works, through the children of men, glorified and magnified that great work of God. 

I recall distinctly that the other thing which left its impress upon my mind was the fact that the Priesthood of God had come to earth and that we had received that Priesthood and that through it and by it the things which we, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ, were able to accomplish, were made possible. 

I remember as a lad in early days coming to Conference and seeing practically hundreds, yes, thousands of horses tied on the outside of this block and tied in the vacant lots around; teams that were hitched to wagons, to white-tops, and buckboards. Today, with the march of time and the progress of the Church, we come here now, as did they, as members of this Church, even as we assembled to worship and give thanks to God when I was a lad. Now we wait until the closing of each session of this Conference to go outside and find patiently waiting for us, not horses, but the latest model of a high-powered automobile and  we reach it, there it stands in its shimmering colors and glory, and all we have to do is to turn a key in its door when we come again into this Church. But that same spirit, that same love, and that same hope which actuated our fathers and mothers, I feel very, very confident, is here today and actuates us. 

There are some things which to us are the dearest things in the world. I think two of these things are a knowledge that the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, 'did come, and a knowledge that the Gospel is preached today by the power of the Priesthood that was given to the apostles anciently. 

John says: 

We know that the Son of God is come and hath given to us an understanding that we may know him that is true; and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, the eternal life. 

So much has been wrought by our own kindred who are now dead and gone through a knowledge of this wonderful thing which has come unto them and unto us. Man is given many powers and many opportunities. He is also given an individuality which individuality is his and cannot be taken from him. He has his love. He has his faith. He has his understanding of Deity, and this individuality that God has given each of us is held absolutely responsible for all that it does and all that shall occur. Even so in life, as we must go through life with the individuality which God has given us — we cannot barter it or give it to another — on into death we carry that individuality and there we shall be judged according to the things that we have done here upon this earth by the individuality which God gave us. 

Now, with that understanding and with that knowledge, we must remember that man has within himself apparently two things which are opposed : perfect independence and, at the same time, perfect union and cohesion with a few or with many members of a body such as is this; that on down through this earth life of ours and eternal life we may march and walk retaining, at the same time, our own individuality. 

Some things have come into our lives, however, that are a little different from the olden days. A new note is sounding, and that new note has been ringing around this world into every nook and corner, conveying somewhat of the influence which the Church is showing and the momentous things it has taken hold of and put its hand to do. The name of this Church has been carried everywhere and this is not strange, because we expected that. But back to us has come the echo of this great broadcast, and that echo is one of praise, one of commendation. This is unusual, rather new, a startling thing for us, and I sincerely hope and trust that as we look at it, as we listen to it, and as we calmly sense that this has come, not through our individual effort but through the mercy and the blessing of the Lord God Almighty, through the power of his Priesthood, that we shall, with meekness and humbleness, acknowledge that power and that great work which now is showered upon the heads of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and praises are sung to it. It is through this wonderful thing, the Priesthood, that this has all come. 

I wish you would, when you can, read again the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Study it and think of it and see if it does not fit us. I have here a few verses which I would like to read to you and those verses on the Priesthood are as follows : 

Which priesthood continueth in the church of God in all generations, and is without beginning of days or end of years. * * * 

And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. 

Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. 

And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh; 

For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live. * * * 

For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ. 

And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit. * * * 

And this revelation unto you, and commandment, is in force from this very hour upon all the world, and the gospel is unto all who have not received it. * * * 

And any man that shall go and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to- continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a hair bf his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed. And they shall not go hungry, neither athirst. * * * 

For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the powers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a little while and ye shall see it, and know that I am, and that I will come and reign with my people. 

If we may continue to have that same sweet, satisfying faith that was possessed by our fathers and mothers, with their toil-worn hands empty though they were, who came to these Conferences and attended them for the spiritual uplift they gave, and if we may continue ever onward in that channel and in that path, I am satisfied that God's blessings will be upon us, and I ask them to continue so, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

This thought has been running through my mind, "Why do I live?" It is bothering me a good deal. Brother Francis M. Lyman said : "Death is nothing, if you can get dead. Why fear death?" I haven't gotten rid of that fear yet. 

Brethren and sisters, I would like to feel that I am one of your number and I am one of your brothers, and I have tried as best I could, up to the present date, to fulfill my mission and complete my labors. I am not afraid of the Lord, but I am afraid of the location. I do not know where I will be located. I hope it will be a good place. 

I have in my pocket a paper— I haven't got it in my mind; I wish 

I did. There is a book published called "J- Golden Kimball," and it has been sold among some of the people. In this book Claude Richards has preserved some of the talks that I have made — most of them talks that I have made in the Tabernacle. I am very glad some of the talks I have made outside were not printed. We will forget them. I discover in checking up on these talks that there have been forty-eight made by me during General Church Conferences. Out of that number I have selected one which I shall not attempt to read, but I would like to have the permission of the Presidency of the Church, after this talk has been edited and looked over, to publish it in the Conference Pamphlet as the talk that I would like to make on this occasion. I feel that it is so important to me and to the young people that it should be cried out from the housetops. 

TALK BY ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL October, 1926—11 Years Ago 

"No man knoweth how much good he does, so that I feel to encourage the Priesthood of God. We never know how much good we do when we speak in the name of the Lord. I don't believe, I can't believe, that I ever converted a man in my life, but I have taught the truth, I have preached the Gospel, and my voice has been heard from Canada to Mexico more times than once. I was in the General Board of the Young Men's Associations for thirty years and I have never had greater joy or greater happiness than in lifting up my voice among the rising generation. How much good we do, as I stated before, no man knoweth. I claim that every man fills his niche when he is called of God and set apart and ordained to an office. He may not fill it in the way someone else would fill it, but if he is a man of courage he will fill it in his own way, under the influence of the Holy Spirit. 

Like my father, I have no apology to make for my origin. I was told once that my trouble was I was trying to be like my father. Well, thank God I can try to be like him a little, but I was too young when my father died to remember his mannerisms and his method of speech. 

LUXURY A DANGER TO RISING GENERATION 

My brethren and sisters, I want to lift up a danger signal to the rising generation. In doing it I want to be very careful of the way in which I express it; I shall attempt to read it, although it is against my grain to do so. 

This great country, North and South America, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, is Zion, the land of the pure in heart. It would seem to me that a great responsibility rests particularly with the young men and women of this generation. 

The question naturally arises: What is the trend of the times for modern sons and daughters of Zion? Riches and culture, ease and luxury. Everything is money and money is everything. The golden key unlocks all doors, that is, it prys them open. Plenty of money entitles you to anything : honor, society, and emoluments. The rising generation who are poor look upon this pleasureloving people with envy and a yearning for worldly things. And as the spirit of the age in which we live takes hold of them, they assert their individual independence and break away from what are called "old-fogy ideas, old bigotries, old superstitions." They go recklessly wild, at sixty miles an hour, claiming what is termed the "new liberty of the twentieth century," and run daringly into forbidden pastures. Today all over America we see everywhere among the rich and poor, the cultured, educated, and ignorant, the indications of the sensual tendencies of the age, and we forget for the moment the degradation and destruction to which such a life leads. 

SENSUAL PLEASURE 

No single instance can be given as evidence that unlawful sensual pleasure can be indulged in without paying for it a thousand times in pain and remorse. 

The danger signals are set up at the gate of the garden of sensual pleasure. The angel stands with his sword of flame, and no man, woman, youth, or maiden enters unsmitten of him. "In the path of sensuality in all its multitplied forms our Heavenly Father has placed barriers mountain high to stop us and frighten us back from ruin, disease, and degradation." 

As wealth increases in any country and with any people, the tendency to sensuality (through the many temptations of ease, idleness, and gratification of one's appetite, the elevation of fashion, style, and living beyond a certain point of safety and security) is the cause of the downfall of hundreds of thousands of God's children. 

That "money-devil," if not used in doing good, is the lion right across the highway of our future, standing, teasing, menacing — just at the forks of the road, to lead us to ruin and unhappiness. If the roofs could be lifted off the palaces of the rich, what sights might not be seen, what skeletons in the closets, what sorrows, what shams, what sights. — -Watson. 

When we open our eyes to the danger that menaces the rising generation, life would seem to be a very dangerous sea if we take note of the ruined thousands that strew its shores. 

DEATH NOT A CALAMITY 

We, therefore, cannot look upon death as a great sorrow and calamity when it involves no stain of honor and no loss of character. We wisely conclude the hand of Providence is in it, and good must come out of it, and we are comforted. 

When we contemplate and think of our young men and women with their bright hopes of love, of truth and purity, of goodly gifts from God, of mind, of all sweet affections and aspirations, gone down, blotted out and spoiled, we cannot feel otherwise — be as hopeful and cheerful  we may — that lif e is dangerous unless we are guided and influenced by the Holy Spirit and directed by steady hands, by men and women as teachers of virtue, truth and happiness, who are not afraid to speak in the name of the Lord. 

BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM 

The fruit of religion manifests itself in the lives of men. "By their fruits ye shall know them." There can be no deception by men who love God. and keep his commandments. We are one and all God's children. He created us and he never created a failure, and he created you. 

HAPPINESS THE DESIGN OF OUR CREATOR 

"Men are that they might have joy." "Happiness is the object and design of our creation and will be to the end of our existence if we pursue the path that leads to it. This path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness." To keep God's commandments we must know them. To know them we must read the scriptures and repent and be in tune with the Holy Spirit and he will lead us into all truth and show us things to come. I promise you that you shall hear a voice behind you saying, "This is the way, walk ye in it." 

TEMPTATIONS 

Remember this always : Temptation somewhere in the life of all finds us, as this life is a testing time. Therefore, watch and pray and ask God to leave us not in temptation and deliver us from evil, as temptation is ever lying in wait, and in a thousand forms is temptation repeated. There is divine wisdom in praying always and avoiding the very appearance of evil. 

A HELPING HAND 

There is very little use of preaching religion or morals, or honesty, virtue, and truthfulness to those whose motives and tendencies all point toward vice and sensuality unless they repent and sin no more. These wild, reckless, dissipated young people will not come to us, so we must reach out a helping hand and go to them. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS 

This great change for the uplift and betterment of this great country — Zion, the pure in heart — rests very largely, almost entirely, with the home and the parents. 

back to Christ's -religion 

We must, for the safety of the youth of Zion, come back to Jesus Christ's religion and its spiritual forces. We must teach the gospel of repentance and forgiveness which has made men's and women's lives happier, tasks lighter, judgment steadier, as it truly comforts the disconsolate, forgotten sinners, and leads them to a clear life of virtue, love, and happiness. No child of God can escape Christ's religion. Intelligence and knowledge of the right kind walk ever close to religion. 

ADVICE TO PARENTS 

My conclusion is : There is just one great, big, lif e-and-death duty of the parents of children, the church and the state, and that is to keep every boy and girl under proper schooling and give to them "love, pleasure, work, and worship." 

You good people and parents living on your farms in the country, I plead with you not to send your children to cities, where the beautiful spirit of things God created perishes. Let them live in the open, in the beautiful valleys, on the mountains, in God's sunshine, near streams, rivers, and trees and let his Spirit teach them of the things of God. 

HAVE GIVEN BEST EFFORT 

My testimony, brethren and sisters, in all confidence, is that I know this work is true. I have tested it out. I have found God. I am a man of weakness; I am a man full of faults; but God knows I have given him the best effort there was in me. 

GOD LIVES I know God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. And when men have tempted me to deny this — which they have tried to do — I have talked to some of them, learned men, I have talked to doctors, I have talked to young men who have gone out and filled missions, come home and got education, and they have tried to burn all my bridges behind me but, thank God, I had a testimony and I know! I have told them : "In what you offer me there is no happiness." 

JOSEPH A TRUE PROPHET 

If any man can prove to me that Joseph Smith is not a prophet of God, he has taken everything; he has burned every bridge behind me. I never saw the Prophet, but I have heard my father talk about him and I have read his revelations and his prophecies, and I know they are true. He is a Prophet of God. I sustain the Church and uphold the hands of the Priesthood as best I know how. God bless you. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers and the congregation sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I should like to address a brief message to the young people of the Church who are just now entering the schools and colleges of the land. 

FAITH BRINGS HUMILITY 

I expect to say something concerning the acquisition and retention of the philosophy of faith, but before doing so I should like to mention some of its attributes, or more specifically the characteristics with which it invests those who subscribe to it. In the first place, in direct contrast to the philosophy of self-sufficiency, which is the philosophy of the world, faith brings to a man humility — not servility, but a modest, unpretentious, submissive attitude which makes him conscious of and amenable to powers and forces higher and more potential than himself. There is in my estimation no good reason why this philosophy of humility and faith should in any way detract from man's intelligence. I am not prepared to say that there have not been times in the world's history when men have unduly leaned upon a religious faith to the detriment of the cultivation of intelligence, but I am sure that in this day of enlightenment, when education has done so much to free man from the bondage of superstition and error, faith is no hindrance to learning. On the contrary, faith begets a desire for knowledge, and what is even more important, it establishes a perspective in the acquisititon of knowledge that is truly essential in the appraisement of relative values. 

STIMULATION THROUGH RECOGNITION OF HIGHER POWER 

The recognition of power higher than man himself does not in any sense debase him. If in his faith he ascribes beneficence and high purpose to the power which is superior to himself, he envisions a higher destiny and nobler attributes for his kind and is stimulated and encouraged in the struggle of existence. He has confidence in the justice of eternal and unchanging law, which is not subject to the caprice and fitful will of men. 

If he is unsuccessful in his ventures in worldly affairs, if he suffers defeat, he may be disappointed and sorrowful, but he is not despondent and he is not bitter. His philosophy does not despise any worthy material accomplishment, but it assigns to each phase of living its proper place in the eternal scheme of things so that no one in the household of faith is ever completely discouraged, unless, unhappily, he loses faith itself. 

To the man who is successful in worldly achievement, faith brings humility in lieu of arrogance, without robbing the able man, however, of that glow of satisfaction which ever attends noble effort. In this philosophy of the higher realm men of intelligence and skill conceive the part they play in life as missions rather than careers, fulfilling their assignments in a program infinitely greater than they themselves can devise, utilizing materials and facilities and forces over which, by grace, they have been given dominion, and subserving purposes eternal and transcendently beautiful. 

THE HIGHEST ORDER OF INTELLIGENCE 

These men of intelligence and ability, who are also men of faith, would tell you, if you asked them, that faith in spiritual realities has never daunted their quest for knowledge and their ambition for all legitimate achievement, and I think they will tell you, if you press them, that the highest order of intelligence they have discovered in their experience is that intelligence which perceives spiritual concepts and adequately correlates these concepts with things of the finite world. I am very sure that they who understand faith will not deprecate the mind which it blesses. So to the rich or poor, the high or lowly, the successful and those who fail, the philosophy of faith brings stability, poise, composure, hope, and enduring satisfaction. It is a vital and priceless acquisition. It is not always easy to attain. 

FAITH A DIVINE GIFT 

What of the ways of securing faith? I admit that difficulties are to be encountered because a man cannot really know what faith is until he has experienced it, nor can he really experience it without recognizing it for what it is. It is rather confusing to say to one who denies the reality of spiritual things, "You, sir, cannot know what faith is because you have never had it and you cannot get it as long as you deny it." This sounds paradoxical, but in reality it is not so absurd as it sounds, for this reason — faith is a divine gift open to all men to receive, if only their attitude and life will permit its reception. It is true only the faithful know this, but their knowledge of it is so certain that they never despair of bringing the knowledge to others. In this absolute certitude of the faithful lies the hope and promise of universal conversion. 

AN IMPORTANT FIRST STEP IN ACQUIRING FAITH 

Now I propose as an important first step in acquiring faith, particularly by those of little maturity in the thinking process, a recognition, of the difference between the realm of things spiritual and the realm of things material; between faith and spirit on the one hand, and mind and matter on the other. It is always desirable, I believe, to bear in mind this distinction. It is particularly important to those of limited years or experience, who may be having some difficulty in their thinking, in making certain adjustments and reconciliations. 

Let me give you an example : A young man raised in a household of faith has always been taught to pray. He has assumed and felt, probably without much thinking about it, that there is a superior power to hear and answer his prayers. This young man goes to college. Among his studies he pursues some of the sciences — astronomy, geology, biology, let us say. One day, perhaps in a purely casual way, someone asks him, "Do you pray?" It may be a classmate, or even a teacher. "Why certainly," he replies. "Why shouldn't I?" "To whom do you pray?" is the next question. "Why, to God, of course." "Where is your God?" "What is he like? Have you ever seen him? How do you know he exists?" Well, these questions he can not so easily answer. He pauses for reply, and in that pause an avalanche of new thoughts and novel sensations almost overwhelm him, and very likely in real  this young man says to himself, "How do I know? What do I really know?"  

In his study of the sciences he has learned something of the scientific process. He knows that everything must be demonstrated before conclusions can legitimately be reached, and he knows that the demonstrations required are those that are tangible and susceptible of very definite and positive human proof. He has had an introduction into the realm of reason, and for the moment at least the methods of that realm dominate his intelligence and his senses. How fortunate is this young man, if, after the first rush of these perplexing thoughts, it occurs to him that there is a wide difference between the province of science and reason on the one hand and that of the spiritual and feeling on the other. Now, fully aware of this difference, he replies to his inquisitors, "Why yes, I know that God lives. I do not know where he is, I have never seen him, but I am perfectly satisfied that he exists, and this I know through my faith. I don't ask for the same kind of proof and demonstration that are required in the sciences. I am not dealing with similar matters. My faith is a matter of feeling and inward conviction. I know that there is a divine world as well as I know that I love my mother. These are matters of feeling. My soul is satisfied. That is all I ask." 

MERELY ARGUMENTS 

Now I would not have you think that the young man of my illustration could not have brought to the support of his conviction many persuasive and convincing arguments. He might have asked his inquirers to account for the universe with its illimitable manifestations of law and order without the dominance of a master mind. He might have brought to his aid the records of sacred and profane history, the universal prevalence of the idea of Deity among all nations and people, the incomparable achievements of mankind as distinguished from all other forms of animal life, and many other pertinent things; but after all, these matters are only arguments and his questioners might readily have differed with him in the deductions to be drawn. The outcome of such a debate, with no judges to render a decision on the issue, is very frequently nothing but continuing disagreement. 

A DECLARATION OF FAITH 

But how is it with a declaration of faith? What can an opponent say to that ? He may say, truthfully, "I don't believe what you believe. I don't believe there is any proof for the assertions you make." He might even question the sincerity of him who makes the declaration. These things he could do with justification to his conscience, if that were his conviction and feeling, but he could go no farther. It does not lie within his power to know either that the subject matter of the testimony is not true or that he who makes the declaration does not know of its truth. The critic is confronted with a situation which he cannot meet, because the. knowledge which he seeks to disprove is of a realm into which he cannot enter by the avenue of his materialistic reasoning. If he is really honest and logical with himself he must retire from the controversy with the thought, "Maybe he does know. I have no way of finding out." 

SPIRITUAL EXERCISE 

That brings me to the next step in the acquisition of faith and testimony. This fanciful critic of ours or any other like him can find out, if he will, whether or not the testimony is true. This way also seems somewhat paradoxical. It is this : One may secure faith by doing the things that he would do and being the kind of a person that he would be if he had faith. In other words, he must repose enough confidence at the beginning of his inquiry in spiritual realities to enable him in faith to undertake spiritual exercise and endeavor. It is not enough that he try merely the form of spiritual exercise as an experiment. He must be truly humble. He will have to forsake the philosophy of self-sufficiency. He must seek believing, praying, and hoping that he will find. No such sincere, prayerful effort will go unrequited — that is the very constitution of the philosophy of faith. 

I said there must be spiritual exercise. I use this phrase purposefully because I believe that it connotes something that is indispensable, not only in obtaining faith but in perpetuating it. I do not need to argue that it is exercise of our faculties that brings them into usefulness and a higher state of perfection. This everyone will admit. How unfortunate it seems to some of us that so many people in the world giving full recognition to this generally accepted principle of human development decline to employ it as it pertains to spiritual welfare and progress. It may be that it is because there is involved a change of attitude, a change of philosophy, and very often very pronounced changes in manner of living. We can readily understand how difficult it is for many persons to make such changes. It is more difficult to understand how intelligent people can defend an unwillingness to make the effort. 

Spiritual exercise may be of either a public or private nature. All open participation in religious and Church activities is calculated to strengthen spiritual powers. Such participation is highly desirable and not infrequently is it regarded as the chief factor in the culmination of a firm testimony. It is, however, with reference to private spiritual exercise that I feel a very deep concern in academic life. Thinking processes in all institutions of higher learning, frequently undergo very radical changes, not always because professors or instructors intentionally promote such changes, but because the exposure of the mind to new concepts, new principles and methods very frequently brings reactions and complexes that are altogether unbidden by either student or teacher. I know that this is true because I have had such experiences myself. 

THOUGHTS MUST BE DISCIPLINED 

Sometimes thoughts are like unruly children — difficult to control. I have persuaded myself, however, that they can be disciplined and often they must be if we are to preserve our faith. Let me illustrate again with a fanciful character. He may be a student or even a professor, because, after all, good professors are always students. This academic man begins to ponder. He has studied and he has done a good deal of scientific thinking. He comes on to a number of perplexing questions with apparent incompatibility between his former conceptions of faith and the new things which he learns. What about the age of the earth? Was Adam really the first man? In the light of what he has learned can he still believe in the miracles as reported in the scriptures, and coming down to later days, can the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith be true? Was he really visited by heavenly beings? Did he translate the Book of Mormon by the power of the Lord ? Was the holy Priesthood actually bestowed by divine messengers? 

It is while he is contemplating such things, even though he is loath to let go of his once simple faith, that his thoughts spring up unbidden, almost belligerently, to fight down his erstwhile convictions. They heckle him and they challenge him. "What do you know? How much proof have you?" they say. "Why don't you acknowledge, in the face of what you have learned, that you have been the victim of a delusion?" And he says to himself in answer to these taunts, "I do want to be intellectually honest, I want to be true to myself." 

Now here is where I want to break into this conversation with himself. I want to ask this scholar who has a thinking complex of the kind which I have mentioned, this question, when he says, "I want to be true to myself" : "What part of yourself is it to which you want to be true? Is it your spiritual self or this new man of science? Is it that fellow who was yourself throughout your boyhood and your youth; whom your mother and your father nurtured so carefully and loved so much; who was so confident in the goodness of things and so happy in his confidence; whose pure faith held such high promise for his people and those who loved him?" Now if this is the part of yourself to whom you wish to be true, I think I can tell you what to do. Just say to those skeptical, disturbing, rebellious thoughts, "I propose to stay with my faith, with the faith of my people. I know that happiness and contentment are there and I forbid you, agnostic, doubting thoughts, to destroy the house of my faith. I acknowledge that I do not understand the processes of creation, but I accept the fact of it. I grant that I cannot explain the miracles of the Bible and I do not attempt to do so, but I accept God's word. I wasn't with Joseph, but I believe him. My faith did not come to me through science and I will not permit science to destroy it. When I change my mind about God and his work, only the inspiration of God will change it." 

You may think all this evasive. I urge you to try it before deciding. I am as proud of science and reason and their marvelous development as I think I should be. I love education. It is the promise of universal peace and progress. In the presence of a master mind, penetrating, logical, and luminous, I stand with an admiration that almost approaches reverence. I want to think, I want everyone to think, for thinking is the better part of study. I believe, however, our thoughts may be disciplined without stultification of our intelligences and with infinite peace and happiness to ourselves. 

A CAUTION AND PROMISE 

In conclusion, my dear young brothers and sisters, I issue to you another caution with a promise. I believe that an observance of it will be more potential than anything I have mentioned in the preservation of your faith. It is this : Never depart from the teachings of the Church; keep every commandment, — do not be persuaded that you can violate any one with impunity; honor God — and I promise you you will never lose your faith in him. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be with you today. 

A few months ago I came across a book with the heading "What Can We Believe?" It is not my intention to discuss the problems within the book, but the reading of its statements brought to my mind some of the conditions that are perhaps very similar to those which we have in the Church. The book brings up the question of the higher and the lower criticism of the scriptures. It states that in about 1900 we had what is called the lower criticism of our scriptures, and then later we had what was referred to as the higher criticism. 

We are quite familiar with the discussions and methods entailed in this type of work. The thought back of this investigation was that the Bible needed a certain type of explanation and correction so that it might be more reliable and correct because of more modern discoveries and methods. But because the reviewers were sometimes more concerned with the letter than they were with the spirit of the Book, there was created in the minds of a number of people a disbelief, or at least a skepticism, in the scriptures themselves. A revision of scripture is not necessarily wrong provided that the necessity is there and the men chosen are inspired by the Lord especially in the matter of doctrine and stated facts. 

In our anxiety to place our own scriptures, including the Bible, before the people, especially the young people, we will, if not very careful, bring about a loss of faith because as soon as we commence to analyze in a critical way many of its statements and make the prophets such very ordinary, common men in order to show reason for some of their statements, we arouse in the hearts and minds of men and women the question : "Well, what can we believe in the scriptures ?" 

I can see no objection to analyzing the scripture in a way that will help people understand some of its statements. But we should be careful  we do not go to the extreme in our Church that other men and women have gone in this analysis, stressing words and losing the spirit of the message. The Lord has said that he spoke to his prophets and they wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. 

Some explanations and change of viewpoint may be needed because of recent discoveries, but at the same time we must not let anyone get away from the thought that men were speaking and writing by the inspiration and power of God and that the scripture is the word of the Lord, and was given to us by him. 

A while ago I heard the thought expressed that the Church should begin a revision of the Book of Mormon because of the many apparent mistakes in it pertaining to the division of chapters and verses, also in the language and doctrine, and that through a careful, modern revision the book could be more easily understood and be freer from outside criticism. In my opinion, if we continue to move along those lines we may gain a little in the correctness of words but lose considerable in our attitude towards the book, as well as bring doubt into the thoughts of men and women concerning the inspiration of our sacred scriptures. Sometimes in our anxiety to develop faith we develop disbelief. 

Criticism may be helpful or detrimental, helpful if it increases our knowledge of the revealed word, detrimental when it insists on an interpretation that is not in harmony with the whole message of the book or the accepted doctrine of the Church. For instance, a man said to me the other day : "Do you know where the Lost Tribes are ?" 

I said : "Well, no, I do not know where they are." 

"Well," he said, "do you think they are at the North Pole?" 

I said: "No, I do not know if they are up at the North Pole." 

(Of course the Russians and others were flying back and forth.) 

"Do you think they are down to the South Pole ?" 

I told him, "No, I think perhaps they are not there." 

He said : "Do you think they are up in some star or some other place ?" 

I said : "I do not know where they are. All that I can tell you is what President Grant has said — that they are lost." 

"Well," he said to me, "I do not think they are lost. They are found." 

Then he made the explanation that they are all safely located over in Europe, and that they are gathering here in Zion and bringing their records with them. (He was referring to their genealogical records.) I might have argued, "I understood that the ice was going to flow down in their presence when they came forth." 

Likely he would have answered, "But the ice is flowing down from the north all the time." 

Then I thought of the idea that if Christ left his message in Jerusalem, along with a written record by his disciples of his life and teachings, and then came to America and left his message here, and the Indians had a record and a tradition still existing among them concerning the visit of the Christ, undoubtedly the Lost Tribes whom Christ said he was going to visit would at least have a tradition about his visit among them and also, I believe, a written record as in the other two cases. 

Well, that thought is going the rounds. We are not satisfied to leave things as they are and wait for additional revelation from the Lord. To many it is embarrassing to talk about a lost people when to all appearances the earth has been thoroughly explored. In order to harmonize an apparent discrepancy, we assume an explanation instead of waiting for revelation on the subject. This bewilders people and makes them think that perhaps Joseph Smith was wrong in his statement concerning the Ten Tribes. 

Another criticism that I heard the other day was about the Word of Wisdom, which indicates how prone we are to want to debate the word of the Lord to the point of finding fault with the emphasis the Authorities of the Church place on this revelation. 

A man said, "Why is it that we preach the Word of Wisdom all the time? Why do we not get up-to-date and have new lines and new methods, new arguments for the Word of Wisdom, instead of doing the way we have been doing all these many years ? Why, we have been preaching and preaching; you never go to a meeting but what you hear about it, yet today there are more people in the Church using liquor and breaking the Word of Wisdom in other ways than we have ever had before." He was thus indicating that we have not been accomplishing anything in the Church so far as the Word of Wisdom is concerned and that our methods have increased the breaking of the commandment instead of decreasing it. 

My thought in mentioning these matters is that we have so many things in the Church that are established by the word of the Lord and that are plain and easy to be understood under the Spirit and inspiration of the Lord, and when we try to complicate these things or the doctrines and principles in the Church, we only confuse the minds of men and women and help to destroy the very thing we are trying to build up in the hearts of these people. I know we have to study, we have to be up-to-date, we have to progress, we must not be static. But why discourage people unnecessarily in their faith in the scriptures and their faith in their leaders ? 

All I am trying to say is that we ought to believe and follow the thing that we have so plainly written for us by the servants of God, and when we cannot understand it because no more is written, let us be satisfied, and keep this faith Brother Richards has been speaking of deep within our hearts and be willing to accept it until God in his wisdom and mercy someday makes things more plain to us. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to do this, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

BISHOP SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being present with you at this important Conference. I have enjoyed the spirit of this meeting and trust that which I shall say may prove profitable and faith-promoting to everyone present. 

I was impressed in listening to President Grant this morning, and desire to state that I am unqualifiedly in support of the statement he made relative to that which is expected of us. I am grateful to the Lord for the faith that I have in the principles of the Gospel and my desire to live in accordance with every principle of the Gospel. 

I was interested, also, in his very interesting description of his visit to Europe and the various meetings held throughout the nations of that part of the world. It brought back memories to me of two missions that I fulfilled over in Europe, comprising about five years, between thirty and thirty-eight years ago. 

LARGER CROPS AND BETTER PRICES 

I am happy to be with you under such favorable conditions. I am grateful for the improvement generally in our temporal circumstances. As you realize, the past season in this intermountain country has been very favorable from a climatic standpoint, which is a very important factor in our temporal progress. The result has been that the crops generally speaking, throughout the. intermountain country, and I think probably throughout the nation at large, have been bounteous. Likewise, better prices have been obtained. 

The fact is that those who are engaged in farming are profitably enjoying the fruits of their labors. In my judgment, the prosperity of this nation, or any nation, depends, in very large measure, upon the prices of farm products, upon the availability of fertile farm lands, and, also, upon favorable climatic conditions. 

EFFECT OF FARM PRODUCTS PRICES ON ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

As I examine the economic charts for this country, covering a long period of time, I note that whenever the prices of farm product's have been good prosperity has prevailed, and when farm products prices have been low depression has generally prevailed. Prosperity has not been dependent primarily upon wages, but apparently, as an important factor, upon fair prices for the farm crops. Therefore, I think it is important, so far as possible, taking into account the laws of supply and demand and the fact that farmers do not control crop production, to strive to maintain fair prices. It does not appear to be possible in agriculture, to regulate production to the same extent that it is practicable to do in industry, and in the handling of commercial undertakings. The natural tendency of those engaged in agriculture is, when any product yields good prices one year, to plant larger crops the following year, with a consequent drop in prices. Whatever can be done reasonably to regulate supply to conform to demand should be done. 

WAGES AND INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS 

There is no particular need to be concerned about wages. Wages tend to follow general economic conditions. When times are prosperous, the wage level rises steadily. When depressions occur, they follow the trend.- Where efforts are widely made to force wages up beyond reasonable limits, commercial and industrial development is adversely affected. On the other hand, there are instances where employers take advantage of their workers and fail to give them a fair return for their efforts. This, also, interferes with economic progress. The more nearly commodity prices, in general, can be maintained at what is considered a normal level, the better and more stable will be the economic status. Commodity prices tend to increase, naturally, with the increase in the amount and velocity of money in circulation, and to .decrease with the improvement in efficiency of production, the increase in volume of trade, and the growth in population. We are very fortunate, at the present time, under the favorable conditions which prevail in industry as well as in agriculture. Whether the general rise in prices is a natural economic . improvement, or whether it is caused artificially, in part, by the large amount of Federal funds in circulation, remains to be seen. Likewise, the causes of recent financial disturbance are not clear. 

IMPROVEMENT IN FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 

I rejoice in reporting to you that the tithes of the Church for the first six months of this year show an increase over the same period of last year, and that last year's tithes showed a material increase over the year before. This is an index of the financial condition of Church members. Likewise, the number of tithepayers has increased, and correspondingly with the growth of the Church, the number of those who should pay tithing has increased. On the average, there are about 25 % of the membership of the Church who pay their tithing. There are about 15% in addition who should, but who do not pay tithing. This is a field for encouragement and the teaching of the principle of tithing by Church officers., to those members of the Church who have not shown the faith necessary to observe the principle of tithing. There are those who have paid donations who have not really paid a tithing. They have given their donations of what we call a part tithing, and yet have not had the spiritual strength and the unselfishness to be willing to give that tenth which the Lord expects of his children, for the advancement and fulfillment of his promises and purposes unto his people. 

RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHURCH OFFICERS 

Great responsibilities rest upon all the officers throughout the Church. They are not occupying places of responsibility because of any personal or selfish desires. They have been selected because of their willingness to serve and for their diligence. They are engaged in this work because they are assured that it is the work of the Lord. They are as watchmen upon the towers to safeguard the spiritual welfare and progress of the people. It is their duty to teach and counsel the members to observe all the revelations of the Lord, and to perform all functions pertaining to their duties. When they teach tithing or any other divine principle they know that those who obey shall receive the blessings of God, and that his purposes shall be most fully accomplished. Heavy demands are made upon the Presidency of the Church for funds to carry out all the things that are desirable and necessary for the building up of this Church at home and abroad — the great missionary work, the work of religious education, the construction and maintenance of Church buildings, the relief needs, the Church Security Program, and all of the other important matters needing attention. This work grows by the individual and collective service given by all the members, and by the observance of the divine commandments which are magnified by the Lord for the achievement of his plans. There is no occasion for us to boast about the progress that is being made in this great work. But there is every reason for us all to be profoundly grateful and appreciative of the wonderful manner in which the Lord is bringing to pass his purposes. And we need to manifest our gratitude by increased faith in every principle of the Gospel and greater activity in his cause. 

FASTING AND FAST DONATIONS 

Further, you will remember 'that in Conference eighteen months ago, instructions were given and a request made by the First Presidency that all members of the Church faithfully observe the monthly Fast, and give the equivalent in value for the benefit of those in need. It was shown that the equivalent of two meals would amount to at least ten cents per month for every member. The request was for a donation of not less than one dollar per year for every man, woman and child in the Church. There has been considerable improvement in this respect, but we have not reached the goal as yet which is expected of every one of us. For the past six months, the reports show an increase of 53% in the Fast offerings over the same period of last year. The number who have paid Fast offerings has increased about 31%. Apparently, then, since there has not been a proportionate increase in the number who have donated, those who have paid, have given more. Here is an opportunity for Church officers to encourage those who have not done their part, to fulfill this duty also. The average Fast offerings per capita paid for the first six months is 21.6 cents; whereas it should be at least 50 cents. When we realize how efficiently these donations are applied directly for the benefit of those in need, we should all be ready and willing to do our full share, and thereby get the spiritual blessings that attend the principle of Fasting. 

I need scarcely repeat the fact that the Fast offering is a donation that should not cost us one cent, because if we observe the principle we do not sacrifice anything but the eating of food for two meals; and the value of those two meals is represented by the amount that we give for Fast offering; so one dollar per capita per year does not represent fully what the members of the Church would consume i'f they did not Fast and did not observe this donation. STATISTICS ON RELIEF 

There was disbursed during the six months period to those in need, through the regular channels, a total of practically $300,000, which . includes $116,015 from Fast offerings, $102,238 from the tithes, $22,494 from Relief Society donations, and some $58,534 from other sources, including $15,648 through the Church Security Program. This total is an increase of 97% over the amount distributed for the needy in the same period of 1936. The number of persons assisted on direct relief was 16,163 and those helped on work relief was 8,110. This is an increase over the previous year of 51%. As of June 30 it appears that there were 1,912 persons over 18 needing employment. Of this total it appears that about 86% were unskilled and 14% skilled. The number taken off County Relief during six months was 600. 

CHURCH BUILDING PROGRAM 

Another program of great importance that is going forward steadily is that of the building and renovating of ward, stake and mission buildings, seminaries, institutes, temples, and hospitals. During the past months there has been expended directly from Church funds something over $800,000. There is a great demand at the present time for new buildings, improvements, repairs and remodeling of buildings, both for the various wards and the seminaries. If we take into account the amount raised by the wards as their portion, there has been expended thus far this year for that purpose approximately $1,300,000. There have been 192 buildings under construction and remodeling. Every effort has been made to expend this money carefully, economically, and with the desire to obtain the best results possible for the money expended, and to provide the facilities that are needed for the welfare of the people. Taking this into account you can understand that care must be exercised and proper control must be had in everything done in this department as well as in every other department, in order that not one dollar shall be spent extravagantly, or unnecessarily, for the improvement of these facilities that are necessary for the progress and welfare of the Church. 

TRAINING IN BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 

The people are making great sacrifices. We are endeavoring to train apprentices in connection with building projects in the various localities so that through practice and under proper supervision they may gradually qualify in the various crafts for future building operations. 

You will realize that in the construction of buildings a very small proportion of the cost is for unskilled labor. The large proportion of the labor cost is paid to those who are skilled men in various trades. We have fallen behind the conditions that prevailed in the early history of the Church in these various communities. Then there were many skilled artisans, men who could build, who knew their crafts thoroughly, who had been trained largely in European countries. We were learning then to use the hand as well as the head, to a much larger extent than we are learning today. It is a challenge to our young people, especially to our young men, in the various communities of the Church to qualify to build the houses and other buildings that are necessary in their growth. We would like to be able to encourage the wards in such a way that they may be able to furnish all necessary labor for their projects; but the fact that so few are prepared to qualify to do the skilled part of the work is one of the hindrances and difficulties that stand in the way. 

COUNTING THE COST 

One of the things we are telling the brethren in the various wards is that sometimes in their haste and in their enthusiasm to go forward with any project they forget the lesson contained in a parable used by the Savior. We are employing it rather literally. I would like to read it to you : 

For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? 

Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, 

Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish. (Luke 14:28-30.) 

Within the last few years the borrowing of money for the construction of Church buildings has been stopped. In addition we have been endeavoring to get the people to pay their ward debts, with the result that, in spite of unfavorable economic conditions, these debts have been steadily reduced year by year, until now they are only about 30% of the original amounts. You will realize how important it is that the' wards be prepared to undertake to do their part of the building when it is authorized, so that they may not be held up or forced to stop for a period during its construction. In one or two instances, such a condition has prevailed. It is very unfortunate. Almost identically these words of the Savior have been expressed by people who have passed such buildings and seen them unfinished. They have ridiculed those persons responsible for failure to adequately prepare for the undertaking. 

So it is a challenge to us all to be thoroughly prepared when we undertake anything in life to carry through to a successful conclusion and in conformity with our plans. In this connection, I would like to call your attention to other instructions which the Savior gave in connection with this parable : 'Whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple." (Luke 14:27) And again, "No man, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the Kingdom of God." (Luke 9:62) Therefore, when we undertake to put our hands to the plow as disciples of the Lord, Jesus Christ, we must count the cost, and prepare ourselves to go forward throughout our lives in his service if we expect to gain the blessings and benefits which come from membership in his Church, and adherence to his principles, as they have been revealed unto us. I pray that the Lord may help every one of us to sense these things and to learn these lessons that will help us and our children, — our young people, — to learn the foundation of faith, to develop understanding of faith, to seek and gain that faith in God which will enable them to be true to every principle of the Gospel and go forward and serve the Lord with full purpose of heart, which I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An anthem, "Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty" (Gounod) was sung by the Singing Mothers, Sister Margaret Hewlett, soloist. 

Elder Ralph E. Woolley, President of the Oahu Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 10 :00 a. m. Saturday, October 2. 


