Morning
05 10 1925



ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

DIVINE REVELATION 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands for the doctrine of divine revelation, immediate, continuous and direct. "We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God." Such is the language of one of our Articles of Faith, written for the Church by its founder, Joseph Smith, prophet, revelator and seer. 

My reason for referring to the subject at this time is a remark attributed to Colonel William Jennings Bryan, of honored memory, during the famous Evolution trial at Dayton, Tennessee. He is reported to have said that to destroy the Bible would be to destroy revealed religion. 

MAN IN THE IMAGE OF GOD 

Before going any further into that, I wish to say that I was in full sympathy with the Great Commoner in his general attitude on that historic occasion. I believe that when God made man in His own image, He made a man, and not a monkey, nor any other animal out of which man has evolved. I do not believe that the first of our race was a savage, or a cave man, who courted his wife with a club and carried her off by force. Such creatures there may .have been, and there may be now. I do not dispute the findings and the facts of science — real science — which is knowledge, not guess-work. But I do deny that the great father of the human family was a creature of that kind. 

adam's antecedents 

Adam was no ordinary character. How could he be, with such a mission and such antecedents as were his? In the heavens, before this earth was formed, he was Michael the Archangel, leader of the 101  spirit hosts that vanquished Lucifer and his rebellious legions, winning the right to take bodies upon this planet, to become "souls" capable of endless increase and advancement. What Latter-day Saint can doubt that Adam was among "the noble and great," referred to in the Book of Abraham as "rulers," chosen before they were born into this world to play leading parts in the divine drama having as its purpose the uplift and promotion of "the lesser intelligences" who became God's sons and daughters — the end designed by the all-wise, all-benevolent Creator from the beginning? 

THE EVERLASTING GOSPEL 

Bear in mind that the Gospel of Christ is not a mere life boat or fire escape — a way out of a perilous situation. It is all this and more. It is the path to endless glory and exaltation, the plan of eternal progression, designed by the wisdom of the Gods before the foundation of the world. Adam's fall was a part of the great plan. It brought death, spiritual and temporal death — for Divine Justice demands a penalty for every transgression,- — but it also produced the human race, so far as mortal bodies are concerned, a race redeemed by the great Atoning Sacrifice, which paid Adam's debt, mended the broken law, repoised the unbalanced scale, and restored the equilibrium of right. Thenceforth man, by pursuing the path marked out for him, might go on to perfection. It was Adam's mission to bring us into this world. It is Christ's mission to lift us up out of this world, when the object of our sojourn here is accomplished. 

THE DISPENSATIONS 

Adam was the first to receive and obey the Gospel, revealed to him out of Eternity at the very beginning of Time. Since his day it has been upon the earth repeatedly, in a series of dispensations, of .which this is the greatest and the last. Adarn,presides over all the gospel dispensations, including the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times — he presides over them all, just as the President of the Church presides over all the Stakes of Zion and all the outside Missions, though each has its own immediate presiding authority. Joseph Smith is the immediate head of this dispensation, and Adam is the -general head of all. Standing next to Christ in the Priesthood, whenever that divine power is revealed from heaven to earth, "it is by Adam's authority." So says Joseph Smith. 

The world has not seen the last of Father Adam. He is coming again, as the Ancient of Days, to fulfill the prophecy of Daniel. He will' come to the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, where of old he blessed his posterity, foretelling what should befall them to the latest generation. He will call a council and assemble his righteous descendants, to prepare them for the glorious advent of the King of Kings. 

This is a part of the divine program, as made known bv modem reyelation, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

NEITHER APE NOR CAVE MAN 

Dismiss from your minds, my hearers — if any of you entertain the notion — that Adam, the Ancient of Days, the great Prince and Patriarch of our race, was ever a jungle-inhabiting ape, or even an unenlightened cave man. He knew more about religion than all the theologians of the world combined. He knew more about science — the sources of science — than any evolutionist has ever dreamt of knowing. How can anyone whose soul has been fed with the revelations of God, whose mind has been illumined by the spirit of the Gospel, the gift of the Holy Ghost, conceive of Adam, the first of the human race, as anything less than the Bible represents him to be — a man formed in the image of his Maker? — which is tantamount to saying that the Maker is in the form of man. 

BRYAN ANSWERED 

And now as to that remark of Colonel Bryan's. Is it a fact that the destruction of the Bible would mean the destruction of revealed religion? According to my reckoning there' are at least three books, in addition to the Bible, that would have to be destroyed before revealed religion could perish. I refer to the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the PearL-of Great Price, which three, with the Bible, are the accepted doctrinal standards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. All these sacred volumes have to do with revealed religion, and they would have to be destroyed before it could see destruction. Even then it would survive if a man like Joseph Smith remained, to receive from God the revelations of His will. 

NOT DEPENDENT UPON BOOKS 

Revelation does not depend upon books. It is an eternal principle, a perennial, ever-flowing fountain. Books may come and books may go, but revelation goes on forever. 

The Bible is one of the best books in creation. We do not undervalue it. To the Latter-day Saints it is the word of the Lord, save for the errors that have crept into it through faulty translation. But it is not the source of eternal truth, nor the foundation of all righteousness. No book can claim that distinction. Religion could exist without the Bible, and it did exist, as revealed from Heaven, before that ancient volume was compiled. 

There were prophets before Moses, he who wrote the Pentateuch or first five books of the Bible; and their inspired utterances (some of which have been brought to light in modern days) are just as sacred as the writings of Israel's great law-giver. But they are no substitute for revelation; they do not constitute the foundation of religion. Religion rests upon the Rock of Revelation, and that rock is Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. 

Some critics think they have discovered that Moses did not write the books attributed to him. But there was no such thought 103  the mind of the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he revised, by the Spirit of Revelation, the writings of Moses, as they now appear in the Pearl of Great Price. He plainly identifies Moses with the authorship of the Book of Genesis. Surely the testimony of a prophet of God is quite as worthy of consideration as the theories of college students and the carpings of "higher criticism." 

The Book of Mormon is also the word of the Lord, and that it was translated correctly, we have the Lord's declaration to the Three Witnesses. But the Book of Mormon is not the basis of our religious faith. It rests upon a much solider foundation. 

The Bible is not the Gospel; neither is the Book of Mormon; though both may be said to contain it. Such books are records of the Gospel's experience among men, and are a means of preserving a knowledge of the truth and handing it down to posterity. Books are a great convenience, an almost priceless boon, but they are not absolutely indispensable. Religion could live without them. 

THE SCIENCE OF SCIENCES 

But it could not live without God. He is the Source of all true religion and all true science, revealed or unrevealed. What is science but a part of religion, a branch or form of revelation? And what is religion but the science of all sciences — the science of eternal life? Music, poetry, and other arts — they also are forms of revelation, means used by the Giver of every good gift to make known the beautiful and the sublime — things that we "seek after," and ought to seek, for they are portions of the Divine Message, accessories to the Everlasting Gospel. 

THE HOUSE OF ISRAEL 

The Bible is a history of God's dealings with an ancient people — the House of Israel — the descendants of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, in whom Jehovah purposed to bless all nations, and did so when He came through the lineage of those Hebrew patriarchs as the Redeemer of mankind. He also blessed the world when he dispersed his chosen people among the nations, thus sprinkling them with the blood of the faithful, the blood that believes, and with spirits answering to that blood. The Bible is likewise a prophecy of God's intentions toward the human family, and a repository of laws and ordinances that His ancient people were commanded to observe and obey. 

LAWS ACTIVE AND OBSOLETE 

Some of those laws are still in force, notwithstanding the lapse of ages. Others are obsolete, out of date. This cannot be said of the Ten Commandments, the Sermon on the Mount, or the principles of the Everlasting Gospel; but it can be said of many parts of the Holy Scriptures. They make good reading, but their day is past; they are not in force upon the present generation. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The same is true of parts of the Book of Mormon and parts of the Doctrine and Covenants. They have no reference to us whatever; and I'll prove it in a twinkling. 

MODERN ILLUSTRATIONS 

In the month of January, 1847, the main body of the Latter-day Saints were encamped upon the Missouri River, prior to crossing the great plains to the Rocky Mountains. President Brigham Young, who was then the head of the Church, voiced to its members "the word and will of the Lord," now constituting Section 136 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. It directed all the people of the Church and those who journeyed with them to be organized into companies of hundreds, fifties and ten's (meaning wagons) preparatory to the passage of the plains. This meant that they were to yoke up their ox teams, hitch them to. their covered wagons, and organize as directed, "with a covenant and promise to keep all the commandments and statutes of the Lord our God." 

Now, this part of the revelation is still alive and in force. We are all required to keep the Lord's commandments, such as apply to our case and condition. But we are not required to hitch up ox teams, organize into companies of hundreds, fifties and tens, and cross the plains to the Rocky Mountains. Yet that requirement, obsolete as to us, was the word and will of the Lord to our fathers and mothers, our grandfathers and grandmothers, encamped upon the Missouri River in January, 1847. 

Another illustration : Many years ago there came to Salt Lake City a learned prelate of the Greek Catholic Church. He visited one of our Sacrament meetings, and was greatly shocked to see the Saints sipping water instead of wine at the table of the Lord. He afterwards said to me : "Why do you do this ? Jesus Christ authorized the use of wine when he instituted the Sacrament at Jerusalem." "Yes," I assented, "and He also authorized wine when He instituted the same ordinance among the Nephites here in America, as told in the Book of Mormon. But what has that fo do with us? We are living in another dispensation. We are not governed by what Jesus told the Jews to do, nor by what he told the Nephites to do. We are governed by what He tells the Latter-day Saints to do; and the latest word that comes from Him through his living oracle at the head of the Church, must always take precedence over any former commandment given by Him to us or to any other people. We also will use wine in the Sacrament whenever the Lord requires it; but since He has said that it matters not what we eat or drink at such times, so long as we do it with an eye single to His glory, we use water instead." 

THE CHURCH OF THE LIVING GOD 

No book is good enough to preside over the Church of God and direct its activities. Books are not a sufficient guide for a pro105  people on their way to the celestial kingdom. They are good as far as they go, but they do not go far enough. We have something better — a living, heaven-inspired Priesthood, with the restored Gospel, the gifts of the Holy Ghost, and the principle of immediate and continuous revelation. Other churches are built upon books, traditions, decrees of councils and synods, private interpretations, man-made doctrines, maybe-so's and peradventures. But the Church of the Living God stands where He has placed it, upon the Rock of Divine Revelation, and the gates of hell cannot prevail against it. 

A BRAVE FIGHT 

No, Friend Bryan. You meant well, and you made a brave fight for the truth as you saw it, though somewhat hampered by tradition, and probably by environment. And the Lord will bless you for it and remember you when He makes up his jewels. But you fell short, through lack of further light and understanding. 

No, the destruction of the Bible would not destroy all that God has revealed. It would not destroy what the other good books contain, nor seal up the heavens against future revelation. It would remove only a history or a hand-book of religion, one of the means used by the Almighty to preserve among men the truth as Heaven nas revealed it. 

TRUTH THE ETERNAL 

What is Truth? Joseph Smith says: "It is the knowledge of things as they are, as thev have been, and as they will be." John Jaques, inspired by the Muse of Poesy, which is only another name for the God of Truth, built upon the same great thought when he gave us this glorious hymn : 

O say what is truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the richest of worlds can produce; And priceless the value of truth will be when The proud monarch's costliest diadem 

Is counted but dross and refuse. 

Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize 

To which mortals or Gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies, Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies; 

'Tis an aim for the noblest desire. 

The sceptre may fall from the despot's grasp When with winds of stern justice he copes, But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, And its firm-rooted bulwarks outstand the rude blast And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Then say what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, 

For the limits of time it steps o'er: Though the heavens depart and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, 

Eternal, unchanged, evermore. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

AUTHORIZATION OF CHRIST TO WITNESSES OF HIM "But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you; and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth." 

These men who were to be witnesses were eye witnesses of the resurrectionxif the Lord Jesus Christ, and that is the principal fact to which they were to bear witness in all parts of Judea, Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. 

THE REALITY OF CHRIST AS DEITY 

My beloved brethren and sisters, in the world today belief in Jesus Christ is too perfunctory, too conventional. The reality of Christ as Deity does not seem to possess the souls of men. The resurrected Lord is a something apart 'from most men's lives. I think I cannot better illustrate this thought than to read a few lines written by one of the soldiersin Flanders, when he was in the midst of shot and shell and facing death. Writing of the Christ he says : 

"We had forgotten you, or very nearly,. You didn't seem to touch us very nearly. Of course we thought about you now and then — Especially in any time of trouble —  We knew that you. were good in time of trouble — But we are very ordinary men. 

"Now, we remember, over here in Flanders — (It is not strange to think of you in Flanders) —  This hideous warfare seems to make things clear. We never thought about you much in England — But now that we are far away from England— We have no doubts, we know that you are here. 

"We think about you kneeling in the Garden — 

Ah, God, the agony of that dread Garden — 

We know you prayed for us upon the cross. 

If anything could make us glad to bear it 

'Twould be the knowledge that you willed to bear it — 

Pain, de^th, the uttermost of human loss!" 

Too many in the psuedo Christian world today can say as truthfully as the soldier : 

"We had forgotten you, or very nearly —  You do not seem to touch us very nearly." 

The reality of God the Father, the reality of Jesus Christ, the 107  Lord, is a truth which should possess every human soul. God is the center of the human mind as surely as the sun is the center of this universe, and once we feel his Fatherhood, once we feel his nearness, sense the divinity of the deity of the Savior, the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ follow as naturally as the day the night, and as night the day. 

HOW MAY WE KNOW GOD AND FEEL HIS NEARNESS? 

How may we know God, how may we feel that nearness to him ? That is the question that young men are asking today. Boys and girls are nof. naturally irreligious; they are not profaners because they love to be. I know they seem indifferent, but in their very hearts, they are asking these eternal questions, and they long for the answer. 

ONE WAY, TO THINK, TO REASON 

There are three ways, among others, to which we should like to ask the young men of Israel, particularly, to seek their God and to feel his nearness. One is to think, to reason. Reason though only an insecure guide will lead us to him. However, "Dim as the borrowed rays of moon and stars to lonely, weary, wandering traveler — is reason to the soul," but it is a guide, and too few men use it positively with a desire to know the truth. 

ANOTHER, TO ACCEPT THE WITNESS OF MEN OF INTEGRITY 

Another pathway is to accept the witness of men who have known him, who have seen him. I think we pay too little attention to the value of these witnesses. I have read in your presence this morning the authorization of Christ to his apostles who were to be witnesses of him. The very first act of the Twelve after Christ's ascension was to choose a man from among those who had been eye witnesses of Christ's resurrection. That was what they wanted the apostle to be who was to take Judas' place. (Read in the first chapter of Acts) — a witness of his resurrection. Mind you, many men in the world today accept 'Christ as a great teacher, but that is not the fact which is going to transform their souls. He was a great teacher, the greatest teacher of men, but he was also God. Through him we know God; through Christ, God reveals himself to men. It is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world of whom I speak when I plead for young men to come close to him and to think of him as a reality after his death, after his burial. Of the resurrected Christ were the early apostles to be witnesses in all Judea, and in Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. 

Now let me here say that we ought not to question the integrity of these men. I believe in them, I cannot believe that they wanted to deceive, I cannot believe that they were deceived, I cannot. In measurement of time we are a long way from them, I know, but if we study carefully their lives and their histories we GENERAL CONFERENCE  find that their testimonies are reliable and that the integrity of their lives is unquestioned. To emphasize the value of their testimony, let me call your attention to what Mr. Roger W. Babson, author of Fundamentals of Prosperity has written about integrity, how our entire social structure is built upon it: 

"The first fundamental of prosperity is integrity. Without it there is no civilization, there is no peace, there is no security, there is no safety. Mind you also this applies just as much to the man who is working for wages as to the capitalist and every owner of property. Integrity however is very much broader than the above illustration would indicate." 

Before this quotation, he shows that there is no value at all in the bank book, no value in the deeds and mortgages that we hold. 

"The value of them lies in the integrity of the lawyers and stenographers who draw up the papers, in the integrity of the officer and clerks who sign the documents, in the integrity of the courts and judges who would enable us to enforce our claims; in the integrity of the people, the citizenship who will stand behind that enforcement, and make our claims legal and valid." 

"Integrity," he continues, "applies to many more things than money. Integrity requires the seeking after as well as the disposing of truth. It was their desire for truth which founded our education institutions, our sciences and our arts. All the great professions, from medicine to engineering, rest upon this spirit of integrity, and only as they so rest can they prosper or even survive." 

TESTIMONY OF MEN WHO SAW THE RESURRECTED CHRIST 

These men who were to be witnesses declared before their enemies, the very men who had put Jesus Christ to death on the cross, that they had seen the risen Lord. I will first read Peter's testimony given immediately after the resurrection : 

"Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know; 

"Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain: 

"Whom God has raised up, having loosed the pains of death; because it was not possible that he should be holden of it . . . 

"This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses." 

Ah, but the doubting critic says, and he says conscientiously, if we had absolute proof that this was Peter's testimony, it would have force. But remember, he says, that the Acts of the Apostles were not written until eighty years after Christ, or nearly half a century after the event of which Peter testified took place. Right. But let us remember also that in the severe test to which modern science has put all these ancient scriptures during the last half century, especially every ancient document that purports to contain any witness of the resurrected Christ, many documents have been thrown aside as spurious, the "Acts of John," the "Acts of Andrew," the "Acts of Peter," and others, have been thrown aside, 109  the Acts of the Apostles has emerged from that criticism with its authenticity established. Then we know that the author — we accept Luke as the author, and that, too, is fairly well establishedLuke received the witness personally of the men who saw Jesus Christ after he was resurrected. We know that Luke was in Rome with Mark, and we know that Mark was in Jerusalem at the time that these great events took place. It is not thoroughly established but it is quite certain however that Mark was the young man who ran into the Garden the night of the betrayal. We know that Luke was in the house of Philip, the evangelist, and stayed many days at Caesarea. We know that at that time he went to Jerusalem, he conferred with James who presided over the Church at JerusalemJames the brother of the Lord, who had accepted the gospel after the resurrection. The testimony of James, Luke heard, and in all probability the testimony of Peter, because Peter was there as one of the leaders when Luke went up to Jerusalem on that occasion, and he would hear first hand Peter's testimony. Men were living, five hundred of them at that time, who had seen the resurrected Lord. What about the integrity of men, integrity of witnesses? What right had Luke to suspect them? He did not, he accepted their testimony as valid, and their testimony of the resurrected Lord convinced him of the divinity of the work of Jesus Christ to which he subscribed and of which he became a member. 

He heard from Paul, day after day and night after night, the testimony that he gave, and if there is any question about the direct testimony of Peter we have the direct testimony of Paul in the oldest recorded testimony extant, older than the Acts — a testimony written in the first twenty-five years of the Christian church. Paul testifies that he saw the risen Lord. With that testimony you are all acquainted. He further testifies that the risen Lord was seen of Cephas (Peter), "then of the Twelve; after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James; then of all the Apostles. And last of all he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time." 

I cannot doubt that testimony. Why can the world? This testimony is of the resurrected Lord, not Jesus the teacher, not the Jesus of Nazareth, who went about as any other Jew, but Jesus the Lord, the Redeemer of mankind. 

THE MODERN TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH SMITH 

Let me call your attention to another witness nearer to us than the ancient apostles — the testimony of Joseph Smith the prophet This comes closer to us. These other men are a long way from us in measurement of time. Joseph Smith testified that the risen Lord appeared to him, that he was introduced to the boy prophet by the Lord himself, the Father, who said ,"This is my beloved Son; hear him." If that testimony stood alone it would be, as Christ said his testimony would be, of no avail when he spoke of himself. If Jesus were the only witness it would not be of force, but he had also God's testimony and the Scriptures. And so, Joseph Smith has other witnesses whose integrity cannot be questioned. Of Joseph's wonderful testimony I have not time to speak, I am merely suggesting a line of thought that young men may follow and come nearer to Christ if they will be conscientious and true, and not "play pranks with their souls," but be honest as Joseph Smith was honest, and as these other men were honest to death in their testimonies. 

THREE WITNESSES CORROBORATE THE VISION OF JOSEPH 

Three witnesses corrobrated Joseph Smith's wonderful vision, and in that testimony which they give they bear record of another truth, the immortality of man. For if Jesus Christ lived after death, and the angel Moroni came as these three witnesses declared, then you and I shall live after death! Man is immortal. Oh, what a wonderful revelation, what it means to men who now but perfunctorily and in a conventional manner accept the gospel of Christ! These three men testified : 

"Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this work shall come: That we, through the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen the plates which contain this record, which is a record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites, their brethren, and also of the people of Jared, who came from the tower of which hath been spoken. And we also know that they have been translated by the gift and power of God, for His voice hath declared it unto us." 

"Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, MartinHarris." 

I will not take time to read all. 

One of the most pleasant features of an interesting and profitable visit that I recently made with President B. H. Roberts through the Eastern States mission, was our coming in contact with scenes in early Church history. When we were at Palmyra I read in one of the local papers a testimony, or memorandum, given by a man who knew these three witnesses personally. He has never joined the Church, but in that local paper I read this testimony of the integrity of one of these witnesses : 

John H. Gilbert, on September 8, 1892, the man who set the type of the Book of Mormon, says this of Martin Harris : 

"Martin Harris was a good farmer owning a farm of about one hundred and fifty acres about a mile north of Palmyra village, and had money at interest. Martin, as everybody called him, was considered by his neighbors a very honest man." 

Martin, the honest man, says to the world, "God's voice declared to us that the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated are true; an angel of God came down and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we beheld and saw the records." "A very honest man," bears the witness, why should we doubt it? 

I rejoiced at the last meeting in Pittsburgh to hear President Roberts bear witness in a most inspirational meeting, that he heard 111 

David Whitmer, another of the three special witnesses, testify in these words of the book: 

"Young man, if that book (pointing to one of the early editions of the Book of Mormon) is not true, then there is no truth in this, God's world." 

The integrity of these three witnesses cannot be successfully questioned. Men who heard these testimonies direct from the witnesses themselves are with us, and their witness is true. 

THE WITNESS OF THE SPIRIT 

But there is a greater witness than the witness of men, great as that is. If we receive the witness of man, the witness of God is greater, for this is the witness of God which he has testified of his Son : "He that believeth on the Son of God hath witness in himself." There is a witness of the Spirit. God does reveal today to the human soul the reality of the resurrection of the Lord, the divinity of this great work, the truth, the divine and eternal truth, that God lives, not as a power, an essence, a force, as electricity, but as our Father in heaven. Oh, why do men try to make that power, recognized by science and religion everywhere, a mere force. I sometimes wish that such men would kneel down and try to pray to electricity. Imagine trying to pray to electricity! You can't do it, and yet that is one of the greatest known forces. You can, however, pray to God the Father, a personal being. God reveals to the soul his existence. He reveals the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, who came to earth to give to men the great reality of the existence of God and his Son; and in that spirit and with such witness in my soul I bear testimony today that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world : 

"I know that my Redeemer lives, What comfort this sweet sentence gives, He lives, He lives who once was dead; He lives, my ever living head. He lives, all glory to his name! He lives, my Savior still the same, 

the sweet joy this sentence gives, 

1 know that my Redeemer lives." 

God help us and all the world to sense the reality, that the gospel of Jesus Christ is established among men, and through obedience to it the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man may become realities to every son and daughter of Adam. God hasten the day when that testimony will be real in every heart, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I feel very humble and never have I felt more than I do today to rejoice in the revelations of the Lord, especially in those that have come to us in this dispensation. It has caused my heart to GENERAL CONFERENCE  within me as I have listened to the testimonies from our brethren as they have borne witness that God lives and that Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and the Son of God. I desire to add a few words of testimony to these great truths, knowing as I do that not only the brethren on this stand, but you, my brothers and sisters, are also able to bear the same testimony, because these things have been made known to you by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

TO KNOW GOD AND JESUS CHRIST IS LIFE ETERNAL 

In a prayer uttered by our Savior just before his death, he said : 

"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. 

"I have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. 

"And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was." 

I know, as these our brethren know, that God lives; that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotton Son of God in the flesh, and the Redeemer of the world. But I have not learned all that there is to know about him and our Father, neither have you, for in this mortal life it is impossible for us fully to comprehend the mission of our Lord and Redeemer, to know him and just who and what he is, and the extent of the great work he accomplished. But if we shall be worthy to enter into the presence of God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son and there be crowned with exaltation, it will be necessary for us to know them in the fullness. However, until we do enter into their presence and receive this great blessing, we will not fully know the only true God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent. 

THE PRE-EXISTENCE OF CHRIST 

A very significant thing in this prayer is the expression, "And now, Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was." The work accomplished by our Savior did not begin when he came into this world a babe at Bethlehem. A great work had already been accomplished by him before he came here, and he exercised authority in the eternities, under his Father, before this world was framed, but not with a body of flesh and bones. 

John, the beloved disciple, bearing witness of this, says : 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 

"The same was in the beginning with God. 

"All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made. 

"In him was life; and the life was the light of men. 

"And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehendeth it not." 

THE WORK OF CHRIST TO BRING TO PASS IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE 

Jesus Christ was the light of men before he came here to die. Under the direction of his Father he created worlds — great earths for habitation by the children of God — and exercised authority as the Son of God, the first begotten in the spirit, beyond that which we can comprehend. In the scriptures, known to us as the Writings of Moses, we have some account of this great work that was performed by Jesus Christ. I want to read a portion of the conversation, had by Moses with the Lord, and recorded in this scripture : 

"And the Lord God said unto Moses: For mine own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom and it remaineth in me. 

"And by the word of my power, have I created them, which is mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth. 

"And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten. 

"And the first man of all men have I called Adam, which is many. 

"But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them. 

"And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and thy servant will be content. 

"And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. 

"And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. 

"For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

So we see by this that Jesus Christ is the light and the life of men, he was a Creator before this world was made. But we are not concerned so much just now with the works he then performed, nor are we concerned just now with these other worlds and their inhabitants. 

LIFE DID NOT ORIGINATE ON THE EARTH 

This we know, and that will suffice until all things are revealed, the inhabitants of these worlds created by Jesus Christ, are begotten sons and daughters unto God. Life did not originate here; man did not first come into existence here. We are told by our Father in heaven, that man is eternal, that he has always existed, and that all life on this earth came from elsewhere. We may not be able to comprehend all this now, but the time will come in the providence of the Lord, when all these things shall be made known and we shall have knowledge in the fullness. 

THE FAITHFUL PROMISED ETERNAL LIFE 

The thing we are vitally interested in in this life is stated in that expression : "For behold, this is my work and my glory —  to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This GENERAL CONFERENCE  is vital to every faithful Latter-day Saint, for we have had committed into our care the gospel of Jesus Christ, and have been commissioned and given power through the Priesthood, to go forth and proclaim this message of salvation in all the world. We are to bear witness to the fact that God our Father, through the redemption made by Jesus Christ his Son, has granted unto all men the power of forgiveness and remission of sin through their faith, repentance, and baptism in water, by which they may come back, if they will be faithful in keeping his commandments to the end, and enjoy eternal life in his presence. Through the mercy of God all men are to receive immortality, and to those who are willing to serve and be obedient to all the commandments of the Lord, he has promised another great blessing known as eternal life. Immortality means life without death, and eternal life means much more than that, it is life in the presence of God and in the presence of Jesus Christ his Son, there to receive the fullness of the blessings and the power which the Father has promised to his sons and daughters who, through the keeping of the commandments are found just and true. All who receive the gospel and endure in faith to the end are heirs to the blessings of this great promise — eternal life. 

When the Savior stood at the well in conversation with the woman of Samaria, he gave her some very important instruction regarding eternal life. There he also declared himself to be the Son of God. He asked her for water to drink, and in turn promised her and all who would believe on him and keep his sayings, that to them he would give water which if they would drink of it they would never thirst. It is written : 

"Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again," (He was speaking of the water in the well), "but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well springing up unto everlasting life." 

On another occasion when teaching the Jews, they asked Jesus what sign he could show, or what great work he had accomplished, to prove his ministry. They referred to Moses and to the manna that the Lord had sent to the children of Israel when they were in the wilderness. The Lord answered them thus : 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you Moses gave you not that bread from heaven, but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven. 

"For the bread of God is he that cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world." 

So he declared himself to be the water of life and the bread of life, and made the promise that those who would receive this water and this bread should never thirst, and never hunger, their souls would be satisfied. They misunderstood him; the woman thought he spoke of water which quenches thirst. The Jews thought he spoke of bread which sustains the body, but he was speaking of the principles of the gospel, these principles of eternal life which, if the people would live them, would bring them back into the presence of the Father. 

Again he said : 

"I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." 

This is my testimony. I know these things are true. I know that if we are obedient to the laws and principles of the gospel as they have been made known to us, if we will walk in righteousness and endure in faith that we shall obtain eternal life. This life will bring us back into the presence of God, there to dwell in the fullness of light, there to know our eternal Father, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent. Those who do not dwell there shall not know them, for they shall not be blessed with eternal life, which is God's life, although they may be in possession of immortality, for all men will receive the gift of the resurrection through the atonement of Jesus Christ. We must have faith in Jesus Christ as the Son of God. We must believe in the Father, in the Son, and in the Holy Ghost, as three separate and distinct personages, the Father and the Son having bodies of flesh and bones, not blood. We are misunderstood by many people when we say that Jesus Christ has a body of flesh and bones and his Father also, and they naturally conclude that such a body must be quickened by the blood, but the body after the resurrection is not quickened by blood, but is quickened by spirit, and is immortal. We must believe in the Father, Son and Holy Ghost as the great governing power of the universe. It is necessary for men to repent of their sins in order to have perfect faith, and after repenting of their sins it is necessary that they have their sins remitted in the waters of baptism, that they be cleansed in the manner which the Lord has provided and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, by which they may come back again from spiritual death to spiritual life, to dwell in the presence of the Father and the Son. 

CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH MEN MAY SECURE SALVATION 

In conclusion let me read these words by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the day on which this Church was organized : 

"And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. 

"And we know that justification through the grace of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true; 

"And we know also, that sanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is just and true to all those who love and serve God with all their mights, minds and strength. 

"But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God. 

"Therefore let the Church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation." We are not saved now. I have stood on the street corners and heard men declaring that they are saved, because they have received religion and been converted. No man is saved as long as mortality endures, unless he is 'faithful to the end, and there is always a possibility, as I have read to you here, that men may fall from grace. 

So, it behooves us, as Latter-day Saints, to be faithful, to keep the commandments of the Lord, to walk in righteousness all the days of our lives. Thus through obedience to those commandments which are set forth in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and by continuance therein, we shall receive immortality, glory, eternal life, and dwell in the presence of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, where we shall truly know them. Oh, I pray that we may endure, that we may receive these blessings, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "O ye mountains high." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Datus E. Hammond, president of the Pioneer stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


