Afternoon
04 10 1925

At 2 o'clock p. m., President Heber J. Grant stated that the choir and congregation would sing, as the opening hymn: "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

After the song, Elder George Ray Maycock, president of the Kolob stake, offered prayer. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

It is a source of gratification, my brethren and sisters, that another opportunity is afforded us of assembling in general conference under the favorable circumstances which exist. 

I stand before you this afternoon with great trepidation, facing this large congregation of people, and pray that I may have your support, and the support of our Father in Heaven, during the few moments which I expect to occupy. 

THE SPIRIT OF PROPHECY VS. THE WISDOM OF MAN 

As a basis for the remarks which I desire to make I will read briefly from the second general epistle of the Apostle Peter to the Church. He had been bearing testimony to the divinity of the mission of the Redeemer of the World, had recounted the many evidences of his divinity to which the people were witnesses, and concluded with these words : 

"We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts. Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. 

"For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." 

The spirit of prophecy, my brethren and sisters, to which the scripture I have read refers, is the word of the Lord which comes to the Church, through the agencies he has provided. 

It must always continue with the Church if one purposes of the Father, as they apply to his chidlren, here upon earth, are to be accomplished, for without the word of prophecy, which is the word of the Lord, expressed through those whom he has appointed, and who have been sustained by the voice of the people who make up the membership of the Church, we are left to depend upon the wisdom of man, and if we are to judge the future by the past, the time will never come when the-wisdom of man alone will be sufficient to lead us on to the ultimate ideal of the perfect life, to which we aspire. 

At the afternoon meeting, on Tuesday, if we follow our usual mode of procedure, the names of the men who have been designated to direct the affairs of the Church at the present time, will be presented to you, and you will vote to sustain them as prophets, seers, and revelators. 

I sometimes wonder if the keys of authority which belong to the office and calling of one who occupies this exalted position in the Church, is fully understood by the people. 

CHARACTER AND DUTY OF PROPHETS, SEERS AND REVELATORS 

A careful study of the etymology of the word and of the lives, works and character of the prophets of old makes clear the fact that a prophet was, and is, one called to act as God's messenger. He is to teach men the character of God, and define and make known to the people, his will. He is to denounce sin, and declare the punishment of trangression. He is to be above all else a preacher of righteousness, and when the people depart from the path which he has marked out for them to follow, is to call them back to the true faith. He is an interpreter of the scripture, and declares its meaning and application. When future events are to be declared he predicts them, but his direct, and most important calling is to be a forth-teller, or director of present policy, rather than a foreteller of that which is to come. 

There is but little difference between the calling of a prophet and that of a seer, or revelator. Saul, who had been sent by his father on an errand which appeared to be impossible of accomplishment, said to the servant who accompanied him, let us return; but the servant, knowing that Samuel, the prophet of the Lord, was in the city where they chanced to be, replied : Let us go thither. Peradventure he can show us the way in which we are to go, and here we are told that before-time in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake : "Come and let us go to the seer, for he that is now called a prophet, was before time called a seer." 

The scripture also tells us that when King David was up in the morning, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Gad, David's seer, instructing him to deliver a certain message to the king. 

It will thus be seen that the words prophet and seer are used inter-changeably, and have practically the same meaning. In the revelations which have been given for the direction of the Church, in the present dispensation, the Lord says : 

"The duty of the president of the high priesthood is to preside over the whole Church, and to be like unto Moses, Yea, to be a seer, a revelator, a translator and prophet, having all the gifts of God, which he bestows upon the head of the Church." 

I have made these introductory remarks, my brethren and sisters, in the hope that you may better understand the calling and responsibility which develops upon these men whom you sustain as the presiding authorities of the Church, to be prophets, seers and revelators to it. 

As I have defined the calling and responsibility of a prophet, you are my witnesses that these men who are before you today are discharging the responsibility which has been placed upon them. They are expounding the scriptures, calling men to repentance from sin and transgression, and pointing out the way which, if you walk in it, will lead you back into the presence of our Heavenly Father, and Jesus Christ, his Only Begotten Son. 

OUR PERILOUS TIMES NEED THE DIRECTING POWER OF PROPHECY 

I believe that you, my brethren and sisters, and you my friends who may be present, who are not members of the Church, but are interested in and carefully studying existing conditions in the world, will agree with me in the conclusion which I have reached, that if there has ever been a time when the spirit of prophecy has been needed to compose and harmonize the conflicting forces which are warring one against the other, when the word of the Lord is necessary in order that these questions, which are shaking the very foundations upon which our religious, social and political structures are builded may be settled, it is the day in which we live. 

In some localities the social laws which have from the beginning of time, as we count it, given protection to the family relation, and made possible the development of the world to its present social condition and civlization, are entirely ignored, while in others they are perilously near chaos. 

The world war, instead of bringing the allied nations closer together, as we had hoped that it might, threatens, because of the financial complications which have arisen, to drive us farther apart, while in the school of religion conflicting opinions threaten to bring chaos to existing theories regarding our relationship to God, and the present and future state of man, as it applies to eternal life. 

Already the people are assembling in two hostile camps, one calling itself fundamentalists, the other modernists, one professing to base its conclusions on the truths brought out by modern scientific research, the other on the Word of the Lord, as it has come down to us in sacred writ, regardless of its harmony, or lack of harmony with modern thought, or the onward march of scientific investigation. 

It is not a new controversy, but one which has characterized every gospel dispensation which has existed from the beginning to the present. 

Men highly educated, and trained in certain fields of scientific research, with but limited knowledge of the great plan of human redemption, provided by the Lord for the blessing of his children, proceed to point out certain obscure passages which may be found in the Bible, and which may have no bearing at all on the relationship of man to his Maker, thus seeking to bring the entire book to ridicule, and destroy faith in it as a divine revelation from God. 

On the other hand men knowing little of the great truths which have come to the world through the investigations of men, denounce all modern thought, sometimes even when it is demonstrated truth, if it does not appear to harmonize with their interpretation of the written word of the Lord. 

The controversy, it appears to me, is one which might be more readily composed if the parties to it better understood both sides of the question under discussion, and were governed by a spirit of tolerance and reason, rather than one of dogmatism. 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN FUNDAMENTALIST AND MODERNIST 

What is the difference between a fundamentalist and a modernist? If asked this question I would answer somewhat as follows: A fundamentalist is one who believes in the teachings and customs of the past, as they have come down to us by means of the written word contained in sacred writ, or secular history, preferring, where the ideas and teachings of today conflict with the past, and wheredefinite evidence is lacking to establish one or the other theory to accept the old, rather than the more modern interpretation. 

The modernist prefers, and accepts, the customs, philosophy and thought of the present in preference to that of the remote past. 

The fact that a person may profess to be a fundamentalist is no evidence that he is either right or wrong, and the same rule may be applied to the modernist. Fundamentalism is that upon which a system or structure is builded. 

In the first century after the ministry of the Redeemer of the world many conflicting opinions prevailed upon the subject of religion. Numerous churches were established, each professing to be followers of;Christ, while differing greatly in creed. Paganism and idolatry were almost universal except among the Hebrew people, and even among them some were converted to the various systems which prevailed. 

In the confusion which ensued, Mohammed, a descendant of Abraham, through his son, Ishmael, seeing the danger which threatened, arose and declared that there was but one God, the God of his father, Abraham, and called his people away from the worship of idols, to the worship of a living but invisible God. To the present day this doctrine remains the fundamental faith of Islam. 

Buddha established a great system of religion on the theory that the spirit of man is eternal, that it may come to earth and tabernacle in the flesh at different periods of probation, perhaps more than once in the body of a man, perhaps in the body of an animal, if the man has proven to be unworthy, until in time it may go into the presence of God, or Nirvana. This is funadmental to the faith of the followers of Buddha. Thus we see that the Mohammedan and Budhist, while greatly differing in creed, are both fundamentalists, but that is no evidence that either is right or wrong. 

The same may be said in truth of the modernist. Looking back  the history of the past it is plain that man cannot with safety ignore the lessons which it teaches, for truth, no matter when revealed, remains the same, and that great truths have been made known to man in the remote past cannot be denied. 

Neither can we ignore the truths which have come to the world as a result of scientific research in the dispensation in which we live. The sure anchor, then, upon which we are safe in building our structure, is demonstrated truth, whether it be the truth of the remote past, or the living present. Thus we become both fundamentalists and modernists, with our feet firmly planted on solid ground. 

WHENCE CAME MAN, AND WHITHER GOETH HE? 

The question most discussed in the present controversy is that phase which deals with the origin and destiny of man. Whence came man, and whither goeth he? 

Without reference to the many theories which have existed upon this question, and which still exist, I desire to refer briefly to the one which is today greatly disturbing the minds of the people. Was man created by the decree of God, our Father, and placed upon the earth in his present form, or is he the creature of some natural process of development, which has in the course of the aeons which have passed brought him to where he is ? 

. The suggestion of Darwin, the great scientist, that man, by a process of natural selection and gradual development, may have evolved from a lower order of animal life to what he now is, although he did not declare this a fact, but only a theory, has resulted in much discussion, and too often in bitter controversy. 

Closely allied to the Darwinian theory, but still quite different is the theory of evolution, which is being so widely discussed, and I sometimes think so generally misunderstood today. 

Evolution is the process of evolving, or becoming developed. An unfolding or growth, from a latent state, or from a pre-arranged plan. 

WHAT IS THE ATTITUDE OF THE CHURCH ON THIS QUESTION ? 

Naturally many, many people are asking, "What is the attitude of the Church on this important question, as it applies to the existence of man?" Let me answer briefly. 

The foundation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints rests upon faith in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost 

We believe that God is an existent, living personality, and that man was created in his image. "In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." 

We believe that Jesus Christ was, and is the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, immaculately conceived and born of the Virgin Mary. That through the atonement wrought out by him all men are redeemed from the penalty of death, pronounced upon our father Adam, through the resurrection from the grave, which he made possible, and that by obedience to the divine principles of right living which he taught, mankind may be redeemed from personal sin, and brought back into the presence of the Father, to enjoy the fellowship and association of the Son. 

We believe that the Holy Ghost is the agency through which the will of the Father is communciated to his children, here upon earth. That it takes of the things of the Father, and manifests them unto man. It bears record of the Father and the Son, is our comfort in sorrow and distress, our strength in weakness, and our guide when in doubt. It is the Spirit of the Lord, the light which lighteth everything that cometh into the world, and with which all men are endowed in a greater or less degree. It is the spirit of knowledge, by which man became a responsible agent, knowing good from evil, thus becoming answerable for the deeds done while here in probation, an account of which all men must render when they stand before the bar of God to be judged according to their works. 

These doctrines are as old as the revealed will of the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth. It is, always has been, and will continue to be the doctrine of the Church. From it the Church has never receded, it never can recede; it is fundamental, and our faith in it makes us fundamentalists. 

Unlike the sectarian Christian denominations of the world, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believes and teaches, that birth into this life is not the beginning of the existence of man, nor is death the end of it, but that the spirits of all men existed in a pre-mortal state, before coming to this earth to be clothed upon with mortality. That after death they return to the spirit world to await the resurrection, when they will come forth from the grave, with glorified, immortal bodies, to receive the glory and exaltation to which their works while in mortality entitle them. 

We believe that the earth is constantly undergoing changes which will eventually restore it to its paradisiacal glory, and make it a fit abode for glorified man. 

We believe all thatGod has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. 

If, then, to have our faces constantly toward the future, if to be forward looking, forward moving men and women, if to believe that great stores of knowledge, hidden treasures of knowledge, are yet to be revealed by men who have the spirit of the pioneer, which impels them to reach out into new and unknown fields of endeavor, whether it be in science, sociology, or exploration, if this, I say, is modernism, and if these changes which have come, and which are to come in the future, through the exercise of the intelligence of man, which is the intelligence of God, and which is based upon demon truth, and not theory, is evolution, then are we evolutionists. 

If, however, to be in harmony with modern thought we must renounce our faith in a living, personal God, the Creator of heaven and earth, not only the earth upon which we dwell, but the universe of which we form so small a part, that he holds dominion over it, shapes the destiny of its inhabitants, and controls the laws by which it is governed; if we are to deny the knowledge which has come to us by direct revelation from heaven that Jesus Christ is the only begotten of the Father; if we are to deny the truth which has been revealed which teaches that man was created in the image of God, was so in the beginning and will always remain so, while he goes on in intelligent development forever; if to be in harmony we are to renounce a single doctrine of revealed truth which has come to us, we unhesitatingly separate ourselves from modern thought and theory, and confidently await the time when revealed truth, whether it be the result of scientific research or the revealed word of the Lord, will vindicate our faith in his word, which through his mercy has come to us in this, the greatest of all dispensations of the world's history. 

The earth and all that is upon it, the sea and all that is in it did not come into existence by chance. Man is not the accidental product of chance. We admit the changes which have come, and believe that others of mighty import are before us, but in it all the Church sees not a thing of chance, but a definite plan, being shaped and moulded by a master mind, for the accomplishment of a divine purpose. 

THE REVEALED WORD OF GOD TO US CONCLUSIVE PROOF 

Time will not permit a presentation of the many evidences which exist in support of this doctrine of the pre-existence and future destiny of man. I ask your indulgence, however, while I refer to a few of the outstanding facts in relation to it. 

The life, ministry and teachings of the Redeemer of the World are sufficient, alone, definitely to settle the existing controversy. We know that there are those who do not regard the written word, as it is contained in the scripture as satisfactory proof, but to us it should be conclusive. 

We concede to all men the right to believe as they choose, but to members of the Church we appeal to remain steadfast in their faith in the revealed word of the Lord. 

There is one thing which characterizes his word which has always appealed to me. It never comes to us as an hypothesis, but always as a definite fact. In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And God said let us make man in our image, after our likeness. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. 

There is nothing hypothetical in this, nothing which admits of various interpretations, if we are to define words in their real meaning. It is a definite abstract statement of fact. The exact process by which this was accomplished we do not know, nor is it essential that we know it, the fact is sufficient, and it will never be disproved by scientific research or otherwise, because it is the truth. 

THE PRE-EXISTENCE OF JESUS CHRIST THE LOGICAL OUTCOME 

That Christ lived in mortality is admitted by all people who are familiar with the history of his time, whether they are believers or not. That he was condemned and cruicifed on Calvary is not denied, and that after his crucifixion and resurrection from the dead he appeared to his disciples, and to many of the Saints with his glorified body is testified to by those who saw and communed with him. 

Christ frequently declared that he was with the Father before he came to earth, and took upon him mortality, and that he returned to the Father after his work among men had been accomplished. That he revealed himself to the people of the world before his earthly existence, is plainly declared in the scripture, as the following will show. 

Soon after the confusion of tongues, at the time of the building of the Tower of Babel, Jared, a prophet of the Lord, led a colony of people from the old world to the new. The brother of this man Jared had gone out to plead with the Lord in behalf of his people, when the word of the Lord came to him, as follows : 

"Believest thou the words which I shall speak? And he answered: Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth, and canst not lie. 

"And when he had said these words, behold, the Lord showed himself unto him, and said: Because thou knowest these things ye are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my presence: Therefore I show myself unto you. 

"Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world te redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. In me shall all mankind have light, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall become my sons and daughters. Seest thou that ye are created after my own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body which ye now see is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear to thee to be in the spirit, will I appear unto men in the fle'sh." 

At a later date Samuel, a Lamanite, prophesied to the Nephites that Christ would be born at a certain date, and would appear to the people of this continent, and that he was the Redeemer of the World. Unbelievers, as has always been the case, were bitterly opposed to this doctrine, and declaring that the date fixed by Samuel had passed, set a day when all who professed faith in his teachings should be put to death. In this crisis Nephi cried unto the Lord in behalf of those who were believers, with the following result : 

"And it came to pass that he cried mightily unto the Lord, and behold the voice of the Lord came unto him saying: 

"Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for, behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world; that I will fulfil all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets. 

"Behold, I come unto my own, to fulfil all things which I have made known unto the children of men from the foundation of the world, and to do the will both of the Father and the Son. And behold the time is at hand, and this night shall the sign be given." 

It was the voice of Christ, the Redeemer of the world, proclaiming to man in mortality his coming and the following day the babe of Bethlehem was born. 

What evidence, my brethren and sisters, do we require more conclusive than this, of the ante-mortal existence of the Redeemer of the world? 

MAN ALONE ENDOWED WITH REASON 

Of all created things man alone is endowed with reason, which is the glory and intelligence of God. Of man alone the Creator has said : The man has become as one of us, knowing good and evil. 

BY REASON'S EXERCISE MAN GOES FORWARD 

It is by the exercise and application of this endowment that man goes forward, and will continue to go forward, forever. By the application of the intelligence of man, which is the intelligence of God, conditions are changed, and may become either better or worse. Remove the application of this intelligence and we have no knowledge of anything in nature which has gone forward, but we do know that the highest degree of perfection reached by man in development, when bereft of it, may rapidly retrograde, whether it applies to things of nature, individuals, communities or nations, and even where the intelligence of man has been applied to its fullest extent, but without the sure word of prophecy, without the supporting power of the Creator, our Father and God, chaos has resulted and it will continue to result, for it is the eternal decree of God that man whom he has placed here upon earth, shall recognize him, otherwise he cannot go on in eternal progression. 

"in the beginning, god" 

My knowledge of geology, which is limited, was obtained through study of that subject from books written by J. Dorman Steele whose works on science were probably more generally used in my school days than any other. In conclusion I wish to read briefly from his Fourteen Weeks in Geology, the following : 

"We have traced in the dim light of the past the history of our earth and its inhabitants. Everywhere we have found a divine hand shaping and moulding to accomplish a divine ideal. Was man created by God's fiat, or by some intermediate process of secondary causes? Alas for the impotence of science, and the scope of our finite intelligence. Primeval man shows no sign of development from the higher tribes of animals. No fossil yet found is a link between him and the monkey. -No ape ever made any improvement on the condition in- which he was born. Man, on the other hand never stays where he starts, he continually progresses. In the beginning God. We can add nothing to the old Hebrew declaration. The study of science ought never to lead one estray from this great fundamental thought. God has assuredly never written anything in nature contradictory of himself. Science and religion are alike his offspring, both will ultimately vindicate him and his attributes. Forgetting then the rancor and bitterness of the past in the joy of newly found truth, they will clasp hand and together cast the crowns of their triumphs, the triumphs of science and Christianity, at the feet of their common author, and God will be proclaimed Lord of all." 

LISTEN TO THE WORD OF GOD. NO TRUTH 1 WILL CONTRADICT IT 

My brethren and sisters, may these fundamental truths remain fixed in your minds, let nothing lead you away from them. Listen to the word of prophecy, as it comes to you through these men who sit before you this afternoon and I promise that you will never be led astray. No development of science will ever contradict the revealed word of the Lord, which has come to us. For the moment theories may appear to be in conflict with his revealed word, but demonstrated truth will always be in harmony with it, for he is the author of all truth. 

That his blessing may continue with us, and his protecting arm be over us, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo : "How beautiful upon the mountains," was sung by Louise Watson. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I believe I fully sense the importance of this occasion and the value of the time that is passing for this great congregation. Of myself I have little to say, except to announce my belief in the gospel of Jesus Christ. During the two sessions of this conference my soul has been enriched by the truths that have been announced by those who have addressed us, and the music that seems almost divine. I have had the privilege of grasping the hands of dozens of my brethren and sisters who live in remote places, and who have left their homes and their own affairs, and have paid their expenses to come here to meet in this great conference. I am sure that when it is concluded the feeling will abound in the heart of each — that it has been well worth while. 

AN IMPORTANT SUBJECT 

President Ivins touched upon a subject, and I regret that he did not take more time to enlarge upon it, as I know he is capable of doing, to our blessing. He reminded me of a statement made only a short time ago with reference to what has been going on in Tennessee, where some of the brightest minds of this world were  conflict — those who adhere to the plain teachings' of the OldTestament and the New, and those who accept none of these teachings as divine. During the catechisation of an important witness reference was made to the first two chapters of Genesis, wherein it is stated that the heavens and the earth were created. And each day something was accomplished until the seventh day. After discovering by reading the same that all the various animals and the shrubs and vegetation had been created, the witness was asked : "Do you believe this?" And he announced that he did. Then he was asked : "What then is meant by this, and do you believe it : 'And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made'"? 

'And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it : because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.' " And then he read this : 

"These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, 

"And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew; for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground." 

He said : "What does this mean? and do you believe it? Here we have the heavens and the earth, and man created in the image of God, male and female, and after the seventh day we find — after the completion of it — the statement that there was not rain upon the earth and there was not man to till the ground. 

"But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. 

"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul." 

The witness could not explain, but he affirmed his profound belief in the statement contained therein. 

TWO CREATIONS REFERRED TO 

Now to this vast audience I could ask that question without hesitation, with the assurance that most of you would say, Why, there were two creations referred to. In the first place God created all these things. He formed the earth that was without form and void. He caused light to appear, he caused the waters to take their place, and the dry land to appear. He created spiritually, everything that dwells upon the earth; and after he had done that, the statement is made that there was not yet man to till the earth. Man in his spiritual condition was not prepared to till the earth, and so God formed his body for him. He prepared his physical being, and then the spirit that had been prepared before was placed in that body and he became a living soul. It seems to me that a splendid opportunity was lost to say to all the world, read the first and second chapters of Genesis carefully, and, to a very large degree it will settle any doubt that may be in your mind as to the possibility of the various forms of life gravitating from one to the other, because we are told, "every tree and every seed bearing fruit after its kind." 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS HAVE ANOTHER WITNESS 

And then the Latter-day Saints have another witness, and I am minded to read to you, just briefly, the testimony of something that the world has not yet received, but which, to my mind, is the truth as contained upon papyrus, and I will read the heading of this : 

"A translation of some ancient records, that have fallen into our hands, from the catacombs of Egypt; the writings of Abraham while he was in Egypt, called the Book of Abraham, written by his own hand, upon papyrus." The Latter-day Saints accept the statement at face value, as contained in the first and second chapters of Genesis. Yea, we believe the Bible, all the Bible, to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly, and in addition we find in this translation that has been given to us from papyrus, by the Prophet Joseph Smith this statement by Abraham : 

PRE-EXISTENT SPIRITS 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

"And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits," 

Let us keep that in mind: "For he stood among those that were spirits." 

Not the physical tabernacles that we now possess. 

"And he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. 

"And the Lord said: Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me. And another answered and said: Here am I, send me. And the Lord said: I will send the first. 

"And the second was angry, and kept not his first estate, and, at that day, many followed after him." 

Of course there is a great similarity between this and the Old Testament. 

THE CREATION OF LIGHT "Then the Lord said: Let us go down. And they went down at the , and they, that is the Gods, organized and formed the heavens and the earth. 

"And the earth, after it was formed, was empty and desolate, because they had not formed anything but the earth; and darkness reigned upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of the Gods was brooding upon the face of the waters. 

"And they (the Gods) said: Let there be light; and there was light. "And they (the Gods) comprehended the light, for it was bright; and they divided the light, or caused it to be divided, from the darkness. 

THE CREATIVE PERIODS 

Then I will skip several passages: 

"And the Gods called the expanse, Heaven. And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and this was the second time that they called night and day." 

Note the phraseology. Whether it was a period of twenty-four hours or whether it was a period of hundreds of years was not explained, but it was a period of time. And this record that is given as the words of Abraham, having been revealed to him by his heavenly Father, specifies it as a time. And so after each creation it is referred to as a first time, a second time, a third time, and so on. 

"And the Gods ordered, saying: Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the earth come up dry; and it was so as they ordered; 

"And the Gods pronounced the dry land, earth; and the gathering together of the waters, pronounced they, great waters; and the Cods saw that they were obeyed. 

"And the Gods said: Let us prepare the earth to bring forth grass." 

THE EARTH PREPARED TO BRING FORTH GRASS 

Mind you, they were to prepare the earth to bring forth grass. 

"The herb yielding seed; the fruit tree yielding fruit, after his kind, whose seed in itself yieldeth its own likeness upon the earth; and it was so, even as they ordered. 

"And the Gods organized the earth to bring forth grass from its own seed, and the herb to bring forth herb from its own seed, yielding seed after his kind; and the earth to bring forth the tree from its own seed, yielding fruit, whose seed could only bring forth the same in itself, after his kind; and the Gods saw that they were obeyed. 

"And it came to pass that they numbered the days; from the evening until the morning they called night; and it came to pass, from the morning until the evening they called day; and it was the third time." 

THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES 

We will now pass over a few paragraphs, telling of the preparation for bringing forth whales, winged fowl, creeping things, etc., then we read : 

"And the Gods prepared the earth to bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind; and it was so, as they had said. "And the Gods organized the earth to bring forth the beasts after their kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after its kind; and the Gods saw they would obey. 

"And the Gods took counsel among themselves and said: Let us go down and form man in our image, after our likeness; and we will give them dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 

"So the Gods went down to organize man in their own image, in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female to form they them. 

"And the Gods said: We will bless them. And the Gods said: We will cause them to be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue 't, and to have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. 

"And the Gods said: Behold, we. will give them every herb bearing seed that shall come upon the face of all the earth, and every tree which shall have fruit upon it; yea, the fruit of the tree yielding seed to them we will give it; it shall be for their meat." 

Again I will pass over a few passages : 

"And the Gods came down and formed these the generations of the heavens and of the earth, when they were formed in the day that the Gods formed the earth and the heavens, 

"According to all that which they had said concerning every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew; for the Gods had not caused it to rain upon the earth when they counseled to do them, and had not formed a man to till the ground. 

"But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. 

"And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. 

"And the Gods planted a garden, eastward in Eden, and there they put the man, whose spirit they had put into the body which they had formed." 

That is another testimony to me of the origin of the species. It is to me the simplest explanation of the preparation of this earth for the habitation of animal and vegetable life that has ever been prepared. It has been my privilege to read the theories and to listen to the solutions of this problem by some of the wisest men of the world, but wherein they have differed from this plain statement of facts, as revealed by our Father in heaven to his servants, who were his mouthpieces to the children of men, the arguments of my Father's sons, my brethren if you will, whom I love, every  one of them has been feeble indeed, to bear to my mind a comprehension of the origin of man. 

THE TESTIMONY OF MODERN REVELATION 

Then we come again to the story contained in the Book of Mormon, which adds also to the testimony we have of where we came from. Then we have the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith in our day, who has supplemented these things by revelations, that to me are beautiful explanations of the purposes of God toward his children, and his preparation of their peace and happiness throughout the ages of eternity. 

A SURE KNOWLEDGE OF THE ORIGIN OF MAN 

I am grateful that in the midst of the confusion of our Father's children there has been given to the members of this great organization a sure knowledge of the origin of man, that we came from the spirit world where our spirits were begotten by our Father in heaven, that he formed our first parents from the dust of the earth, and that their spirits were placed in their bodies, and that man came, not as some have believed, not as some have preferred to believe, from some of the lower walks of life, but our ancestors were those beings who lived in the courts of heaven. We came not from some menial order of life, but our ancestor is God our heavenlyFather. I am grateful that we are not laboring under a handicap such as I feel that some men are who feel that they have grown up and evolved from some unknown condition; but, on the contrary, standing as we do, facing the problems of life, believing as we do that we were first created in the image of God, that he is the Father of our spirits, and that he created this earth for us that we might dwell hereon, under his wise counsel and direction, we may be happy, to rejoice in life and to prepare ourselves to go back into his presence, to live forever, when our life here upon this earth has been terminated. 

NO DOUBT ABOUT OUR ANCESTRY 

These are some of the things that have come into my mind during this conference, and -I stand here, my brethren and sisters, again to say to you : grateful am I that there is no doubt in my mind as to our ancestry, and I believe, as I believe that I live, that if we will keep the commandments of God, as they have been handed down to us through his prophets from age to age, if we will avail ourselves of this glorious truth as it has been promulgated among the children of men, our lives upon this earth will be filled with joy and satisfaction and assurance, and in the end there will come to us the joy of eternal life and eternal companionship with those we love throughout the ages of eternity. 

OUR MISSION 

This is a part of your mission, ye men of Israel, to evidence by your lives, to teach by word of mouth, this truth, as also the other truths that are essential for men and women to dwell in the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father. Gathered together as we are today under the roof of this building that has been dedicated to the worship of the Lord our God, how grateful we ought to be that there has been removed from us the doubt that exists in the minds of so many of our Father's splendid sons and daughters, that there has come to us that abiding assurance that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that he is our elder brother, and that if we are faithful, in his own due time he will cleanse and purify this earth on which we dwell, and it will be celestialized, and those who have prepared themselves for the celestial kingdom will have the joy of dwelling hereon, to be directed, to be counseled, to be taught, and advised by the Lord of lords and King of kings, throughout the ages of eternity. What a wonderful promise, my brethren and sisters, has been given to the children of men, and oh, how I pray that there may come into the souls of the thousands and millions of God's children a knowledge of the purpose of their being, that they may prepare, while there is yet time before their final summons, for the time when we will be classified and placed in whatever kingdom; we have earned the right to dwell in, when we go to the other side. 

That the Lord may add his blessings, that the joy that comes from knowing the gospel of Jesus Christ may spread throughout the earth, that the truth that is necessary for the salvation of men may be disseminated by those bearing divine authority, that by and by when our Father shall gather his jewels, when the Lamb's book of life shall be opened that we, with those we love and all our Father's children wherever they may be, may be found enrolled there is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

My dear Brethren and Sisters : In using this form of address I do so not without thought or feeling, for to me the Latter-day Saints are dear. I love the faithful members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I sympathize with and pity those who are not faithful. 

I am glad to be associated with you in conference, my brethren and sisters, and as a member of the Church I am glad to share with you whatever of ignominy may rest upon us as a people because of our religion, and being unpopular with the world. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for I know that it is the power of God unto salvation to all those who will faithfully obey the same. 

THE SAINTS HAVE THE COURAGE OF THEIR CONVICTIONS 

There are, without doubt, people listening in on their radio sets to the proceedings of this conference, who would be ashamed perhaps to be seen in our midst worshiping with us, and yet they have an inward conviction that we are right in our worship, and that this is indeed the true gospel of the Master. The Latter-day Saints are not of that character, they have not only a firm conviction but a true and abiding testimony of the truth, and they have the courage of their convictions. 

I have no doubt that there are many others listening in who are interested in the doctrines which we teach, but who, because of what it would cost to be a consistent member of this Church, are manifesting no interest among us. The Latter-day Saints are not of that class, either — they have embraced the Gospel as the  gate and the narrow way that leadeth to everlasting life. They have accepted it as a gospel of sacrifice and self abnegation from beginning to end, and they realize that in order to be worthy disciples of the Master they must be willing to give of their substance in any amount that may be required, even to all that they possess if necessary, for the building up of the kingdom of God on the earth and the establishment of his kingdom. They understand that they must have it in their hearts to lay down their lives for the truth, if need be, and that none who is not thus willing is approved of the Lord. There are, of course, individuals among us who become lukewarm and indifferent. This fact we greatly regret and we are striving to bring all to a unity of the faith and to faithfulness in serving the Lord. 

THE DANGER OF LOSING SALVATION 

There are various causes that keep men and women outside the Church, who have investigated far enough to be assured that we teach the true scriptural doctrine. I would that they had the courage of the Latter-day Saints. I feel that all such are in serious danger, their salvation is in jeopardy. Jesus Christ, the Savior and Redeemer of mankind is also Mediator with the Father for us, and he has said that if we are ashamed of him, he will be ashamed of us before the Father. Men and women who are ashamed of the work of God and the followers of Jesus Christ I fear, will be regarded by Him as being of this class. 

THE STANDARD OF WORTHINESS 

I rejoice in my association with the Latter-day Saints. I believe that I love God, I hope and pray that I do, so as to meet every requirement that he has made upon me. I hope and pray constantly that my faith and testimony in the life, the existence and the mission of Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world may not be wanting. As often as I partake of the sacrament as emblems of his body and blood, I ask myself the question, "Am I ready, am I willing, if it should be required at my hands, to give my life for him and for this cause?" And if I am not thus ready and willing I have yet much to learn and to do, for I must reach that standard if I would be accounted worthy of an exaltation with him in our Father's kingdom. If I did not love the Latter-day Saints I should consider myself unworthy of the position which I occupy. I ought to so love this people that I would rejoice with them in their successes and sorrow with. them in their misfortunes. I think that is a good standard for all of us. If I do not love my brother, I fear my love of God and of Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of the world is wanting, and I do know that salvation is the thing above all other things that I desire and that we all should desire. And I know equally well that we cannot hope to obtain the goal of salvation and exaltation unless we do believe in Jesus Christ as the Son of God, not merely as a great teacher, but we must accept him as the Savior and the Redeemer of mankind. No man can be saved without this faith in Jesus Christ. That means that many men and women are going to be. greatly disappointed in the end when they learn the whole truth. 

AN INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONY 

I am thankful to my Father in heaven that he has made it easy for me to believe on him as the God of this world and the Creator of the heavens and the earth and the laws by which they are governed, the very eternal Father of the spirits of all men; I have no doubts, every fiber of my being responds to that testimony and declaration. I am equally thankful that I have no doubts with regard to his Son Jesus Christ and his mission. I do know by the witness of the Holy Spirit, whose mission it is to reveal unto us the things of God, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior and Redeemer of the world, the very Messiah. I thank the Lord that I have believed and that I have received the witness, and that I am without doubt with regard to these things. As a special witness of the Lord unto the people, not the Latter-day Saints alone/but unto this whole world, I bear my testimony, which I know I will have to meet hereafter, that I do know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that I do know this is his work, and that there must be faith in Jesus Christ, and obedience unto the laws and ordinances of his gospel, if we would obtain eternal life. These things we have accepted, and it is our desire and we are making effort to live up to the perfect law of Christ, the law of the gospel, which is a law of liberty. But we are mortal, we confess our sins daily before God, and before one another, still we have hope, notwithstanding our weaknesses, that we will endure in the faith, and that by persistent striving and with the help of the Lord, we will ultimately overcome evil and gain eternal life, and we can afford to be merciful and charitable to those who are less fortunate than are we. 

OUR ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES ETERNAL 

To those who are on the outside I would like to say this, that while members of this Church are mortal, and have weaknesses, and do err and do things that are not commendable, the principles which we have accepted are eternal, they are true and exalting, and we should be able to differentiate between the lives, actions and words of men, and the religion which they have received and which in their weakness they are trying to live. Now, I admonish you to repent of your sins and come and join us and be better men and women, if you can, than we are, and we will not be jealous or envious, we will love you the more. 

God bless you all, members of the Church and non-members alike, our Father's children, may those who are in spiritual dark, be brought to see the light. May they be given courage to act according to the light and understanding they may receive, that all who would, may eventually be saved and exalted in the kingdom of God, I earnestly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

SYMPATHY EXTENDED TO THOSE WHO MOURN 

Since our last Conference, President Peter M. Hansen, of the Bear River stake, has passed away, also Brothers Arthur A. Paxman, Edgar A. Hunsaker and Hans C. Sorenson, Bishops of Washington, Mesa, and Mount Carmel wards, respectively. 

The fine singing today reminds me of the fact that our organist, the late John J. McClellan, has also passed away. 

We extend our heartfelt sympathy to those who have been called upon, through the death of their loved ones, to be separated from them. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Great is Jehovah, the Lord," Jessie Williams singing the solo parts. 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Harry L. Payne, president of the St. Joseph stake, Arizona. 

Conference adjourned until Monday morning, 10 o'clock, October 5, 1925. 


