Third Overflow
04 10 1925


ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

President of the North Central States Mission 

The Lord has been very good to the children of men ever since man's advent upon the earth. In the very beginning the Lord sent an angel to Adam and gave his instructions concerning the plan of redemption. He later talked to Noah and Moses and Isaiah and Jeremiah and gave them instructions to give the people with reference to their conduct in the earth. Last of all he sent his Son Jesus Christ into the world not only to give the plan of redemption but to give us an example of a perfect life. 

The children of men from the very beginning have shown a disposition to disregard the teachings that the Lord has given them. They stoned the prophets and imprisoned those who believed in them, and when Christ, the Master, the Son of God, made his appearance they rebuked him as they had the prophets who preceded him and put him to an open death. But not until he had established his work among men and commissioned his apostles to go forth and make proclamation of the messages which he had entrusted them with. Every one of these apostles suffered an ignominous death. Not one of them was allowed to die in his own home surrounded by his family and friends. The same bloodthirsty desires which put Jesus Christ, the Master, to death were still lingering in the souls of men and they were not content as long as there remained an apostle or prophet in the earth. Not only the leaders, but the followers themselves were hounded and prosecuted and put to death, until there was not a representative of the Lord Jesus Christ left among men. The Bible came to be the only surviving witness that Jesus was the Christ, and the time finally came in the history of the world when even the Bible and its teachings were confused, and men who professed to be teachers of the doctrine of Christ began to doubt the divinity of his mission, and when this time arrived infidelity and unbelief began to spread more abundantly in the earth. 

The Lord saw fit in his wisdom and mercy to the children of men to bring forth another witness to substantiate the teachings of the holy Bible, for unknown to the world there was another witness which the Lord in his own due time was to bring forth, which was to testify that Jesus was the Christ and bear witness of his work which had been instituted on the western continent, for in the lonely Hill of Cumorah for fourteen hundred years this mute witness had been waiting the command of God when it should come forth to bear witness in connection with the Bible that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the plan of redemption which he instituted was the same today that it had been in all ages of the world. When this witness came out the whole world declared against it, that it was not divine, but the Lord gave evidence to a few or his servants by the power of the Holy Ghost that this record was true, and since the world was in such a deplorable condition spiritually, this witness came forth at a very opportune time. 

Joseph Smith, who was the instrument in the hands of God in introducing the Book of Mormon, had received while yet in his boyhood, one of the most glorious and wonderful visions ever given to mortal man. He had looked into the face of the Lord and his Son Jesus Christ, and had heard from them their message in unmistakable words that the world was wrong, that they had changed the ordinances and broken the everlasting covenants, and that the Lord had seen fit not only to bring forth this witness of which we have spoken, but to reveal to the Prophet Joseph Smith the gospel in its fullness with all its primitive power and its beauty, with every officer, doctrine, and ordinance which had been promulgated by Christ and his apostles, again revealed to the earth with the power of the holy Priesthood to officiate in these ordinances for the redemption and exaltation of God's children. 

It is the mission of the Latter-day Saints to make proclamation to the world of the things that the Lord has done in our day and generation, for the Lord desires that we should make known to the world that he has spoken and raised up an ensign unto the nations, and that his servants were to go forth with all the earnestness, power and zeal of their souls, to declare to the people of this generation that the Book of Mormon is a divine witness and that it bears record that Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, visited the American continent after his cricifixion and resurrection, and established among the residents of the. western world the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; and that he effected his organization among them with apostles, prophets pastors and teachers just as he had done among the Jews. 

As missionaries and elders of the Church, we are bearing witness of these things to the inhabitants of the earth, and declaring to them with all the sincerity and seriousness of our souls that these things are true. 

Many people believe that "Mormonism" doesn't bring anything of importance to the inhabitants of the earth, but those of us who have become acquainted with its teachings, are convinced more and more that we stand in the same relationship to the world that the Apostle Paul occupied when he went on to Mars Hill and saw the inscription "To the unknown God" and said to the people on that occasion : "You are altogether too superstitious, for whom you ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you." The elders and missionaries of this Church are in the world to tell the people of this generation that they are altogether too superstitious and that they have an unknown God whom they are ignorantly worshiping, and him we are declaring unto this generation, for be it remembered that the angel whom John saw fly through the midst of heaven was carrying the Everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea and the fountains of water. 

The God of heaven who made the seas and the fountains of water was a personal God that we are declaring unto the inhabitants of the earth, a personal God who speaks to man, not two thousand years ago, but now, and we are bearing witness with all the power of our souls that God has raised up a prophet in this day and age who has the power and the authority to say to this generation, "Thus saith the Lord." Not two thousands years ago, but today to this particular generation, this is our message. This is our witness and we rejoice before the Lord that we are privileged to engage in his ministry to prune the vineyard for the last time, preparatory for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

President of the Northwestern, States Mission 

Dear Brethren and Sisters : It is a great pleasure to know that the great congregations which fill the buildings provided for our annual and semi-annual conferences, are being supplied with the necessary spiritual food to enable them to live their lives as our heavenly Father desires. 

The world needs the gospel of Jesus Christ, because of the almost hopeless condition of human spiritual thought. The world lacks the idealism the gospel furnishes, in that it does not know the objects of earthly life. If 'men knew their destiny, the object of their creation, and God's purposes concerning them, they would not drift to the extremes of folly and crime which are everywhere so apparent. The "Mormon" people are blessed with knowledge of what God intends in giving us mortality. Men flounder in the mazes of human understanding attempting to solve the problems of life from "human basis" of understanding. To attempt to explain why we are here from purely human sources of information is impossible, and unless we include God and what he has taught us, through the revelations of the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is impossible for us to comprehend life or its possibilities. 

The theology of the world has involved men in such a maze of incomprehensibility that no consistent conclusions are possible. Many cannot reconcile the teachings of Christianity, either with the scripture or with common-sense, because of the inconsistency of its professed teachers. 

It is a great thing to have the assurance that we had a place and being with our Father before we came to earth; to know that we had a spirit life and companionship and understanding, and that our experiences and attainments opened for us the possibilities and experiences we are enjoying in mortality; to know that through the birth into mortality and the uniting of the spirit and the body we can attain to what God has destined respecting our future; that through the acceptance and faithfulness to the gospel we can reach higher stages of development and that eternal progress lies before us, if we shall comply with what the Almighty has taught and demands of us in the observance of the principles of revealed religion. If men could be convinced of the possibilities of eternal development and progress, and that attainment is not limited to mortality, there would be a greater striving among men to lead better lives, to accomplish more good, to attain to higher development, than they are now striving for, through a lack of the knowledge of the gospel. 

Men of the world do not appreciate the truth because they do not know it. If they knew that every wrong done had to be righted; if they knew that every obligation contracted had to be discharged; if they knew that they would be literally judged according to their records, there would be much greater care exercised in their conduct in life. The Latter-day Saints, through the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ, know what life means. How they may eternally progress; how they may acquire an ever-widening field of intelligence until in time they shall possess capability to assume positions of power, that are now inconceivable to them. If men knew their chosen lines of endeavor, that they could eternally continue to progress, it would furnish them an incentive to labor in intelligent righteousness. Philosophers and scientists, if they knew that their work could be extended into the eternities, and they become masters of information that would give them inconceivable power, they would accept the gospel and would live it righteously and rigorously because of their great desire for progressive development. It is given us to know these things and we, therefore, are a highly blessed people. 

Compared with the idealism of "Mormonism," there is nothing in literature or science that reaches the wonderful possibilities of that which God has supplied in giving us a knowledge of the truth. Men can only be brought to a comprehension of these marvelous truths by accepting the gospel of Jesus Christ. How necessary it is, then, that through diligent preparation, we should fit ourselves to make adequate appeal to men of high intellectual understanding. For that reason we encourage in our community the highest standards of education, and it is for that reason that, as missionaries, we are continually striving ior higher and higher planes of intellectual as well as spiritual power. Men are saved only as fast as they get knowledge, which means that they can only have that to which they are entitled, and as we develop or educate our bodies through observance of the laws of life, so will those bodies be prepared to go into the degree of power and glory that we have educated or developed ourselves to fill. There is no limit to human achievement, so it follows that there will be none to eternal achievement. 

God help us to understand, my brethren and sisters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A girls' chorus sang: "Lift thine eyes." 

ELDER CHAS. A. CALLIS 

President of the South'ern States Mission 

I pray that I may be led by the Spirit of the Lord in the remarks that I shall make so that they may be edifying and faith promoting. The fatness of the fields in these peaceful vales, the abundant crops with which God has blessed the people, ought to fill our hearts to overflowing with gratitude to the Giver of every good and precious gift. 

As I have looked over these fruitful fields I have thought of the words of the Savior in which he described the growth of the crops, leading up to the harvest. The Master says : "For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first, the blade; then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear." (Mark 4:28.) Truly we are rejoicing in the "full corn in the ear." 

Faith, sacrifice and obedience must precede blessings. We are told in the Book of Mormon that we receive no reward until after the trial of our faith. This great lesson the Savior teaches in John 12:24. He says: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit." 

If the farmers had been content to let their golden corn and wheat remain securely stored in the granaries there would not have been these bounteous crops to sustain life. The husbandmen with faith and sacrifice took the wheat, corn and other seeds, planted them in the ground, watched for the blade, cultivated it when it appeared, until it developed into the "full corn in the ear." God gives the increase.! 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has grown great in service and sacrifice. This Church will always be a missionary church, and its glorious work will be performed in a spirit of service and sacrifice. Sacrifice will bring forth the blessings of heaven. 

The Lord, of course, in the verse which I have quoted was foreshadowing his own death and the eternal blessings his atonement and resurrection would place within the reach of mankind. Because he lives, we also shall live. Though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor, and we, through his poverty, as the Apostle Paul says, have become eternally rich. The fruits of the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ are holy and glorious. 

We should not accept the blessings of God, the harvests of the fields, as a matter of course. They are gifts from the Creator. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 59:21, we read, "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments." The Lord is willing for us to enjoy the good things of this life in moderation and wisdom; provided we receive them "from the hand of the Lord with a thankful heart in all things." 

Even in affliction it is well to acknowledge his hand. "Before I was afflicted," the Psalmist David said, "I went astray; but now have I kept thy word. It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver." (Psalms 119:67, 71, 72.) 

Sins unrepented of bring a penalty; for God will bring every work into judgment. An ancient prophet said: "Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes : but know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment." (Eccl. 11 :9.) They who sow their wild oats shall reap a harvest of trouble. "For whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap." He that soweth the wind shall reap the whirlwind. 

Forgiveness, like repentance, is not always obtained for the asking. Sins cannot go unpunished. Repentance, without the offender making all the restitution that it is in the power of his hand to make, is as dead as faith without works. 

We are told in holy writ that Satan provoked David to number Israel. It was the "time that kings go out to battle." God was displeased. He sent his prophet to David. "So Gad came to David and said unto him. Thus saith the Lord, choose thee, either three years' famine; or three months to be destroyed before thy foes, * * * or else three days the sword of the Lord, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of the Lord destroying throughout all the coasts of Israel. * * * And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait; let me fall now into the hand of the Lord; for very great are his mercies; but let me not fall into the hand of man. So the Lord sent pestilence upon Israel." (I Chronicles 21.) Let us take these lessons to heart for they were written for our admonition. Before the day of trouble comes let us make the Lord of hosts our friend. Don't wait until judgments come before repenting. Now is the time to repent. 

A great deal of the South has been afflicted with a severe drouth this summer. Fields "are desolate and bare. Brimming rivers have dwindled to small streams. The governor of Georgia issued a proclamation to the people of that state in which he called on them to "humble themselves, acknowledge their sins, and make supplication for relief from present distressing conditions." Similar proclamations were issued by the governors of South Carolina and Virginia. It would not be long before the beautiful southland would be transformed into a land of desolation if the heavens did not give showers to satisfy the thirsty soil. 

The Lord, in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 101, says of those people who in the days of prosperity were slow to hearken  him : "In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me. 

The mission of the Church is to fill the earth with the knowledge of the Lord. We are divinely commissioned to perform this mission. In the doing of this duty there is peace and joy that passeth all understanding. The Lord is with us. Without him we are nothing. We know and testify that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the Redeemer, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. 

I pray that we will keep foremost in our lives and affections our mission on earth, and that our precious testimony will fill our souls, our whole beings, with a constant, broad and a glowing light, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

President of the W estern States Mission 

The splendid discourses delivered this morning have been a real inspiration to me. I hope they have made a deep impression upon your souls. We need the gospel of repentance preached at home as well as abroad. I believe the home to be the place where our children should be taught the things they should know with respect to virtue, honesty, temperance, truthfulness, etc. I fear there is a false modesty existing between many fathers and their sons, likewise between mothers and daughters, and our young people often get the wrong impressions of life from their associates instead of being told the things they ought to know by their parents. 

I appreciate the splendid auxiliary organizations we have in the Church, and the wonderful influence they are having upon the lives of our young men and women in creating within them faith in God and inspiring them with a testimony of the gospel and the divine mission of Jesus Christ. All these things are fine, but parents, too, have a great responsibility. 

I have faith in the youth of Zion, I believe in them. No finer or cleaner men and women can be found anywhere than those who come into the mission field. I count it a blessed privilege to be associated with them. Without exception they are developing into splendid representatives of the Church capable of giving a reason for the hope that is within them. 

While the religious world is being split wide open over the most fundamental doctrines of Christian faith, while churches are divided and pastors forced to resign because of their modernistic views, and the intellectuals are ridiculing religion, calling it superstition, good enough to hold the ignorant in check, our missionaries are going right ahead preaching the gospel of repentance, and contending for the faith once delivered to the Saints. There is no schism, no controversy, no difference of opinion with respect to the saving ordinances of the gospel, to be found in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am frequently asked why we do not center our efforts on the heathen in Africa, and other foreign countries, rather than here in Christian America! Some feel we have no right to proselyte among members of other churches. My answer has been that our message is to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and is as much needed in this country as anywhere in the world. We have a message for all people if they will but receive it. We have no apology to offer for our presence in the world. God has again spoken from the heavens and established his work in the earth; we are his representatives and the gospel we preach is the power of God unto salvation. 

In the World's Work for Feb., 1924, W. P. Merrill makes this statement : 

"It is time we were facing the question: What right has a denomination to exist? It is plain truth that no organization of men or women has a right to call itself a Christian church which is not built on Christ's line. * * * * If Christ did not found the Church and lay down its lines, it has no divine authority. If he did, then to change those lines to alter conditions, to demand what he did not demand, to insist on that which he ignored is indefensible." 

We are glad to face the question, because we are built upon Christ's lines. He is the author of our faith, the founder of our Church, and is the chief corner stone upon which it is built. We are demanding only that which he demanded : implicit obedience to the ordinances of the gospel, and we teach that every doctrine and prin  ciple advocated and taught by Christ and his apostles is part of the great plan of salvation. We affirm that we have divine authority to teach the gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. We declare that holy angels have been sent from the very presence of the Christ to restore the holy Priesthood, and to commission men with authority to organize the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth. We identify the angels, Moroni, John the Baptist, Peter, James, John, Moses, Elias, Elijah; we state when they came, where they came to, and what they said and did. We affirm that we have the same kind of an organization that existed in the primitive Church, with apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, elders, seventies, high priests, bishops, priests, teachers, and deacons; that they are in the work for the perfecting of the Saints, the work of the ministry and the edifying of the body of Christ, and that they will continue in the Church until there is unity of faith in the world. We invite the most searching investigation of our claims, and go so far as to declare if men and women will make that investigation, with a sincere desire to know the truth, God will manifest it unto them by the power of his Spirit. Furthermore, we are making no compromise; we are not altering conditions or changing gospel ordinances. 

Recently I was in Grand Island, Nebraska. A convention of one of the great Protestant churches, for that district, was in session. Baptism was being discussed. One of those present said, 

"Baptism when properly administered, is a beautiful and inspirational sight, that is why we are reluctant about giving it up." Think of it! Not because it is a commandment from God, not because it is the door into the fold of Christ, not because it is the only ordinance through which we may receive a remission of sins, not because it is an outward sign of an inward grace, the answering of a good conscience toward God, but because it is a beautiful and inspirational sight. Such trifling with sacred things can have but one effect; the destroying of faith in religion as a means of salvation. I am grateful to belong to a Church which states its position in very definite, concrete terms upon all these matters that are so vital to the Christian faith. 

I testify to you that I know God lives, that Jesus Christ is the very Son of God, and the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of the living God; that what is known to the world today as "Mormonism" is the gospel of Christ; which is the power of God unto salvation. I pray that we may have a broad vision of our responsibilities, that we may give loyal and willing service to the cause which is so dear to our hearts, that we may all be saved in our Fathers' kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the close the choir sang, "Hosannah." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder F. F. Hintze. 


