Forth Overflow
04 10 1925


ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I desire, my brothers and sisters, that my remarks may be directed by the Spirit of God, and that I may be led to say that which the Lord would have me say here today. I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference very much and was much impressed with the remarks of President Grant in his sermon this morning, and was led to conclude that it is always safe to refer to the word of the Lord in preaching the gospel. It is more necessary than it has ever been, it appears to me, that the Latter-day Saints should familiarize themselves with the revelations of God to his people in this day, when doubt and theory are everywhere present, leading so many of the children of men away from God. 

Solomon said, "Where there is no vision, the people perish" (Proverbs 29:18), and had it not been for revelation from our Father in heaven to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the entire world would be perishing in unbelief, and the correct form of worship would not be known in the earth, neither would there be the certain knowledge that God lives. Thousands of our young people throughout the land today are being taught the Darwinian theory, and many of them are accepting it as a fact, and not as a theory, which it is. The Latter-day Saints believe in the evolution tending to progress, but not according to the theory that is being so prominently placed before the young people of our country in the schools of today. 

There is a- lack of faith in God among the children of men, and men are trying in their own wisdom to account for the creation of the world and the creation of the human family. How much better it is to believe in the gospel of Christ, our Lord, as recorded in the Bible, in the Book of Mormon, in the Doctrine and Covenants, and in the Pearl of Great Price. Light and peace and joy come through the study of the holy scriptures. To believe that we are the children of God, and that we are made in his image, is elevating and inspiring, while to believe that we have descended from some lower form of life has no such result. All people take a natural pride in feeling that they have been born of goodly parents, that they come through an honorable line of ancestry. Associated with that, to feel and to know that God is truly our Father, and that we are made in his image, brings true happiness. But were it not for the fact that God revealed himself to the Prophet Joseph Smith in this dispensation, a true knowledge of God could not be found in the earth. If the men who are moulding the lives of our young people throughout this great land would give more time to the study of the holy scriptures, they would gain more true knowledge of the origin and purpose of life than they ever will gain from the study of rocks and fossils, and the minds of our young people would receive an inspiration that would lead them to live better lives. The Honorable William Jennings Bryan said that men should be more interested in the "Rock of Ages than in the ages of rocks," and I heartily agree with him. 

No man can obtain a knowledge that God lives, that he made man in his image, and that he has revealed himself in this dispensation to men in the earth, except he places himself in a condition to receive the impression of the holy Spirit of God, which leads to him; and no man can find God except he walks in the paths which God, our heavenly Father, has ordained. 

Joseph Smith testified to the world that he had seen God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and that they are tangible beings, for he saw with his own eyes that he was made in their image. He bore testimony to the world that an angel of God delivered unto him the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, and that the truths contained in that book were given unto him to be distributed in all the world, as a witness that the God of heaven has truly revealed himself to men in this dispensation. We have also the testimony of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon, that an angel of God appeared to them, and brought and laid before their eyes the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated. In addition to that, eight witnesses saw the plates, and they also bore testimony of the fact to the world. Is not the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith and these eleven witnesses worthy of consideration ? Is it not more reasonable for us to conclude that it is true than it is for us to believe in the unproven theories of men who have tried to solve the problem of life in their own way and have failed? 

In my judgment it is wrong to teach the youth of this great nation such theories as would lead them to conclude that we are not truly the children of God, made in his image, as men have testified who have seen God, both in this generation and in the generations of the past. Is it not more reasonable to believe that God made man in his image than it is to believe that we have come up from the lower forms of life ? Is it not more reasonable to believe that this world was made by Jesus Christ our Lord, under the direction of God the eternal Father, and that Jesus made the world before he was tabernacled in a body of flesh and bones, as the Scriptures testify? Is it not reasonable to believe that God foreordained prophets, as we read in Jeremiah, first chapter, and that we were in an ante-mortal state able to act and to perform works . under the direction of our eternal Father — the Father of our spirits — who gave us bodies in the beginning, and that our parentage goes back to that eternal Sire who governs and controls the destinies of men, according to their obedience to law? 

I prefer to believe the things that God has revealed to me, by the power of the Holy Ghost, rather than to believe the theories of men who have not that witness. I prefer to believe that God our Father did not leave his sons and daughters here on the earth without a true witness that he is our Father, and that we have been given this earthly existence, with its duties and experiences, to prove ourselves whether we are worthy to be exalted and glorified with his faithful sons and daughters or whether we are not, for if we prove ourselves worthy we can return unto him, and if we do not prove ourselves worthy we cannot return unto him. 

I never saw Joseph Smith, nor any of the eleven witnesses to the Book of Mormon; but I have received a witness from God, through the power of the Holy Ghost, that our heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ did appear to the Prophet Joseph, that the men who have testified concerning the Book of Mormon have told the truth, and that the work we are engaged in is truly the work of God. Through this witness I know that I am his son, and that he is my eternal Father, and that neither my body nor any part of it has come from any other form of life than the life that now produces humankind. Our Father's decrees are unalterable, and so are his plans concerning the destiny of the human family. Men may seek by every means conceivable to disprove the truth as God has revealed it to his servants in ancient as well as in modern times; but the time will come, and I bear witness of it, that they will be weighed in the balance and found wanting. May we cherish the truth, as God has revealed it again in these latter days, for the salvation of the children of men, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I appreciate the privilege of meeting with you good people in the conference meeting, at Barratt Hall. I am sure that there is always a desire in our hearts to learn of the gospel and to partake of the good spirit that always prevails in our conference meetings. 

A few days ago, a young lady asked my why it was that there were so many young people who did not have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In our conversation I told her that I believed it was because the young people were not giving the attention to these matters in the same degree that they were giving their attention to other things. I am of the opinion that there is a sentiment among some of our young people that a testimony of the gospel will come to them in some peculiar way, and that all they have to do is to sit around and wait for it. Others expect the testimony to be theirs, irrespective of the lives they live, or the attention they give to the observance of the laws and commandment of the Lord. However, we as a people know that no one can receive a testimony of the gospel without searching for it, and observing the conditions upon which a knowledge is founded. 

We do not apply the same principles of reasoning to our religious experience as we do to other affairs of life. The student would not expect to go into school and acquire a knowledge of the subject under consideration without considrable study and application. For example, a student who is studying chemistry would not think of combining two acids and getting the proper result if the combination were not the correct combination. But sometimes in religious affairs he feels that there is no obligation on his part to apply the truths he has received in religious lines as he applies the truths that have been found out by investigation along other lines. 

A testimony of the gospej can only come to people who are willing to apply themselves in first learning the gospel, and the  necessary to be done and then observing and putting into practice these principles. As in the example of chemistry the result comes after a time when the proper combination is made, so it is with the gospel, the desired result cannot be obtained except by the proper application of the truths involved. 

We occasionally have people who come into our Church with an idea that something very remarkable is going to happen to them in the way of manifestations or miracles that will be an outward demonstration to them of the truthfulness of the gospel, confirming without question this thing that they have believed to be right. I remember a young man who had investigated the principles of the gospel and done some research work. He had been in the war and had been injured so that it was necessary for him to use crutches. While he had investigated in a fair way, still he continually had doubts and questions about some of the principles. These doubts kept him rather undecided as to whether it was right or wrong. However, eventually he decided that the principles were true, and felt that he had received a sufficient testimony, so that he applied for baptism. On coming up out of the water, I am convinced that he expected to be healed of the injury that he had received in the war and that this remarkable miracle or blessing would be given to him as an added testimony, removing from his mind any particular doubt that he had. But there was no outward demonstration of the power of the Lord in his behalf. Hands were laid upon his head and he was confirmed a member of the Church. He went along for awhile rather feeling that this blessing should come to him, but nothing particular was given to him as far as an outward demonstration was concerned. Because of this absence of any outward sign, he decided that the Church was not true and left the Church. 

We had another case where a woman had been in touch with the principles of the gospel from her childhood but had not taken the opportunity of coming into the Church. In the later years of her life, she felt that she could not stay out any longer, because of the testimony that had come to her, the truths that she had heard from time to time, as the elders visited at her father's home. She applied for baptism, and afterwards she expressed herself as being rather surprised that she felt no particular difference after being baptized than she did before. It was her idea that undoubtedly the Lord would so impress her that she would know beyond any shadow of a doubt that she was absolutely right in coming into the Church. Of course, in a way, she was rather disappointed that this outward manifestation was not given to her. 

I am of the opinion that often our young people, as well as our older people, are waiting for some of these remarkable things to happen to them, feeling that their faith all at once will be made almost perfect by the demonstration that they will receive from their heavenly Father, as to the divinity of the Church. This is not the way that the Lord usually acts towards his people, and all of us will be rather disappointed if our faith is dependent on outward signs. The way has been shown and marked out in a very plain and unmistakable manner, the following of which will bring us safely to a knowledge of the truth. 

I sincerely trust that our young people will feel that it is necessary for them to follow out the usual methods of receiving a testimony observing that marked path which has been given to us. If they will, there will be no question about their receiving such manifestation, the power of the Lord, as will indicate to their souls that they are in the right Church, that the Lord lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is his prophet in these latter days. 

The Lord has indicated that it is obligatory on the part of parents to teach their children the principles of the gospel, but in the final analysis of the thing, it is quite necessary for the children themselves to investigate, and to find out for themselves concerning the truth of the principles that have been taught to them by their parents. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that we will do what we can to interest our sons and daughters in the gospel, and guard them along intelligent lines, so that they will not have to go at it blindly. Then they may be shown how to apply the principles that will bring to them the desired blessings and the testimony, so that in the end our young people, as they grow to manhood and womanhood, will not be left in doubt as to the truth of the gospel. They will have the staunch, firm testimony that their fathers and mothers had because of their application of the principles which bring a testimony. 

If we as parents will only do our part and follow the commandments given to us, as far as teaching our children are concerned, the boys and girls will continue to work out for themselves the different processes necessary to be gone through in order to get this definite knowledge from their heavenly Father. 

Let us live the gospel, and lay up treasures in heaven by keeping the commandments of the Lord, so that when the time comes that we are especially in need of blessings, we can draw on the account that we have with the Lord, and find that our balance is on the credit side. This knowledge will give us greater confidence in going to the Father, in faith, for blessings that we may stand so much in need of, which blessings may be in being able to reach the hearts of our sons and daughters, impress them with the testimony and faith of their Fathers. 

A tenor solo was sung by Charles S. Martin, entitled, "In my Father's house are many mansions." 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. President of the Canadian Mission Never in my life have I felt more joy and happiness in proclaiming and teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ to mankind than I do at  present time. It seems to me that there is a vital need of the simple faith that the gospel provides among the children of men. I am happy, therefore, in the thought that we as Latter-day Saints stand firmly on the ground that the quality of faith that will 'bring both spiritual and temporal salvation to human kind is the kind that leads us to know without a question of doubt that Jesus is the Christ, the resurrection and the life of man, the Redeemer of mankind, and that through him and by yielding obedience to his great plan of life we are to become like him in that we are to have immortality and eternal life. 

When one takes into consideration the fact that there are extant in the world today many who are advocating and teaching from the pulpit, in homes, in conversation, and through the printed pages of newspapers and magazines, the idea that the Son of God was merely a great moral teacher and not the Savior of mankind, that the mighty works he did were only myths, that the literal resurrection of his body was not a fact, then it seems to me that our mission should be more intensified in teaching mankind everywhere the necessity of cultivating a vital faith in him so that the witness that God has implanted in our beings will spring up into everlasting joy, so much so that we will be able to impress the divinity of the Christ upon the hearts of those with whom it is our privilege to meet from time to time. 

A few Sundays ago, together with some of my missionary companions, I attended the services in a very fashionable church in one of the great cities of the land. We were interested in the services, and more especially in the sermon delivered by the minister of the church. His remarks partook more or less of the changes that take place in the lives of individuals who, when they are touched with some superpower that brings about a reformation in their lives, then after this change they step out and devote themselves to a cause, and usually the cause is along the lines of moral subjects which they teach quite religiously. His sermon was built upon the idea that we must be touched with a supernatural power before we are able to bring to pass anything worth while. I think his remarks were well received and suggested, at least, the idea that improvements were always in order and that we arrive at great heights only when operated upon by this power which gives us vision. 

I have often told missionaries that the greatest and most sacred thought that can enter the hearts of men is a thought of God, and then allow that thought to develop and expand until it becomes the dominating power of life. A pure faith must be built upon this thought of God. He is the greatest we know and a knowledge of him is measured more by vital faith in him than the use of any device or mental process we can possibly adopt. We can soon come to our limitations in real faith when we use only our minds, but there are no limitations to our faith when we build it upon spirituality. If we were to judge the faith of Moses we would come to an understanding that it was built upon spiritual power. It was not until he was touched by the light of God's Holy Spirit that he reached the zenith of his power. This great leader of nations knew full well the value of faith in God, he led Israel out of bondage because his trust in God was so great that it seemed, as we read the story, that he could talk face to face with Jehovah whenever the occasion required. There was no doubt, it seems, of a perfect understanding as to where he would receive help when he needed it. He also was conscious of the fact that to maintain this quality of faith he must devote himself to living righteously before God daily. 

The holy scriptures abound in testimonials where the quality of faith has always been operative in communing with God. Indeed, one is inspired when he reads the testimonies of the prophets regarding their talks with, and seeing, God. It seems that faith and trust in God have always been the gateway to joy and happiness. 

In the days of the Christ great principles of righteousness were taught and lived by him to demonstrate his divinity and have mankind believe in his mighty mission. We hear him constantly telling his followers that to believe in him was to have faith in him who sent him, and that to know him and his Father is life eternal. 

Let us pause for a moment and feel the effect that the Son of God had upon his disciples through this quality of faith. He had made them the promise that when he went away he would send the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, and he, the Holy Ghost, would teach them all things, and above all he would bear witness of the divinity of the Christ. Mark you, when Christ was gone from among them they had only one alternative, and that was to return to their former occupations. Then it was that they were touched by that light and power, and by their faith in the things that the Christ had taught them they increased their hope, faith, and knowledge, until they at last lost no time in doing the works that he had taught them to do. Only their faith impelled them to move among the people and preach Christ and him crucified. This faith, as their shield, went with the most of them to a martyr's grave. A faith in a righteous cause will live after men are dead and gone. We know what it means to have a vital faith in our Lord and Master. We have some idea of the character of work we must do to enjoy this kind of faith. 

It is written by a gifted writer : 

"Faith is a necessary faculty of the soul; the power by which we commit ourselves to any object that wins our devotion and commands our allegiance. No man avoids its use, and men differ only in the objects toward which their faith is directed. Of all the tragedies caused by the misuses of human powers, none is more frequent and disastrous than the ruin that follows the misuse of faith. With this necessary and powerful faculty in our possession capable of use on things high or low, to what determination can a man more reasonably set imself than this — 'Since I must and do use faith on something I will choose the highest'? It is with such a rational and worthy choice that the Christian turns to Jesus. He is the best we know. We will direct our faith toward him. This does not mean that in the end our faith does not rest on God — it does, for Jesus is the way, the door, as he has said, faith in him moves us up through him to the One who sent him. 

"Faith in Jesus is the most vivid, true, and compelling way we have of committing ourselves to the highest and best we know. In the light of this truth we can understand why John called such faith the supreme work which God demands of us." 

This very hope we have within us when crystallized into a vital faith is the greatest assurance we have of our immortality and eternal life. To me, this thought is wonderful, it drives me on in that channel whose tributaries are ever flowing into that stream of faith which makes me know and feel the Creator and Founder of the eternal plan of life. It is only when we deal in the complex things of life that our faith in Christ becomes skeptical and doubtful. The things that Jesus did while here upon the earth were simple and generous. They were even great and powerful in their simplicity. They added joy and happiness to those who were affected. Yet we find many today who are trying to belittle and destroy faith in these mighty truths. Who is there here that would care to have removed from the scriptures the simple story of the poor woman who had spent all her twelve years earnings on doctors to rid herself of the dread disease she was troubled with? Not one, I'm sure. Yet in a moment of aboslute faith in the Christ and his healing power she has left us an example of pure faith that cannot be excelled. In face of opposition she declares that "If I can but touch the hem of his garment I shall be made well." Then the Savior, with all the power needed, said to her, "Be made clean.' ' Shall we let this, together with all the other incidents filled with faith, slip away from holy writ and have people say they are only myths ? God forbid. There are too many such things being wrought by the power of God today to permit anything to come along and mar the beauty and power of this circumstance as it stands in the Bible. 

My dear brethren and sisters, to have faith in God and his Son Jesus Christ is the greatest thing we should strive for. It can be ours, this great gift of faith, by bringing ourselves to our knees and in the silent hour of prayer asking God for the fortifying power of his holy Spirit, and by responding to the principles of righteousness as contained in the mighty plan of life and salvation established by our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

I bear witness with all the power I have that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that through him the gospel has been restored in power and authority. I do humbly pray that our faith will never wane, but that it will continue to develop and grow into an absolute fellowship with God and his Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANGUS T. WRIGHT 

Former President pf the New Zealand Mission 

My dear Brethren and Sisters: I rejoice in having this privilege of addressing you for a few moments in the overflow meeting. My remarks, if I am so led, will be more in the nature of a report of the labors of myself and wife while traveling to and from New Zealand and some of our experiences while there. 

I must say first that I appreciate the honor which was conferred upon me in having had the privilege of representing the Church of God in that far off foreign land, to have been a messenger of salvation to those who are in darkness, and those who know not the plan of salvation. 

When my wife and I were set apart for this work, we were promised that we should be blessed and preserved to go in peace and to return in safety, and if we were faithful and diligent we should enjoy the promptings of the Holy Spirit of God. I want to testify here and now that those promises were fulfilled completely and I was frequently surprised to receive impressions and promptings that when followed, led me aright every time and were really a source of wonder and consolation to me. President Grant, who was mouth, told me also to go and be a father to the young elders over there. I tried to remember and obey this admonition always, and so when I could not be a father, then I was a brother to them; I tried to enter into their joys and to sympathize with them in their troubles and their sorrows. We had our annoyances — ves, among fifty elders one could not expect to have perfection in all, particularly when most all were very young — 18, 19 and 20 years only, the majority of them were, of course, inexperienced, but infractions of the mission rules were confined to but one or two of them. 

On our voyage over we were so unfortunate as to have a case of smallpox develop in the steerage, and in consequence, when in the Waitemate harbor, in sight of our friends on the wharf, the vessel was put about, and we all were taken to the quarantine island, fifty miles distant, and kept there for two weeks. It was all for a good purpose, however, as on the second Sabbath, I was asked if I would speak in the evening service for twenty minutes. I gladly consented and it was so arranged. Before beginning I was asked if I would speak on two subjects, namely, Polygamy, and, did we as "Mormons" believe in Christ? The time arrived and the large upper room was filled with the whole passenger assembly of about 300 souls. I told them frankly that we were not there to preach polygamy. In the year 1890 the practice had been discontinued through a manifesto from the then President of the "Mormon" Church, since which time no plural marriages had been solemnized in any place, nor by any officer in the Church over which the Church had any control. 

As to the second question, do we believe in Christ? Yes; we not only believe, but we know that Jesus is the Christ and that he lives because we have seen him. It is no longer a question of simple belief, but an absolute knowledge, as the Father and the Son appeared to our Prophet Joseph Smith and talked with him, and this is the important message which we have to bear to you, that these holy personages, after whose images we were created, came to the  and restored the everlasting gospel in its fulness, and this is what we preach to you today and bear our testimony to you that it is true, is God-given, and we call upon you to repent and to embrace the gospel. 

I felt well and spoke to them for thirty minutes, and then they said I quit too soon. We made many firm friends among fellow passengers and removed much prejudice. While in that land we met many of the high government officials, also a number of other prominent men, and know that we removed much prejudice and feel well pleased with the results of our two years' labor. 

The principal newspaper at Wauganui had printed several scurrilous misrepresentations of our traveling elders, having been influenced by stories which had appeared in English papers to the effect that these Utah elders were sent out to induce young women to join the Church, who were then sent in large companies to Utah for immoral purposes, etc. 

I said to him: Now, Mr. Editor, I want to say, first, that these statements are all false, that we don't confine our work to the young ladies, that we are here to preach Christ and him crucified, and to warn the whole world of his second coming and to induce the whole people to be prepared to meet him; that to pay $250 per head to land young women in Utah, where there is already a great plenty and of the best quality, for immoral or any other purpose is preposterous, and as a business man you know that the emigration laws of New Zealand are so strict and each person applying for a passport is so closely scrutinized and thoroughly questioned, that this is all a physical impossibility; and besides, the American laws governing immigration and the quota .allowed would absolutely prevent any wholesale transfer of young or old to Utah. Now, Mr. Editor, be fair to these young elders who have come thus far at their own expense to bear their testimonies to this people; publish no more of your damaging reports until you have personally investigated them. i 

He promised to do this and give us a fair write-up in the next issue of his paper. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, I must not take up more of the valuable time lest I encroach on the time of Brother Smith. I have much I would like to say to the parents of the elders over there, but time will not permit. Again I rejoice in this privilege, especially to be found in the company of these stalwarts, these mission presidents, some of whom have served in this capacity for a score of years. I testify that it is a noble work, that it is the work of God. I have been blessed in this labor, and I desire to continue to serve. May God keep us all true and faithful, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church 

There are only a few moments left, but I feel that I should take the time to comment upon a thought expressed by one of our speakers, who said that he was asked why our young people do not have a testimony of the gospel. I think that the person asking this question was either misinformed, or was not acquainted with the young people of the Church. It is true that few of them feel to express themselves as having a testimony of the gospel, but when put to the test, they soon learn the difference between that strong feeling they have, that the gospel is true and the assurance that causes them to say they know. 

In my opinion, one reason for this apparent lack of knowledge, on the part of the young people, is that, as parents and officers in the Church organizations, we have not taken advantage of the means provided and have not given the encouragement needed to bring out this important fact. Perhaps we are not setting the proper example, and many of us fail to show the proper interest in this great gift, for we are told that a testimony is the gift of God and does not come unsought. 

Some of our young men go into the mission field and express themselves as not knowing for a surety that the gospel is true, but they feel that it is, and hope soon to gain a testimony. If they had been put to work and given more opportunities to bear testimony at home, this gift of God would have come to them, just as it does later in the mission field. It should be the aim of every parent and every officer in the Church to assist the young people to gain a testimony, for those who are not of our faith do not understand why we send young men and young women into the world to preach the gospel who seemingly are not fully converted. 

I read a letter the other day from a young man who a few months ago was attending the missionary class here. He is now laboring in one of the large cities in Europe. In his letter he calls attention to many little incidents that tend to impress him with the great importance of the service in which he is engaged, and of the guiding influence of the Holy Spirit. 

I will repeat one incident. One morning he awakened early and could not go to sleep again. His companion complained of his restlessness, which the elder could not explain. He finally arose from his bed to study, but could not apply himself to his study and so decided to take a walk. As he started out, he was impressed to go to another part of the city, where two other elders were living. On the way there he met a man and his wife from Utah whom he knew. They did not have the address of any of the elders or Saints in that city, and in their prayers had asked the Lord to direct them. This boy, being the only elder in that city who was acquainted with them, was led to them by this unseen Power, and his vision was 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 99 

opened to the great power of prayer and the willingness of the Lord to answer the prayers of his children. 

Similar incidents of the manifestations and power of the Holy Spirit could be related by nearly every member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Even so, are we fully impressed with the importance of these manifestations? Do they enter into our lives and cause us to turn to our heavenly Father in humility, with a desire to serve him with all our might, mind, and strength? 

Two or three days ago I met a young man on the street whom I have not seen for a great many years. As I stopped to shake hands with him, he said that he wanted to have a visit with me and a long talk. We stepped to the curb and he told this story : 

Having left school in his youth and obtained employment which took him away from home, he had very little opportunity to labor in the Church. His companions and associates having but little time for religion, he drifted from active participation in Church affairs. After two or three children had been born to him, his thoughts wandered to his early home teachings, and to the prospects of the future for his family. In his youth he had been taught to pray, and had never turned from this practice. 

Finally, the elders were called in to administer to one of his children who had been given up by the attending physicians. Almost instantly the child was relieved and continued to improve until it was soon in perfect health. 

This little incident brought forcibly to his mind the teachings of his childhood, and he was so impressed that his whole soul is now centered upon so living that he may go with his family to the temple, there to have the promise of the new and everlasting covenant sealed upon them. This young man's mother has been a constant worker in the temple for many years, and her prayers have gone out to the Lord, asking that the heart of her son be touched, and in the Lord's own way and in due time these prayers have been answered. 

Thus, we see the importance of loving one another, as we are commanded to do and we should constantly be found serving the Lord by serving our fellow men and encouraging them in their efforts to earn as their reward salvation in the celestial kingdom. 

May this be our lot, is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Daughter of Zion." 

The closing praver was offered by Elder John Keddington. 


