Morning
06 10 1925

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My Brethren and Sisters: I ask that while I stand before you this forenoon I may be guided by God's holy Spirit, so that the words I speak may be of value to those who have come here this day in hope of spiritual food. As I look back over my life, it seems to me that in halls of learning or among the affairs of men I have had ample Self-confidence and sometimes just a little self-assurance; but when engaged in the work of the Lord, in this great latter-day program, I always feel my utter and complete dependence upon the Lord and his Spirit, if I would do my work well. In the high calling which has come to me in the Church — and I do not understand why that calling has come to me — I feel that I must be as clay in the hands of the potter, must be as an instrument in God's hands, by which divine purposes may be accomplished. So, I ask that I may have your assistance in the words that I may speak to you this morning. 

TESTIMONY AND GRATITUDE 

It seems that the theme of this conference has been that this Church is a latter-day witness to the reality and personality of our Father in heaven, of his Son Jesus Christ, and of the divine validity of the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ. I desire to bear witness with my brethren who have spoken that I know that God lives, that Jesus Christ was his Son, that we are engaged iiTworking out an eternal plan for the salvation of mankind; and that Joseph Smith was called in his boyhood, by God, to initiate the work of the restoration of the gospel in our day. I am grateful beyond, my power of expression for this testimony, and I bear it gladly to all who care to listen. 

THRILLED BY THE CALL FOR MISSIONARIES 

I have been fed and instructed by all that has been said by my GENERAL CONFERENCE  during these two days; but I must say that the one thing that pierced my heart and thrilled me during this conference was the call of our President, the living Prophet of God, for an army of mature men, one thousand strong, to go into the mission field to preach the everlasting gospel to those who do not yet understand it. I felt as if I heard the voice of the prophets of old, who asked if there were faith in Israel. I believe that there is faith in Israel, I believe that the call that was made will be answered, that the men who go out will be blessed abundantly, that the wives and the children who remain at home, in sacrifice that their husbands and sons may go out, will likewise be blessed and comforted, and that Zion and the world at large will be blessed by this call and the obedience that we shall give to it. When the call came, it seemed to me that I could see the army going out — an army to battle for righteousness, to battle against wickedness, an army which has no weapon save that of truth, an army devoting itself simply to the cause of truth. I am certain, my brethren and sisters, that we were all touched in our hearts when that call came from the lips of our President. 

THE WORLD NEEDS THE LIGHT OF THE CHURCH 

My own experience tells me that the world has need of such an army, waging the battle for righteousness in the name of the truth of Almighty God. It has been my duty, with the consent and knowledge of the First Presidency, to spend a part of this year in traveling over the Western states as an agent of a department of the government, which has given me intimate association with many men not of our faith. I have come out of this association and this labor with the conviction that the world now, as perhaps never before, needs the light that issues from this Church, and the truth for which we stand. We are indeed ready, as a world of God's children, for the army for which call has been made at this conference. 

HIGH QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP CAUSED BY PERFECT DOCTRINE 

Not long ago in one of the states to the north of us, in the company of a local delegation, I called upon one of our branch presidents. The little branch numbered about a hundred people, had been organized only a few months ago, and was presided over by a young man who has been brought up in one of the stakes of Zion. After we had had a chat with this brother, as we left, the leader of the local delegation, who served as our guide, said to me : "We are keeping our eyes on this young man. He has been here less than two years, but he has in him the qualities of leadership. We believe that if we are not careful that 'Mormon' boy will sodn be the leader of our community." Then he added : "Will you tell me why it is that so many of your people appear to possess such high qualities of leadership, that we must recognize them, even in so young a man as the one we have just left? Is it because of your doctrine, or is it because of your wonderful leaders, and their wise 137 , irrespective of doctrine?" I answered this man as best 1 could. My thought went back to a statement made by a modern prophet, President Brigham Young, when a similar question was asked him many years ago; and when he paraphrased the words of one of the ancient apostles : 

"In conversation not long since with a visitor from the Eastern States, said he, 'You as a people consider that you are perfect.' 'Oh, no,' said I, 'not by any means. Let me define to you. The doctrine that we have embraced is perfect; but when we come to the people, we have as many imperfections as you can ask for. We are not perfect, but the gospel that we preach is calculated to perfect the people, so that they can obtain a glorious resurrection and enter into the presence of the Father and the Son.' " 

A SYSTEM OF TRUTH LEADING TO PERFECTION 

Here is a definition given by one of the great prophets of our Church. We do possess a perfect doctrine; and what a gift it is! I wonder if the Latter-day Saints are fully appreciative of the fact that they are in possession of a system of truth which, if applied and used, embraced and wholly consumed by man, may lead man into perfection. As I read human history, ever since the beginning of time, the great thinkers and leaders of the world have sought to formulate systems of government, doctrine or thought, to lead people into a perfect state of living. Thus, we have the great men of the ages : A Confucius, arises in China, in search of a perfect guide to human conduct and achievement. We have a Buddha in India; a Mohammed in Arabia, a Plato in Greece, and many others seeking for this one thing that we declare to all the world that we possess. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a system perfect in itself, which, if used by human beings, may lead every soul into a perfected state of life, both on this earth and in the life to come. Perfection is the ideal of Latter-day Saints — nothing short of it. A tremendous ideal it is; smiled at by those who do not understand; nevertheless our ideal. 

We live by our ideals, we die by our ideals. Nations grow large, or they dwindle, according to their ideals. A humble people, years ago, found the truth of God, — the only God, the living God, the personal God, — and Israel ever since its foundation has been a teacher of nations because of that high ideal. In our own day, within the memory of children in this congregation, a nation arose which formed as its ideal a godless superman, a man who would be like unto God, but without God; and as a result of that ideal came the bloodiest battles and the most destructive warfare recorded in history. 

CAN PERFECTION BE ATTAINED? 

Our ideal is perfection; but, no doubt, the question arises, in the minds of every one of us : "Is it possible for man to win perfection? Do we have reason to believe that there lies in the gospel GENERAL CONFERENCE  Jesus Christ the power to lead us into a perfected state of existence?" As I have attended these conferences, these many years, I have often heard statistics read concerning the birth rate and death rate and other vital statistics, which point out that those who live the gospel of Jesus Christ are indeed being perfected. I had the privilege a short time ago to read the manuscript of a book written by Dr. Franklin S. Harris, the President of the Brigham Young University, in which he has taken the statistical facts concerning the Latter-day Saints, recognized by the world at large, and used them, according to the methods accepted by the world at large, to test out the fruits of "Mormonism." From chapter to chapter it is shown that the fruits of "Mormonism," when "Mormonism" is properly lived, are a condition of increasing perfection, or a perfected state of living. 

AN AID TO PHYSICAL PERFECTION 

Let me call your attention to one principle which has in it the power of producing physical perfection. More than ninety years ago the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to write for us the Word of Wisdom. We know by our own experience that physical perfection may be achieved in part— that we may at least be on the road to physical perfection — by obedience to the Word of Wisdom. It is interesting to note that, ever since that Word was given, men of science have discovered, and are discovering, evidence upon evidence confirming the soundness of the statements in the Word of Wisdom. Alcohol is no longer regarded as a good thing for the human body; and I am glad to know that our Nation is now a dry Nation, that we by acts of our Congress and Legislatures have declared that alcohol is not a good thing for man. Brother Ballard stated yesterday that the use of tobacco is increasing. Nevertheless, the findings of men of science, in their laboratories and studies, are to the effect that tobacco is not good for the human body. Likewise it has been shown that tea and coffee and all other stimulants are harmful and retard physical development. 

SMOKING A CAUSE OF MENTAL DEFICIENCY 

The last bulletin of Antioch College, one of the colleges in the East, has just reached me. This bulletin is devoted entirely to a study of the effect of tobacco on the students in that institution. I shall not take the time to read this to you, but only to quote the summary, on the first page, of the man who wrote it. Further on in the body of the bulletin he tells how very carefully the work had been done. He says : 

"A careful study of smoking among men students at Antioch does not disclose any permanent effects of smoking upon blood pressure, lung capacity, or pulse rate; but a definite relationship is established between smoking and low scholarship. Among men students, 31.8 per cent of nonsmokers fail to maintain required grades, while 62.3 per cent of heavy smokers similarly fail. Inhalers fail most often. Before this study began 139  more susceptible smokers had been eliminated, since many more smokers than non-smokers had failed and been dropped from college." And he concludes with this statement: 

"With these figures before us, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that smoking is actually a cause of mental inefficiency." 

A Latter-day Saint cannot read a statement like this without remembering the promise which" is contained in Section 89, that those who obey this Word of Wisdom shall find "wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures of knowledge" — it seems to be a literal confirmation. So, in every field of Church activity, or teachings, whether with respect to the physical, mental or spiritual aspects of life, we find that within the teachings of the Church lie the germs and powers of achieving perfection on the part of human beings. 

THE GOSPEL A POWER THROUGH WHICH PERFECTION IS ACHIEVED 

Brother Stephen L. Richards spoke to us yesterday about the testimony that may be won by a correct approach and search for testimony. I thought, then, of the scientific equivalent of a testimony. In the laboratory the chemist may take an element and, by heat and pressure, change it completely in its physical properties. It is possible to take black amorphous charcoal and, under the influence of heat and pressure, to change it into transparent, crystalline diamonds. If lifeless, inert matter may be changed, a greater transformation may be expected in the souls of men, when, under God's influence, by the power that comes from the use of the truths that God has revealed to his children, men obey the gospel. Such a change, coming into human lives, is greater than that from the black charcoal to the luminous white diamond. The lives of Latter-day Saints, by the tens of thousands, attest that such a transformation is possible; that there lies in the gospel of Jesus Christ the power for man to N achieve perfection, even in this life, physically, mentally, spiritually and in every way, if only he will give himself to the ideal of perfection. 

The question uppermost in my mind is whether we as a people are using" to the full the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ; whether indeed we are perfecting ourselves as we should. _ We dream of a great day, a day to come when Lord and Master Jesus Christ shall come to reign and rule upon the earth, when he shall be the King, and all shall bow to him. That is our great dream. We are here to hasten the coming of that day; to prepare the way for the coming of the Lord. The question with respect to myself and my fellows is always whether we are so living, so conducting ourselves, so approaching perfection, so strong in courage, so fearless that that work is being done in a manner to hasten .the great day. The Lord uses us, men and women of flesh and blood, made in his image, possessing his eternal doctrines, to work out his purposes. We must qualify ourselves so that the Lord may GENERAL CONFERENCE  his purposes rapidly and well through us, men and women. What a tremendous responsibility we are under. We need to go out fearlessly and we can go out with courage, for we have the tremendous fund of knowledge and the irresistible power that come from a knowledge and testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We must not hesitate to do that which lies before us, and which the Lord requires of us. 

a newsboy's proud answer 

I like to recall my experience with a little newsbody. My wife and I stood at the west door of the Hotel Utah, in the company of a most distinguished American and his wife. We were talking about the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints. Somebody said something about the Priesthood, and mention was made of the fact that in this Church all men may make themselves worthy to hold the Priesthood. Someone remarked — perhaps my wife — that even the boys after a certain age held the Priesthood. Just then a little lad came along the sidewalk calling out the afternoon paper — "Deseret News! Deseret News!" On the spur of the moment I said: "Perhaps that little boy holds the Priesthood." I called him to me. He thought I was a tourist, about to buy a paper. I said: "Are you a 'Mormon,' my boy?" 

He straightened up, put his heels together, looked me in the eye, and said: "I am." 

I said: "Do you hold the Priesthood?" 

He said : "Yes, sir, I hold the Priesthood." 

I said: "What office in the Priesthood do you hold?" 

The little boy ga,ve me the salute of the Boy Scout and replied : "I am a Deacon, sir." 

There was the fearlessness of the child, the pride of his possession, though understanding only as a child, dimly, the meaning, the spirit and the vastness of this latter-day cause. We who have grown to maturity, must possess, in a larger degree, the same fearlessness to conquer ourselves and to make ourselves worthy of the call which has come to us, to go out to teach the nations that which we have received. God bless us and be with us and make us the mighty Church which he designs we shall be, I ask, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I desire very much to enjoy that same sweet spirit which has attended the remarks of my brethren. It is a very important privilege to associate with these men whom the Lord has called in this important day and time to proclaim and defend his work. In humility I wish to express my appreciation for the privilege that 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 141 

has come to me as one of the youths of Zion to take part in this important work, in the manner in which I have been called. 

I have made some very remarkable observations, in my brief ministry as a worker in the Church. I have observed that we have some of the best people in all the world from the young men and women to the aged fathers and mothers, and grandfathers and grandmothers in the Church. I have observed also that we are living in just a little different time from that of our greatgrandfathers, and perhaps the obstacles which were before them were not the same kind that are before us as young people today. While our grandfathers and grandmothers had their responsibilities, their trials and their struggles, I am sure we, as young people, today, have ours. But in my anxiety to discover the greatest support, the greatest help to battle with these trials, responsibilities and obstacles, I know of no other that compares in any way with the privileges and possibilities that come to us as young people to work in the Church of Christ. There are constantly being taught to us the principles of defense, the principles and powers that will aid and assist us to more fully enjoy our privileges and blessings in the great time and day in which we are living. It is true that we are living very near to the world. There was a time, perhaps, more than there is today when people could observe that we as so-called "Mormons" could be recognized by our attitude and our very appearance, but today we are so near to the world that sometimes it is almost impossible to tell by our physical appearance whether we are of the world or not. 

As one of the youth of Zion called to stand upon her watch towers, I desire to express my faith and my belief in the fact that the Lord has not forgotten us, that his preserving and protecting care will continue to be with us, if we will only hearken unto the teachings and counsels which we have received. If we as young people will only observe the teachings of our parents in righteousness, to keep ourselves worthy of the great blessings which the Lord, for generations, has prepared to be administered unto the children of Israel in these the last days, we need not be disappointed. 

I have observed this very important lesson. You have just heard Elder Widtsoe, one of our great students in the Church, declare that under certain conditions the crude charcoal could be made into the lustrous diamond. Under natural conditions oil and water will not mix. To make them mix they have to be treated by heat and other agents, but just as soon as you come back to natural and normal conditions again, the oil separates from the water and the water separates from the oil. While this is a crude example, I wish to bring it to you for this purpose. It is the best example I think of at the present time to explain the thought I have in view, that it is impossible under normal conditions for us, as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, GENERAL CONFERENCE  old or young, to enjoy the blessings of the Church, as they are designated to us through the teachings of the Church, and live in the world, as the people of the world live. If you or I desire to enjoy those precious blessings which the Lord, through his holy prophets, has been declaring from the early ages up to the present time, we must obey the principles, and the laws, which govern those blessings. We may go through the form of receiving them but unless our hearts are in tune with them, through obedience to the laws that govern them, we will not receive the blessings. Just as soon as we come to our normal condition in our conduct in life, we will be just like the oil and water when they are in their normal condition. They do not naturally combine. So let me urge upon you, my brethren and sisters, to be careful in your conduct, in your ways of living. Do not deceive yourselves that you can break the Word of Wisdom, known among us as members of the Church as the "law of health" and the word of God to us as a people. You cannot break those commandments and those laws and expect to get the blessings that are enjoyed by those who do not break the laws. The Lord is kind and merciful, but like any other parent, he cannot give us the blessings that he would like to give us unless we prepare to be worthy of them. 

Through observations which have come to me, day by day and year by year, I am impressed more fully with that humble testimony that this is God's work and that he is ever blessing those who are laboring under his tuition and spirit to carry out his work, that he has been very mindful of his people. He has blessed us in our homes, in our fields and flocks and herds. I don't know when I have ever seen a more blessed year than this has been to the people of this intermountain country, and I do pray that the Lord will inspire, within the hearts of the people, a true devotion to the Giver of these blessings, that he will not be forgotten. 

Already men are responding to the great call that har, been made by the President of the Church. Men in business, men in the professions, are already beginning to arrange their affairs, and I am sure there will be a response of willingness and gratitude, in the midst of the Church, to go forth and express in work, and make a great defense of this work, that men of the world may discover that there is an important period in their lives in which the Lord has been mindful of his children, and that the Spirit of the Lord will be poured out in mighty power upon those who express themselves in willingness to turn unto God's work, and take part in it, to proclaim it, and defend it, both at home and abroad. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be upon the members of the Church wherever they live, that they may express that appreciation of their blessings in right living, that they remember the Lord in gratitude and in thanksgiving and in proper conduct; and not be deceived by their carelessness and their indifference. Nephi,. 143  great character of old, taught his people in his time that those who thought they could do a little here and a little there, telling a lie here and a lie there, or steal a little today and steal a little tomorrow, that they could forget the Lord today and remember him tomorrow, procrastinate and put off, that they would be deceived in the end, that the adversary who was lying in wait to destroy the faith of the people then, that adversary still lives and is still in wait to take advantage of the follies of the people, and to place barriers in their pathway. But I want to promise you, my brethren and sisters, that though he is alive and in waiting for the weaknesses and follies of the people, that if you will observe the teachings of your faithful parents, that if you will observe the teachings of the elders in Israel, if you will observe the laws of nature and the words of wisdom, as they have been taught unto you from the beginning of this Church, since they were revealed to us, that the God of heaven will give you power every day of your lives to defend yourselves, that you may keep yourselves worthy of the blessings that the Lord has in store for you, and that you will have power to triumph over these barriers, to live and enjoy this happy, wonderful testimony that God lives, that he is the giver of life, that he forgives sins, that he gives you power to "overcome weaknesses, that he will spare your lives in usefulness, that he will bless the labor of your hands temporally and spiritually, that he will give you understanding through the quickening of your minds and your desires and your ability to see and to understand. I have faith that the God of heaven will hear your prayers and answer you, he will remember you in mercy and bless you beyond your power to appreciate your blessings. 

I desire to express my appreciation for the blessings that the Lord has granted unto me, for my faith in and my knowledge of God and his works, for I know that God lives, that he does hear and answer prayers, that he does forgive sins unto those who honestly repent of their sins, forsake them and live in obedience to the teachings of Christ. 

I pray God to bless the officers and members of the Church throughout its entire organization. May faith, knowledge and obedience increase among the people to the glory of the Lord and his work, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet ,"Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning," by J. R. Boshard and Mrs. Hugh Peterson, was sung. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States Mission 

I thank God for music, and for these gifted sons and daughters of God who vocally and on instruments can produce it. If I GENERAL CONFERENCE  only preach the gospel as these gifted sons and daughters of God sing it, and could produce in the souls of men the thrills that come to me when the truth is set to music, and artistically rendered, I would ask no other wealth or gift from God. 

When the sessions of our conference closed on Sunday afternoon I felt that if nothing more should be added, this conference would go down in history as of great importance, because of the treatment that had been already given upon great and fundamental principles, principles of highest importance, and especially at this present time, and in view of the waves of religious thought and irreligious thought that are sweeping over our nation, and I presume over other nations also. But when I stand before you to make my own very humble contribution to this historic conference, it is with a great deal of misgiving, and I approach that brief and humble task with much trepidation. 

On my way home from the Eastern States I bought some magazines with which to while away the tedium of the journey, and in one of them I was attracted by this title : "It Is a Wise Father Who Can Answer His Own Child." 

In the course of setting forth that thought the father who wrote the article describes how a son about eight years of age said to him one day: 

"Daddy, why are people?" The father felt that "an armful" had been handed him, according to his own confession. So he stalled a little and replied to his son that that was a question that had been debated some five or ten thousand years, and it was riot quite certain yet that anybody had found the right answer. 

"Well," said the boy, "that's funny." Then, after a silence he said again: "Daddy, don't you think that is funny?" The father again stalled and he said : "Well, it is just possible that if we knew everything, life would not be so very interesting." "Well," persisted the boy, "I think it is funny. Now I have to go out and play ball the rest of the afternoon, and if you find out anything I would like to hear it at dinner." 

Now of course that may be a strange way of presenting a great theme. It has been much thought of, and the question put in a more worthy form. I think perhaps the poet-prophet of Israel, King David, stated the question in a manner much more worthy, and I call your attention to it. It is very familiar to you, but I am sure it is worthy of your further consideration : 

"Oh, Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth, who hast set they glory above the heavens. . . . 

"When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; 

"What is man, that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man, that thou visitest him? 

"For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. 145 

"Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet : 

"All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field; 

"The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. 

"O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!" 

David here asks some very important questions. He does not answer them, however, either in this psalm nor in any subsequent one. St. Paul quotes this passage from David in his letter to the Hebrews, but he does not answer the questions. This passage brings up the question of the purposes of God in the creation; but these two prophets, David and Paul, do not give answers to the questions they ask. None of the philosophers outside of those cults that have been recognized as founded upon revelation from God have ever answered these questions in any authoritative way. It may seem like a bold statement, but it is true, nevertheless, that there is no answer contained in the Old Testament to these questions. In all the revelations that^are given in the Old Testament there is no declaration made of the purposes of God in the creation. I am going to ask you to go one step further, and to bear with me while I say to you that neither in the New Testament is there any adequate declaration that satisfies the inquiring mind upon that subject. The only scripture that comes anywhere nearly touching it is found in the following: 

"Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created." (Rev. 4:11.) 

That is the nearest, either in the Old or in the New Testament, in all that is written — the nearest approach to an explanation of the purpose of God in the creation. I think you will agree with me that that is not very satisfactory to you or to me or to mankind in general. God has created all things and for his pleasure they are and were created. All right, but where do we come in? And what explanation is that to us of the purposes of God in our creation? 

I call your attention to the fact that this father to whom the lad propounded his question, confessed that he had been "handed an armful." He did not, however, regard the question of his boy as "silly." "On the contrary," said he, "it is so fundamental that it quite bowls one over." And then he adds this thoughtful remark : 

"Think what it would mean to the human race to have an answer that every one of us would accept. That I should say would be quite a neat little achievement;" that is to give an intelligent, acceptable, and, I will add, an authoritative answer to the question, "Why are people?" Or in other words, what is the purpose of God in the creation of man? I have rather boldly said that you can find no answer in the Old Testament nor in the New Testament. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

But now I will ask you to follow me for a few moments in some suppositions I am going to make. 

Suppose that in some catacomb in Egypt, or some musty tomb of ancient prophets, a fragment of parchment could be found that could be well established as containing the very words of the great prophet Moses; and suppose that fragment should contain this statement : 

"THIS IS MY WORK AND MY GLORY, SAITH THE LORD, TO BRING TO PASS THE IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE OF MAN." 

What would be the result upon the thought of the world if by human means such a fragment of parchment could be brought forth and established as undoubtedly the utterance of the great prophet of Israel, Moses? It would be regarded, I warrant you, as the most valuable utterance that had occurred among men. Aye, its value would be greater in giving enlightenment to men as to the purposes of God in the creation of man, than all else that is written in the Bible; and as a discovery it would be as important as the discovery of the original tablets on which were written the Ten Commandments would be. 

Again I will ask you to suppose that under similar circumstances and by human means, another literary discovery was made that should read as follows — this is a second fragment that we will suppose has been discovered: 

"Man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy. And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy." * * * 

"The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple. 

"The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth." 

That is to say, the light by which truth is discerned. I would like to make this addition to the foregoing quotation. It does not occur in this same passage, but I would like to make this addition to this scrap of supposed parchment, and have it included in our whole supposition : 

"The body and the spirit is the soul of man, and the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." 

Now let us add these statements together in these supposed parchment fragments, then put the two together — the one from Moses and this passage just quoted. We would then have: 

"This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. . . . 

"The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fullness of joy. . . . 

"The spirit and the body is the soul of man; the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." 147 

Now I begin to see forming a marvelous, a splendid, a worthy conclusion, out of these discovered fragments — the purpose of God in the creation of man, It is the purpose of God to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man, because a union of spirit and element is essential to the fulness of man's joy. That immortality and eternal life is brought to pass by the indissoluble union of the body and the spirit of man, bv which he becomes soul — one, united, inseparable, an entity indestructible, and put in the way of attainment of a fulness of joy. But the end is not yet. 

I will ask you to suppose the discovery of another fragment of manuscript from ruined temple, from catacomb or from musty tomb, and yet its antiquity and its authenticity as going back to an inspired man of God — a prophet — may not be questioned. We will suppose this third discovered, sacred parchment should say this — I will ask you to mark the beauty of it : 

"All things have been done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all things." 

Now that has in it the music of inspired poetry, to me. It also has a depth of philosophy that is quite wonderful. 

"All things have been done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all things." 

Perfect wisdom can come only from perfect knowledge, and here you have the two combined, — perfect wisdom rising from perfect knowledge; all things ordained for the earth and the inhabitants thereof have been wrought in the highest wisdom, according to the declaration of this third discovered fragment we are supposing. And then the rest of the fragment must be read to get the full import of its meaning. I will read the two beautiful lines I have in mind together: 

"All things have been done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all things : 

"Adam fell that man might be. Men are that they might have joy." 

And thus these fragments of truth — we will say for the moment from ancient parchment just discovered — have enlightened the world on this great theme as no other utterances have ever enlightened the children of men. If they could only be discovered in the way we have supposed, it seems to me that there would rise up from all the hosts of men peans of praise to Almighty God, for this great light shed abroad upon the minds of men with reference to the purposes of God in the creation; and especially as to the creation of man. 

Now we will drop the suppositions assumed. These three great utterances constitute the message of "Mormonism" to the world upon this great theme. The first comes from a fragment of the teachings of the prophet Moses, found not in musty tomb or ruined temple, but revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith before this Church of ours was six months old. The second comes from a GENERAL CONFERENCE  from God to him, in the year 1833. The third contribution comes from our Book of Mormon, and is the contribution of sleeping nations once inhabiting the American continents, a message through their prophet leader to the modern world, and a contribution to the modern world for its enlightenment. How splendid all that is! 

We are not quite through, however, with this magazine lad's questions yet; nor with David's sublime questions. We have learned a little about the purpose of God in- the creation, but the other part of the question still remains : What is man that God is mindful of him? Or the son of man, that he visits him, and gives him dominion over his works? 

Only just a moment can be devoted to the great theme. I quote the words of the Christ in that last prayer of his in Gethsemane : 

"Father, the hour is come;- glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee." 

I quote that scripture because without any equivocation it declares by the lips of the Christ himself the fact that he is the Son of God; and now he says : 

"Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was." Here the Christ proclaims both the pre-existence of his own spirit and the glory he had with his Father before he came to the earth. These doctrines used to puzzle those among whom he moved when in his earth life. In controversy with the Pharisees on one occasion, when they were boasting about Abraham being their father, he said : 

"Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it and was glad." "Oh," said they, "you are not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?" And he answered, "Before Abraham was, I am." 

Reference was made by President Ivins on Sunday to that most marvelous of all revelations on the pre-existence of the spirit of the Christ given to Moriancumer, the brother of Jared. So complete was that vision, so certain it was, that the Prophets as he beheld the finger of the Lord stretched forth, exclaimed : "I knew not that the Lord had flesh and blood." This view was corrected by the Lord, who said : 

"This is the body of my spirit, and as I appear unto you in the spirit, so will I appear unto my people in the flesh." In other words, it was the spirit form of the Christ which Moriancumer beheld. It is the spirit that gives form to the whole man. The spirit out of the elements in this earth-life clothes itself with this beautiful garment, the human body, which in the providences of God shall be made immortal. This through the processes, first of birth into mortality — earth life; and after that, birth into immortality through the resurrection. Through these processes shall come forth those personages that shall be eternal — a union of spirit and 149  that shall be indissoluble. The mortal state is but a prelude to that immortal life, and to that "eternal life" which shall include with it an eternal union with God, a union that shall lead to the eternal progress and development of the divine intelligences that inhabit these bodies. 

Now, Jesus Christ is the Son of God. All right, what is our relationship to him? He met Mary early in the morning .of the resurrection, and when she would approach him and place her hands upon him in loving affection, he said : 

"Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father." It seems he was reserving contact with his resurrected, immortal body, for the first embrace of the Father. "Touch me not, but go and tell my brethren," referring to the apostles, — "tell my brethren, that I ascend unto my Father, and to your Father, to my God, and to your God." 

I know of no other scripture that so beautifully sets forth the relationship of brotherhood of man to the Christ than this passage; unless perhaps it might be this one : 

"For both he that sanctifieth, and they who are sanctified are all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren." Showing that our origin is the same as the origin of the Christ. Now I understand Paul clearly when he says : 

"We have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?" 

Now ask the question, David; "What is man that thou art mindful of him? Or the son of man, that thou visitest him?" The answer is : Sons of God, brothers to the Christ, sparks struck from God's own eternal blaze — parts of him — parts of God! Hence, God is mindful of man; hence he visits them, hence he places all things under their feet, and gives them the high mission to multiply and replenish the inhabitants of the earth, and to have dominion over it. 

How blessed this doctrine! How high and lifted up it is above the notion that man has his origin in the slime of the ocean, and the protoplasm which rises from it, until it differentiates into the various forms of life, and man comes from some one or other of the many lines that lead out from this common source of life! 

I have been thrilled in this conference by reference to that vision that the Lord gave to Abraham of the intelligences that were organized before the world itself was formed. In the great host before the throne of God there were many noble and great ones — noble and great ones! And God looked upon these spirits, "and they were good;" and he said to Abraham : "These I will make my rulers. Thou, Abraham, art one of them." I pray you note the characterization of these prominent spirits — "noble," "great," "good"! These are characteristics that embrace all other virtues. They include everything that could be desired in the way of character elements. How splendid that is! Of course we common GENERAL CONFERENCE , doubtless stand far below that high level on which God placed these "noble" ones, and "great" ones, and "good," in the vision he gave to one of the noblest — Abraham. But how comforting it is, and how blest it must be to have the assurance that though far below, in excellence, these whom God has selected to be his rulers, we nevertheless are brothers to them; and in lesser degree possessing that which they possess, with the opportunity and privilege granted to us to approach if we may not attain to their excellence. Then to be brothers to him — brothers to the Christ; and brothers to that worthy host that has been chosen to be associated with the Christ in leadership of those things which make for the accomplishment of God's purposes with reference to the existence of man in the earth. That affords me much more comfort than to think of man as being related — even though distantly related — to the brute creation. I close with this scripture : 

"Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God; * * * and it doth not yet appear what we shall be." That is, we cannot estimate the possibilities growing out of that truth, and that relationship — "it doth not yet appear what we shall be." Eye hath not soon, ear hath not heard the depth and height of the glory which God designs for his children. We may not fathom it upward or downward, "It does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure." (I. John 3:1-3.) God grant that it may be so, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I, too, sincerely pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with me in the very few minutes that I speak. My heart, my spirit, my mind, have been raised to praise for the power of the Almighty God, and for gratitude that I am called to be one of his servants. 

This conference has been impressive for the fact that our faith in God, more and more, has been expressed by every speaker; and not that I could carry on the great thought that has been expressed the last few moments to the end that we might be raised to still greater faith, but let me please add the thought that has impressed me during the morning session of this conference; namely, that in all history, in the story of the development of God's children to the present moment, we find that they who have had faith in him as the Creator of the heavens and the earth, they, the races, the peoples, the nations, the individuals who have been converted to the ways of Christ, and have been able to raise their voices in expression of the living faith in Christ, — those people and nations have 151  the ones who have made the great contribution to man's uplift, and have given the assurance to the human race of the meaning of life and of the destiny of man. 

There is something great that we must contemplate in the mission of the Master. He did teach the glory of God, he did give unto us the teaching that man is divine and that the power of the intellect and of the spirit are not limited, but are unlimited. Another great thing that Jesus has left to us as an abiding testimony is that the kingdom of God, a literal kingdom, will be established upon this earth, a kingdom of God over which Christ Jesus will rule, and we shall be members of that kingdom, as we place our faith in God and know for a surety, from day to day, in the very living of our lives, in our contemplation and in our work, in those things shall we become members of Christ's kingdom. 

It is a mistake, a great mistake, today, to lose sight of the fact that man can know God. In that masterful work The World and Life that was put out just previous to the death of Alfred Russell Wallace he did rise to an occasion, and when the pastor said in his previous book entitled The Place of Man in the Universe, "Man cannot know God," yet he did conclude in his latter work that "man can know God, but there is only one way, and that is by divine revelation which," said he, "man has not had." We Latter-day Saints give our testimony to the world that man may know God, and he knows God by revelation. It is our testimony to the world, it is the only true way, it is the only way in which we understand the relationship of ourselves to our Maker. 

My brethren and sisters, there are two great sources that will make the world move onward to the Christ and to the kingdom of God. They are education and religion. Religion is the inner light. It is something within and not without. Our greatest power lies in the spirit, and it will be by the spirit that we will work out this problem. It must come from within. It is a condition of mind, a condition of spirit, this religion, this vision; and the trouble with the world today is that there is no vision, and the world is perishing for the want of it. We claim to have the vision, and we have, but that vision comes as an inner light, and our power is the inner light, and it binds us to our Maker. Now men do search for truth, and men will find out truth; and, continuing this theme of President Roberts, I think the words of Isaiah stand, then, as a fitting complement, if you please, to this great truth that has been uttered : 

"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee." 

And Luke, continuing this same great thought, says, in the first chapter of his writings : 

. . . That comes "to give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death" he comes "to guide our feet into the way of peace." 

And we might add — truth and right and understanding. For the light and the glory of God will be understood as we come to place ourselves in a position to understand, and understanding GENERAL CONFERENCE  through the condition of our spirits, and our spirits are cleansed, made clean, by righteous living and an attitude toward all mankind, showing that we love them. Truth expresses itself in love and happiness and joy and peace. For this reason the Latterday Saints should not only be thankful for vision, they should be grateful for the happiness that has come to us, for the spirit of the gospel of Christ is one of happiness and joy and thanksgiving. We should be the most encouraged people in all the world. That God may grant that we may continue in the vision, that the vision may continue with us, one by one, each and every one of us, that the vision of the Father, the power of God and the establishment of his kingdom may remain in our hearts to lead and direct us, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder George W. McCune, president of the Los Angeles stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


