1
Morning
05 04 1940
President Heber J. Grant 
10
2-3

None

None

The following telegram from President Grant was read by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.:  
  
Los Angeles, California April 5, 1940  
  
Presidents J. Reuben Clark, Jr. and David O. McKay, Salt Lake City, Utah,  
  
To the Saints in Conference assembled: I sincerely regret that I am not present with you at this opening meeting of our Conference. I know of the spiritual uplift that will come to you. Through the years I have always counted it a great blessing to participate with my brethren and sisters in General Conference.  
  
ACTIVITIES IN CALIFORNIA FOLLOWED BY SICKNESS  
  
I left home on the 26th of January and attended the dedication of the Mormon Battalion Monument at San Diego, and was one of the speakers, experiencing much liberty in my talk. I enjoyed the meetings. They were a great tribute to the achievement of our people. I was pleased with the talk of Brother Andrew Jenson. I then attended the conference of Inglewood Stake. In the morning I did not feel well enough to speak, but spoke in the afternoon for about forty minutes with perfect liberty. That night I was feeling poorly and the next morning was removed to the hospital for medical attention and treatment. The treatment there was successful. I was very glad I had Brother McKay call on me in the hospital and give me a blessing, and I am grateful beyond expression for the faith and prayers of the Saints. I know of a certainty that your prayers have been heard and answered in my behalf.  
  
I am very grateful that I now can be around working at times, but mostly resting, exercising, and taking care of myself, to the end that I may realize a full recovery.  
  
About the middle of March I moved from the hospital to the home of my grandnephew, Del Grant, where I have been comfortably located, and have been improving in my health every day making really astonishing advancement, according to the doctors. I had hoped at least to speak to the Conference by radio, but the doctors feel it unwise to subject myself to that great strain. They feel too that it would be better to regain my strength before making an attempt to return home. Therefore I shall remain here for a few weeks more. The doctors feel it a matter of wisdom for me to stay here another few weeks, even though there would be little danger if I were to return home now.  
  
BLESSING AND COMMENDATION  
  
I send my love and blessings to all the Saints, and pray that you may have a time of rejoicing during Conference. I have been made happy by the new Stakes that have been formed of late, and the reorganization of our General Boards. I earnestly pray for the success of the new officers in the Stakes and on the several Boards. Truly Zion is growing.  
  
AN APPEAL TO THE YOUNG  
  
I sympathize with our young people because of the temptations that beset them. I urge them, as I always have, to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ fully. In that way they will have health and happiness, and will meet with success in this life and will have an eternity of joy in store for them in the life to come. I bless them with courage to meet the problems that lie ahead.  
  
A TESTIMONY  
  
It is a joy to me to bear again my testimony of my absolute knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, and of the divinity of the Savior, and of the divine work of the Prophet Joseph Smith.  
  
AN EXPRESSION OF SYMPATHY  
  
I was grieved to hear of the passing of Elder Harold G. Reynolds who has been in charge of the transportation in our missionary system. He was a true Latter-day Saint. May our Heavenly Father bless and sustain his wife and children.  
  
PRAYER AND BLESSING  
  
I most earnestly pray for all the General and local officers, both in the Priesthood and the Auxiliary organizations, and for the advancement of the work of God, and I send my love and blessings to the Saints at home and abroad. Amen. 