10
Afternoon
05 04 1940
Elder Rules S. Wells
44
42

Supplement to Elder Rulon S. Wells' Sermon 
  
AN ASSURANCE OF THE LORD'S APPROVAL 
  
I have in mind another very extremely interesting experience which preceded my call to the First Council of the Seventy. I told a personal friend of mine who was commenting on my Conference address of this experience, and she remarked that I should have included it also in my talk, so I am taking the liberty now of relating it although it was not delivered in my Conference Talk!  
  
April 6th, 1892, the capstone of the Temple ( SaltLake) was laid, and during the year that followed a campaign to secure sufficient money to finish the Temple was inaugurated and carried to a successful conclusion, and, as well known, the Temple was dedicated April 6, 1893, just forty years after the laying of the corner stone in 1853. Like many others I took part in this campaign and assisted in making the collection from members of our Ward, I being one of the workers in the 18th Ward. Also like others I had a strong desire to put myself in a proper condition for entering the Temple at the time of its dedication. I wanted to receive another manifestation of the Lord's approval of me, and I prayed to Him earnestly that I might receive the assurance that I was approved of Him. I did not ask that I might see an angel or hear a voice from heaven, I only wanted to know that I had His approval of me as a member of His Church, worthy of attending the dedication of the Temple. I knew nothing of the vacancy existing in the First Council of the Seventy until I was notified in a note received from Brother George Reynolds, who was then private secretary of the First Presidency, who notified me that I had been selected to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Jacob Gates as one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies. This notification was received on April 5, 1893, and my name was presented at the Conference held that day, and I was set apart the same day. On April 6 1 sat with my brethren of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies on the stand and while sitting there I commented to myself: "Well, I have heard no voice, and I have seen no angel, but here I am, and I feel I have been accepted and approved of God." 