15
Morning
06 04 1940
President Rudger Clawson 
7
57-60

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I am wonderfully impressed by the attendance at the Conference this morning. The house is filled. Every seat, so far as I can see, is taken. We had a splendid day yesterday. There was only one regret, and that was that President Grant could not be with us. He has wisely decided to rest a few weeks in California since coming out of the hospital. We are all very happy indeed, I am sure, that we have President McKay with us and President Clark to direct the proceedings of this great Conference.  
  
The meeting of the Church Welfare plan held this morning in the Assembly Hall was indeed most thrilling. The spirit of that work is taking hold of the Latter-day Saints. That it will be successful I think no one could be in doubt.  
  
And now the Conference is in progress again. I want to commend these wonderful singers, the choir from Idaho, and the work that they are doing.  
  
AN INSPIRING HYMN  
  
I feel prompted this morning, brethren and sisters, to read a few lines of one of our sacred hymns taken from the Deseret Sunday School Union Song Book. The title of this song is "Count Your Blessings." This is a very opportune time to count our blessings, but of course we cannot mention all of them in a short sermon; that would be impossible, but we might read the hymn and point to several important blessings:  
  
When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed,  
 
When you are discouraged thinking all is lost,  
 
Count your many blessings, name them one by one,  
 
And it will surprise you what the Lord hath done.  
  
Are you ever burdened with a load of care?  
 
Does the cross seem heavy you are called to bear?  
 
Count your many blessings ev'ry doubt will fly,  
 
And you will be singing as the days go by.  
  
When you look at others with their lands and gold,  
 
Think that Christ has promised you His wealth untold,  
 
Count your many blessings, money cannot buy,  
 
Your reward in heaven, nor your home on high.  
  
So, amid the conflict, whether great or small,  
 
Do not be discouraged, God is over all;  
 
Count your many blessings, angels will attend,  
 
Help and comfort give you to your journey's end.  
  
A wonderfully appropriate song. It is uplifting in spirit; it is well that we should take time now and then to ponder seriously upon our blessings.  
  
WORKS OF THE ANCIENT PROPHETS  
  
Truly, in the time of the Prophets of old it was a day of inspiration, revelation and miracles. In the days of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and of Moses, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Elijah and Elisha, the prophets, surely that was a day of miracles. Wonderful works were performed in those early ages. If I mistake not, Amos, the Prophet, spoke of this matter and said that the Lord doeth nothing save He first reveal it to His servants the prophets. Marvelous things happened in those ancient times. The prophets wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. And he who speaks by the power of the Holy Ghost is a revelator.  
  
As in ancient times so it was in the Meridian of Time when the Son of God was upon the earth. It was a day of inspiration, revelation and miracles, a day when there were Apostles and Prophets upon the earth, High Priests, Seventies and Elders and the lesser Priesthood. Great things were accomplished and the work of God prospered.  
  
BLESSINGS OF THE LATTER DAYS  
  
And so now in our day it is much the same. After eighteen hundred years the silence was broken and the voice of inspiration, revelation and miracles was heard upon the earth and the Spirit of the Lord rests down upon the people. The initial step taken in the organization of the great work of the latter days was the visitation of God the Father and Jesus Christ, His Son, to the boy Joseph Smith, which was the most memorable event, most remarkable in some respects, of anything that has ever transpired upon this earth. The Father and the Son condescended to manifest themselves in person to Joseph Smith. One said, pointing to the other, "This is my Beloved Son, hear Him." The Son spoke in answer to the boy's prayer to know which of all the churches he should join. He was told to join none of them for they were lacking in divine authority. Prophets appeared and angels from heaven were sent down after that first great vision. They gave to man divine authority.  
  
One of these visitors from the other world was John the Baptist who had lived upon the earth in the time of the Savior. He was now a mighty angel, a messenger from on high, and he came for an express purpose. It was not to satisfy the curiosity of Joseph Smith, the young man, for he had now grown to be a young man, but he came on an important mission under the direction of Peter, James, and John, and conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic Priesthood, or the lesser Priesthood, as it is sometimes called — the Priesthood of Priests, Teachers, and Deacons.  
  
And then, later on, Peter, James, and John came down from heaven. They appeared as mighty angels, no doubt, but they had their mission and that was to confer further authority upon these, the servants of the Lord, and Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thus was divine authority restored to the earth in these latter days, and those who were exercising authority that was not from heaven were under condemnation of the Lord, and especially when they knew that they were without divine authority.  
  
And so, brethren and sisters, I testify that this matter of divine authority is of tremendous importance, and that the success of this work so far has been accomplished under divine authority and could not have been realized in any other way. It is one of the foundation principles of the Gospel.  
  
THE WORK IN THE TEMPLES  
  
And that was not all. Let me call your attention to another superior blessing, a blessing that is always to be found among the people of God, the true worshippers of the meek and lowly Nazarene, and that is the blessing of the Temple of the Lord. Wherever the people of God are found, there you will find also a Temple, or House of the Lord, where He can come and dispense blessings to His people, blessings that cannot be measured in value by money, but are the free gift of God. The blessings of the Temple are so great that we can hardly comprehend their importance and value. People are free to donate when they go to the Temple for these blessings — the blessings of the endowment, the sealing blessings at the altar. Husband and wife may be sealed together for time and all eternity. I am sure that none of us can comprehend the extent and power and importance of these blessings that are dispensed from the Temple. The rich are entitled to them, if they are worthy; the poor can have them also if they are worthy. Certainly we should count our blessings. We should remember that every blessing we receive is from the Lord.  
  
MISSIONARY SERVICE  
  
Let me mention briefly the missionary work. I want to say to you, brethren and sisters, that there is nothing like it in all the world. The missionaries of the Christian churches, so-called, are sent to preach the gospel to the heathens. Our special duty at the present time is not to carry the Gospel to the heathens but to preach the Gospel and offer its blessings to those who are considered civilized far above the heathens. It is a wonderful movement wherein the young men of Zion may be called into service and is a part of the blessings of the Latter-day Saints. They are set apart under divine authority to preach this Gospel, to baptize and give the Holy Ghost. Young women are also sent out as missionaries to preach the Gospel.  
  
And so, I think I may safely say that this is a day of inspiration, of revelation and miracles. If all the miracles that have been and are being performed by this people were written into a book it would be a very, very large volume. Many who were sick have been healed, and many have been delivered from accidents and trouble and anxiety through our missionary cause.  
  
That is about as far as I am entitled to go this morning in mentioning these important matters — the blessings of revelation, of inspiration, of divine authority, Temple work and Missionary work. There is just about enough there to take our whole attention throughout life, and yet there are many other desirable and important blessings in the hands of the Lord which He will give to His faithful people. The Lord is willing to pour out these blessings upon the people just as fast as the people make themselves worthy to receive them.  
  
THE SEALED PORTION OF THE BOOK OF MORMON  
  
I am wondering if you will permit me to say this closing word. I am wondering about the sealed portion of the record appertaining to the Book of Mormon. When will it come to the people of the Church? I am of the opinion that if we were perfectly prepared and followed carefully the revelations and instructions we have already received in the Church possibly that sealed portion could be brought to the people through faith and good works.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I pray God in heaven to bless you and help you and help us all to serve Him in righteousness. I humbly ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 