16
Morning
06 04 1940
Elder Antoine R. Ivins 
132
60-63

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

It is a very great inspiration, my brethren and sisters, to stand in this position and look into the faces of so many wonderful people, but it gives one a great sense of responsibility to stand in an important position of leadership at the head of this wonderful group of people. It is indeed a responsible position.  
  
A DESIRE TO BE HELPFUL  
  
I pray constantly as I look around upon you and as I minister with the Seventies of the Church and the Church at large, that God will inspire every word that I utter and everything that I do. My one desire is that in all these things I might please Him and help you. And if He will inspire me, with your aid, on this occasion to say just one little thing that may be helpful to you I shall be infinitely happy. One wonders what that may be, and it is very difficult at times to make a choice among the many things that might be said.  
  
I am happy for the membership I have in the Church and for the fact that God has made it possible for me to help in this great work. When I was a young man I wondered how I would respond if I were asked to fill a mission, if I were asked to do this, or that, or the other responsible thing in the Church, and I still wonder whether I am going to be able to render the type of service that I should to the end of my years, and only pray that I may.  
  
THE WORD OF THE LORD  
  
In the Doctrine and Covenants we are told in four or five sections, "the will of the Lord" as expressed through the Prophet Joseph Smith to certain of the men who were interested in this work in its inception in our dispensation. Several members wanted to know what they might do to their best advantage in this work, and the Lord spoke to each of them, "the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people."  
  
I would that I knew how to do that in a way that it might appeal to those who needed it most. The great difficulty is that as we stand before you we realize that we are talking to faithful people, and the message that we would deliver perhaps never reaches the ears that we would like it to strike. That makes it necessary for each one of you to constitute yourself a missionary to carry to your friends the message of this Conference.  
  
We have men all around us who could well repent of their actions. Repentance is a thing that all of us need. I am no more immune than anybody else from the need of repentance, and I have that constantly confronting me in my consciousness, but to get that message over to the people we must depend upon you because we cannot make personal contact with all, and so we speak to the faithful members of the Church.  
  
THE GOSPEL FOR BOTH RICH AND POOR  
  
The Gospel of Jesus Christ is universal in its scope. There is no man or woman that it cannot benefit and bless, if only that man and woman will yield obedience to it. Christ gave His Twelve Apostles a charge to preach the Gospel to every creature, with the promise that those who would respond would be saved. We have been doing that all these generations; that is, we have been preaching the Gospel to the people. Many of them have never heard it, however. The other day, in my hearing, a returned missionary made a remark which ran something like this: Since the institution of the Welfare work we have had to change our methods. The question was asked, in what respect?  
  
"Well," he said, "we are going to a better type of people now than we ever did before in our Missions. We find that the Welfare work makes such an appeal to a certain class of people that our ranks would be flooded with those who desire to be benefitted by that factor rather than any other if we would let them in. That field being closed to us we have had to preach to people of a little better standing, who are not quite so poor."  
  
Now Christ, when John the Baptist sent to ask Him if He was really the Christ, said: "Take back to John the message that the blind see, the lame walk, the sick are healed, and the Gospel is preached to the poor." I wonder if in that day it was only the rich and the elite that felt like they were members of the Church of God, and that the preaching of the Gospel to the poor was a novelty in the time of Christ. It may be that that was what brought forth that remark. However, in our age we have become accustomed to the fact that the rank and file of our converts are likely to come out of the ranks of the poor.  
  
This missionary was talking to one of the Twelve, who said: "If they had followed those tactics in my day I would never have come into the Church, for I have known what it means to be hungry."  
  
We must teach the poor always the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in all the missionary fields in which it has been my experience to travel that has been customary. But I often wonder if there is not a field among the upper class people to which we might devote our attention with profit. I believe that in all the time I have been connected with the Mexican people there has never been a conscious effort to take the Gospel to what might be there called the better class of people. When the Gospel was taken to people in Hawaii it was so popular among them that the very rulers of that country accepted it. There is there little distinction between rich and poor, all mingling freely together, but there were kings and queens among them. It has been my pleasure to see a man who had been a chamberlain to the king act at the door as a Deacon in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and become one of the Elders in the Church.  
  
So I wonder if there is not a field that we might look into among that class of people.  
  
The misuse of riches is the only curse that comes from the possession of ample means, and there must be many fine people among the rich, many of them are our neighbors, but we pay little attention to them. They are all around us.  
  
OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR NEIGHBORS  
  
One day I said to a friend of mine, speaking of a neighbor who had lived across the hall from my wife and me for quite a while, expressing sympathy for him in the passing of his wife, "That friend of ours is a fine man and his wife was a fine woman."  
  
He said: "Yes, I would like to see somebody make an effort to get him into the Church, but you know I am so close to him that I dare not try."  
  
I wonder if that might not be the best opportunity. My wife and I lived across the hall from them, and one day the woman became rather ill, more ill than usual, she was always afflicted, and to our great surprise we learned that she had asked to be prayed for in the Temple. That was faith; though she was not a member of the Church and though her husband was not, she had faith that there might be virtue in a prayer for her uttered in our Temple.  
  
There are many people like that, without any doubt, all around us, and the Gospel is for them, and if we do not take the message to them I wonder whose fault it will be if they do not accept it. It is a universal Gospel that we have, and it is a universal responsibility that rests upon our shoulders to teach the Truth. We have heard during this Conference how it appeals to different nationalities, all the way from Czecho-Slovakia through Europe and into our country, and if we cared to, Brother Hardy and some of the others and I could tell you how it goes on down in Polynesia, clear down to the Antipodes. It makes of us all a common people, and if we could so introduce it to these nations as to make its adoption general and its principles apply in the lives of men, these struggles that we are confronted with now in actuality would not exist.  
  
CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES NOT APPLIED IN THE WORLD  
  
It was once my privilege to read an interview given by a prominent Jewish rabbi in Great Britain. He was asked what his reaction to Christianity was? He said it had been the greatest difficulty that the Jews had had to meet, and that it had been a failure in the world, that the principles of Christ had never been adopted and applied.  
  
I wonder if there ever has been an honest effort on the part of so-called Christian nations to apply the principles of the Christ. Did you ever hear of a peace treaty being offered to a vanquished people that had as its main purpose the rehabilitation of the vanquished? I think in all struggles that we have entered into the principles of the Christ have not been dominant, though some of these conflicts have been carried forth in the name of Christ. But greed and avarice and many such motives were back of them. If the time ever comes that the principles of Christianity can be applied to the lives of men peace will be brought about upon the earth.  
  
My wish would be that though we are a small people in the world we might eventually exercise such an influence as to spread this leaven, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, throughout the whole world to such an extent that peace may some day prevail. We have faith in that thing. We have faith that perhaps through the instrumentality of this government of which we are a part we may be able to reach those ends, and I pray that we may sense our responsibility to the nations, and above all to the Church, that we may realize the significance of the charge which Christ has given to us to preach the Gospel to every creature so that he and she may be left without excuse, and not only be left without excuse, but be given the wonderful opportunities of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, I ask in His name, Amen. 