17
Morning
06 04 1940
Elder Joseph E. Evans 
238
64-66

None

None

Former President of the French Mission 

My brethren and sisters: What is now the French Mission was one of the earliest fields for missionary work in the Church. So much of commendation could be said of that Mission that it is difficult to know what to say in the few minutes allotted. At the end of last October when we came away from France, Elder Gaston Chappuis, of Salt Lake City, was left in charge of the French Mission. He had come to Paris on his second mission about two days before war was declared. He is a native of Switzerland, a second-generation member. And so is his wife, who was born in Belgium. They are well trained and qualified to do their work. Together they are publishing the Mission's monthly magazine, translating and mailing out lessons to the Branches in Belgium, French Switzerland and France, and generally endeavoring to encourage the members in their faith and to stimulate activity and keep the Mission organization intact.  
  
Notwithstanding the inroads of war and these times of trial and trouble, our members are holding fast to that better life to which they have dedicated themselves. In spite of popular misconceptions concerning Mormonism, our members have the moral support of multitudes of friends. Although their problems are extremely difficult they are never insoluble, because in an effort to harmonize their lives with God's teachings, they gain a renewed sense of values and are blessed with wisdom and great courage. Their experiences in the Church have taught them to think clearly and for themselves. Nothing else has ever offered them the same opportunity for intellectual enrichment and spiritual happiness. Fortunately they are living in countries where up to now their churches have not been destroyed and where the word of God is not forbidden. That is true in Belgium, Switzerland and France.  
  
A week ago I received a heart-warming letter from the President of the Belgian District, who is a native of Liege, Belgium. Twenty-five years ago — during the first world war — his father shepherded our Church members and with God's protecting care brought them through the severe trials of that conflict. Today this son is following in his father's footsteps, while three of his brothers, all active members of the Church, are in the Belgian army. He is an intelligent, wide-awake leader. On three occasions he has been decorated by the King of Belgium. His work is outstanding, as the work of so many of our members over there is. In his letter he says that meetings are being held in all Branches in Belgium, and that a District Conference is being planned for May. Even though income has shrunk and living costs have mounted, the members of one of the Branches in this District are slowly accumulating a fund to be used for the purchase of a site for a meeting house. And so, amid the hideous discords of war and at a time when they are tortured in spirit, these people are giving their time and energies to maintaining the work of the Church, which is no mean achievement. Their faith and devotion have proved an inspiration to me. The influence of our Church throughout the French Mission is impossible to calculate. Everywhere it exerts a powerful force for building better men, for regenerating mankind. Its strict adherence to the high standards set by the Savior makes its stupendous progress no accident.  
  
For more than a century the Church has made an earnest effort to spread the Gospel in Europe, but never, I believe, with more determined zeal than within the past few years. At least that is so in Belgium, France and Switzerland, although the apparent results achieved may not compare too favorably with those of other European Missions. I am reminded of the nine tons of ore necessary to produce one gram of radium. But when produced that one gram of radium is worth $25,000! The analogy is not perfect, but it does appear to me that it takes a great deal of work and effort to "extract," as it were, one precious soul from the world. The results are perhaps at this moment obscured by the impact of war. What has gone on over there during the past two years is without parallel in history, and it is occasion for marvel that we have accomplished as much as we have under such great handicaps.  
  
Our missionaries have given good account of the stewardship intrusted to them, despite expressions of intense disappointment and a feeling that their efforts culminated in frustration because of the war. I am sure that before God their work has not come amiss. To their everlasting credit it should be said that during the never-to-be-forgotten complex happenings of last September and October they were strong and of good courage. President Toronto of the Czech Mission spoke of his missionaries as being the best young men to walk the earth. I ate and slept with mine, walked and talked with them, shared their successes and disappointments, and at the risk of making a comparison I should like to say they were even better than President Toronto's missionaries.  
  
In Belgium, France and Switzerland, comparative freedom has been vouchsafed to our missionaries to promulgate the principles of the Gospel. Effort has been made to correlate their work with conditions as we found them, with emphasis on the importance of learning to speak the French language correctly and fluently. I feel certain that such preparation presages greater success. Everywhere we have found a friendly spirit of inquiry. Never have we felt that our obligation to the honest investigator was discharged simply by leaving Mormon literature with him. We have sought to persuade him to employ critical reasoning and serious thought to the Gospel, for in it we are confident he will find the only true answer to his problems and aspirations, as well as those inner satisfactions that are deeper and more enduring than anything else in life, and equally as well also, opportunities for furthering wellbeing and happiness.  
  
Missionaries to Europe obtain an international interest and point of view, particularly in the cultural affairs of life. They acquire a broad range of facts on which to formulate and base sound judgments. Mormon missionaries generally, in my opinion, influence the spiritual life of the world, because their efforts are instrumental in opening up to the communities in which they proselyte, new and fresh opportunities for serving God, for crystallizing hopes into action, for working out salvation.  
  
Sister Evans and I have strong testimonies of the truth of the Gospel, testimonies which come from God. We shall never forget the golden memories of the French Mission, which become, as time passes, more and more pleasant, uplifting and inspirational. With all our hearts we want to respond to every call that may be made of us and if and when conditions warrant to return to complete our missions.  
  
May the Lord bless and prosper this work throughout the world is my prayer, and I ask it humbly in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, Amen. 