19
Morning
06 04 1940
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 
236
71-77

None

None

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Last night I reported to President Grant by telephone the first day of the Conference. He was delighted, of course, to know that we had had such a wonderful time together, and was keenly desirous that we should continue to enjoy the blessings of the Lord.  
  
EXPLANATION OF MANNER OF VOTING  
  
We shall now present for your sustaining vote the General Authorities, and certain Church-wide groups of officers, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
For the benefit of the strangers who may be meeting here with us or listening on the air, a few words of explanation may be given.  
  
To speak in terms of political science, this assembly here today, this Annual Conference, of the Priesthood and membership of the Church will, for the purpose of sustaining the Authorities of the Church, act as a constituent assembly. Every General Authority of the Church, as well as other Church officers, comes before such an assembly twice each year.  
  
Again speaking in terms of political science, in the Church the nominating power rests in a group, the General Authorities, but the sustaining or electing power rests in the body of the Church, which under no circumstances nominates officers, the function of the Church body being solely to sustain or to elect. In fact, as will be seen, the General Authority or other officer is proposed to the body of the Church for their sustaining vote.  
  
The sole function of this constitutent assembly today, is, as already stated, to accept or reject the General Authority or other officers proposed to them. This assembly may not propose others to be voted upon.  
  
Futhermore, the actual procedure for voting is normally by the uplifted hand of those present. No electioneering, no speechmaking, no stating of objections, no proposing of candidates, no vocal demonstration of any kind is in order. Anyone seeking to do any of these things would not only be out of order as a matter of procedure, but would be likewise breaking the peace of the State by interrupting and disturbing a public assembly, would be subject to arrest as a disturber of the peace, and if necessary, would have to be so dealt with as a matter of public order. This assembly might be called the "voting booth" of the Church. This will be clear to all our listeners.  
  
It is obvious that only members of the Church are entitled to vote, and an excommunicant is not a member.  
  
Anyone not desiring to sustain anyone proposed may not only indicate his dissent here but he may, if he wishes, present his objections to the proper authority of the Church, and will be given an appropriate hearing. This is the rule and order of the Church.  
  
The result of this system is that there has never been any politics in the Church. Church-men do not seek Church office. The best evidence that a man is unfit for Church office is the fact that he wants it.  
  
The principle behind the system is set forth in the fifth of the Articles of Faith, — the equivalent of the creed of other churches. It reads —  
  
We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof.  
  
REVELATIONS REGARDING THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH  
  
That the matter may be better understood, it should be said that the President of the Church is "the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church."  
  
The revealed rule on this is as follows:  
  
Then comes the High Priesthood which is the greatest of all.  
  
Wherefore, it must needs be that one be appointed of the High Priesthood to preside over the Priesthood, and he shall be called President of the High Priesthood of the Church;  
  
Or in other words, the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 107:64-66.)  
 
Again: 
  
The President of the Church ... is appointed by revelation and acknowledged in his administration by the voice of the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 102:9.)  
  
PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 73  
  
As to the duties and functions of the President of the Church, the revealed rule provides:  
  
And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to preside over the whole Church, and to be like unto Moses —  
  
Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 107:91,92.)  
  
DUTIES OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY  
  
To the First Presidency in the Prophet Joseph's time, the Lord said:  
  
And now, verily I say unto you, I give unto you a commandment that you continue in the ministry and presidency. * * *  
  
And set in order the churches, and study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people.  
  
And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in order all the affairs of this Church and Kingdom. (Doctrine and Covenants 90:12, IS. 16.)  
  
Other pertinent revealed rules regarding the presiding authority of the Church are:  
  
Of the Melchizedek Priesthood, three Presiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the Church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the Church. * * *  
  
The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the Church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews. * * *  
  
The Presidency of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchizedek, have a right to officiate in all the offices in the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 107 :22, 33, 39.)  
  
Speaking to the Presidency in 1832 the Lord said:  
  
Unto whom I have given the keys of the Kingdom, which belong always unto the Presidency of the High Priesthood. (Doctrine and Covenants 81 :2.)  
  
RESPONSIBILITY IN VOTING  
  
With this view of the rights, powers, and duties of the President of the High Priesthood of the Church, and also of the First Presidency, it is clear that the sustaining vote by the people is not, and is not to be regarded as, a mere matter of form, but on the contrary a matter of the last gravity. Every person is entitled to indicate whether or not he or she can sustain the officer proposed. While all the Church members vote and sustain the officer, yet the sustaining Priesthood power comes from the Priesthood itself. Your voting will result in the Church body's acknowledging the administration of the man appointed by revelation as the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church.  
  
You here today will by your vote also sustain those who, in the due order of the Church, labor with and under the President's authorized direction.  
  
It is therefore the high and solemn duty of the Priesthood of the Church to gather to this constitutent assembly, this Conference of the Church, and to cast their sustaining vote for him who is appointed the Presiding High Priest, the President of the Church, and for those under him whose names shall be presented. Those who come here thus to declare their acknowledging and sustaining, as the President of the High Priesthood and as the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church, him whom God has called to this office, deserve the blessing they will thereby receive. They are to be commended for their attendance here today. It is to be hoped they will attend all future assemblies of this sort.  
  
President Clark then presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, as follows:  
  
GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH  
  
FIRST PRESIDENCY  
  
Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES  
  
Rudger Clawson  
  
COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES  
  
Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman  
  
Reed Smoot John A. Widtsoe  
  
George Albert Smith Joseph F. Merrill  
  
George F. Richards Charles A. Callis  
  
Joseph Fielding Smith Albert E. Bowen  
  
Stephen L Richards Sylvester Q. Cannon  
  
ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH  
  
George F. Richards  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators.  
  
TRUSTEE IN TRUST  
  
Heber J. Grant  
  
As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
 
THE FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY  
  
Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion  
  
Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor  
  
Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy  
  
Richard L. Evans  
  
PRESIDING BISHOPRIC  
  
LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop  
 
Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor  
 
Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor  
  
GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH  
  
CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER  
  
Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund.  
  
CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION  
  
Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe  
  
J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion  
  
David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill  
  
Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis  
  
Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West  
  
Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen  
 
Richard R. Lyman  
  
Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer  
  
COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION  
  
Franklin L. West  
  
SEMINARY SUPERVISOR  
  
M. Lynn Bennion  
  
AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE  
  
Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer  
  
Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett  
 
TABERNACLE CHOIR 
 
Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor: Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor.  
  
ORGANISTS  
  
Alexander Schreiner  
  
Frank W. Asper  
  
Wade N. Stephens, Assistant  
  
CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE  
 
ADVISERS 
 
John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards  
  
Albert E. Bowan Marvin O. Ashton  
  
Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin  
  
John H. Taylor  
 
General Presidency of Relief Society  
  
GENERAL COMMITTEE  
  
Henry D. Moyle, Chairman  
 
Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman  
 
Harold B. Lee, Managing Director  
 
Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson  
  
Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg  
  
Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens  
  
J. Frank Ward  
  
GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH  
  
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY  
  
Amy Brown Lyman, President  
 
Marcia K. Howells, First Counselor  
 
Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION  
  
George D. Pyper, General Superintendent  
 
Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent  
 
George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION  
  
George Q. Morris, General Superintendent  
 
Joseph J. Cannon, 1st Asst. Superintendent  
 
Burton K. Farnsworth, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION  
  
Lucy Grant Cannon, President  
 
Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor  
 
Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
PRIMARY ASSOCIATION  
  
May Green Hinckley, Superintendent  
  
Adele Cannon Howells, 1st Asst. Superintendent  
  
Janet Murdoch Thompson, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted.  
  
At the conclusion of the foregoing presentation and voting, President Clark announced that the voting, so far as he could observe, was unanimous in the affirmative. His attention was called, however, to one vote in the negative on the proposition to sustain the First Presidency.*  