23
Afternoon
06 04 1940
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
88-90

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

On Wednesday, of this week, President Heber J. Grant graciously permitted me the privilege of visiting him for a few moments. Our beloyed President is rapidly mending in health. He loves his people.  
  
A SPECIAL APPOINTMENT  
  
A little over a month ago I was honored by the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve with an appointment to visit the Oahu Stake and the Hawaiian Mission and the Japanese Mission in Hawaii. It was one of the finest missionary journeys I have ever had. The Islands are noted for their surpassing beauty and every island is covered with creation and life.  
  
The Conference was blessed by the Lord. There was a very large attendance. The Presiding Bishop of the Church, LeGrand Richards, made a notable contribution to the success of that important gathering. President Ralph E. Woolley and his talented wife, Romania, are doing a splendid work in that distant outpost of the Church, and the Mission Presidents with their faithful wives are laboring with zeal to advance the work of God. It rejoiced my heart to see your sons and daughters in that Mission preaching the restored Gospel in the spirit of piety and with unwavering faith in God. They love the people — the Hawaiians, Japanese, Chinese, Portugese, Samoans and Filipinos. The missionaries love these people with the love of Christ and verily that love is mutual.  
  
EARLY MISSIONARY WORK IN HAWAII  
  
In one of our great hymns there is a line like this: "Mingling with Gods he can plan for his brethren." That refers, as you well know, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe with all my heart that Joseph Smith interceded with the Powers on high for the Gospel to be sent to the people of those Islands, and God sent forth His light. George Q. Cannon, Joseph F. Smith, Lorenzo Snow — these men were sent forth by the Lord and upon the lips of these soldiers of the Cross the word of God was mighty. There were other stalwarts sent forth and they did a remarkable work.  
  
We see but half the causes of our deeds, Seeking them wholly in the outer life  
  
And heedless of the encircling spirit world Which, though unseen, is felt, and sows in us  
  
All germs of pure and world-wide purpose.  
  
THE POWER OF JESUS CHRIST  
  
God turned His countenance towards that people and, as their fathers were worthy to receive the Gospel of Christ, so these humble and Christ-like children of God were deemed worthy of having preached to them the restored Gospel. As I looked upon those people and preached to them, people of different nationalities, the thought came to me, some men appeal to certain people, other men to other people, but the Lord Jesus Christ appeals to all men. His voice is the authoritative voice that is sounding in the hearts of men and women today. In the pre-existent state when the sons of God shouted for joy it is my firm belief that Jesus Christ was the only one who was willing to pay the price for the redemption of the children of God. Blessed be His holy name forever.  
  
A VISIT TO THE ISLAND OF M0LOKAI  
  
Before I left the Islands I felt a strong urge to visit those stricken people — the lepers — on the Island of Molokai. The only way to reach that place then was by airplane. I had never been in one of these machines but my wife, who accompanied me, urged me to try the plane. I did, and I believe God took the fear out of my heart. As we were passing over the Pacific from one island to another, the pilot pointed downward and there in the blue depths of the Pacific was a school of whales disporting themselves. When we arrived on the island a delegation of those afflicted people was there to welcome us with songs. The officer said to me as I approached them "Go no closer." President Cox and his wife were with us."  
  
We met with those afflicted people — afflicted only in body — in our meeting house. Irrespective of creed they came to the services. I spoke to them about the resurrection and of the love God had for them, and in the course of my address I quoted the immortal words of Jesus, which should ring in the hearts of every man and woman in the world: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me."  
  
At the close of my remarks a brother, who was presiding over the meeting, the Justice of the Peace, himself a leper, arose and made a response which for eloquence I have never heard surpassed. It was the eloquence that comes from the heart, not from the lips. He said, "Apostle Callis, we could not go to Honolulu to attend that big Conference, but you have come to us and you have fed us; you have come to the least of your brethren, and inasmuch as you have done it unto us, you have done it unto the Lord Jesus Christ." And he continued, "We are happy. We cannot greet you with a handshake. Some of us have received the Gospel since we were on this island, and the joy and the comfort we receive from the Gospel has more than compensated us for our affliction, our infirmities. God will bless you, Brother Callis, for coming to the least of these your brethren." He closed the meeting while my tears were fast falling, and then to think though I loved this people, I had to pass through them while they withdrew to one side; could not touch them, could not shake hands with them. Oh, brethren and sisters, how blessed we are! It seems to me that God in Heaven is preparing a house for His afflicted children, a resurrected body, the glories of which have not entered into their minds to conceive.  
  
TESTIMONY OF GOD'S GOODNESS  
  
I humbly testify that this work is of God; that Christ is appealing unto all nations, and ere long they will receive His teachings for He is the Holy One of Israel. He is the Savior of the world. This Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. Joseph Smith, mingling with Gods, is planning for his brethren, for this people. God bless him forever.  
  
I testify that President Grant is an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is God's choice for President of this Church, and he is a Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, loved by his people, honored by the Lord, and one whose love cannot be shaken for his people and for his God. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 