34
Morning
07 04 1940
Elder Reed Smoot 
39
119-121

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been wondering whether I have ever attended a Conference when the influence of the Spirit of God has been made so manifest as at this gathering.  
  
THE POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD  
  
This is a wonderful Church, and as the years go by that truth will be known better in all parts of this world. At the wonderful Priesthood meeting held in this building, with nearly every seat filled, I thought to myself, what a marvelous power! With that power directed by our Heavenly Father Himself, this Church will not only grow in numbers, but will grow in influence among the people of the world.  
  
CHARITY A CHRISTIAN VIRTUE  
  
Charity — we believe in that grand principle, and not only believe in it but manifest our belief in action in the many ways provided for by the Gospel. Charity has been a great problem that every dispensation has had to meet in some way. God has provided the way, and this people, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, are living closer to that law, I am quite sure, than any other people in the world. Charity of the proper kind and spirit is an essential virtue in all Christian living.  
  
QUOTATIONS FROM SCRIPTURE  
  
In Corinthians, chapter thirteen, I find these words:  
  
Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.  
  
And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. * * *  
  
And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.  
  
Let all our things be done with charity.  
  
Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up.  
  
Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil.  
  
Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth;  
  
Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.  
  
I find in the third chapter of Colossians it says:  
  
Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any; even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.  
  
And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.  
  
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.  
  
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.  
  
And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.  
  
The psalm of David asks:  
  
Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill?"  
  
The answer was:  
  
He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart.  
  
He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor.  
  
Lack of charity might be blamed for much that is wrong in the world today, for if all the people were tolerant of the faults and weaknesses of others, and would approach them with charity and love in their hearts, it would be much easier to solve the problems confronting this old world of ours today, and which are threatening our civilization.  
  
THE GOSPEL A CURE FOR ILLS OF WORLD  
  
The only solution to these perplexing questions is to be found in the teachings of the Master. He gave to the world a philosophy of life that will bring to the world the peace and happiness for which humanity has been seeking through all the ages. His was a Gospel of peace, love and charity, and we must turn to His teachings. He was the Prince of Peace, and the nations which persist in ignoring His counsel and His warnings are following the path that leads to destruction and decay. The last is a quotation.  
  
John, in the fourth chapter of his first epistle, says:  
  
Let us love one another; for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. * * *  
  
If God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. * * *  
  
If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar; for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?  
  
And this commandment have we from Him, that he who loveth God love his brother also.  
  
AARON AND MIRIAM REBUKED  
  
When Moses married the Ethopian woman, as related in Numbers, twelfth chapter, Miriam and Aaron complained of it and said:  
  
Hath the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? Hath he not spoken also by us? And the Lord heard it. * * *  
  
And the Lord spake suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam: Come out ye three unto the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out.  
  
And the Lord came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam; and they both came forth.  
  
And he said: Hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream.  
  
My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house.  
  
With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the Lord shall he behold; wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?  
  
And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them; and he departed.  
  
And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow, and Aaron looked upon Miriam and, behold, she was leprous.  
  
SAYINGS OF THE SAVIOR  
  
In Matthew, seventh chapter, we read: Judge not, that ye be not judged.  
  
For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.  
  
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?  
  
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye?  
  
Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.  
  
God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God. Herein is our love made perfect, .... because as He is, so are we in this world.  
  
LOVE WILL FINALLY TRIUMPH  
  
We should love and speak the truth, but only in love and kindness. Truth should ever extend the hand of love.  
  
Who seeks for heaven alone, to save his soul, May keep the path, but will not reach the goal; While he who walks in love may wander far, Yet God will bring him where the blessed are.  
  
We should seek to obtain that love, that charity which the words of the Apostle Paul declared to be so important. Only by so doing can the ills of the world be cured. As Paul makes the assertion that "Charity beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things," he gives us to know that this heavenly attitude, charity or brotherly love, will triumph and continue, where most other things fail or cease. He assures us, in substance, that where charity rules, pride hangeth not.  
  
May God's blessings ever be with us. May we recognize our duties not only as citizens of this country, but as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
May God bless you all. May He bless all undertakings begun by the Authorities of this Church in carrying on His work, I humbly ask at this time, in the name of the Master, Jesus Christ, Amen. 