40
Afternoon
07 04 1940
Elder Richard R. Lyman 
17
135-141

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
  
The purpose of my remarks this afternoon is to appeal to the people to come to the support of the Church Welfare Plan.  
  
DIRECTION OF WELFARE PLAN BY LEADERS  
  
Our leader, the President of the Church, has directed its organization and operation. And he has appealed to the people to come to the support of this undertaking in much the same way as did Paul the Apostle when, in speaking to the Elders of the Church, he said, "Ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how He said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." (Acts 20:35.) And President Grant has made his appeal with much the same earnestness and feeling as did Paul when he added, "Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears." (Acts 20:31.)  
  
And while the aims of this Church Welfare Plan are many, on this occasion I am going to mention but two. The first of these is providing employment and teaching the untrained and inefficient how to work, and the second is eliminating the suffering and the handicaps that are due to poverty.  
  
THE IMPORTANCE OF EFFICIENCY  
  
After projects have been created and employment has been secured, hardly anything is more important than teaching people how to work and then teaching them the importance of performing assigned tasks with reasonable speed and efficiency. There are mothers who say that because they themselves had a hard time they are going to see to it that their daughters have an easy time. And there are fathers who say because they themselves had a hard time in the days of their youth, they are going to do their utmost to see to it that their sons have an easy time.  
  
Strong men and strong women, those who work efficiently, those whose services are always in demand, are not brought up having an easy time. Work is the only thing in the world worth while that wins. The world seems to be seeking always the services of those who work with a high degree of speed and a high degree of efficiency. Such individuals are rarely unemployed. It has been wisely said that he who can write a better book or preach a better sermon, or even make a better mouse trap than his neighbor, though he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten pathway to his door.  
  
And since it is the ability and the willingness of people to work, and the speed and the efficiency with which they toil, which creates a demand for their services, one of the outstanding purposes of the Church Welfare Plan after providing employment is to teach people to work. At the same time it should be borne in mind that there are two periods in life which ought to be free from the necessity of earning a living. One of these is childhood. No child ought to be compelled to work for his daily bread. And the other period is old age. No one who is old, especially when in poor health, ought to be compelled to work for his living.  
  
THRIFT URGED  
  
And if these two periods in life are to be free from the necessity of earning a living, it will be necessary for those who labor to lay something by during the laboring years of their lives in order to provide for the necessities of childhood and the necessities of age. This can be done only when and if frugal ways, frugal habits and industry are the characteristics of those who toil. These desirable conditions can be brought about only if workers during the earning period of their lives spend less than they make.   
  
PROJECTS TO BE PLANNED  
  
It is the aim of the Church so to train the people that they will have the character and the honor, the desire and the willingness, to give a full day of honest, efficient service for a full day's pay. The able-bodied are expected to work for their daily bread. Projects of many different kinds and descriptions are to be organized in every Stake and Ward and Mission and Branch of the Church with the hope and with the expectation that those who are able to work will be given an opportunity, on these projects, to provide themselves, by honest effort, with the necessities of life.  
  
HUMAN BEINGS NOT ALL ALIKE  
  
And in all this the natural weaknesses and imperfections of mankind must be taken into account. There are those in the human family whose mental make-up is such that for them to learn to lace up their own shoes is a real accomplishment. In fact the mentalities, capacities and abilities of human beings are so varied that one wise man has said: The human family may be divided into three groups with a rather high degree of accuracy. Fifteen per cent of the "human family will work whether they are watched or not. Thirty-five per cent of the human family will work if well watched, and fifty per cent of the human family will not work watched or otherwise." I leave it to you to decide for yourselves whether or not this conclusion is correct.  
  
A GOOD REPORT FROM ONE STAKE  
  
The second aim of the Church Welfare Plan, as I have already stated, is the elimination of the suffering and the handicaps which are due to poverty. In a Stake Welfare meeting held recently the Ward Presidents of the Relief Societies of the Stake were called upon for reports. And all stated that in their respective Wards every family had been visited and every home had been carefully investigated. The visitors found that all the families were comfortably housed, no child was, nor were any of the unemployable aged, required to work for a living. There was no child bare-footed. There was no child that was hungry. All the children were well clothed. All of the aged and all of the children were reported as being well cared for and it was stated further that the children all had ample opportunity to attend school. Thus, in that particular Stake, the aim had been reached of eliminating the suffering and the handicaps which are due to poverty.  
  
A STORY REVIEWED  
  
The main purpose of these remarks is to appeal to you to come to the support of this Church Welfare Plan. I repeat the words of the Master Himself, "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and the words of Paul, "Ye ought to support the weak." I can think of no better illustration of what I mean than the impressive lesson taught in Van Dyke's grippingly interesting religious story entitled, "The Mansion." I shall give this story briefly in almost the exact language of my close and beloved friend, that master of English literature, the late Dr. Henry Van Dyke.  
  
John Wightman, a wealthy business man and banker, dreamed that he was sitting on a stone, not far from a broad pathway, in a strange land. The travelers in little groups or larger ones were all clothed in white. It was like some old picture. Now and then one of the travelers would smile, and beckon John Wightman a friendly greeting, so that he felt as if they would like to have him join them.  
  
This was a vastly different world from that in which the palatial mansion of John Wightman on a great avenue of a great city, a modern metropolis, had been built. All of this looked strange to him and yet most real — as real as anything he had ever seen.  
  
He had a faint premonition of what all this must be, but, wishing to be sure, he walked toward one of the passing groups of people. One of them turned to meet him and put out his hand. It was an old man under whose white beard and brows John Wightman saw the face of the village doctor who had cared for him when he was but a poor boy in the country.  
  
"Welcome," said the old man, "Will you come with us?"  
  
"Where are you going?"  
  
"To see the heavenly city, to see our mansions there! Come join us. It will do you good. You also must have a mansion in this heavenly city waiting for you — a fine one too. Are you not looking forward to seeing it?"  
  
"Yes," replied John Wightman, "Yes, it must be so. But I had not expected to see it so soon. I will go with you and we will talk on the way."  
  
The doctor had little to tell of his plain, hard life in the country. It had been uneventfully spent for others. His story and that of the country village where he lived was a very simple one. A much richer story was that of John Wightman's adventures, and triumphs, full of contacts with the great events and the great personages of his time. But in that wide, heavenly moorland, in that free air of perfect peace, John Wightman did not care to speak much about his experiences.  
  
All the people in these groups seemed to be people who, during their lifetime upon the earth, had been folks of comparatively little consideration. But John Wightman was glad that they would all find fit dwelling places prepared for them; but he thought also, with a certain pride and pleasure, of the great surprise that some of them would feel when they saw his appointed mansion. If they were so sure, each one, of finding a mansion there, could not he be far more sure? For his life had surely been more fruitful than theirs. He had been a leader, a founder, owner and manager of many new and important enterprises.  
  
Now, before these travelers, stood the heavenly city. It was white and wonderful. Its walls were so low a child could see over them. The gate of this city was not like a gate at all. It was not barred with iron or wood; it was only a single pearl which marked the place where the wall ended and the entrance lay open.  
  
A person standing there said, "Come in, you are at your journey's end and your mansions are ready for you."  
  
They passed from street to street among fair and spacious dwellings adorned with an infinitely varied beauty of divine simplicity. The mansions differed in size, in shape, in charm; each seemed to have its own personal look of loveliness. As the company came one by one to the mansions prepared for them, and their guide beckoned to the happy ones to enter into and take possession, there was, on the part of all of them, a soft murmur of joy. These new and immortal dwellings were lovelier and nobler than all the earthly dreams they had had of them. One after another the travelers were led to their own mansions and went in gladly; and from within, through the open doors, came sweet voices of welcome and low laughter and happy song.  
  
At last there was no one left with the guide but the two old friends, the village doctor and John Wightman. They were standing in front of one of the largest and fairest of the heavenly mansions whose garden glowed softly with radiant flowers. The guide, laying his hand upon the doctor's shoulder said, "This is for you. Go in. There is no more sickness here, no more death, no sorrow, no pain! The old enemies are all conquered, and all the good that you have done for others, all the help that you have given, all the comfort that you have brought, all the strength and love that you have bestowed upon the suffering, are here, and we have built all of them into this mansion for you."  
  
The good man's face lighted with a still joy. He clasped his old friend's hand and whispered, "How wonderful all of this is! Go on, you will come to your own mansion next no doubt. It will not be far away. We shall see each other again soon, very soon."  
  
And so the village doctor went through the garden and into the music within. The keeper of the gate then turned to John Wightman with level, quiet, searching eyes and asked gravely, "Where do you wish me to lead you now?"  
  
"To my own mansion," answered the man with half-concealed excitement. "Is there not one here for me? I am John Wightman. I wish very much to see my mansion. I believe that you have one for me. Will you take me to it?"  
  
The keeper of the gate drew a little book from the breast of his robe and turned over the pages.  
  
"Certainly," he said, with a curious look at the man, "Your name is here; and you shall see your mansion if you will follow me."  
  
It seemed as if they must have walked miles and miles through the vast city before they came into a kind of suburb where there were many small cottages. Finally they reached an open field, barren and lonely looking. In the center of the field was a tiny hut, hardly big enough for a shepherd's shelter. It looked as if it had been built of discarded things, scraps and fragments of other buildings. These, however, had been put together with great care by someone who had taken great pains to make the most of cast-off material. There was something pitiful and shameful about the hut.  
  
"This," said the keeper of the gate, standing still and speaking with a low, distinct voice, "This, John Wightman, is yours."  
  
An almost intolerable shock of grief, wonder and indignation choked the man for a moment so that he could not say a word. Then finally he turned his face away from the poor little hut and began to remonstrate eagerly with his companion.  
  
"Surely, sir," he stammered, "You must be in error about this. There is something wrong — some other John Wightman — confusion of names — the book must be incorrect."  
  
"There is no mistake," said the keeper of the gate very calmly; "Here is your name, the record of your title and of your possessions in this place."  
  
"But how could such a house be prepared for me?" cried the man, with a resentful tremor in his voice. "Is this a suitable mansion for one so well-known and so successful in life upon the earth? Why is it so pitifully small and mean? Why have you not built it large and fair like the others?"  
  
"That is all the material you sent to us."  
  
"What!"  
  
"We have used all the material that you sent us," repeated the keeper of the gate.  
  
"I acknowledge," added the man, "that I considered my own interests too much. But surely not altogether."  
  
Dimly, through the trouble of his mind, John Wightman began to see the seriousness of his situation.  
  
"What is it that counts here?" he asked.  
  
"Only that counts here," said the keeper of the gate, "which is truly given. Only those things are given consideration in this place which are done solely for the love of doing good, only those plans are given consideration in which the welfare of others is the master thought. Only those labors count here in which the sacrifice is greater than the anticipated reward. Only those gifts are given consideration in which the giver forgets himself!"  
  
THE WORDS OF THE SAVIOR  
  
And I will conclude this, my appeal, to you, to come to the support of the Church Welfare Plan with the following familiar words from the 25th chapter of Matthew: (verses 31-40)  
  
When the Son of Man shall come in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then shall He sit upon the throne of His glory;  
  
And before Him shall be gathered all nations; and He shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats;  
  
And He shall set the sheep on His right hand, but the goats on the left.  
  
Then shall the King say unto them on His right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;  
  
For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in;  
  
Naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me.  
  
Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?  
  
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?  
  
Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?  
  
And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me."  
  
Again, in the language of Paul the Apostle, let us "Remember the words of the Lord Jesus how He said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." (Acts 20:35) And may we all be found among those worthy, unselfish and righteous ones who feed the hungry and clothe the naked, I humbly pray.  