41
Afternoon
07 04 1940
Elder John H. Taylor
164
141-143

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy  
  
As a people we have been thoroughly traditionated in the thought that it is a duty as well as a privilege for all of our men, as conditions will permit, to go out and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Tradition is a wholesome thing provided it has had its beginning in high ideals, courage, the thought that we are the servants of the Lord, and that these high ideals have been carried unchanged from the past down to the present.  
  
ASSIGNING MISSIONARIES TO NEW FIELDS  
  
One of the ideals of the missionary is that he is willing to go wherever the Lord requires him to do. Last night in our Priesthood Meeting we sang the song "I'll Go Where You Want Me to Go, Dear Lord." Perhaps we never have had the same opportunity of witnessing a demonstration of this attitude with as large a number as we had recently when, on account of the war, missionaries were returned from Europe to America. Through the kindness of the First Presidency I was assigned to go to New York to work with President Frank Evans of the Eastern States Mission in receiving the missionaries as they arrived. Hotel accommodations and transportation were arranged for them and mission assignments were made for those who were to finish their missions in the United States and Canada. It has been indicated by President Clark the amount of work that was accomplished in handling the missionaries. May I say in addition that the short stay of the missionaries in New York was made more enjoyable because of the splendid hospitality and kindness of President and Sister Evans and the missionaries in the office.  
  
When the missionaries were to be reassigned we expected to use the same methods that were used when they left home, that is, we thought that we would be able to interview missionaries and find out in detail concerning their attitude and their desires. After the first group or so, it became evident that because of the short time they were in New York, this would be impossible. We therefore took the attitude that most of the missionaries coming from Europe were experienced, well trained and full of faith and therefore would be willing to go wherever they might be assigned for the best interests of the work of the Lord.  
  
I am quite sure that all of the missionaries, just as we would have felt ourselves, had some thought or desire as to where they would like to labor while in the American Missions. Most missionaries, at the time of their call, have had the experience of making mental adjustments. At home we send out missionary calls all over the Church only knowing in a small way the disappointment that sometimes comes to the missionary and the parents when they find that he has been assigned to a mission field different from the one most desired. But with good courage and faith in the work, they do not ask for a change.  
  
I might say that we were helped in selecting new mission fields for the missionaries by the kindly instructions of the brethren at home and also by the suggestions of the Mission Presidents under whom they had labored. However, these suggestions were only few in number. The assignment of the great majority was left to me.  
  
A meeting was held with each group. The missionaries, as they came into these meetings had, I am quite certain, a desire or wish that they might be sent to certain mission fields. We came to each meeting with a sincere prayer in our hearts that the Lord would guide us in making the most suitable assignments. When names were read out and the mission fields were designated, it was astonishing with what good spirit they were accepted. The cases were few and far between when information was brought to our attention that a missionary thought he should have been sent to some other field. I can not remember of any missionary saying that he would not go to the field assigned to him.  
  
To me it was one of the finest expressions of faith in the work of the Lord to see them accept these appointments, even though they might not have been as agreeable to them as some other mission field. And so, these wonderful boys and girls, holding on to the high missionary ideals of the Church, went into the different American fields and made the adjustment no matter what it was.  
  
COURAGE AND FAITH OF MISSIONARIES  
  
Not only had each missionary the experience of being transferred from one field to another but he also had the sad experience of having to say goodby to those faithful Saints in the foreign fields. I am speaking of those men and women in Europe who have shown much true devotion to the work of the Lord. The missionaries had also come in contact with the splendid Presidents and their wives in the foreign fields. They had learned to love these men and women, had become sincerely devoted to them because of their humility and ability as leaders. Now they were to come into another field and make new contacts, to work under different circumstances and conditions, and this took considerable faith and courage on the part of all these missionaries.  
  
The reports that have come to us from the American fields have been most favorable. You parents can certainly be very proud of these boys and girls of yours who were in Europe, because of their attitude, their love of the work, their devotion to the Cause, and their determination to make good in any field or under any condition.  
  
If future missionaries, parents, and those in leadership could constantly keep before them this example of holding true to high missionary ideals, I am sure that we should find an increase in happiness, spirituality and usefulness on the part of missionaries as they give service to our Heavenly Father.  
  
May this be a part of our missionary life, a part of our true tradition that has been carried forward so splendidly all these years, and may we not be found wanting as we are called into the field, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 