43
Afternoon
07 04 1940
Elder Richard L. Evans 
247
145-146

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I have been thrilled since the opening of this Conference with each of the statements of my brethren, as I am sure you have been, beginning with the greeting from President Grant, continuing with the broad, enlightening view of the past year, and the deep and solemn admonitions for the year to come by President Clark, and continuing down through the remainder of the speakers.  
  
I was thrilled this morning to have with us President McKay and to hear his remarks, as I know all of you were.  
  
RECORDS MADE BY LEADING BRETHREN  
  
When I came to my present calling in the Church I thought perhaps I should make something of a reputation in some field or another, and I looked around to see what records might be available that could be acquired. I saw that some of my brethren had acquired, justifiably, a reputation for being authorities in the field of doctrine — some were trained in the professions — some in law, some in the sciences; and I concluded that about the only record that was left for me to strive for was that of brevity of expression, but I anticipated no such cooperation from the presiding officer in helping me to achieve this record as I have had here today. (Laughter.)  
  
SPEECHES THAT WERE NOT DELIVERED  
  
I think it was just about a year ago at this hour that a similar situation had arisen, and Dr. Widtsoe was called upon to speak. He advised us that he had a prepared talk in his pocket, but there was no time to deliver it and he would probably deliver it at the next Conference. I think he did not deliver it at the next Conference, however, and my curiosity, fully equal to that of a woman on this particular subject, got the better of me, and I have asked him several times since what that talk was about. He has merely smiled, and I do not know yet.  
  
I think my retaliation at this time will be of like character. I have a talk in my pocket. It was to have been a very good one. (Laughter.) It is still a very good one, but it is not for the ears of this congregation. I am not above borrowing time from my brethren here on the stand, but there is no one left to borrow it from except the congregation, and I refuse to do that.  
  
A TESTIMONY AS TO TITHING  
  
I should like to say one thing more. I was happy to hear the remarks yesterday of Brother Joseph Fielding Smith concerning the subject of tithing, and the brief but forceful message given in the Priesthood meeting last night on the same subject by President Clark. I do not know what a full tithing means to you, but I know what it means to me by the teachings of my great and good mother whose presence I so sorely miss at this time. It has meant to me all the days of my life a tenth of every dollar that ever passed through my hands, whether by gift or as a reward for labor. I am grateful for that example and that teaching.  
  
I have thought at times that I would like to put the Lord in my debt, but have found that it is impossible to do so, and I commend to all of you who have not experienced the surpassing joy of attempting to do so that you. do it. No one with whom you have any business in this world or out of it will repay you so surely or so generously. That is my testimony; it has proved to be so in my own life, and I know it will in the life of every Latter-day Saint who will take this principle of the Gospel and live it and reap from it all the material and spiritual rewards that come therefrom.  
  
I wish to leave you my testimony this day, that I know that God lives as well as I know any of the material facts of life, or anything that I can reach out and touch with my hand; that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, as have been all his successors, including our present leader, President Heber J. Grant, whom I pray God will increase in health and strength and return to us, and I speak it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 