44
Afternoon
07 04 1940
Elder Mark B. Garff 
248
146-148

None

None

Former President of the Danish Mission 

"Blessed is he who endureth to the end."  
  
I bring the good greetings and the love of the Danish people who belong to the Church, to President Grant, President Clark, President McKay, the Council of the Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric and the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. That is my first obligation to this group.  
  
My second obligation is that I shall extend the love of the Danish people to the congregation of the Church. That was their wish and their desire before I left that land.  
  
I express my appreciation to Elder Richard R. Lyman, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, and Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon for their visits to the Danish Mission, for the inspiration that they brought. I am most grateful and thankful for the opportunity I have had of giving service, that I was an instrument in the hands of the Lord in helping to evacuate the missionaries from Europe under the jurisdiction and leadership of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. I learned to love him and I appreciate him. Even though we were eight thousand miles from the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ, yet I am sure that the same inspiration dominated all of us, and your sons and your daughters returned to the land of Zion, "a choice land above all other lands," because of the inspiration that our Heavenly Father granted unto His servants.  
  
There is one thought that I would like to leave with you, and that thought is this: Why are you here today? Why are you not in war-torn Europe? Why aren't bombs falling on you? This is the only place in the world today — the United States — where there is any religious security, it is the only place where there is any guarantee of religious security, and why are you here? Why have you been so blessed? Because the Lord God talked to Joseph Smith and gave him commandments concerning the peoples of the earth; that he should go, and that he should send others to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. Some humble missionary left Salt Lake City, or left some other city, and went into far-away Denmark, into far-away Norway, and into far-away Germany, and other nations and sought out our parents, our grandparents, our great grandparents, and because the Lord sent those men we are enjoying the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We are not Americans, a great part of us, because of any choice of our own, but because missionaries went to that land and brought us here. We owe that to the Gospel of Jesus Christ; we owe it to the Church.  
  
If for no other reason I paid my tithing I would pay it because some humble missionary brought my grandparents to this country. I have an opportunity for religious freedom; I have an opportunity for economic security; I have an opportunity to hear the voice of the prophet of the living God, and oh how grateful I am that I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ! How grateful I am that some missionary sought out my grandparents! How blessed am I that I have had the opportunity of rendering service in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! I say this to you in all sincerity. The greatest thing that you and I can do is to give more richly than we have received.  
  
I bear witness to you as a servant of God that He lives, and that His coming is near at hand. I bear witness to you that the door is opening, for He said a hundred years ago that His coming was near at hand, even at our very door, and the Lord will show unto the nations, and unto you, and unto all mankind that that which the prophets have said is true.  
  
As recorded in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord said the time would come that they who would not hear the voice of His servants, the voice of the prophets, and the voice of the Apostles, would be cut off from among the people, and that has happened.  
  
God grant that we may appreciate the fact that we are Americans. Do not sell your birthright for a mess of pottage. Do not barter your freedom away. Do not trade your Constitution for all the things and all the thoughts that are propounded by men, for they would steal from you your freedom, and the Gospel, and your soul for the almighty dollar. God lives. This is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I bear you my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 