47
Afternoon
07 04 1940
Book Headquarters
57
153-154

None

None

The Deseret Boole Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here:  
  
Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid)  
  
Priesthood and Church Welfare  
  
(Specially priced while they last 90c — 6 for $5.00  
  
A Rational Theology by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid)  
  
A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain,  
  
by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid)  
  
Romance of the Book of Mormon,  
  
by Josiah E. Hickman. $2.50 (postpaid)  
  
Progress of Man, by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid)  
  
Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries.  
  
Prompt Service by Mail.  
  
DESERET BOOK COMPANY  
  
44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah  
 
Teaching of the Prophet Joseph Smith 
 
Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days oi the Prophet's ministry  
  
Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use.  
  
SPECIALLY PRICED AT $2.00  
  
Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns  
  
(Their Authors and Composers)  
  
By GEORGE D. PYPER  
  
"The Latter-day Saints have always been a singing people. Some of their greatest sermons and messages have come through the avenue of song."  
  
So writes the author, George D. Pyper, in this fascinating story of an essential feature in the lives of a culture loving people.  
  
Well illustrated throughout, this work will take a high place in literary circes, and will win a permanent spot in the hearts of all lovers of great and good music.  
  
PRICE — $2.00  
  
LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH  
  
Sixth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  
 
By JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH  
  
From the day of his birth until the day of his passing — four score years — there was scarcely a day that was not filled with intense and interesting activity. He commenced life in the midst of tribulation and dark persecution, and through the greater part of his life he was called upon to face the spirit of hate and wickedness, to a degree almost beyond human endurance.  
  
This volume dedicated to a man among men with the faith of the prophets of old. Its worth in your library is incomprehensible and its presence, when read, will give words of wisdom and words of courage.  
  
PRICE— $2.50  
  
DESERET BODE COMPANY  
 
44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 