Afternoon
03 10 1936

The fourth session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon, October 3, with President Grant presiding. 

The Relief Society "Singing Mothers" furnished the music for this meeting. The opening number was an anthem, "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings, O Lord." (Rheinberger). 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Martin Twitchell, President of the Garfield Stake. 

The Relief Society "Singing Mothers" sang "Seraphic Song" (Rubenstein) — Mrs. Bessie Morley, Alto; William Hardiman, Violinist. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel very grateful to be in attendance at this conference. I have been thinking of the brethren who are not here because of illness or due to the fact that they are in foreign lands. They are deprived of the companionship that we enjoy but wherever they are if in the line of duty they may partake of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. 

I have rejoiced in the sweet strains of music to which we have listened, to the prayers that have been offered and to the discourses that have been delivered. 

ETERNAL HAPPINESS THROUGH OBEDIENCE AND SERVICE 

We are greatly blessed as a people and we have need to express our gratitude in service, not only in lip service, but by giving of ourselves to the blessing of mankind. Our eternal happiness will be in proportion to the way that we devote ourselves to helping others. It will be conditioned upon the things that we do and say while we are here in mortality. 

This is a probationary condition for us. Our Heavenly Father gave our first parents an opportunity to come and he told them what they ought to do, and all down through the ages he has been instructing us through his prophets. Wherever the people have listened to the prophets they have had success and happiness and they have been making preparation for eternal joy. Where they have refused to be mindful of the teachings of the Lord through his servants, they have paid the penalty. Not only have they suffered in mortal life, but they have forfeited the blessings that they might enjoy in immortal life. 

Think of the experiences through which we personally pass while here in the world and of the centuries of history available from which we may learn valuable lessons. 

DESTROYED BECAUSE OF THEIR WICKEDNESS 

By reading the Old Testament we learn that for a long period of time after Adam came, the people, exercising their agency, determined to have their own way and followed after the teachings of the adversary until they were too wicked to live. The flood came and only those were left who had been obedient and had sought to do the Lord's will. Abraham tells us of the destruction by fire of the people of Sodom and Gomorrah because of their wickedness. 

Why was it necessary for the flood to come? Why did the Lord permit the cities of the plains to be destroyed by fire? It was because the people would not take advantage of their opportunities. They were not only wasting their lives here upon the earth but were also bringing into the world another generation which would follow their bad example. In both cases, it seems to me, our Heavenly Father in his wisdom and mercy cleansed the earth by the flood and cleared the way for a righteous people to dwell here if they would. The cities of the plains were burned that their wickedness might not continue to jeopardize other communities and children as yet unborn. 

THE EXPERIENCES OF JACOB AND HIS SONS 

We remember the experiences of Jacob. He resided in a country which was fruitful and he was prosperous but in the mercy of the Lord who knew all things, Joseph, one of Jacob's sons, was sold into slavery by his own brothers and taken to Egypt. After he had been there some time Joseph being inspired by the Lord became the chief adviser to Pharaoh and directed the people to prepare for a deadly famine that was to follow seven plenteous years. Joseph not only brought a blessing to the people of Egypt but because he kept the commandments of the Lord he was the means of saving his father's household from starvation by bringing them to a land of plenty. 

Then Moses came, and, directed by the Lord, led the people who had become slaves in Egypt out of their bondage, into the Promised Land. When they kept his commandments they prospered; when they refused to keep his commandments they paid the penalty of their disobedience. 

These were the people that were saved from the Egyptians and from drowning in the Red Sea when the Egyptian army was destroyed there, who were fed by quails and by manna from heaven, saved from thirst at Horeb when water gushed forth from the rock when commanded to do so by the Lord, and guided by a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. 

PRINCES OF ISRAEL DISOBEDIENCE AND DESTRUCTION 

There were in that day, as there have always been, those who prided themselves upon their intellectuality and ability. Upon one occasion while in the wilderness Moses told the camp to do certain things. There were some of the princes of Israel, men held in high esteem — among them Korah, Dathan and Abiram — who refused to comply with the request of Moses and informed him that they were holy. Because they had transgressed and become darkened in mind they didn't realize that the adversary was influencing them. They refused to do what the Lord wanted them to do — not what Moses desired of them but what the Lord required of them. And then they defied Moses and criticized him and found fault with him. The result was that a large number of them were swallowed up in an earthquake, and about fourteen thousand seven hundred others who complained because of what had happened to Korah and his followers were suddenly swept away by a plague. 

All down through history not only has there been spiritual distress but physical distresses have followed the people of God when they have been instructed what to do and have refused. 

AT THE TIME OF THE SAVIOR 

We come to the time of the Savior. He was the Son of God, and as  as people listened to his advice and counsel they had their blessings, but they failed to keep his commandments and the result was that the people from whom he came were scattered. Jerusalem was destroyed and a terrible condition arose. But prior to that time the Lord knowing what would occur took a remnant of his people and brought them across the mighty ocean to the Western Hemisphere. 

THE DESCENDANTS OF LEHI 

It was during the reign of King Zedekiah, six hundred years before the birth of Christ, that Lehi, a servant of the Lord, crossed the ocean with his family. It was a new world to them. They were at the mercy of the winds and waves of the sea, but the Lord provided them with a compass whereby they might know which way to steer their vessel to arrive at their destination. 

But some of the sons of Lehi rebelled and whenever they rebelled the compass would not work and they drifted hither and thither until they would repent. When they turned to the Lord the compass operated and they could steer their vessel in the direction of its destination. 

They came to this country. Soon after their arrival Laman and Lemuel became rebellious and they and their group refused to listen to the advice of their father or their younger brother Nephi whom the Lord had inspired. Nephi, desiring peace, went into another section of the country with his followers and left that which they esteemed to be a better part to Laman and Lemuel and those who followed them. 

What was the result? Those who kept the commandments of the Lord prospered. As long as they were faithful they were blessed and became a mighty multitude. Those who followed Laman and Lemuel because of their wilfulness were cursed with a dark skin and later became known as Indians. They lost their written language. They retained the story of their former lives and the lives of their parents by tradition. Nephi's people remained white and as long as they honored God and obeyed him were marvelously blessed. 

After his resurrection the Savior visited America as he had promised and conferred upon the faithful people the same blessings that he bestowed upon those at Jerusalem. He gave them the priesthood and ordained apostles. He told them what they should do as a Church, and for two hundred years they were a righteous people. They kept his commandments and they were happy. Then came a period of wickedness and the destruction of the white race by the Lamanites. 

When Columbus discovered America the Lamanites were here in large numbers. They had lost their written language and knew of their ancestry only by tradition. They were a degraded people. They had suffered the penalty of refusing to take advantage of the opportunities that the Lord in his mercy had offered to them when he brought their ancestors to America. 

MODERN PROPHETS AND EXPERIENCES 

The Lord raised up mighty men to establish the United ' States of America, and we became a nation. He gave us a glorious Constitution for our guidance and protection. He revealed himself again to the children of men and gave us another prophet. This prophet was only a youth but the Lord blessed him and magnified him and gave to him revelations. He organized a Church as commanded and we are members of that Church. 

The purpose of it was to prepare us to live eternally right here upon this earth, not upon some other earth. The Lord in his mercy restored the priesthood that had been lost to the earth. As martyrs for the truth, this prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum sealed their testimonies with their blood. 

But the Lord raised up another leader. Brigham Young was called. And the people followed him and came into these mountain vales. I know of no people who have ever lived that have been more wonderfully blessed than have the people who followed President Young out into this section of the country. It has been my privilege within the last few days, in company with three of my brethren, to cover most of that trail. We came from Nauvoo along the route the first company followed and saw where they were camped at Sugar Creek, Garden Grove, Mount Pisgah, and other places. They were a courageous people. 

Winter Quarters, where the monument was dedicated two weeks ago yesterday, has been referred to here. The people were absolutely expatriated from their own lands, not for any wrong that they had done, but the Lord as in the case of Joseph in Egypt had a mission for them to perform. Joseph had not committed any wrong when he was sold into slavery and cast into prison, but he was needed and he had the courage to face his problems and became the savior of his race. 

So it was with those who had turned their backs upon civilization, many crossing the Mississippi river and the plains of Iowa in the winter. Many came later to the valley of the Great Salt Lake from other parts of America and from Europe. 

I stood just a few days ago upon the ground near Iowa City where three thousand of our people who had come from the east and from the old world, desirous of being with the body of the Church and unable to afford teams and wagons, began their pilgrimage with handcarts. We went over the trail where they traveled and saw where they had been. Many of them laid down their lives as a testimony of their faith in God. They gave their all and thereby became martyrs for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They have earned eternal life in the celestial kingdom, the highest reward of all. 

Driven from their homes in so-called civilization they suffered from exposure and the want of every comfort, facing dangers seen and unseen and passing through every unpleasant experience that you can think of they laid the foundation of this beautiful city and other happy communities. They gave to us this building in which we worship today. They began the Temple that is upon the ground just east of us. And we  fully established in the tops of the mountains before the passing of Brigham Young. 

NO SAFETY EXCEPT IN RIGHTEOUSNESS 

I have covered several thousand years of time in a few minutes but the thing that I would like to emphasize is that all through this period those who kept the commandments of the Lord were laying up treasures in heaven that nobody can take from them. They are sure of eternal life in the celestial kingdom. What of those who refused to do what the Lord would have them do? Think of those people in the days of Moses who ignored the advice of our Heavenly Father and were swallowed up by an earthquake or were destroyed by a plague. They forfeited all because of disobedience. But do we realize that in our own day and in our own time if we fail to keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father the difficulties and distresses that afflict mankind generally will come to us. The only assurance we have of safety is on the score of righteousness. There is no other way. 

OUR PRESENT PRESIDENT'S ADVICE REJECTED 

There are those among us today who have been blinded by the philosophies and foolishness of men. There are those who reject the advice and counsel of the man that God has placed at the head of this Church. 

I am grieved as I stand here and think of the way we rejected the counsel of President Grant. And I don't want to be counted among that "we" for I was not — but there were those among us who rejected the advice of the President of this Church and voted to repeal the Eighteenth Amendment and approved of bringing intoxicating liquor back into our community and legalizing it. That action has increased our accidents and murders and thousands of the sons and daughters of America are losing themselves and are being debauched beyond the possibility of recovery. 

Had we listened to the man who stands at our head and done our duty we would not in this valley and other places be suffering from the distresses that have come upon us, at least, we would not be responsible for them. 

People who haven't very much information suddenly come along with a bright idea, and they suggest "this is the way" or "that is the way," and although it is in conflict with the advice of the Lord some are persuaded to try it. The Lord has given safe advice and appointed the President of his Church to interpret that advice. If we ignore what he advises, as the President of the Church, we may discover that we have made a serious mistake. 

THE LORD INTENDS WE SHALL WORK 

He has advised us to work. He has advised us to take care of ourselves and not become objects of charity. He has advised us not to look forward to the time when we can sit down in ease and live upon the efforts of somebody who is more industrious or more successful or more faithful. 

He has advised us to be real men and real women. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, if you will take that counsel, if the membership of this Church will carry out the program that has been started God will bless us. We will have joy and satisfaction in our homes. We will not be concerned as to the conditions that exist abroad. More than that, there will be peace and love in our homes and that comfort that can only come from our Heavenly Father. That is the plan. Do you believe it? Do you believe that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? Do you believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord? Do you believe that the man who stands at the head represents our Heavenly Father? He may make mistakes. The Prophet Joseph made his. Moses, the greatest leader of ancient times, made his mistakes. But I want to say that as long as the Lord sustains his leaders we should sustain them. Today the men who stand at our head are unselfishly giving of their time that not only we but the world in general may be blessed. As long as the Lord gives them physical strength, mental power and spiritual light, if we are wise we will follow their advice and counsel. 

When I think of those who came here into this arid country, how they divided the little substance they had with one another, how they worked with their hands, not only the men but the women and the children, I tell you it is a serious thing whenever we or any other people set up a regulation that says to our boys and girls : "You shall not work until you are eighteen years of age." 

That is not the Lord's way. Our Heavenly Father intended that we should work. He made it possible for us to work in this land and will continue to do so. One of the greatest curses that could come to humanity would be to lose the power to work, and yet many seem not to appreciate that fact. 

WHAT OF THE FUTURE 

I am thinking of the future. I am thinking of the handwriting upon the wall in the days of Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar. I am thinking of the conditions in the world today. The Lord has drawn you out of the world, has brought you to the fastness of these great hills, has given you an opportunity that you may be preserved from the evils of mankind if you will, and has promised you eternal life in the celestial kingdom if you will be faithful. 

I am grateful today for the blessing that is mine. I am thankful for membership in this Church. I am happy to be identified with the men who are in its leadership and I am thankful to be a member of the Church to which you belong and to associate with you in the flock. 

We can read the history of mankind and see that when men honored 

ELDER ORLANDO C. WILLIAMS 77 

the Lord they were happy and prosperous; when they turned their backs upon him and listened to the adversary of all righteousness, they lost their blessing and were often destroyed. Yet, with all that information before us, there are good men and good women in our own communities who are blinded by the philosophies of mankind, and they are going along jn the broad way that leads to destruction and unless they repent of their sins and turn back, they will be lost. 

HAPPINESS IN PROPORTION TO RIGHTEOUS LIVING 

There are many things that might be referred to wherein we are falling short, but I see many successes attained. I also see the joy and happiness in the homes of our people, and I pray that as a people we will look for the light and not for the darkness, that we will follow our leaders and not the trailers, that we will go forward, each realizing that we live independent lives, and our eternal happiness will be in proportion to our righteous living. The Lord has offered us opportunities for development that the world has never known before. Are we going to be blinded by the foolishness of others and lose our privileges, or will we cling to the iron red with our faces to our problems and our backs to those who would lead us astray ? 

So, Father in heaven, we are grateful for our membership in thy Church. We desire to be worthy of it and with thy help we will prove our devotion to thee and thy cause. That we may continue so to do and gain eternal life in the celestial kingdom in the companionship of the best men and women that have ever lived or will live upon the earth, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORLANDO C. WILLIAMS 

President of the S panish- American Mission 

My brethren and sisters, this glorious sight takes my breath away from me. This is a glorious privilege that I am today adding to my privileges and blessings that have come to me as a result of this Gospel, and I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for it. 

I am happy to report the Spanish-American Mission. Although it is new in name yet this mission has existed for many years as a part of the Mexican Mission. 

I say to the parents that your boys and girls, the Elders and lady missionaries in this mission are well and happy in the work that they are doing in spreading the principles of this Gospel. We have had very little sickness among the missionaries during the summer months, some slight colds as a result of extreme heat in the southwest and along the Mexican border, but at this time they are all well and happy. 

It would be a source of joy and would gladden the hearts of each and every parent if they could hear the prayers that the missionaries are offering daily in their behalf, giving thanks for the privileges given them, and they are praying that the Spirit of the Lord will continue to bless you at home, that you will enjoy the same privileges, the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that they enjoy, and that it will be possible for you to continue the means whereby they are sustained in the mission field. 

Brother George Albert Smith in speaking of the Book of Mormon and the promises of the Lamanite people therein contained, reminded me of the fact that my assignment is to this people, that it is my duty through the help of the missionaries that have been sent to me, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, to carry the Gospel to this people, that they, through the blessings of the Gospel, may be redeemed, that they may be restored to the former knowledge that their parents had, and that they may be again restored to that glory that once obtained upon these continents, as evidenced by the wonderful ruins that have been excavated in Mexico and in Central America. 

Theirs was a mighty race, a vast civilization ,at one time. As has been stated here previously in this conference, these things were unknown at the time of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. The Prophet Joseph Smith was an instrument of our Father in heaven and gave to the world a knowledge of things that were past and a knowledge of things that would be proven to them in the future. 

Today these are demonstrated facts. 

I was interested in the remarks of President Richards before the class at the Mission Home this morning, wherein he said that in the early days of this Church, the missionaries were sent forth among the inhabitants of the earth to tell them that the restoration of the Gospel was about to take place — that the prieshood was to be restored and that the keys would be restored to the Prophet Joseph and his associates by those heavenly messengers who had held them in former dispensations. He pointed out that the duty of the Elders and the missionaries in the world today had changed — that it is their duty to testify that these are demonstrated facts, that these heavenly messengers have come, that the Gospel has been restored, and that they are messengers bearing the authority of the living God in representing these keys and giving this message to the world. 

I rejoice with you in the priesthood and the authority that is in this Church. I rejoice with you in the leadership thereof. 

It is my prayer that we shall ever be found in harmony with it. I hope the day will never come when I shall be without responsibility in this Church, because it is the one thing that will keep us safe, that will keep us in the paths of truth and righteousness and that will make of us servants of our Heavenly Father and enable us to do his will here upon the earth. 

I rejoice in the inspiration that has come to us today and yesterday through the previous speakers. I only hope that through the Spirit of the Lord I shall be able to carry this enthusiasm and these messages back to our missionaries — and that we may spread it to the people with whom we are called to labor. 

I would like to say to the parents who are sending missionaries into  mission field that the people among whom we labor are some of the finest people that inhabit the earth. They are a kindly people. It is true they are meek, but I am reminded that in Matthew, the Savior speaking on the mount, is there reported to have said: "Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth." 

I am wondering if this has any significance when applied to the Lamanite race. I believe that it has. They are humble; they are meek; they are in humble circumstances. They have been a down trodden people for many generations and yet back of all that are the promises contained in the Book of Mormon to Lehi and his family when they were guided to this land, that it was to be a land of promise to them and their posterity forever — a land choice above all other lands. 

Is it possible that the day is at hand now when those promises will be fulfilled and when this meek, down-trodden people will inherit the earth? I hope so. I believe that it is here. If you could see what the Gospel is doing for this people, how it lifts them out of bondage and raises them to new heights, I am sure you would feel as I do the thrill that comes to those who see the lives of these people and the transformation that comes to them through the blessings of the Gospel. 

It is my desire to work earnestly and faithfully to discharge our obligations, to carry this message to this people, that in the own due time of our Heavenly Father these blessings will come to them, that these promises may be fulfilled, that they may return to a knowledge of the Gospel and that they might again become a white and delightsome people, full of truth and zeal and of the energy and the faith that was exhibited during their periods of faithfulness in the Book of Mormon times. 

I want to say to you that when the Gospel has reached them and touched their hearts there is not a more faithful people, a more diligent and obedient people upon the face of the earth than are these Mexican or Lamanite people, because they strive earnestly day and night to keep the commandments of the Lord, to gain more knowledge and a greater testimony and they are really enjoying the Spirit of the Lord. 

It is a significant fact that although some missionaries from distant points, who are not acquainted with the Lamanite people, feel that they would rather go to some other mission, they feel that this people is not worthy, possibly, of their attention, but they all testify after a few months in the mission field and after becoming acquainted with this people, that they are thankful to their Father in heaven that they are permitted to labor as missionaries among this people and take to them the message of the Gospel. 

I pray the Spirit of the Lord to continue with us throughout the remaining sessions of this conference and that we may go back to our homes and our various fields of labor, filled with the Spirit of the Almighty and carry to them the messages that we have received here from our leaders, and I pray that we as a people will always be found sustaining our leaders, not only by word of mouth but upholding their hands in every way possible through our work and faith, that we may sustain them that they may carry on the tremendous burdens that are upon their shoulders. 

I thank my Father in heaven every day for the acquaintance I have with the leaders of this Church, that he has permitted me to become acquainted with them and receive of their confidence and respect. 

I pray for his blessings upon them and upon all of us, and I do it in the name of his son, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Vocal solo, "I Will Extol Thee, My God, O King," by Rosa Sheranian. 

BISHOP SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

It is a source of gratitude, my brethren and sisters, to be with you in this conference and enjoy the good instructions, the spirited remarks and the beautiful music that we have heard. I rejoice in the splendid spirit and the very good counsel that has been given us throughout the entire sessions. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may attend me in what I may say. 

THE PRESIDENT AN AMBASSADOR OF GOOD WILL 

I am very happy in the excellent health that President Grant enjoys. To hear his clear ringing voice and see his alert, vigorous, active personality in his eightieth year is certainly interesting and remarkable, and a source of satisfaction, I am sure, to every member of the Church. He is a powerful ambassador of good will among the people of this nation in promoting friendship and removing prejudice, overcoming ill-will and misunderstanding regarding this great work in which we have part. He is doing an important work in that respect, and in his visits in the various wards, and dedicating meeting houses, the people of the Church are having the opportunity of coming in contact with him to a greater extent, possibly, than with any other President since the Church has grown so extensively. 

WAYS AND MEANS OF REMOVING PREJUDICE 

There are various means that are being developed and have been developed in the Church that are helping materially in removing prejudice and giving the people of this nation and other nations a much better understanding of what this people actually believe, — what they stand for, — what their habits are and what their desires and purposes and ideals are. 

BUREAU OF INFORMATION TEMPLE SQUARE 

These things have been mentioned in part during this conference. One of these is the Bureau of Information on this Temple Square. During the past summer there have been more than 250,000 visitors in our midst who have come to the Square and have received information regarding the history and the ideals of this people, and have become friends. 

A great work is being done as can be declared by those who live in other sections who have been here and whose minds have been changed toward this people in many respects and have come to have a better understanding of our principles and motives. 

TABERNACLE BROADCASTS 

Another means, as has been stated, is the regular weekly broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and other broadcasts, such as the Church of the Air in which we participate from time to time — and other programs over the air. They are all very helpful in overcoming prejudice and promoting good will. 

CHURCH HISTORICAL MONUMENTS 

In addition, the various monuments and places of historical interest, such as the Hill Cumorah, the Joseph Smith Home at Palmyra, the Joseph Smith Birthplace in Vermont, and Winter Quarters, are all proving very attractive to many visitors. They are helpful means of teaching the remarkable history of this,people and the foundations of our faith. 

LIMITED EFFORTS OF INDIVIDUAL MISSIONARIES 

It is remarkable, also, what development is taking place in ways and means of promulgating our message of good will and peace not only throughout this nation but in other places. When I was on my first mission some thirty-seven years ago in the farthest corner of Belgium, in common with other missionaries, I used every available means to make known our message : tracting, conversations, holding meetings, etc. We held meetings both in French and in German among the people who were living there. We visited those who would permit us to enter their homes and held cottage meetings; and yet I thought at that time that my efforts were relatively limited in trying to get this message before the millions of people. In that little country of Belgium alone there were several million people at that time. I suppose it is the most densely populated country in Europe — over 640 people per square mile, — a nation that exemplifies the bee-hive. It doesn't have that motto, but it is honey-combed with industries of all kinds, and the people there are generally very busy. 

SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENTS IN COMMUNICATION 

When I read and declared the fulfilment of the promise made by the Apostle John that an angel should come forth "having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people," it seemed to me an almost overwhelming task to undertake. I could not see how it could be accomplished. In the thirty-seven years that have elapsed since that time I have come to realize more fully, particularly recently, that there are ways and means being provided whereby this Gospel of peace can be declared in a very much wider circle and in a very much wider range than has been the case heretofore. 

GREATER PROGRESS IN PROSPECT 

We are on the eve of greater developmnets. At the present time, for instance, we have an offer to install a television transmitter in this city; and while, of course, it is new and is experimental in a sense, and its range is relatively small — about twenty-five or thirty miles, and the receiving sets are rather expensive — it is an indication of additional means whereby, not only the voice, but the face and figure of the one who may be speaking can be shown successfully over considerable areas. 

MESSAGES TO BE CONVEYED TO THE ENDS OF THE EARTH 

Likewise, the matter of developing increased power for broadcasting is at our very door. Almost at this moment in the City of Washington, the Federal Communications Commission is holding a hearing on applications from some of the largest stations in this country to increase the power under which .they operate, ten times as much as the power that is now being used generally throughout the country. The result of such increase cannot be calculated at the present time. Not only that, but the use of what is known as a short wave, quite different in its range, although it is of the same character, an electrical wave for the conducting of messages to the very ends of the earth, is being developed. So, I can appreciate in a larger measure that means and ways will be made available for the great missionary work we are now doing and that is to be done in the future, both in the world at large and in the various localities where Saints are established in the stakes and wards; and that the Lord will fulfil his purposes. 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

I rejoice in all of these things. I rejoice in the growth of the Church as it has been described by President Grant. I just happen to remember that recently in the Christian Herald, a publication that circulates widely throughout this nation, comparisons were shown for last year of the growth of the various churches. By the way, may I state that it is shown in the article in that publication that the Christian churches of the United States are growing faster than the population of the country, so that Christian membership is increasing throughout this nation. 

Among other things it is shown that there are thirty-three church groups that have a population of over 50,000 each; and in those groups the Latter-day Saint group is twelfth in number. We have advanced from fourteenth place, in recent years, to twelfth; and our percentage of membership gain for 1935 is more than double the average of that group of thirty-three and the highest of the twelve. In percentage gain we are among the highest of the thirty-three groups. In the past nine years our percentage gain is nearly twice the average of the thirty-three groups. 

IMPROVEMENT IN TITHEPAYING 

As stated by the President, also, evidences of the faith of the members of the Church are shown by the improvement made in various temporal activities — notably in the observance of the principle of tithing. I am sure that through the appeals and the instructions of the First Presidency as well as through the improved general economic conditions, and better crops and prices in the farming districts, there has been a material increase in the tithes for the first six months of this year, which is the latest report that we have, as compared with the same period of last year. This amounts to approximately twenty per cent increase in tithing. In regard to the number of tithepayers, there has been an increase of about ten per cent showing that those who are observing the principle of tithing are paying largely in proportion to their increased income. Regarding farm crops and prices, it is well to remember that the agricultural industry is a very important factor in our economic welfare. When farm crops are good and prices are normal the nation prospers. During many years past, whenever prices of farm products have been at normal level, economic conditions have been favorable. 

OBSERVANCE OF FASTING AND FAST OFFERINGS 

In regard to the matter of improvement in the observance of fast offerings, of course, there have been only about three months, as shown by the report, since the instruction and encouragement given by the First Presidency; but the fast offerings have increased for the first six months of this year forty per cent as compared with the same period last year, and the number who have paid fast offerings has increased forty-one per cent. There has been an increase in per capita of practically the same proportion. One of the interesting evidences of what can be done with regard to fulfilling the request of the First Presidency that there be not less than one dollar paid during the year per capita of the Church membership by all members of the Church is shown by one ward, at least, in the Church, during the past four or five years. That is the San Francisco ward of the San Francisco stake. For the past five years, they have had an average of over one dollar per capita of Church membership in that ward; and it is a ward that is made up largely of wage earners and people who are engaged in daily labor and earning moderate amounts. 

WHAT FAST OFFERING REPRESENTS 

The fast offering, of course, is intended to serve two purposes: the first is that it represents the fasting of the members of the Church, — the abstaining from two meals, — and the attendance at fast and testimony meeting. The people are strengthened spiritually through such fasting, praying, and testimonies. Secondly, in recognition of the needs of those who are not so fortunate as they, that they give the equivalent in value of those two meals. Thereby, they suffer no financial loss and they gain a great spiritual benefit. That is the true spirit of the observance of fast offering. It is reported to us that, in some instances, in order to make a better record, bishops have encouraged the giving of funds or obtaining of funds to be credited to their ward that do not represent the individual giving by the head or the members of the family. We would suggest that the spirit of this principle and the manner of observance should be carefully followed. It is for the spiritual benefit of all Church members as well as for the aid of those who are in need, and should be carried out in the spirit thereof as instructed by the First Presidency. 

EXTENT OF RELIEF 

Now, with regard to the matter of relief extended : There were about 16,100 people, as I remember it, who were assisted by the bishopric and the Relief Society of the various wards during the past six months, which is approximately three hundred fifty less than a year ago for the same period. The tithes expended in the relief of the poor throughout the Church have increased during the past six months as compared with the first six months of 1935 — about 31 per cent. In addition to the tithes expended, of course, there are the fast offerings and the help extended by the Relief Society. The total expended for relief by the Church increased about 11 per cent. 

There appears to be some misunderstanding in Utah regarding the Federal appropriations. The so-called "dole" was abandoned in 1935 and replaced by work relief for all able-bodied persons in need, and by direct relief for those who are incapacitated. 

SPLENDID EFFORTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY 

I rejoice in the good report that has been given and in the work that has been accomplished during the past few months under the Security Plan. There has been a prompt and active response throughout the Church to the appeal of the First Presidency made at the April Conference. I would like to express particular appreciation to the Relief Society throughout the Church for the splendid work they have done. Their willingness to sacrifice and the energy they have put into the work that has been entrusted to them of doing so much for the welfare of the poor is very praiseworthy. 

In many cases, these women, — housewives, mothers in homes, officers of the Relief Society, — have given a tremendous amount of service. In fact, according to the reports that come to us, some of them are almost worn out, because of the service they have given. Of course, it is expected and intended that as many as possible of those in need who are to get the benefit should contribute of their labor for the accomplishment of these things — the securing of food and taking care of it and the providing of clothing and bedding and things of that kind. Everyone who expects to get relief should work for it. 

SELF-SACRIFICE OF STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS 

In this great undertaking I have been greatly impressed and filled with appreciation for the devotion and the fine spirit shown by the stake presidencies and the ward bishoprics throughout the Church. Their willingness to serve, — busy men as they are, having their own living to earn, volunteering their services so readily to the Church — is admirable. They have given their time, sometimes at the sacrifice of their own occupations, in order to carry out the request of the First Presidency in this work which we are undertaking. I pray the Lord to bless and sustain them. I appreciate always the service of these men who are called to preside, because the heavy burden of this responsibility rests primarily upon the bishop and the stake president and they give that service willingly and freely. 

SPIRITUAL WELFARE OF OUR CHILDREN 

There is one other thing I would like to mention, my brothers and sisters, and that is this : We are all concerned with the spiritual welfare and the training of our children. They are a source of blessing to us if we train them and teach them in righteousness. If we fail by example and precept to stimulate them in high principle and right living, they may be the cause of sorrow and remorse to us. A great responsibility rests upon us as parents. These souls are precious in the sight of God. We should recognize their true worth, and do our utmost for their proper development. We have a rare privilege in the Church and that is the opportunity of receiving, enjoying and serving in the priesthood. That is the very foundation of the Church, — the source of its divinity. I am concerned, of course, for the girls as well as for the boys, but primarily my responsibility concerns the boys who may receive the priesthood. I realize that through the encouragement, the help, and the inspiration of the parents, the boys who should receive the priesthood can become worthy to receive it and be inspired and encouraged to carry on their responsibilities in that priesthood. 

TRAINING IN THE PRIESTHOOD 

That is, primarily, the parents' responsibility. In addition thereto the various auxiliaries — the Primary Association, the Sunday School, the Mutual organizations, and, of course, the priesthood leaders themselves — are helping materially in the teaching and training of these young men. I feel that of all things that are of concern in this Church, the training and welfare and development of these young men in the spirit and power of the priesthood is of first importance. They are the hope for the future progress of the Church. In order to best qualify these young men for the greatest good, they are entitled to have systematic teaching and training under inspired leadership, and to perform regularly all the varied duties of their callings in willingness and the spirit of true service. I think we, as leaders of the Church in the various divisions thereof, ought to give great consideration to the advancement, welfare and functioning of these young men in the various labors and duties that they are called to fulfil, that they may measure up to high standards and get the spirit of the priesthood. The youth of the Church will qualify if only we give them the proper leadership. Shall we accept this challenge? "Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence." (D. & C. 107:99). 

May the power and spirit and blessing of the Lord attend us all, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am very sorry that we have not time enough to hear addresses of fifteen or twenty minutes each from the brethren of the First Council of the Seventy, but we shall have to ask them to limit their remarks to ten minutes. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

The most blessed thing, and the greatest thing, that has ever come to mankind in all the history of the race since the dawn of creation is the Gospel of the Lord, Jesus Christ. There is nothing of so great importance to every one of us as to make a practical application of that Gospel. 

It is for that purpose that we have been placed here upon this earth, that there might be made a practical application of those principles which have within them the power of God unto salvation, power to bring us back to God from whose presence we have wandered far away. 

These principles are everlasting and eternal in their very scope. I am going to quote a few things in regard to these principles. People may wonder and think, "Oh, are you going to talk about faith and repentance?" Most assuredly, there isn't anything else to talk about. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave instructions to the early missionaries of this Church that they should speak none other thing to this generation than repentance of sin. 

Faith is an attribute of God. Hope is a divine attribute. Charity is a divine attribute. It is a part of that image in which man has been created. Every one of those attributes form a part of the image. When we read in the scriptures, "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them," it means not only in the physical image of God but in all of his divine attributes. 

God is love and man is love. There is love in every human creature. There is faith in heaven and there is faith upon the earth. There is faith in man; just as there is hope and charity in every human being. No man, however savage or ignorant, has ever been discovered without these divine attributes. 

We have inherited all of these divine attributes because we are the children of God in very deed, and so man is made in the image of God both in spirit and in body, in physical form and in all of his faculties; the difference being that in the one they exist in their perfection, in the other in very imperfect form. And, there is meaning in the commandment of the Saviour when he said: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." 

If we ever attain to those divine perfections, it will be because we have made the practical application of those principles that have within them the power of God unto our salvation. Every one of these attributes is susceptible of being developed and made perfect through the application of the principles of the Gospel, the most blessed thing, the greatest boon, the very pearl of great price that has been committed to men for the express purpose of perfecting their lives and preparing them for celestial glory. To accomplish this divine purpose God made this earth and placed us here upon it. 

Let me now quote a few passages from the Apostle Paul's epistle to the Hebrews; defining faith, he says : 

Now Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. 

What wonderful meaning is contained in these words! The very substance of things hoped for, the essence itself, a divine attribute and part of God. 

Faith is the very substance of "the things hoped for." What are we hoping for? If we are hoping for the sordid things of the world or for the gratification of evil desires or of unworthy ambitions, then our faith is likewise bad. If our hopes are evil, then our faith is evil, for faith is the very substance of our hopes. 

People who devote their whole lives in hoping for the things that are evil may know it is their faith that is guiding them. So we should be careful what we hope for. Faith is a wonderful principle. 

A man once said to me — he was a clergyman, a minister — he was not orthodox — he made this statement; "You have one principle in your Church that I do not like." This man that I am speaking of was a learned man. I visited him in his home in his large living room that was literally lined with books from the floor to the ceiling, a man of scholarship, scholarly attainments. He said, 

"You have one thing that I do not like." 

"What is it?" I asked. 

"It is that principle you call faith." 

"What is the matter with faith ?" 

"Just think of it," said he, "to believe anything that you hear." 

What a misconception he had of faith. He had no conception whatever of it. Faith doesn't mean to believe everything you hear. The Lord doesn't want us to believe everything we hear. He does not want us to believe lies or liars. He does not want us to believe falsehoods. What does he want us to believe ? "Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved." Believe the Truth. Believe in his Gospel; his Gospel is the truth. That is what the Lord wants us to believe and he has not left us without the means of knowing, for the spirit of Christ has been given to every man that he might know good from evil, (B. of M., Moroni 7:16) and by that spirit we know when we are doing right and when we are doing wrong, and if our hopes are right and if our deeds are right then we know what we shall believe. We shall believe the truth as it is embodied in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Faith is a principle of power, for we read in the same Epistle, "Through faith we understand the worlds were framed by the word of God." What was that word? In the very beginning, "Let there be light," and the whole universe was ablaze with it, and the worlds were framed by his unbounded faith and his almighty word, the word of the Lord Jesus Christ. "All energy manifest on this planet is transmitted to us through the light of the sun," said one of the scientists in the recent world congress in Chicago. Modern revelation informs us that all the energy of the universe emanates from the Light of Christ. (D. & C. 88 :7-13). 

Again, let me quote : 

"For without faith it is impossible to please God." If you want to please God you must have faith. "For he that cometh to God must believe that he is and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." 

Surely no man will bend the knee in humble prayer unless he has faith in God. If you really desire to please God then seek him diligently and your faith will never fail. 

There are many people who foolishly think they know all there is about faith and repentance. As a matter of fact such people are totally ignorant of them. A prominent teacher, a scholar and withal a fine Latterday Saint, once said to me that he would like to have something new to learn. He knew all there was about faith and repentance; he wanted to study something else. To which I replied; "If you know all about these doctrines then there is nothing else that we can teach you, for they include everything that there is to learn." 

These doctrines are all-inclusive; they enter into all the affairs of men; into every thought and into every action. They have to do with all our business transactions, all our amusements and recreations and indeed with every thought, every desire, and every ambition that enters into the human heart. This will be apparent to every thoughtful mind when we consider the fact that there is a right way and a wrong way of doing everything. Good and evil are ever present. The Spirit of Christ is given to every man that he might know good from evil (B. of M., Moroni 7:16); but the devil came also; the necessary opposition which places us in the position where we have to choose whether we want to or not. There is no escape from this responsibility for we are endowed with our own free agency, without this there could be no progress. There is no compulsion. To choose the good is faith — to reject the evil is repentance. "Whomsoever ye list to obey his servant ye are"; therefore, "Resist the 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 89 

devil and he will flee from you. Draw nigh unto God and he will draw nigh unto you." Drawing night unto God is faith — resisting the devil is repentance. These, then, should be the governing principles of all human conduct. Then "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved." 

Now, hope follows our faith be it good or evil. What should we hope for? Surely not for the sordid things of the world but on the contrary for the triumph of God's work that his kingdom may come — his will be done on earth as it is in heaven; for a life beyond the grave and a happy reunion with loved ones that have gone before. Yes, let us hope for eternal life, God's greatest gift to man. Whence come such hopes as these? Only from faith in God. Who inspires us with these exalted hopes ? Only our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who overcame death and the grave. Then true and living faith in him, which is only manifest in the works of obedience to his will, is the very substance and assurance that God gives us that our exalted hopes shall surely be realized. 

Some people say they have no faith, no hope, when we die that is the end. What darkness! What despair! How I pity such people. 

"Cease every joy to glimmer on my mind, 

But leave, oh leave the light of hope behind," says the poet. 

Now comes charity, the greatest of all the divine attributes. "Though I speak with the tongues of men and angels, and have not charity I am become as a sounding brass or tinkling symbol." 

The biggest thing in all the world, then, is charity. We must not confuse that with what we call almsgiving. Almsgiving is very truly a part of charity and I might say a very important part of it, but charity goes far beyond that. It means to give all that we have and all that we are, our whole being, and even life. Christ was the embodiment of that love and that charity, for he gave his life and suffered on the cross for the whole world, and "greater love hath no man than this, that he lay down his life for his friend." 

"Charity is the pure love of Christ," is among the sayings of one of the prophets of the Book of Mormon. 

"Now abideth faith, hope and charity." 

Charity never faileth; but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. 

For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. 

But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. 

The love of Christ is the perfect thing that will supersede everything else. Then cultivate these Christian attributes, these divine attributes. They are ours to develop; they are in us, a part of our nature. Develop and practice them by seeking the Lord, "if, happily, you may feel after him and find him, for he is not far distant from every one of us, for in him we live, and move and have our being." 

God help us to do so I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I crave an interest in your faith and prayers, my brethren and sisters, that in the short time that I stand before you I may be able, under the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord, to give utterance to a thought or two that I have had in my mind for some time. 

There have been several references to the dedication of the very wonderful monument at Winter Quarters. It was my good fortune, together with my wife, to be numbered with that party. I sat under the canopy and listened to the wonderful addresses that were made by our own leaders and the leaders of the State that was host to us on that occasion. I had very many interesting thoughts pass through my mind as that program unfolded. The outstanding feature of it all, of course, was the very friendliness of the people who were receiving us and bidding us welcome, a very great contrast to the condition that prevailed at the time when that cemetery in which we were dedicating the monument became a necessity. 

I sat right behind the Governor of the State of Nebraska when the President of the Church made reference to the fact that our people had been driven from one place to another until they were finally forced to occupy Winter Quarters under the very adverse circumstances which prevailed. 

The Governor turned to the Mayor and said, "We must remember that that was twenty years before the State of Nebraska came into existence." They were very grateful for the fact that they had not been a party to that persecution. 

My mind went back to the organization of the Church and the very difficult task which devolved upon the Prophet in its organization in the harmonizing of the many conflicting attitudes of men who came into the Church in the early days. His was, indeed, a herculean task, and he did his duty well and nobly. I am quite sure that without the inspiration of the Lord which he enjoyed this task would have been impossible. To bring from the many nations of the earth the people that he did, and to crystallize their thoughts into a unit and harmonize them in their activities was indeed a tremendous task, and he did it well. 

It brought into my mind a picture with two sides. I saw on the one side men and women of sterling character, firm in their purpose, true in their faith and courageous in sustaining their officers, willing to do as those people did who lie buried in that cemetery — to lay down their lives at any time should it be required. I am sure that my grandfather and grandmother stood ready to do that, along with yours. A faithful people they were, a struggling people, trying to find the truth, or to live according to the truth they had found, and do their full duty. 

On the other side of that picture, I saw a smaller number perhaps of people who had come into the Church with different motives, whose faith was not of the same high and pure and holy character, who were , ambitious, and designing men who came in and availed themselves of the counsels of the Prophet and the leaders of the Church only to misapply them and turn against them. I believe that the persecutions that came upon the people were largely due to the activity of such men. So the Evil One came in, as he always does, and opposed the truth. I believe that to be an actual fact. 

I believe also this to be true : that there is a way to bind the Devil — the way of faith. If we want to bind him up and bind him strong, we will unite ourselves together in a solid band, with a single purpose, to sustain our leaders, to live the Gospel, and to honor God. If our people at that time had been a unit in that purpose, had there been no opposition and no treason within the Church, I wonder if the sacrifices of Winter Quarters would have been necessary. I believe they would not. To bear me out in that statement, I am going to read just one or two verses from the 105th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

Verily I say unto you who have assembled yourselves together that you miv learn my will concerning the redemption of mine afflicted people — 

Behold, I say unto ycu, were it not for the transgressions rf my people, speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. 

That is the answer to that question in my mind. If they had been sufficiently united, sufficiently of one mind and one purpose, had they been able to so completely eliminate from their hearts selfishness and greed and avarice, so that they could walk together with their arms around each other in that unity of purpose, then the redemption of the center stake of Zion would, according to the word of the Lord, have been a possibility. 

They were not so united, unfortunately, and they had to pay the penalty in trouble and sorrow and death to learn the lesson. Now out of those experiences, evidently, we have learned some lessons, because we are now, I believe, a more united people, and I believe that that is the reason the Lord turned the good will of the people who were once our enemies to us and that we are now enabled to be friends with them. 

That does not mean in any sense that we tolerate the things which we deem sin, which some people indulge in and which we try to eliminate from our midst — not by any means. But it does mean that we can be charitable towards them, that we can lend them the hand of fellowship and assistance where it is possible. 

We are faced with a problem right now. The Presidency of this Church has made a promise to the people, not only to the people of the Church but to the people of the world, and we have the problem of redeeming that promise. It will be possible only through a united effort of this people. If there be those among us who go around sowing the seeds of dissension, distrust and criticism of their policies, success will not be so great. But if we can eliminate from our hearts all distrust and attack our problem with a sympathetic urge and an interest in its accomplishment the world will see this people redeem that pledge. 

I trust that we may rally to it, every man and woman of us, that we may show the world that there is in this Church a power in the priesthood which is active, vigorous, and will endure. 

God bless you all. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to be able to attend this conference and listen to the testimonies that have been borne. The addresses that have been made have all been for our good and benefit. 

The longer I live the more I am convinced that the Lord, our God, has a planned program and that he is anxious that it be taught to his children in their daily walks of life. I am sure that the Savior had received this plan from his Father when he said: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." 

I think the scriptures are absolutely correct in their teachings concerning the great work which our Father intended should be done by his sons and his daughters. Men and women were known of him long before the foundation of this earth was laid. He knew them and gave them promises upon their obedience, as a result of the life they had lived. 

When the Lord showed unto Abraham the intelligences that were created before the world was organized and that among them there were many of the noble and great ones, he said : "These I will make my rulers. . . . Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." 

And again to Jeremiah : "Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou earnest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations." 

I think we knew the plan that was to be brought about in this earth. There were great men and undoubtedly great women in the spirit world, who were selected, and ordained to take part in the work to be accomplished for the salvation of men. In that pre-mortal state men and women enjoyed free agency. They enjoyed the gift of intelligence and had the power to choose their course, and through faith and works they achieved success. They were known unto the Lord, and they grew and developed in character under the leadership and under the planning of God. They were to be prophets when they came into the world. They were to be leaders of men. 

We find that in this dispensation of time in which we live the Prophet Joseph Smith made the statement that every missionary who has a call to go into the world was ordained to that calling before the 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION 93 

world was. And that tells me that those men had an understanding of the plan of God so far as they had lived it, and that they were given the right and the privilege of coining into the world to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to bear testimony to the children of men concerning the great plan of God. This plan, fully substantiated in Holy Writ, is taught by this Church, and all men and women need only to make investigation of it. 

I hope and pray that the honest in heart may be reached, that they may be led to conclude that this is not the beginning of men's strength or ability, but that the Lord God gave them strength, — his strength and his power, — and planned for them to take a part in the great program that he would establish in these, the last days. 

I think the Latter-day Saints are carrying out the program of God. There is faith in the Church and diligence. There is power among men where they stand together, as this people stand together, for the things that are taught them by the leaders of the Church. They become convinced that only through obedience to God can they grow or can they become useful. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is making history — marvelous history in this dispensation; the leadership of the Church has been inspired; they have been prepared for the emergencies that they have had to meet, and will have to meet. 

I recall the statement that President Grant made yesterday when he told of how he and Francis M. Lyman took horses and wagons, buggies, etc., and traveled all through this country building up the Church and Kingdom of God — sleeping on the ground, taking their chances with the elements, with nothing in their minds but the fact that they were called of God to build up and establish Zion in this great inland country. They planned better than they knew. 

The Lord has produced out of that pair of missionaries two great men. President Lyman through the powerful testimony he bore and the great work he accomplished has left a name in the earth; and President Grant, who stands here today in his eightieth year, is a leader directed by the inspiration and power of God. He is given strength to go and come and to speak in the name of God, thereby reaching the hearts of the children of men. It is faith-promoting to contemplate such lives as those of these two men. In them we see the fulfilment of the promises of the Lord. 

This Gospel is the plan of our Eternal Father. His program will be more fully revealed. This last movement (the Church Security Plan), pertaining to us temporally, will be just as He has planned. It will be made a method by which our Lord will introduce the thing that is most needed in the Church and in the world at large. 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord to hold us together, that we may be cemented as one, and stand together as his sons and his daughters, and carry on, as we are able to do, his purposes in the earth. May we hold up the hands of those who preside over us, that his work may be effective and that his work may be sure. That we may be able to take part in it I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

As you all are aware, Brother Joseph F. Merrill and Brother Richard R. Lyman are absent from this Conference, also Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley. Brother Lyman is presiding over the European Mission, having succeeded Brother Merrill who is on his way home. Elder Hinckley has returned from California and is at the home of one of his daughters in this city. He is greatly improved in health and is gaining in flesh. He is on the high road to recovery. 

The Relief Society "Singing Mothers" sang "Inflammatus" (Rossini) — Margaret Stewart Hewlett, soloist. 

Elder Edward J. Wood, President of the Alberta Temple, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning, October 3. 

THIRD DAY 


