Overflow
07 04 1918

OVERFLOW MEETING. 

An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 o'clock a. m., presided over by Elder Joseph W. McMurrin, of the First Council of Seventy. 

Singing- and music were furnished by the combined choirs of Granite stake, Professor Evan Stephens, conductor. 

The choir sang: "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Milando Pratt. 

Singing: "Rouse, O ye mortals." 

I cannot refrain from mention- ELDER HUGH J. CANNON, ing the truth that was enunciated thousands of years ago : "The (President of the Liberty Stake of fool hath said in his heart, There is 

no God," and therefore no here- My brethren and sisters, I earnafter. "They are corrupt, they have estly solicit an interest in your faith  prayers during the short time I shall endeavor to speak to you. The task of speaking- is one of the difficult tasks which I have to perform in my ecclesiastical work. I love to work in the Church, love to go out as a ward teacher, and to labor as best I can among the Latterday Saints, but whenever a call similar to this comes to me, T feel that it is utterly impossible for me, unless the Lord will listen to my prayers and the prayers of those who listen to me, to say anything which will be of benefit to the people. And when I realize that the hundreds of people who are here this morning have come many miles, some of them, to hear the word of the Lord, I am filled with fear and trembling. 

I have dirtied 'this, however, in my experience, that the soul that hungers and thirsts after righteousness is always satisfied, a and you, my brethren and sisters, who have come here with that spirit, with the desire to be renewed in your faith, to be built up and encouraged in your efforts to serve the Almighty, will receive that for which you cariie. That promise has been made by the Almighty, and is manifest so often that no argument is necessary to convince the Latter-day Saints of its truthfulness. 

I was impressed this morning by the prayer which was offered, first by the choir and this congregation, and then bv our worthy brother, Milando Pratt. I am sure those of you who entered into the spirit of the hymn which was sung realize that we were offering a united prayer to the Almighty for our selves and for the world. I shall take the liberty of reading the last verse of the hymn which was sung: 

"When the earth begins to tremble, 

Bid our fearful thoughts be still. When thy judgments spread destructions, 

Keep us safe on Zion's Hill." 

 I can think of no more proper prayer to be offered to the Almighty this morning by the Latterday Saints than the prayer contained in this hymn. Certainly the earth is beginning to tremble and the destructions and the judgments of the Lord are spreading in the earth, and it seems a very fitting prayer that the Latter-day Saints should offer that we may keep safe on Zion's hill. 

In the midst of all these fearful things that are happening in the world today, the Latter-day Saints have occasion to look forward with calmness and patience and faith to the future. More than any other people in the world today, we know that the Lord, the Almighty, the Creator of this universe, is' guiding and directing 'the affairs of the world. These things „have been predicted. A great many of you brethren have been out in the world and have preached that the very things which are now happening should occur unless the world would repent and turn a listening ear to the gospel of peace, the gospel of salvation, which the Almighty in his goodness has restored. We have been preaching these things for many years. Many hundreds and thousands of the elders have borne this testimony to the world, and now we are permitted to see the fulfilment of the message, the prediction which it was our duty to deliver to the world. But we, the Latter-day Saints, have no occasion to fear, unless our own lives need looking into. I was impressed with the thought expressed by President Joseph F. Smith, I think that it was in the June conference, Young Men's and Young Ladies' conference, though of that I am not absolutely sure. He made a statement to this effect. Many people are fearful, and I am asked frequently what is going to be the outcome of the terrible occurrences which we see in the world today. He said : "the only thing I have to do, and the only thing the Latter-day Saints have to do is to live their religion, to serve the Lord in the proper spirit, and all will be well with them." I had been a little pessimistic up to that moment, had been a little fearful as to the final outcome of this terrible struggle, not that I felt it affected us particularly, but I looked on the dark side of the situation, and I felt that I had occasion to thank the Lord that I heard the testimony of the prophet of the Almighty on this subject, and no fear has been in my heart from that day to this, except the fear that we may not be able to so order our lives that we can claim the protection and the blessings of our Father in heaven. 

I know that the hand of the Lord is over this people. I know that if we will pray to him as Latter-day Saints know how to pray, the prayer that this hymn contains, "when the earth begins to tremble," we have no need to fear. If we will observe the laws and the commandments which the Almighty has given us, if we will be prayerful and fumble, the Almighty must surely "keep us safe on Zion's hill." Did you ever think of the power and the confidence that prayer gives to people. We, I believe, are strong as ordinary mortals are. The Latter-day Saints have as much  strength and moral courage as any people in the world. We are just as able to meet difficulties and hardships and trials as any people that lives on the face of the earth, and in addition to that we have the reserve strength, the power which comes from faith in the Almighty, the assurance that we can go to him in the hour of distress, lay our burdens upon him and know that we will be relieved. Did you ever stop to think what a source of power and strength such faith will give to a people? That is the only thing that enabled the people to cross the plains and come into this country, forbidding and desolate as it was at that time; but they knew the Lord was with them, and you cannot whip a people, you cannot conquer a people that has that unconquerable faith, because when disaster overtakes them, they acknowledge the hand of the Lord in it, possibly feeling that it has been brought upon themselves by their own misconduct. But they go to the Lord in humility and pray for strength to bear their burdens manfully and courageously; as in times of prosperity, they thank the Lord for the blessings they enjoy. You cannot conquer a people with that sort of feeling. It is utterly, absolutely impossible. So I repeat, the Latter-day Saints can ioeic to the future, if they will only order their lives in accordance with the principles of salvation which have been revealed, with absolute confidence, with the assurance that all will come out well. 

Our hearts naturally go out to our fellow men who are suffering, those who are hungry and cold, those who arc suffering mentally because of the loss of their homes or their dear ones. We can sym with them. We can shed tears of sympathy for our fellow men, but that feeling does not necessarily have to be mingled with fear for ourselves. I think we should pray for the world, for those who are in distress. 

This thing touches me, I believe, as closely as anybody. For six years I labored among the German people. I have had them give me their last crust of bread. I have had them give me their bed, and make a couch for themselves on the floor, or sit up in a chair, not that I was willing to take these things from them, but they felt that I and my companions were messengers of the Almighty, and they felt honored to do these things for us. I have advised the Saints in Germany, time and time again, as have all the other missionaries who have labored there, to be loyal to their country, to be loyal to their nation; and now see the situation! Your boys and mine are going out and trying to take their lives, and very properly so; that is, I mean, when I say properly, we cannot do anything else! We have got to be loyal to the United States. But a person who Jhas received at the hands of the German people, the poor Latter-day Saints and the honest investigators in that land, the blessings and courtesies which have come to him from them, cannot help but feel sorrowful and downcast in his heart when he sees the sufferings that are coming upon them. 

I pray the Almighty to lighten the burden of the honest-hearted people in the world. I pray that the Lord will give success to the armies of the United States and the Allies, that this thing may be ter, speedily and properly. I pray that the spirit of faith and prayer may rest upon the body of the Latter-day Saints, that we may grow in grace and in faith, with the assurance that God lives, ever burning in our hearts, and become stronger from day to day, that we may all know, every Latter-day Saint, that the Almighty stands at the helm, and that he is directing this work, and that he will make it triumph in the earth, because he has promised to do so. That these blessings may be ours, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. RICHARDS 

(President of the Malad Stake of Zion.) 

My dear brethren and sisters, I feel somewhat like Brother Cannon said he felt. I do not know any other position in the Church that is as difficult for me to occupy as this; but he has had a little the advantage of me — he has had the opportunity of going out to preach the gospel to the world. That opportunity I have never had yet; and for that reason, I have always shunned as much as possible standing before the people to teach the principles of eternal truth. 

It is not because I have feared in my heart, or anything of that kind, to bear my testimony. I do not know of an opportunity that I ever had that I did not always bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this work. My labor has been at home, though I often wonder in my own mind what the brethren have seen in me to put me in the positions that I have occupied. They have generally been presiding positions, and I have always taken advantage of the fact and induced the others to do the work. I tried as hard as I possibly could to get one of my counselors to take my place today, because he is able; and I depend upon my counselors to a great extent in preaching the gospel in our stake. 

I do rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the principles of the gospel. I rejoice in the testimony that the Lord has given me of the divinity of this work. There has never been a doubt in my mind that I can remember with regard to the divinity of the work that the Lord has established for the salvation of his children here upon the earth; and I have never been in a place in my life where I have been afraid to bear that testimony. I have had the opportunity to go amongst people who are not members of our Church, and labor amongst them in different ways, and I do not know of a day when the opportunity ever came when I was afraid in bearing my testimony to them that I know that the gospel is true; and in talking with a great many of them I have often thought within my own mind, that if I could explain the gospel as it appears to my mind, that I could convert anybody in the world. Those are the thoughts that generally come to me whenever contemplating upon the principles of eternal truth that our Father in heaven has revealed in this day. 

When we take into consideration, my brethren and sisters, the way that this Church came into existence, the youth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his illiteracy as far as the learning of the world is concerned — and then for him to bring forth such a great and marvelous work as has been brought  — it seems to me that any man that will contemplate those things will have to come to the conclusion that this indeed is the work of God, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith must have been assisted by some power higher than man's. 

In the very early rise of the Church, my brethren and sisters, the revelation was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Church that a great and a marvelous work was about to come forth among the children of men. We today have lived to see that great and marvelous work come forth, and today we can all testify that that prophecy which the Prophet made, that revelation which was given through him by our Father in heaven, has been literally fulfilled. The Church today is a great and marvelous work in the eyes of the people, and we all notice that, as the Savior said, "The leaven of the gospel will leaven the whole lump" — that it might be compared to a woman placing leaven in three measures of flour, and that it would leaven the whole lump. Now, I believe that is the Condition, today. The world is looking upon the gospel, and is adopting a great many of its principles, while it does not recognize them as coming from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

The quotation that was made by Brother Ballard yesterday, from the speech of John D. Rockefeller, Jr., looks to me like a criterion to go by. He is looking forward to a church which a great many of the wise men of the world are looking forward to — a new church to come forth that will better prepare the people for an exaltation in the kingdom of God. It seems to me  they do not need to look further than the valleys of the mountains, amongst the Latter-day Saints. I believe that in this Church everything necessary for the salvation of the human family is contained. I do not know of anything- that we can think of that would be of benefit to us, as the children of our Father in heaven, upon the earth, but what is incorporated in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. My testimony is strong as far as that is . concerned. I have labored in the Church from the time I was quite a young boy. I have been continually in positions in this Church, and my testimony has grown strong. I know, beyond any doubt whatever, that this is the work of God, that we are engaged in a work that will save and exalt us in the kingdom of our Father in heaven if we will do our part.  But the question in my mind always is, as I say to our people, the only question that should be in our minds should be whether we are doing our part or not — whether we are standing in holy places as we have been commanded by our Father in heaven, when the judgments referred to by our Father are being poured out upon the children of men. Our Father in heaven has warned us of these things. I was talking to a friend yesterday, and I said, "These things should not stun us very hard, because we have been looking forward for them; the prophets all the way along the line have declared that these things would take place, and that the only way of escape from them is by yielding obedience to the principles of eternal truth, which our Father in heaven has revealed for men, re them to turn from their sins, and serve God, and keep his commandments." 

We realize, as a people, that if we could persuade the nations of the earth to accept the principles of the gospel, and turn from the errors of their ways, that these judgments would be averted. At least, we have instances of this kind on record. When Jonah was sent to Nineveh to declare unto the people that unless they repented of their sins and turned from the error of their ways, that that great city would be destroyed, we all remember how Jonah feared to go there, and he felt in his heart that possibly those things would not take place. But he had to go, and the people listened to his instructions, turned from the error of their ways, and escaped that great judgment. We are told that they repented in sackcloth and ashes. I said that that would save the world today. 

I have no doubt in my mind at all, but that if the nations of the earth would turn from the error of their ways and seek to serve God and keep his commandments, that those judgments which are now poured out would be avoided. I remember talking with one of the wisest of men, as far as the learning of the world is concerned, time and time again. His parents came from the old country for the gospel's sake. He had become somewhat skeptical in regard to the principles of the gospel, and a short time ago I was talking to him with regard to them, and he declared to me: "I did not believe that any such a war could take place." I said to him : "You people who are so wise in the things of the world did not believe that those things would take place, but those who are foolish enough to believe in the prophecies of the prophets and the things that they told us, they told you right along all the time that these things would come." In order to get out of it, he said, "Wars generally come every forty or fifty years, anyhow." And I said, "You wise men of the world were going to prevent them — they never could happen again." 

These things are testimonies to us that we are engaged in the work of the Lord, and I pray God to bless us each and every one, that we may do our part, as far as we possibly can, to get the people to stand in holy places, that we may avoid the judgments which the Lord is pouring out upon the people. May God bless us to this end, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, entitled, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," was sung by Noall Pratt, and Professor Evan Stephens. ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

Brethren and sisters, the feeling that has been uppermost in my mind since the opening of this conference, has been that of gratitude and thankfulness to the Lord for his many blessings unto us as a people. I feel very thankful this morning to have the privilege of standing before you and of bearing my testimony concerning the divinity of the work that we are engaged in. I am thankful to the Lord for the instructions, counsel and admonitions that we have received throughout the conference  far, and I feel especially thankful to the Lord that we have such noble and inspired man to guide and teach us. I am thankful to the Lord that the gospel, with all of the powers and authority that have ever pertained to it in any time of the world's history, is here with us today. I am thankful for the life of our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith, and that the Lord has abundantly strengthened him and blessed him thus far during this conference. And I feel that our hearts should go out in faith and prayer to the Lord to strengthen him and heal him wherein he is afflicted, and grant that he may live yet many years to be our leader and the mouthpiece of the Lord unto his people. 

We are living in a momentous time. We are living in the times, as has been stated here this morning, of the fulfilment of the promises and prophecies of the Lord. As has been intimated, we the elders of the Church who have been called into the mission field, have for many years quoted these prophecies and called upon the peple of the earth to repent of their sins if they wished to avert the calamities that the Lord had predicted would be poured clown upon the people in the event that they continued in their wickedness. I thank the Lord that there are thousands of people among the nations of the earth whose hearts have been touched and who have listened to the testimonies of the elders, have investigated the principles of the gospel, repented of their sins and gathered out, and who are today striving to live in harmony with the teachings of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There are many  of people in the world yet who are investigating, who have not yet received the gospel, that I think will do so, and I quite agree with what has been said at some of the sessions of the conference that we are attending, that there is quite a general spirit of investigation, of humility, of prayer coming over the nations of the earth and the peoples therein, and I feel that many will be touched in their hearts and many will cry, who have not yet done so, to the elders of the Church, just as the multitudes cried to Peter and his brethren in times of old, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" And the only answer that can be given them is the one that was given by Peter to the multitudes on the occasion to which I refer, when he said : "Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of your sins." That is the message of "Mormonism" to the world today, the message of faith in God, a God in whose image we are made. And to repent of our sins, not with the repentance that it is needful to repent of tomorrow, in that we turn again to our sins, but the absolute forsaking of sin and turning to a righteous life. Baptism is essential on our behalf that we may be washed clean and be made pure and receive a remission of our sins, and through that door, enter into the kingdom of our Father in heaven; and the promise that was made of old stands good today, that all those who do so would receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. This, I testify to you is a reality. I have seen its influence come upon many people in the world, and their lives, through its influence, have been fortified against evil and they have  able to withstand persecution, overcome temptation, and live, even in the midst of Babylon, the lives of Latter-day Saints. 

We are living in a time predicted of old. If you will refer to the 24th chapter of Matthew, you will observe in the words of our Savior, some of the signs that should come unto the world that would indicate his second coming was close at hand. I shall not refer to them all, but wish bo call your attention to this particular sign that he gave, and that when there should be wars, and during a time such as we see at the present time, with pestilence and earthquakes and destruction in different parts of the world, that many should rise up in the name of the Lord, some even claiming to be the Savior of the world, and that many false prophets should arise, and that they should deceive many. Now, brethren and sisters, we encounter, as we travel through the world, people who will quote this scripture to us and claim that our prophets, those whom we claim to be prophets raised up and endowed with power in these last days to organize the Church and establish the gospel in the earth, are those who are the false prophets of whom the people are warned to beware. But, prior to that time, the Savior gave to the people a key by which they might know as to the divinity of a prophet, and he warned them to "beware of wolves in sheep's clothing," and he said, ''By their fruits shall ye know them." 

Now, our prophet has warned us during this conference, along certain lines. He spoke concerning the Word of Wisdom. I should like to read to you today that prophecy, or that word of the Lord as it came through the Prophet Joseph Smith, eighty-five years ago. I call attention to the fact that scientific research and' the scientists of thje earth have never from that day to this, found one thing concerning the laws of health and those things that were good and those that were not good for man, that has contradicted, in any sense, the word of the Lord in the Word of Wisdom. On the other hand, we find nations who are steeped in the vices condemned in this .scripture, and peoples who thought that they could not live without partaking of these things, that have universally risen up and condemned the very things that they upheld before, and that, in accordance with this scripture as revealed to us through the prophet of the Lord. 

If this were all that we had, and it is not, for we have very much more that corroborates the fact that Joseph Smith was inspired of God; but if this were all, we might very justly lay claim to the fact that .Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I shall read this Word of Wisdom : 

1. A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the Counch of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and church: and also the saints of Zion. 

2. To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days. 

3. Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints. 

4. Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation, 

5. That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. 

6. And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. 

7. And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. 

8. And again, tobacco is no for the body, .neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

9. And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

10. And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. 

11. Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

12. Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving: nevertheless they are to be used sparingly: 

13. And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

14. All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for, the beasts of the field, and the fowls' of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth: 

15. And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger. 

16. All grain is good for the food of man, as also the fruit of the vine, that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground. 

17. Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all uesful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain. 

18. And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones, '  , 

19. And shall find wisdom and  treasures of knowledge even bidden treasures: 

20. And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint: 

21. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen. 

Now, brethren and sisters, we know that we are taught not to drink strong" drinks. We know that in our nation, many of the states have become "dry" because they have become convinced of the fact that this is truth and that strong drinks are not good for man. Our navy abolished strong drinks because it increased the strength and efficiency of our sailors to be without liquor. At the time this revelation was given it was thought that men could not fight without their measure of grog; also the best scientific research in the country has demonstrated beyond a .doubt, the fact that the use of tobacco is injurious to all those who participate in its use. We find that science has shown in corroboration of this revelation that much meat is detrimental to the human system, Darticularlv if used in time of heat. We have found not only this, but we are today curtailing the appetites of the people at home that we might send wheat abroad to our allies and soldiers for the world has discovered that the best grain for the use of man, where men are put to the .severest test, is the grain that the Lord revealed to Joseph Smith as the grain designed for the use of man. There were experiments made in the early stages of the war with different grains, and I read an article wherein it stated that wheat was demonstrated to be superior as a food to any other , under the trying circumstances that men are put to in the trenches and in the battles of Europe. These things should make us think — they are in accord with the words of the Prophet whom the Lord has raised up in these last days, and I bear you my testimony that he was a prophet of the Lord, and we should follow his counsel and his admonition. And now, if he was a prophet of the Lord, the one that stands at the head of the Church today is just as much so as he was. 

We are facing a critical condition in the world's history. There is a scarcity of food. There is hunger. There is starvation in the world. Thousands of people who are not of this Nation but are of other nations are starving to death today. They need food, and the prophet of the Lord has told us that it is our duty to raise food, to raise grain, to conserve our resources. This is just as much the word of the Lord to Israel today as is the prophecy that I have read concerning the Word of Wisdom. One of the things that makes me so thankful today, brethren and sisters, is to see your full faces, showing you are well nourished and contented, that you are not in want, for very recently, in fact for three months during this past winter I have been traveling in the land to the .south of us, even in the land of Mexico, and there I have seen the effects of war. The people in Mexico, not one or two or three or several hundred or thousand, but thousands of people there today are nearly starved to death as a result of the war that has existed in that land for seven years. It is not due to the fact that Mexico is non-productive. It is not due to the fact that the people, as is generally considered or thought, would rather fight than work, but due to the fact that conditions have not been such that they have been able to till the soil and raise crops. An embargo has been placed against any food exportation into Mexico. And as I traveled down into that country, I saw thousands of people come to the side of the train at places where we stopped, and beg for anything that would appease the pangs of hunger, and I think I can sense more . fully than I have heretofore, what is going on in Europe when we hear of the sufferings of the Belgians, the Serbians, the Roumanians, and other peoples over there, and I imagine that I can see them today, just as I saw the little Mexican children, starving to death. 

You cannot conceive of it, even if I told you. Mothers with clothes ragged and torn, their own flesh drawn to the bone, holding little children, reduced to mere skeletons, their heads wobbling, scarce held up by an almost bare spinal column. Many of them die dailv. One old man came to me whom I knew four and a half years ago. He was reduced almost to a skeleton. He said, "I am near starvation, and need help." And as he sat before me, he" said, ''Brother Pratt, you don't know what it is to be hungry." T believed him. I believe you don't know what it is to be hungry. My little children don't know wbat it is to be hungry. Thank the Lord, they have ravenous appetites. I have, you have, but we don't know what hunger is until hunger pinches the flesh off our bones. 

I was thankful the night I came home from Mexico. I have eight  children where I live, and every one was glad to see me. They piled all over me, and I sat there and loved them and kissed them, and thanked God that their little faces were full; and I pray to God that the war may never bring to us the suffering" and starvation that has come to that people in Mexico and to other peoples of the world. x<\nd I want to tell you the way we can avert it. The way we can avert it is to live as the Prophet of the Lord has told us to live. V/e want to get behind this; we want to raise breadtsuff , we want to raise wheat; we want to raise beets for sugar; we want to curtail our appetites in things that do not count. We want to buy War Savings stamps and Liberty Bonds. We want to save and provide our soldiers who have gone abroad to fight for liberty, and give them that which they must have to live. That is why we are doing these things. 

The Lord has said that this is a land of promise, a land blessed above all other lands upon the face of the earth, and he has given great and marvelous promises to those whom he has brought here; and he said we should have peace if we would do certain things. I want to tell you, if we want to have what is coming to us as the people of the Lord, if we want to be blessed as we always have been and are, if we want to have our children around us at night full and rosy, we must live the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I thank the Lord that the great Naton, the United States, is waking up in vital things. I thank the Lord that they are curtailing the use of intoxicating liquor. I thank the Lord for the prospect of nationwide prohibition. I thank the Lord  the noble work that the .departments of this government are doing in regard to curtailing vice in the vicinity of our great cantonments, inasmuch as the boys don't restrain themselves of their own volition. They are making of the men of this nation a virtuous army, and they are striving to curtail and keep within the commandments of the Lord, and make us a people that will conserve this land to us as the most blessed land in all the world. 

I dont' want to trespass upon your time, but I wish to read to you in conclusion, the word of the Lord, as it came to the brother of Jared, concerning this land, when he came here so many years ago, and the Lord showed to him how he might dwell here in peace and contentment and happiness : 

And he had sworn in nis wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them. 

And now we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall serve God, or they shall be swept ,off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity: 

For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands: wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God, or shall be swept off: for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. 

And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness .of the wrath of God upon you, as the inhabitants of the land hath hitherto done. 

And in passing I will say that the Jaredite people forsook this counsel and brought down the wrath of God upon this land, and were absolutely and utterly wiped off .the face of the land because of their iniquity, and such was the case in regard to the Nephite people. They, too. because of their iniquity, even though they had the prophets of the Lord to teach them to the very last and to call them to repentance, became so ripened in iniquity that the Lord fulfilled his word and wiped them off the face of the land. It should be a warning to us. 

Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written. 

Now, we have this as a standing promise, and I am sure that as long a.s the people of this land preserve their virtue and integrity, this land shall be free from all other nations of the earth. We need have no fear from Germany other than the fear that naturally creeps into our hearts at having our sons killed at their hands over there; but as far as their invading America and coming over to rule over this land, it shall never be, so long as we acknowledg'e the hand of the Lord and his Son Jesus Christ, or so long as we serve the God who rules over these nations. Is it worth the while ? is it worth the price ? Would you like to see come to you and yours what has come to the Belgians, the French, the Serbians, the Roumanians, and all those who have been overrun by the power of a tyrannical autocracy? I do not GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the German people individually; but I condemn the spirit that is the curse of the world today, and that would enslave all the inhabitants of the earth. I would rather give my body and my son's body and my race than to see them dominate and come over here and usurp our rights and tyrannize over us; but I would rather avert it by the simple means the Lord has given us, even that of living according to the commandments of the Lord. His commandments are today to abstain from evil, to produce food, and to raise that which is necessary to maintain life. Let us hearken to the words of the Lord, and let us go hence and carry to the people these instructions. Let us he Latter-day Saints, and live each day in harmony with the will of the Lord as it is made manifest to us. 

In conclusion, I testify to you that I know that God lives. I know that his Son Jesus Christ came to the world in very .deed, and is the Redeemer of the world. I know that Joseph Smith received a visitation from them, and later from Peter, James and John, and received the authority to establish the Lord's work in these last days. I know that those who have succeeded him in the First Presidency of the Church have held the same authority, and I testify to you that I know that Joseph F. Smith, who stands at the head of the Church today, is the mouthpiece of God to all the peoples of the earth. May the Lord bless us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A song, entitled, "The Pioneer," was sung by Don C. Priestly, the singing being preceded by an ex given by Professor Evan Stephens, who said: 

"I know it is unusual to make explanations before singing a song; but I feel that you will get more benefit if I say a word about this one. It is an attempt to represent the feelings of President Brigham Young, when he first looked upon this beautiful valley where we are now making our homes. The first portion is to represent him when he looked out upon the valley; the second, the thoughts of the trials which they had passed through; and the third, the culmination, centers around the idea expressed when he said, 'This is the place!' " 

ELDER JOSEPH R. MURDOCK. 

(President of the Wasatch Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel' with all my heart that the prayer which was offered at the opening of these services has been literally fulfilled, wherein Brother Pratt expressed the thought that we had met here to have our spiritual faith renewed, and to be strenguiiened in the gospel of Christ, I feel that that has been a condition that has existed on this occasion, and I believe it exists because those who are assembled here have asked of our Father in their hearts that it should be, and he has promised us from the earliest existence of this Church that those who ask shall receive, those who knock, it shall be opened unto them. He that lacketh wisdom, we learn from the testimony and the experience of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the words of James, Let him ask of God, who giveth liberally to all men, and it shall be given. And God has poured out his 101 

Spirit upon us in testimony and in nrophecy upon this occasion, which must be truly gratifying to the heart of every Latter-day Saint who has listened to it. It has caused,, no doubt, in many instances, our hearts to go out in sympathy for the sufferings of those throughout the world who have not, and whose parents have not, accepted the gospel, and for the tribulations and sorrow that come to them. It makes it even grievous for us to bear and consider. It reminds me of one of the sayings of the Savior, wherein he said : "How oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens, but ye would not." Is that not the testimony that could be borne by our elders who have gone into the south country (Mexico), as Brother Pratt has explained, and into the foreign countries across the sea, and preached to them the humble doctrine of Jesus Christ, of faith, repentance, humility, and of serving God and keeping his commandments? But through the pride of their hearts they have rejected the counsel of God against themselves, and now they suffer the consequences. Our hearts freely go out in sympathy for them, and if we could, we would do all that lies in our power to help them, and there is yet a chance to help them. 

The Savior, when he was asked by his disciples at Jerusalem, when he was speaking of the destruction of the temple and of his second coming, or what I think is termed the end of the world, said that such tribulations, speaking of his coming, shall be as never was before or never shall be. And do we not find that the testimony of all writers and historians, acquainted with the  of the world, is that such tribulations never did exist before as are existing at the present time? And where is the renedy ? The Lord has said that if it were not for the elect, no flesh would be saved, and if the Latter-day Saints are not the elect the doctrine which they preach is not the doctrine of Christ. They are nowhere else to be found upon the whole face of the earth; and if we are the elect, and for our sake, they may be saved of their sufferings. Is it not our duty in great faith and prayer to call upon God the eternal Father, that he will overrule the destinies of nations to the end that the righteous may be saved, that the sins of the fathers may not be extended many generations upon their children, and that their children may be saved from these terrible conditions existing almost throughout the whole world ? 

And here is a mission for us, my brethren and sisters. It is for us to importune the Almighty in faith and in prayer for their sakes and for our own sake, that we may be the elect, that we may have power to approach our heavenly Father in great faith and humility. 

I am wondering, when I think of that, how can we approach the Almighty in faith, if we are disregarding his commandments, if we are still using a little tea and a little coffee, and ' a little alcoholic drinks, and other things which God has forbidden us to use ? How can we approach him in behalf of suffering humanity, if we have not put ourselves aright before our Father in heaven ? It seems to me that this duty devolves upon us, — the duty of charity and love.which should not begin in "Russia nor in Europe, nor GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Mexico, but in our own hearts, in our own homes, with our brethren and sisters, with our wives and children. It seems to me that as Latter-day Saints, as the elect in these mountains, we are to put our hearts truly in shape. What would be the result if this whole Nation were to observe the commandments which the Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph? And thanks be to the Lord we have been trained as a people for nearly a hundred years, in all that our great and good government would ask us to do, trained in doing the great things which our great government has now discovered are the proper things that we should observe and do, even to the contributing of our means for the purchase of thrift stamps, Liberty bonds and for every other purpose. 

The Lord has trained us to contribute one-tenth of all we receive for humanity's sake, and if we have observed that doctrine well, and it has been truly implanted in our hearts, we will have very little trouble in adding on a little more along the same line, in addition to the payment of our tithes and our offerings. 

I am wondering, my brethren and sisters, if we are keeping our covenants with our Father in heaven, if we are mindful of the responsibilities which we took upon ourselves in the waters of baptism, to be true to God and to keep his commandments! I am wondering if we take the time upon the wSabbath day to attend to our sacrament meetings, and testify to our Father in heaven through partaking of the emblems of the flesh and blood of his Only Begotten Son at the communion table, or if we prefer to stay at home. Have we the desire to take  us the name of Christ, and keep his commands, that his Spirit might be with us, that we might have faith when we call upon him in prayer that our prayers shall be answered ? 

Brethren and sisters, we are the elect, we who are gathered as the people of the Lord. We heard yesterday where the voice of God would be heard; that it would be among his elect, and not in Germany. What a fallacy in the ideas expressed by the German emperor that he is the vicegerent of God! God is not so radically inconsistent! There is no comparison between God's work here upon the earth, and the life of the Savior, and that of the Kaiser. Christ gave his whole time while he dwelt among men for saving humanity, even the weak, the sick, the afflicted, the old and the young. He said "Suffer little children to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." That was the testimony of our Savior, in whose footsteps we are striving to follow. What a vast difference between that and the statement of the monster to his armies, to the effect : "Leave your mark when you go through the great cities, that you may strike terror to the inhabitants of the world, even to the extent of killing, crucifying women and children, soldiers, prisoners or any one, that terror may come into the hearts of the people! That the fear of the sword and of the aim of the Kaiser, (who falsely represents that he is a representative of the Almighty) might strike terror to the hearts of the people. Oh, what a difference from the spirit of the Savior, from the spirit of the Latter-day Saints, who have gone into the world and gathered 103  the humble, the poor, the meek and those who are seeking after God. What a difference! Even those who have not received a testimony of the gospel as we have, it seems to me must see and believe. When this great work is finished which God is permitting to level down the nations and to bring them into a condition that the gospel truths will find lodgment in their hearts, even those who have not yet had faith to understand the divinity of the Prophet Joseph's mission ought to be able to see, from the conditions which surround them, where God is. 

We are in the hands of the Almighty. It remains for you and for me to decide whether we will serve God or whether we will continue to satisfy the lusts of the flesh, our appetites and passions, disregarding the rights and the feelings of our brethren with whom we are associated; or whether we, like Joshua, v/ill say in our hearts, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." We will go home in a few days from this conference. We will remember what we have heard, no doubt, but will we put it into practice ? If we do, we may be counted the most loyal citizens in this great government, a fact that is being witnessed and testified to by almost every requirement that is made at our hands. We believe the truth, which is as old as the everlasting hills, as old as the stars in heaven, that it is the right of the people to have equal rights one with another. These are principles for which the battles in heaven were fought, that men might enjoy their own agency, and come back to our heavenly Father on account of the desires in their hearts to do so, and  because of the fear of the sword or the flame. 

May God's blessings abound with us, and may we teach these principles to our children, and to those who are among us that have not received the truth; that charity and love and peace may prevail, and the love of God may extend from ocean to ocean, and from one end of the earth to the other; that the time may speedily come which the Savior taught us to pray for, when he said, thy will may be done on the earth as it is done in heaven, is my prayed in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ROBERT D. YOUNG. 

(President of the Sevier Stake of Zion) 

I feel that of all the duties placed upon me from time to time, attempting to speak to a congregation of Saints is the most difficult. 

I believe that the wonderful testimony borne by our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, at this conference has strengthened every person who heard it, which is true also of the strong and inspiring testimonies of the other brethren who have spoken. 

We are indeed blessed to have such great men, inspired of God as they are, so let us appreciate them and heed their counsels. 

In looking over the vast congregation of people assembled at this conference, and realizing the many blessings we enjoy through the gospeb I thought of the words of the Prophet Isaiah, which read some thing like this : God's ways are not man's ways, neither are his thoughts man's thoughts, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  are his ways than our ways, and his thoughts than our thoughts. 

Elders have gone to the nations of the earth, calling the people to repentance, saying, in the Spirit of the gospel, Repent, O inhabitants of the earth. Many heeded the warning cry of the humble messengers of the Lord, and as a consequence they are here with their children and children's children, enjoying the blessings that they never could have received aside from the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe many sense it more now than ever before. Here we are in this great land of America the best country in the world, and by God's guidance brought here as his people, to the safest spot of this great country, here to abide, during the world's crises. No doubt our hearts rejoice because we obeyed. But do we fully appreciate at all times these blessed privileges which the gospel affords us? If we do, is it manifest in our teaching to our children? As directed in the Revelation, do we teach them that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God? If we are not doing this, we are told in the revelation that the condemnation for failure will rest on us parents. 

It was not by chance that we came to these valleys of the mountains, but it was through the working of the well-defined plan of our heavenly Father, and we have been made prosperous, in order that we may do our duty in helping the poor, struggling peoples in the world? 

I received a letter the other day from one of our boys who is now paymaster at one of the cantonments, and he said : "I know that you did not feel that I was doing my whole duty while at home, but  I came out here and mixed with the world, and moved among those who belonged to other churches, and the men in the army, I began to think of the teachings that I received at my mother's knee. There are fifteen of us here, and the other day the officer askd me to call my companions together, line them up, as he would like to have our pictures." So the fifteen "Mormon" boys lined up to have their pictures taken. And the officer complimented them on being the cleanest, nicest lot of boys in the camp. He says further : "We went to where our people held their meetings, and you ought to have seen the tears roll down our cheeks when they sang the first song, one of the songs of Zion. The tears rolled down our cheeks, and our hearts just swelled with appreciation. Oh, I have heard you at home say, people would get that hunger, not for bread; thirst, not for water, but for the word of the Lord. We were hungry, we were thirsty — starving for the word of the Lord from his servants." 

When I read the letter I wondered if we do really our whole duty to our children, and do as the prophet of the Lord said we should do : observe home evening where we might gather our children around us, and teach them the plan of life and salvation, to keep themselves pure, brave and high-minded and unspotted from the sins of the world. 

Brothers and sisters, the Lord has given us about eighty-eight years for preparatory work to prepare ourselves and our children for the time when it would become necessary for thousands of our boys and girls to stand side by side with the people of the world, many of 105  have not heard the gospel, and teach the truth by their clean, pure and sweet lives. I do not fear the dangers of war as I do men and women who place no value on the high standard of morality that we stand for as a people. O that we could impress upon the hearts of our children these everlasting truths that this is the Church of God, and there is no other, and that there is no hope of everlasting peace for this world outside of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May God bless us. May we be able to appreciate our responsibilities and accomplish the duties resting upon us. May we not be classed with those of whom the Lord spoke : "He that putteth his hand to the plow and looketh back is not worthy of the kingdom of heaven." May we be valiant, so that when we sing the beautiful hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," we may follow its counsel when he asks us to perform a duty, and go and do it without question. Then we would become a strength to the work in which we are engaged. May God bless us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The combined choirs of Granite stake sang the anthem : "Christ is risen." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Willard Larson Jones, President of the Moapa stake of Zion. 


