Morning
05 04 1918

AUTHORITIES PRESENT. 

Of the First Presidency : Joseph 

F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, and Charles W. Penrose; of the Council of the Twelve Apostles : Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, *, George Albert Smith, * Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., James E. Talmage, and Stephen L. Richards; Presiding Patriarch Hyrum 

G. Smith; of the First Council of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, **, J. Golden Kimball, **, Joseph W. McMurrin, and Charles H. Hart, 

*Reed Smoot was absent in Washington; and George F. Richards, in England,, presiding over the European Mission. 

**Brigham H. Roberts, was on duty at Camp Kearny, California, as Chaplain of the 145th Field Artiilery (1st Utah). Levi Edgar Young, detained at his duties in the University of Utah, and Rulon S. Wells, unavoidably absent, were present at subsequent meetings. 

**; of the Presiding Bishopric : Charles W. Nibley, Orrin P. Miller, and David A. Smith; Assistant Historians, Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. There were present many Presidents of stakes with their Counselors, Patriarchs, Bishops of wards, and numerous other prominent men representing quorums of the Priesthood, and men and women representing the auxiliary organizations of the Church. 

The following Presidents of Missions were present : Walter P. Monson, Eastern States; Samuel O. Bennion, Central States; German E. Ellsworth, Northern States; Charles A. Callis, Southern States; John L. Herrick, Western States; Joseph E. Robinson, California; Melvin J. Ballard, Northwestern States; Rey L. Pratt, Mexico; Benjamin Goddard, Bureau of Information, Temple Block. 

Pres : dent Joseph F. Smith called the great congregation to order. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Come, come, ye Saints." 

The opening prayer was offered by EHer Henry H. Rolapp. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Zion stands with hills surrounded." PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I feel very thankful, beyond my words for expression, to have the privilege that I have of meeting- with you this morning, and I am delighted to see the number who are assembled here at the opening session of this Eighty-eighth Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Chr.st of Latter-day Saints. I feel to thank you for your presence here this morning, for to me it is an evidence of your interest in the great cause in which we are engaged. I feel that the spirit of the gospel, which is the Sp : rit of the Lord, will accompany us through the sessions of this conference as an evidence of the faith, good desire and faithfulness of those who have assembled this morning and who will continue to meet with us through its sessions. 

PHYSICALLY AILING, BUT SPIRITUALLY STEADFAST. 

It is an unusual thing for me to attempt to make any apology for myself, but I am in a condition of health just at. this time which may prevent me from taking so active a part at this session of our conference as I have usually taken. I hope there is nothing very serious the matter with me, more especially regarding my faith in the work of the Lord and my love for God's truth. I may have physical ailments, but it appears to me that my spiritual status not only remains steadfast as in times past, but is developing, growing, becoming more thoroughly established in the faith of the gospel, in the love of truth, and in a desire to devote all the energy, time, wisdom and ability the Lord may give to me to advance his cause in the earth and to help all I can to build up Zion in these latter days. 

HOME INDUSTRY. 

I have many things on my mind that I would like to refer to, but I feel that it would be wisdom for me to leave the heft of the speaking to my brethren, this morning. However, I wish to mention some things which I think should be brought to the attention of our people throughout the length and breadth of the land; and I will simply refer to a few things for a moment os two in order that they may serve as a text, perhaps, for some others who may succeed me in speaking to you. In the good old davs of President Young, the doctrine of self-sustenance, of home manufactories, of local providence in all things necessary to .sustain the people of God and the inhabitants of th : s intermountain region, were subjects that were dwelt upon very much, and although a little old are still new and deserving the attention of the Latter-day Saints especially, and not only Latter-day Saints but all the people of this intermountain country. In early days we sought to be content and to be happy by using those things which we could as far as possible produce at home. The conditions of those days made it necessary for us to be economical and for us to make an effort on our part to provide everything as far as possible by  own energy and skill, that we needed. But we have advanced in wealth; money has become easier to get and more plentiful; transportation across the deserts and from distant parts of our country has become easy, and it has become so simple and so easy to buy the shoddy which is a few cents less per yard, or piece, which is manufactured in great manufactories in the East or in Europe, by labor which is compensated for at the least possible wages, and shipped easily to this country, that we prefer to patronize the laborers that are afar off to patronizing those who are in our own midst and who would be depending upon the patronage of the people of this intermountain region to support them in their labors. We have sought to manufacture clothing in our Provo Woolen Mills and in other of our manufactories that have been from time to time established in the early days, but the goods that have been manufactured in Provo, which surpassed very far in real value the imported articles. of a similar kind, because they were made of whole wool, had to seek a market in New York and in San Francisco, and in Europe, because the people at home would not patronize home made goods. Why? Because they could not be made quite as cheap as imported shoddy! These are facts, for I have been associated with this factory somewhat in years past, and I know whereof I speak. It is an easy matter now to get a great many things from the East, and from the West, and pay our money out for them, which we ought to produce at home; and there are a great many things brought into our country that we purchase with our money that we do not need at all, and which ought never to be imported for the use of Latter-day Saints. 

SOME SURPRISING FACTS. 

No Latter-day Saint has any use for tobacco in any form, and yet many thousands of dollars are paid out annually for this noxious weed which is grown in the south, manufactured in the south and shipped here, of course, for the money it takes away, and otherwise merely to do you harm, and absolutely no good. It was .surprising to me to learn that we actually ship eggs by the ton from various distant states, into Utah. It appears to me that it is really a shame and a disgrace to our credit and good name, that the people of this intermountain region, the farmers, the ranchers, the home-makers, and home-dwellers, cannot raise poultry enough to supply themselves and the market at home with eggs and chickens, instead of having to import them from abroad. Why cannot we make our own butter and our own cheese, at home ? Why would not these industries pay our own people as well as they would pay or profit others? Surely they would, if our people would be as loyal in supporting them in their labors and in their manufactories as we are loyal to those that are far away. 

The matter has been called to our attention of late that we are importing a great deal more into Utah and into the principal cities of Utah than we are exporting abroad. We are allowing our fruit year after year to rot on the ground by the ton, if not by the hundreds of tons, when a few years ago we were sufficiently interested in home preservation and home production that we would dry some of our peaches and some of our apples that are now going to waste, for winter use and for transportation abroad. We have quit it. . Scarcely any one will .dry a peach now! I have been trying, year after year, to get a few dried peaches to help eke out my provender during the winter season for my family; and there is nowhere that I can get good dried peaches in Utah, and yet they are wasting by. the hundreds of tons, by the tens of thousands of dollars worth, because they are not taken care of properly. This is wrong. We should adopt the rule to live within our own means, and attempt, at least, again to save the products of the soil, the products of our herds, and of our flocks, import as little as possible, and supply as much as we possibly can for our own support, and for transportation. 

A STRANGE KIND OF ECONOMY. 

We have been having the doctrine of economy thrust down our throats for all it is worth recently, to such an extent that we scarcely know sometimes where we are at. A poor man will go to the store to get twenty-five or fifty pounds of flour, and the storekeepers will compel him to buy at least twenty-five or fifty pounds of some other material that he doesn't want or need, or know what to do with, if he had it, and he is .compelled to buy it or go without the flour. That is a strange kind of economy for the poor people. A poor man goes to the store and he says, "I want twenty-five pounds of flour." "All right, you have got to buy twenty-five pounds of bran or of something else" which he does not need, and pay a good deal more for it, before he can get his flour. What? The poor man under the necessity, when he must have a little flour for bread — (and he can't afford to go to the bakers to get it, because they have raised so high on their prices that he can't afford to go there to buy bread,) and he must get the flour and let his wife bake it, but he is told that he can't have flour unless he will buy at least one and one-fourth more material of one kind or another of greater cost to him than the flour will be. 

THE REMEDY. 

It would be a mighty good thing if every farmer, gardener, owner of an orchard or a hennery, or a flock of sheep, or any other means of subsistence in the land, would provide for themselves everything that they need at home, and not go to the stores at all unless the store keepers would treat them fairly. I have no fault to find with stores nor with the keepers of them. They are necessary in their spheres of business. But I would not go to a store to get what I did not need, nor what I could produce for myself; there are many things people can do without with profit to themselves. 

Who am I finding fault with? I don't want to find fault with anybody, nor with anybody's methods of economy. I am not doing this in the spirit of fault-finding. I am saying what I am, in the spirit that we  provide for ourselves so that we will not be dependent upon imported goods, more especially dependent for flour imported from abroad instead of producing flour at home and to transport abroad. Utah, by its irrigation system, can almost beat the world in raising more bushels of wheat to the acre than can be raised anywhere else. 

Now, I wanted at least to say this much to you, that we ought not to spend our means in importing into our country things we can raise at home; and surely not those things that are injurious, nauseating and hurtful .to life. We ought to let them alone. I don't believe that it is really necessary for the Latter-day Saints to import tea and ooffee into Utah. I believe they could makeshift with something more simple, something less injurious, perhaps, than these things that are more or less stimulating and not nourishing, the effects of which are more injurious than beneficial. 

LOYAL TO THE GOVERNMENT. 

I wish to say this, there isn't a feeling in my soul nor in any fibre of my being that is disloyal to the Government of the United States or to the desire that we have in our souls to maintain the principles of individual and National liberty, justice and freedom that have been established in the Constitution of our country. I believe in the Constitution of the United States. I believe in the principles which that instrument promulgates — the freedom of mankind to do right, to worship God according to the dictates of their own consc'ence, freedom to pursue their way in peace and to observe and maintain their rights, their freedom, their liberties, and justly recognize and equally preserve and defend the rights, freedom and liberty of their neighbors and of their fellow bemgs — and of all of God's creatures. I believe that the Constitution of the United States was and still is an inspired instrument. The Lord God Almighty inspired the minds that framed it, and I believe it ought to be most sacredly preserved. It is worthy of the defense and should be upheld by all the people of our land. I cannot say that I indorse always some of the acts 'of leading men. Now, the Lord bless you. 

FINANCIAL, SOCIAL AND STATISTICAL FACTS. 

I had prepared a few items that I wanted to name. I am going to depart from my intended rule this morning, and finish while I am on my feet. It may be a source of information to the Latter-day Saints, at least, and will be gratifying to them to know in some measure what has become of their tithes and of their offerings which have been handled by the bishops of the Church, and which have come into the office of the Presiding Bishopric, where the strictest possible accounts have been kept of them. I have had the B : shor>'s office jot down for me a few items that I will take the liberty, since I am on my feet, and am stronger than I thought I would be. to read to you : There have been expended in the stakes and wards for local purposes, of the tithes, in 1917, divided among all the local organizations of the Church $751,978.00 

Expended for the maintenance and up-keep of temples, including repairs on the St. George and the Logan temples, which latter suffered some considerable loss by fire during 

the same year 111,036.00 

Expended on the constructon of the Cardston and Hawaiian 

temples, during 1917 126,745.00 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of the Church 

schools, 1917 368,028.00 

Expended for charitable purposes, including hospitals 320,963.00 

Expended for mission purposes, including the erection of mission houses and chapels 335,861.00 

Expended for the completion of the new Church Office Building, 1917 154,878.00 

Tithe payers that we have on record number 87,663 

People who paid fast offerings during 1917 number 47,820 

Wards and independent branches number . t 839 

Number of .stakes 75 

Number of missions 22 

The birth rate among .the Latter-day Saints is 37 to each 1,000 Church members. 

The marriage rate is 17 to each 1,000 Church members. 

The death rate is 8.1 to each 1,000 Church members. 

There are 33 widows to each 1,000 Church members, and there are 7 widowers to each 1,000 Church members. If they are not too old they ought to get married aga : n. 

The divorced after Temple marriage are 80 persons. 

The divorced after Civil marriage, 101 persons. That will prove to you, I judge, that a Church marriage is very much .stronger and more binding than a civil marriage. 

Families among the Latter-day Saints who own their own homes, 80 per cent. 

Since our last conference, the following changes have taken place among the Presidents of Stakes, Presidents of Missions, etc. : 

Bear River stake, Peter M. Hansen, appointed to succeed Milton H. Welling. 

Montpelier stake, formerly a part of Bear Lake stake, Edward C. Rich appointed pres : dent. 

Bear Lake stake, William L. Rich, appointed to succeed Joseph R. Shepherd. 

Nebo stake, Joseph Reece succeeded the late Jonathan S. Page, Jr., who recently passed away. 

Samoan Mission, Ernest Wright has been released and Willard A. Keith appointed to succeed him as president. 

The following' bishops have passed away : Lars P. Nielson of the Ovid ward, Bear Lake stake; Charles L. M. Milne, Union ward, Jordan stake, and Robert McQuarrie of the Ogden Second ward, Weber stake. 

The following- brethren laboring in the mission field have passed away : Arnold Joseph Kunzler, Rosetta, Utah, died in the Central States Mission, at Springfield, Mo., October 8, 1917, of typhoid fever. Joseph F. Seeley, Mount Pleasant, Utah, died in the Central States Mission, March 29, 1918, of heart failure. 

Now, I shall most happily turn over the remaining part of the services of this meeting, perhaps through the conference, to my brethren. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 

I feel happy this morning that our President has been able to speak unto us and to give us the key-note for the conference. He has the love of the Saints, and they all pray that his life may be spared and that he may be strengthened to overcome his affk'ction. We like to hear his voice, we like to be in his company, and we ask the Lord to spare his life yet many years for the good of the Saints. I have listened with interest to the remarks he has made this morning. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM. 

President Smith alluded to certain things that we ought not to import, and I thousfht of reading to vou just a few paragraphs of that blessed Word of Wisdom which the Lord has given unto the Saints, a word of wisdom indeed, and many of those who do not belong to our religion, but understand what is harmful and what is good for the human body, acknowledge that it is wholesome advice to all. The Lord says : 

And, a o-ain, strong drinks are not for the belly but for the washing of your bodies. 

And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. 

And ag;ain, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. 

And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and us.e of man. 

Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof, all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. 

Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; 

And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. 

All grain is ordained for the usie of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man. but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; 

And these hath God made for the use of man, only in times of famine and excess of hunger. ADVANTAGES OF PROHIBITION. 

I believe that we will be both healthier and richer if we follow the advice not to partake of the things forbidden therein. I am glad that our State has prohibition, and I hope that the time will come when all of our neighboring states will follow suit, and pass laws against the manufacture and use of intoxicating drinks. If they do pass such laws as we have here in Utah and Idaho, I believe that the bootleggers' profession will soon be at an end, and I certainly hope that we will be able to cope with that class of men who are in favor of making a living by selling these destructive things. I believe that the people living under prohibition laws will be able to save more means than those who live where the saloon is licensed, with which savings they will be able to make the family comfortable, to build better homes and to help to sustain our Nation in its time of need. I would advise all the Latter-day Saints to make a study of the words I have read to you th : s morning and to obey them. We call it the Word of Wisdom. It is, and the Lord has given it to us for our- good. He is not depriving us of pleasure or of enjoyment in forbidding these things. Those who enjoy them do so by first accustoming themselves to the use of them. Tobacco is not nourishing; in fact, it is opposed to good digestion, and gives pleasure only to such as have created a desire for it, and can hardly be without it, having created so strong a habit that instead of being master of it they become its servant and slave. Latter-day Saints should make themselves free, free from habits that are injurious, and they should have strength enough to abstain from that which is not good for the body, as well as to abstain from doing things that are hurtful to the spirit. 

THE CARE AND EDUCATION OF CHILDREN. 

I would like to allude to another matter. The Lord has blessed us with children, and to most of the parents they are their most precious gifts. We ought to look after our children, brethren and sisters. We hear reports from juvenile courts that cause us sorrow and regret, that is, regret for those who have not watched their children and taken care of them. Children raised in loving homes are not as exposed or as likely to be led astray as are those who have homes where instead of love there is quarreling between their parents who have formed habits of degrading vice. Fathers and mothers, take care of your children, see that they are properly taught, see to it that they do not form vicious habits; and make home as happy as you possibly can for them, that home may be an attractive place. Do what you can to make your children understand that which is right, instil in their hearts faith in God and see to it that they learn what is the Lord's will for them to do here upon the earth. What a great duty the training of children is, which has been laid upon the Latter-day Saints and upon all people! 

I do not want to shake the confidence of the parents in their children. I know that God has given us that blessed love for our children that we 

PRESIDENT ANT HON H. LUND. 

can hardly see any faults in them, but remember that all are liable to have faults, and hence they must be trained aright. Parents, do not feel too confident that your children are safe wherever they go. We have so many attractions at night; the moving picture shows are cheap and our young people like to go there. I will not say that moving picture shows are always bad. Many of them teach desirable lessons, and when used to instruct in that which is useful, the picture show may be a power for good in a community, but where pictures represent things just to amuse and even try to make laughable things which are not pure and good, then they do a great deal of harm. 

See to it that your children attend their Sunday School. What a blessed place for the children to go on a Sunday morning! Here we find all ages of children from the little tots of the kindergarten to the young men and ladies and even married people, now that we have parents' classes also in the Sunday School. Children like to be there. They rejoice in the singing. They are graded so that their teachers can reach their little hearts and give them instruction suited to their needs. They are happier for going to the school than to roam in the streets or get into company of boys and girls, who like themselves are truants. 

There are also the Primaries. Here our good sisters teach them and endeavor to turn their hearts to love that which is good. We want also our Religion Classes and Church Schools sustained. I am pleased with the good work that is being done in these institutions, also with the introduction of our seminaries. By having a seminary close to the high school, our high school students can go there and in addition to their other studies receive lessons in theology and in Bible h-'story. These studies are for their good, and they help to stave off influences tending to infidelity and loss of faith. 

Parents, guard your children, and know where they are and what they are doing, guard them against imbibing the modern ideas of believing the world to be a self-running machine, and that God is not needed in it. That there is a God, used to be considered a truth that needed no demonstration. So sure was David that he writes, "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." We want our children to be reared in a firm belief in God and that he is the author of their being, and is their Father. We should teach them that without him they could not even breathe or have life here, for he is the Author of life. 

Let us instil reverence and love in their hearts for God, and for our Savior, let them know what the Savior has done for us, and that there is no doubt in our hearts about this, but that we know it is a truth. When they love their parents they will believe what these teach them, and do not let that time pass in which we have the : r full confidence and let them grow up in ignorance of Godliness, for then we may find that they have learned other things and have come to doubt even the existence of God. There is a great danger before our young people in modern ideas that are being taught them, and we want to be on our guard that they take the word of God, the iron rod, and cling to it, for then they will be safe in their pilgrimage through life OUR ATTITUDE ON THE GREAT WAR. 

Today we are hearing of the gruesome things that are taking place over in Europe. We are anxious to learn the news from there. It is a year ago now since we entered the war. Many have thought that the United States did not need to go into this war, but our lawmakers, the President and his Cabinet, found it a necessity for the United States to join those with whom they are now allied across the water, to put down the idea that might is right, and that the strong man can enter the house of the weaker one and destroy him and his possessions. Some have said, "Well, why not let them take care of their own affairs and we defend our land when an invasion is made here?" We do not want to wait for this. Our duty is not to ourselves alone but to our neighbors as well. 

When we were troubled with the Black Hawk war in Sanpete county, you folks in Salt Lake did not say : "Let them take care of themselves up there." "We are not afraid that the Indians will come to Salt Lake City;" but you sent a large company of young men to try to keep the Indians under control, and we appreciated it. We found what a hardship and loss it was to be at war then, and we certainly were grateful to our brethren from the lower counties who helped us. 

Today we are trying to combat a power that wants to dominate, that has already laid plans to divide Europe and go down through Asia to the Persian Gulf or to the Indian Ocean. If this plan succeeds they can turn their power to the right or to the left, and it would be very hard to quell or stop any attack thus made. The United States have gone into this war with the most unselfish motives. I do not know of any other nation that has been so unselfish in offering its means and even sending its young men to help those who are distressed and who are attacked without cause. What had Belgium done that it should be overrun and destroyed? What had France done at that time, and Russia even? Germany, no doubt, thought that with such splendidly discplined armies as she, together with Austria, had— for we must admit that these armies are well equipped and disciplined — she had power enough to subdue both France and Russia, and then England would have its turn. But she found that by the united effort of these nations that were attacked the victory was not accomplished so easily as she thought. 

THE AMBITIONS OF GERMANY. 

You take the Hohenzollern — I perhaps should not mention a certain family — but they claim and are proud to say that ever since they got Brandenburg by purchase and acqirired East Prussia, each successive ruler has been able to add something to the patrimony left him; and this is perhaps true, but in what way? How have they acquired these great portions of land that they now possess ? They attacked Austria under Maria Theresa and took from # her Silesia; and afterwards together with Russia and Austria they divided Poland and each took a large slice of it, leaving no Poland, only by name : they took three duchies from Denmark in 1864. 

Austria and Prussia quarreled about who should have them, which led to war, and then, Austria being- defeated, additional land came to the Hohenzollerns; and then by Bismarck stirring up France and getting Napoleon the Third to go into a snare so that he declared war against Germany, which country in a short time conquered France and made her pay a large indemnity and took two large provinces from her. In such a way Germany has grown, and can we believe that if they come out victorious they will lose this lust of gain and desire to enlarge their kingdom? Today we -do not look upon the Atlantic as being so great a defense or safeguard against Europe as we did in the days of the revolution. Then they had to send soldiers in sail ships and it took them a long time to get across the ocean, but today the Atlantic can be crossed in a few days, and we do not yet know to what extent air transportation will grow. This war has developed aviation to become an important arm in the war, and likewise the submarine. What a danger the latter is to shipping! We are not so safe today from Europe as we might think, and the wise men of our Nation have decided that we should be prepared — prepared to meet foes not only from the east, but even from the west. A nation like us, unprepared, even with our large numbers of men, could not defend itself against a smaller power with disciplined troops. So, in any case, let us be prepared and help to encourage our boys who go to defend the cause we have adopted. 

OUR DUTY IN THE GREAT STRUGGLE. 

The Nation has already spent a great deal of means, and more means will be needed. The Latter-day Saints whom I address now ought to do their share, and not feel to leave it alone, but do as they have done in the past, meet the demands that are made upon them. War is a costly and a horrible thing, and I believe if this war can be won that peace will be more permanent and stable. If it is not won, it will not be long till the question will have to be tried again. 

TOLERATION FOR THE GERMAN SAINTS. 

I want to say a few words about our German Saints. They are placed in a difficult position. Their neighbors are so likely to look upon them as being perhaps alien enemies, and in some cases as spies. Now I want to say that the great majority of Germans who have come to this land and have become citizens of the United States, I believe are honest in having taken the oath of allegiance and that they love this country. There are, however, a great many enemy agents who are doing much harm, for instance, destroying the government property, ammunition plants, railroad bridges, and so on, trying to do everything to stop the success of the United States in preparing material for the war. We cannot wonder, therefore, that the feeling of bitterness has arisen against the Germans. In fact, the espionage of Germany extends to a greater length than history has ever known. In nearly every land there are spies in the pay of the kaiser, and they are keeping his government posted on what is going on both here and in other lands. But this should not make us intolerant to those who have come here and become good, honest citizens. That large, earnest German-American citizensh : p should not suffer. Our brethren who joined the Church in Germany, who felt the yoke of autocracy there and came to this country to be free to serve God according to the dictates of their conscience — I am sure are not of the kind that would sustain an alien country against ours. I believe that they are true American citizens. They have had enough of the oppression over in Germany. 

I remember when I last visited Berlin in company with President Penrose that we met during the day with the elders there. They had been called together and we had a splendid time with them, and in the evening our hall was crowded with Saints and their friends. Good testimonies were borne and all enjoyed the spirit of it. After the meeting was closed the president of the mission, Brother Thomas E. McKay, came to us and said : "Now I can breathe more freely. All day I have feared that the police would come and arrest you brethren." 

Well, we did not experience that treatment at that time, but Brother Rudger Clawson afterwards had to go into a Berlin jail because he was found in company with Latter-day Saints. Now, those people have suffered for their religion's sake there and have come here and enjoyed the full freedom to worship God according to their belief, and they are not hankering to go again under the German autocracy. 

I shall not take more of your time. I rejoice in being with you, and I hope that you will remember the counsels given us by our President. Let us be tolerant towards our brethren and sisters of German extraction. Let us be careful about our children, that they be raised in a God-fearing manner, and let us ourselves give them such an example as .shall be worthy of following. This is my advice; and may God bless us all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A tenor solo : 'Forever with the Lord," was sung by Joseph Moncarr. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

"Behold," saith the Lord, "the world is ripening in iniquity, and it must needs be that the children of men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel." Adam said unto the Lord : "Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water?" 

And the Lord answered him, saying: 

Inasmuch as thy children have been conceived in sin, even so when they begin to grow up, sin conceiveth in their hearts, and they taste the bitter that they may know to prize the good. And it is given them to know good from evil, wherefore they are agents unto themselves, and I have given unto you another law and commandment. Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence (Book of Moses 6:53-57). 

In the Book of Mormon we read  because of the Fall our natures have become evil continually. The gospel is the power which God has given to make us clean and to win the victory over the world which will place us in line for eternal exaltation. 

This terrible war is turning the people unto the Lord. In the mission where I have the privilege of laboring with some of your sons and daughters, there is plain evidence that the war is proving to many of the children of men a sanctifying affliction. In this hour of peril they are turning to the God of heaven, confessing their sins and seeking light and truth and salvation by obeying the gospel. Men are beginning to lose much of their love for the visible and tangible things of the world; they are reaching out unto the things which cannot be seen only by the eye of faith. They are seeking for the things of immortality. 

A prominent minister declared, in an address before a convention recently, that there were prominent Protestant families following their soldier dead into the other world with their prayers. The leaven of the gospel, we can see, is working. In truth it is becoming more apparent to men and women that the gospel is indeed the power of God unto salvation. It is the means of salvation, the entrance, for all that obey it, into the kingdom of God. 

The President of the Church, in the power and authority of his office, this morning, stirred Israel up unto the necessity of becoming more self-sustaining in raising on our farms, and manufacturing at home, the necessaries of life. Brethren and sisters, it will redound to our benefit, temporally and spirit, if we give heed to the admonition and instruction we received from him. 

When the Lord Jesus was taking leave of his apostles, he said unto them : "Ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth." It is our testimony, a living, abiding testimony, that we are bearing unto the children of men, that three of these apostles whom Jesus was addressing did come to the uttermost parts of the earth, and, upon Joseph Smith bestowed the holy Melchizedek Priesthood, which is the power to preach the. gospel of repentance, to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins, and to bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost, whose office it is to guide into all the truth of God. Did this actually come to pass? Did Peter, James and John come from mansions of glory and invest Joseph Smith with that sacred power? We in the mission field, witnessing the marvelous effect of the gospel on the hearts of men, rejoicing in the glorious manifestations and the testimony which the Saints receive after they make covenant with God in the waters of baptism, earnestly testify that these things are a standing testimony that these apostles did come and endow the Prophet with this splendid: power — "the power to act in the earth, in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, for the salvation of men." 

We further testify that this power and authority has attended the men who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith; that this power and influence is wielded in the world today by the men who stand at the head of the Church. The blessings we receive in the house of the Lord; the success your sons and daughters are meeting with in preaching the gospel, constitute an abiding testimony that the power and influence placed upon Joseph Smith, the authority conferred upon him by Peter, James and John, has been bestowed upon, abides with, and is exercised by, the President of the Church today, and it dwells also with those who are associated with him. My brethren and sisters, I bear testimony to this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Heber J. Grant gave notice of the general priesthood meeting to be held in the Tabernacle, this evening at 7:30 o'clock. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Do what is right, the day dawn is breaking." 

The closing prayer was pronounced by Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon, President of the Pioneer stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.