Morning
06 04 1918

The assembly was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Come let us anew our journey pursue." 

Prayer was offered by President Edward H. Snow, of the St. George stake of Zion. 

The hymn, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah," was sung by the choir and congregation. 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Meditation on the passino- ,of Elder Hyrum M. Smith — Love of the brethren — Gratitude for the restoration of the gospel — Men and women prone to turn away from righteousness and listen to the promptings of the evil one who minimizes sin and urges justification for committing just a little sin — Illustrations — To preserve men from Satan and his insidious ways, the gospel has been restored — God has said, "This is the path, walk ye in it" — Admonition to the Saints to do their duty — A prayer for the leaders and people of the Church. 

I crave an interest in your faith and prayers, that the Lord will direct what I may say, that it may be profitable to the thousands of faithful Latter-day Saints who are assembled here in the worship of the Lord. My heart is very tender this morning. While sitting here yesterday and today I thought of how little we know of what awaits us or how long we will be here on earth. But for a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I would be  with sorrow, remembering as I do that one of our beloved brethren who occupied this position just six months ago this Saturday morning has been called home. It seems but a few days since Elder Hyrum M. Smith stood here where I stand, about this hour in the day, and delivered to us, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, his message to the Latter-day Saints. It is true that his voice is stilled as far as we are concerned here, but the teachings that he advocated on that day are not stilled, and no doubt there are many in this audience who will remember the very topics that he touched upon on that occasion If you do not remember, let me refresh your minds just a little. He referred to the fact that Solomon did not pray for riches, did not pray for honors, but he prayed for an understanding heart, and God told him that because he had prayed for that desirable thing, that he had not only given to him an understanding heart, but that he had given him, in addition, honor and riches, and that not any of the kings of his time would be like unto him. Another thing Brother Hyrum referred to was the teaching of Moses, wherein, after advising the people and admonishing them, he said, "An.d teach these things to your sons and to your sons' sons." I think that is a splendid precept for Israel to remember today, that we explain in kindness and love the gospel of our Lord, not only to our sons, but to our sons' sons, and I would like to add, to our daughters, to our ' sons and to all that it is possible for us to reach. Then Elder Hyrum referred to the teaching's of the greatest of all men who have lived upon the earth, Jesus of Nazareth, wherein he said, "Not everyone that saith Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven," and ' he also taught them "By their fruits ye shall know them." Now, these instructions have been handed down in holy writ and were repeated by our esteemed associate just six months ago. Do you suppose that the teachings of that good man will be forgotten by Israel? I think not, and he will be held in loving remembrance. We honor and respect him and love and appreciate him for the good that he did and the example that he set us. There is no occasion for us to mourn his calling away, on his account, for his work was done, and our Father will give to him the things that he has labored for. I feel this morning to say that the splendid work he performed could not have been done so acceptably but for the noble woman who stood by his side and who assisted him and encouraged him and labored with him and kept his home and taught his children. But for her, the work that he performed could not have been accomplished; and I thank God this morning that he has a son who gives promise of walking in the footsteps of his father, that he has children who, because of their love and esteem for the good man whose work is done, will delight in honoring his name. I am thankful, I say, for them, and pray God to bless them, that the name of Hyrum M. Smith may re and be remembered in love among' the Latter-day Saints because of the family that he leaves to represent him in the world. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, perhaps you will understand when I tell you that my heart is tender this morning. I love my brethren, and I am grateful for the privilege of standing at the side of men such as have led and now lead this Church. I am grateful for my membership in this organization, and thankful for your companionship, as I travel among you in the stakes and wards of Zion. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, who minister to us who are ,so much of the time absent from our homes. 

Yesterday, as our beloved President began to address us, my heart was touched. I realized how he was suffering the weaknesses that are natural to men at this time of life, and as he continued his remarks I believe you, with me, offered a prayer that God would strengthen him and make him equal to the duty of presiding over this conference, and that he would feel no bad effects from that long and beautiful address; and this morning he is with us, and I am grateful he says that he feels much better than he did yesterday. 

This is our Father's work that has brought us together here today. While this world is in confusion, here under the .shades of this great dome we have met together to worship God and to honor him and to listen to the whisperings of his Spirit made manifest through those who may be called to address us. We are here not with doubt in our minds that there is a God in heaven, we know that there is, and we know, as we know that we live, that this work with which we are identified is our Father's work; he began it and he sent his only begotten Son into the world to prepare the way, and that in this latter day he called the Prophet Joseph Smith and taught him, as a kind and loving father teaches a choice and favored son, the things that touch our hearts and that have inspired in us a desire to do our best. God lives, and his hand is over this world, and the conditions that confront us today will result in repentance and softening of the hearts of his children, and many will turn from the error of their ways and forsake evil and desire to know what he would have them do. As I see men and women everywhere groping for the wall, oh, how grateful am I that those who were my ancestors received this gospel of our Lord, knew the voice of the good Shepherd and followed it, and that my heritage has been to be reared among a people better than whom there are not in the world today. All these things soften my feelings and mellow my heart and I am grateful to the Lord this morning for his mercies. You know the people of the world, our brethren and sisters, many of them have been deceived by the cunning of the adversary, and they are led here and there and their time is wasted, while they live upon the earth, that might be profitably spent, not only to their own benefit, but to the benefit of their fellows, if they but understood and lived the gospel of Jesus Christ. The adversary does not take them forcefully and prevent them understanding the truth, but in an insidious and underhand way he whispers to them to do this thing and that. He poisons their minds against the things that are . He makes unpopular those tilings that are desirable to the children of men, and then, because of the habit of men and women to follow the fashion and custom of the world and listen to the sophistry of those who are prominent, he is able to lead them along a pathway that prevents them taking avantage of life and gaining the object of their creation in the world. It is not only now that this is the case, but it has been so from the beginning. When Abel was out with his flocks, and Irs brother Cain saw that he was favored of the Lord because he did right, the adversary whispered to Cain, "You can just as well have these flocks, nobody will know if you slay your brother," and he took his life. And what did he gain? He didn't gain anything, but he lost the blessing of his heavenly Father. He took that which he could not give and became a murderer and from henceforth his name is known in the earth as one who had departed from the right and had committed an awful crime. 

So it has been all the way down from that day until now. When the Lord sent Noah among the children of men to warn them and to teach them and to encourage them to works of righteousness, they turned away from him, they didn't believe he was a prophet of God. The adversary whispered in their ears, "Why, this man is only an ordinary man, he has no right to speak in the name of the Lord, surely you will pay no attention to him," and his mission was made unpopular by the cunning of the adversary. Men and women in their sins continued sinful and failed to listen to the warning voice of a prophet of God, and the result was that the Lord could do nothing with them until  were repentant. He saw the futility of working with them because they were wilfully in the hands of the adversary, and so he covered the earth with a great flood, gathering - just a little handful of people to re-people the earth, because it was necessary that good men and good women should transmit to posterity the virtues that they inherited when they were created in the spirit world. And so it has ever been. In the time of the Savior the adversary whispered to those people, he is not the Son of God, surely you will not accept him, he is just an ordinary man, he is only the son of Mary and Joseph and he is not any more the Son of God than you are, and the people listened to that insidious, wicked one and crucified the Redeemer of mankind. The condition of the world today is predicted in the Book of Mormon, the same thing exactly that I have just referred to. When Nephi was teaching the people and trying to show them the necessity of living near to the Lord, not to surrender to the promptings of evil, teaching them the necessity of keeping" all the commandments of God, pointing out to them that the thing that encouraged good always came from our heavenly Father, and that anything that enticed them to evil came from the adversary and they were not safe the moment they went into the .devil's territory. This is what he says, referring to the time when the Book of Mormon should be brought forth, when the record should be taken out among the children of men, when the things that were in the book that were of great worth to the children of men should begin to be made known, and he speaks very plainly in this the 28th chapter of II Nephi : 

"For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold, I am the Lord's, and the other shall say, I am the Lord's. And thus shall everyone say that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord." 

Now, the Prophet Nephi, hundreds of years ago, saw what would occur, that the people were to contend with one another and deny the power of the Holy Ghost and the Holy One of Israel, and were to teach for doctrine the commandments of men. An influence is in the world today trying to liiake people believe that by their own intelligence and by their own power they can gain eternal life. Let me continue to read from Nephi : 

"And there shall also be many which shall say, Eat, drink and be merry, nevertheless fear God, he will justify in committing a little sin." 

I want you to note that : "He will justify in committing a little sin." That cunning adversary knowing that if he could only get a man or woman to do a little wrong, that far they had gone into his territory, that far they were in his power. 

"Nevertheless, fear God, he will justify in committing a little sin, yea, lie a little, take the advantag-e of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this. And do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the Kingdom of God." 

Isn't that just exactly what the devil says to the children of men today as plainly as it is written here? Oh, commit a little sin, that won't 'do any harm, lie a little, that won't do any particular damage, the* Lord will forgive that and you will only be beaten with a few stripes and at last you shall be saved in the kingdom of God. That is what he says to the man or the woman who has been taught the Word of Wisdom when he says, oh, drink a little tea, that won't hurt you; use a little tobacco, that won't make any difference : a little liquor won't do any harm. These are little things; he always does it a little at a time, not all at once. That is what I would like us to remember, my brethern, this morning. It is these insignificant insidious whisperings that betray mankind and that place us in the power of the devil. I want to say to you, in my judgment, that the use of tobacco, a little thing as it seems to some men, has been the means of destroying- their spiritual life, has been the means of driving from them the companionship of the Spirit of our Father, has alienated them from the society of good men and women, and has brought upon them the disregard and reproach of the children that have been born to them, and yet the devil will say to a man. Oh, it's only a little thing! And Nephi says further : 

"And others will he pacify and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say. All is well in Zion; yea Zion prospereth, all is well; and thus the d evil cheateth their souls." 

Now, I want you to note that : "And thus the devil cheateth their souls and leadeth them away carefully -down to hell." And that is the way he does it, that's exactly the way he does it. He does not come and grab you bodily and take you into his territory, but he whispers, "Do this little evil," and when he succeeds in that, another little evil and another, and, to use the ex quoted, "He cheateth their souls." That's what he does. He makes you believe that you are gaining something when you are losing. So it is every time we fail to observe a law of God or keep a commandment, we are being cheated, because there is no gain in this world or in the world to come but by obedience to the law of our heavenly Father. Then again, that peculiar suggestion, "And he leadeth them carefully away .down to hell" is significant, that is his method. Men and women in the world today are subject to that influence, and they are being drawn here and there, and that whispering is going on and they do not understand what the Lord desires them to do, but they continue in the territory of the evil one, subject to his power where the Spirit of the Lord will not go. He says further : 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell." 

Isn't that what the world is taught today? These higher critics, these agnostics, who do not believe in God, man, nor the devil, as far as that is concerned, except what they see. Are they not saying, "There is no hell ?" And Nephi here tells us it is the devil that teaches them that. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is ,no hell; and he saith unto them, I am no devil, for there is none; and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he Rrasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, that is the condition of the workl today. Nephi could not have stated it plainer if he had been right here  the world now. And the adversary is at work, and because our heavenly Father desired to preserve his children from trie evil of that teaching and of that belief he sent the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, into the world, commissioned him with Mi vine authority, organized 'his Church, and began again to teach the truth to the children of men, that they might be led from the error of their ways. That mission ('evolves upon you. You have received the 'Holy Melchizedek Priesthood , most of you; you have been commissioned by divine authority-, and the Lord will hold us — I myself am with you in that, I realize — will hold all men who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood in this Church responsible for the treatment of that priesthood and for the care with wh : ch we exercise it among the children of men. Now, my brethren and sisters, was there ever a time in the history of the world when there was greater need for men and women to serve the Lord and keep his commandments? Look at the world today; millions of men arrayed against each other striving to destroy life. Why? Because the adversary is whispering to them, "This is the thing to do." I want to tell you that this war will not cease and the strife in this world will not end until the children of men repent of their sins and turn to God and serve him and keep his commandments; and in the words of Patrick Henry, "Men may cry peace, peace, but there is not peace" until the children of men conform their lives to the teachings of the Father of us all, who gave us our being and who placed within our reach wholesome advice and counsel from the creation until now, and  said to us, "This is the path, walk ye in it." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, surely we will do our duty as elders in Israel and as members of the fold of Christ. Our Father in heaven has given us the knowledge, has given us the authority, has called us together in the valleys of these grand mountains, and has given us shepherds after his own heart. Let us live as we ought to live, let us honor each other as we ought to do, let us sustain this Government that has been so generous to us as we ought to sustain it; and if we are not required to give of our family, if we have not sons to send, then let us give part of our substance to comfort the sons of other men and to make it possible for  liberty to be in the world. 

I pray that the blessings of our Father may remain with the Latterday Saints, and they will if we will be faithful. I pray that our Father will bless the man who presides over this Church, that he will rebuke the weaknesses that the flesh is heir to and that have taken possession of him, that he will make him well and strong and continue to him the joy and the satisfaction that he has had in ministering to us, all these years. I pray that his counselors may be similarly remembered and that they may rejoice together to pre-side over us and direct us as long as they desire to remain with us. And may peace and comfort and satisfaction be upon all the hosts of Israel because of their faith and devotion, and may we repent of our sins that the Lord may minister to us in a greater measure in the future than in the past; that our sons and daughters, growing up under our influence, may become a valiant army prepared, by reason of their faith and knowledge, of the power of God, to carry his message to the nations of the earth and promulgate it where it has not been heard before, and establish it to the honor and glory of God, and to the salvation of the children of men, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION. 

(President of the Central States Mission) 

I esteem it a great privilege, my brethren and sisters and friends, to have the honor of attending this conference. It looked a few days ago as if I should not be able to be here, but through the prayers of faith, I have been permitted to attend thus far. I have listened with interest to the remarks of my brethren who have preceded me, and was greatly impressed by the exhortation and teaching of President Smith that men and women should provide for themselves and produce many things that they need so that they will not have to buy them; also that they should patronize home industries. 

In the mission field where I labor we encourage the people to grow the crops that are necessary to produce a living. Our people in the south usually grow cotton; it is the cash crop. They have been there for many years as renters, and as their landlords have generally prescribed the crop they are to raise, they have been forced to raise cotton, using all the money they could get out of that cotton to buy foodstuffs for their families and forage for their animals, paying high prices for it, when they might have  these things themselves. But while this custom in the past has brought great hardships on them it has been a great labor to induce them to change their method of farming. However, in the past year, notwithstanding the great drought in the south, hundreds of people there raised their own forage, and have not had to buy the hay that has cost so much money and kept them so poor. They have yielded to the law of obedience and they have found that therein lies the only safety. That has always been my belief. I have learned in my experience that to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams, i also believe that the scriptures the Lord has revealed unto us in this dispensation are more essential for us to become acquainted with than anything we may think of in temporal ways. I believe that men and women ought to prepare themselves—that they ought to know something about the gospel of Christ, and why they are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or "Mormons," as we are commonly called in the world. We ought to take advantage of opportunities that are offered us from time to time to learn more of the gospel and to become acquainted with the truths contained therein. It is just as necessary for us to learn the words of life that will bring us spiritual glory and exaltation as it is to labor hard for temporal things. We need the temporal things of life as taught in this Church, but we ought not to let the spiritual side of life go undeveloped. I believe that men and women can be led and are led too much into the ways of money-making and accumulating of means, to  expense, often, of their own spiritual welfare. 

We have labored with great interest in the mission field in the Central States, and have seen men and women join the Church and grow in a knowledge of the Lord until they have become happy and contented in their lives. Many own their homes, as a result of the teachings of the gospel of Christ. 1 do not believe, my brethren and sisters, that a man or woman can ever succeed in this world without a knowledge of the gospel as well as they can with it. There is no real happiness, and there is no pleasure, there is no unity, aside from it, and ,as soon as men and women hear of the gospel, the majority of them are inclined to listen, although they do not always obey it. 

I believe that men ought to become acquainted with the Book of Mormon, a book which in itself is a direct testimony that this Church has something that no "other church in the world possesses. If the Book of Mormon came into the hands of the "Mormon" people through their own ingenuity, then men and women ought to investigate it and prove it. If they prove that it did not, then they must acknowledge that it is inspired and came from God, for it is a direct evidence that the Lord has spoken in this dispensation. No man can read the Book of Mormon with a desire to learn the truth and deny the things that are in it. No man can read the Book of Mormon with a desire to know the truth and be honest in his heart without becoming convinced that it is real and that it does come from God. Joseph Smith said that he received it from an angel and that he translated the records into this present book by the gift and power  God. I know of no greater evidence that the Lord has revealed himself in this dispensation or in the latter days than the Book of Mormon. You may take any other church, let them offer what they have to prove their divinity, and there is nothing to be found that will compare with this great record. It was given to men in the earth to be distributed by the thousands, for men and women to read. It could never have been produced by man. Nearly a century has passed since this book came forth, and there have never been men nor a set of men with all their learning and with all their power, accumulated through knowledge received in this world, who have been able to produce or write one page like unto it. It is the word of God handed down to us in this dispensation, by which we may know that he does live, and that he reveals himself, that he has the power to come and to go as he chooses, and that he has a well-defined way and plan by which he works. The reading of the Book of Mormon gives unto men and unto women a testimony that he is and that he really does visit the children of men in the earth when he sees and finds the occasion to do so. The Prophet Joseph Smith stated as a boy that he received this book from an angel, and that the Father and the Son had visited him. Men may criticize the .statement; men may say that Joseph Smith was a dreamer. My brethren and sisters, here is his work (not entirely all, for he left many, many records), here is a book '.that has lived all thesie years, and no man has ever been able to successfully attack the words and the principles that are contained therein, some of the most beautiful that a man could read. The honest in heart cannot help but be touched, and they will surely change their method of thinking and of believing. 

If a man representing himself as a minister of some church should come to one of us and say, "Here, I desire you to take this book and read it, it represents our church, and I tell you that it is the truth, and if you will pray unto the Lord for a knowledge of its truth you will have a witness from God that it is true," I want to tell you that most of us would take such a book and read it, and it would stand the test if it was the truth. Now, the Book of Mormon contains such a promise, and such a testimony, and when this testimony goes to » any man, or when I deliver this book unto a man and point out to him the scripture and ask him to read so that he may know whether it is of God, or whether it is of man, then I believe that I have done my part, and if he is honest in his attempt to learn the truth and in his conviction, the Lord will manifest the truth of it unto him by the power of the Holy Ghost. I will read a few verses from the tenth chapter of Moroni : 

Behold I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. 

And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest  truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

I want to tell- you, my brethren and sisters, that that is about all the Lord owes a man if he is a doubter. When he gives one of his sons or one of his daughters a chance to read his word which will bring them unto him and unto eter'nal life, with such a statement as that, if they will humble themselves, the spirit of humility will come into their hearts and pride and haughtiness will be banished; then they will know the truth, or they will have been sufficiently warned. He says further: "Behold the spirit of Christ is given unto every man." All men have the spirit of Christ given unto them, when they come into the world, for they are the children of God, God's sons or daughters, and they receive his spirit, "that they may know good from evil; wherefore, I shew unto you the way to judge," says Moroni, "for everything which inviteth to to good and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil, for afttr this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither doth his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him" ( Moro. 1:16 17). 

Now, the Book of Mormon came into the world as a testimony unto all peoples, as a testimony for or against them, that they would be persuaded by the power and Spirit of God to know right from wrong,  know the truth and to know error, and it would be there as a witness unto them that God has spoken in these the last days. Latter-day Saints ought to become more acquainted with the Book of Mormon. They ought to become acquainted with the principles that are taught therein. I believe that it ought to be read more in the home. I believe that it ought to be taught in the. schools, for children who have been brought up in this Church are much stronger if they have the privilege of reading or having these truths taught unto them. 

I endorse with all my heart, the Church schools of this Church. I believe that they were inspired of the Lord, and that the Lord inspired the leaders of this Church to continue them, that the children of men growing up in this land may be brought unto a knowledge of their Redeemer, that they may know good from evil and that they may know the source from which good comes and the source from which evil comes. 

I pray the Lord to bless Latterday Israel. I pray the Lord to bless the leaders of this Church and to prolong the life of President Smith and his counselors, men who have grown old in experience that cannot be gained in a day. I believe that as a body of men and women gathered together here, our hearts should ascend in prayer unto the Father for the health of these men, that they might be left among us; for that experienced men are needed for counsel and for knowledge and wisdom has always been shown in the history of the world. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord, may enter into the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, that we  follow the instructions of the leaders of this Church, that we may stand together as one, and when we do that, we stand behind our great Nation in anything that it calls us to do, at home or abroad. We accept these calls feeling that it is our duty; we enjoy them because it is a pleasure to do our duty, and if we look upon them in the right way and live according to the commandments God has given us, we will be saved in the eternal kingdom of the Lamb, and we will be permitted to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection, live with our Father in heaven, and be regarded as men and women who have kept the faith and who have believed the testimony of humble men. This is, I am sure, the desire of all, and I ask that this may be our happy lot, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of the California Mission.) 

I solicit your prayers of faith in my behalf, my brethren and sisters, for if there is any one time in my life when I feel my weakness it is when addressing a congregation of the Saints of Israel, especially if this be in the presence of our leaders — men who have ripened in judgment and wisdom and rich experience. I am not fearful of the world. I know we have something new to present to them. But when I come to you, I feel that you know better than I the principles of life and salvation, and that I should sit at your feet and be taught, rather than assume the position of a teacher. 

I bring to you good greetings from the mission field and from your sons, your boys who are in the 

4 6  GENERAL C 

cantonments of the State of California. I know how your hearts go out to the boys and girls who are ambassadors of truth, how you pray for them, how you labor to maintain them, how your hopes are centered in them, and you are looking for their return ere long, laden with the sheaves of a golden harvest of the souls of men. I know, too, that your concern for these is not so great as it is for the boys who have gone as soldiers not only of the Cross but of our Country's flag. You fear the smile of the wanton, the allurements of the world, the enticement of vice and sin, more than you do the deadly missiles of the enemy. I am glad to say that so far as we have been able, with good men and true, to conserve the virtue and the belief of your boys in the camps, that we have done a good part. They have reciprocated it; they have attended our gatherings; they have partaken of the sacrament, renewing again their fealty to the Cross. They have borne witness of the virtue of 'their fathers and mothers, and their desire to keep unspotted of the world, and many times when they have had the conduct of our services there has never been a dry eye in the assembly. 

I want to read to you just a little from the scripture, for I believe that with me you can appreciate it more than you ever did before, you who have given your sons to the service of our country : 

And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have  life; for God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. 

I know that it is written by John and Paul that Christ was offered as a propitiation for our sins. I take it, if we had the original text we would learn that it was not in the sense of appeasing the anger of God that he became a propitiatory gift. That the Lord may have been, and has been, grieved and sometimes angry with his stubborn people, I grant you, but I have never felt that God had to be "bought off," if you will allow the expression, through the death of his Son, from visiting upon us condign punishment. No. As I understand it, he gave us his best loved gift, the First Born among' many brethren in the spirit world, the only begotten of God in the flesh, that we might know him and thus in knowing him that we might be made free, "for this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." He gave us the gift of his Son that we should be won to him, that we should love him, for we give gifts to those whom we would win, whom we would have love us, whom we would draw to us, whom we would bring close in our affections, that they might be with us and associate with us, and share with us our joys and good fortune. He gave the Christ unto men that they might live again, that they might be made free, for the truth should make them free in their worship, in their power of mind, and in their bodies, too, for that matter, and the redemption wrought out by the Christ makes us all alive again in eternity, clothed  with immortality and eternal youth. 

Now, Gocl gave his Son to bring men to him, his most precious gift, to know his mind and will, to believe his word. I know not whether the mothers of men count the cost of bearing sons into the world or not, but I do believe that all of you have counted the cost of sending your sons to the battle front. Whilst you know that the voice of God is heard in the battle shout as well as in the still, small voie, you would, if it were possible for you, that this cup should pass, and that the lives of your sons should be preserved. Yet you know that "greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends," and so many of us have given to the world our most precious gifts, our sons, that the principle of truth, which is the true principle of liberty, should be enjoyed by all peoples; that in knowing the truth they, too, might be made free; that the principles enunciated by our fathers, inspired of God and written in the Constitution of our land, shall go forth to govern the peoples of the earth, and thus shall "the law go forth from Zion," as we are told of old. Thus men shall be free to worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience; men shall be free to follow in the pursuit of happiness, so long as they shall not intrude upon the rights and privileges of others; and men shall be equal before the law; that priestcraft and kingcraft shall cease. 

For the purpose we have given to the world our best gift, our loved sons, and herein comes the testimony to me that we are in the service of our God, that we are following in his footsteps, and that we by  gift show our love for our fellow men. God, in order that the father of the faithful might appreciate his sacrifice and the love that he was showing to man, commanded him, Abraham, to take his son of promise and offer him a sacrifice, after the order of sacrifice instituted when Adam was cast out of the garden of Eden, and this brought home to Father Abraham, as nothing else perhaps would, the wonderful sacrifice that God would make when his beloved Son should be offered up, when he should be lifted up in order that men might be drawn to him. Happily in this instance there was a ram caught in the thicket, and an angel's hand stayed the arm that was about to strike, and the boy was delivered. 

I would that I could feel that that is a type and a promise to us; that there shall be a ram caught in the thicket, that our Doys may be delivered, but I feel that many of them will be called upon not only to pass through Gethsemane but to make the last sacrifice in order that men shall be drawn to us. For when they do truly know that it is not for selfish aggrandizement, not for territorial expansion, not for selfishness that we wage the war, men will be drawn to us, and in the baptism of fire and blood that shall come to ourselves and them the world shall be born anew; freedom shall be established once for all, and the neck of the tyrant shall be had under the heels of free men, and the world shall be made free and Christ shall come and reign as King of kings and Lord of 1 ords. Then there shall be none to hurt nor make afraid in all his holy mountain; and the "knowledge of God shall cover the earth from the rivers to the sea," and men shall know him, and in knowing him shall love him and keep his commandments. This reconciles me to my offering of my son. This will reconcile you fathers and mothers to the offering of your sons; that through them we show our love for mankind, our love for the principles of truth, and that we would reclaim them from their madness and establish peace upon the earth, that the Son of man himself may come to rule and reign, which God grant shall be speedily, I ask in the name of Christ Jesus. Amen. 

A tenor solo, "O my Father, thou that dwellest," was sung by David Reese. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

It is practically inevitable, and just as morally certain to all those who believe the scripture and have followed the swiftly passing and tremendously vital events of recent months and years which are absorbing the attention of the whole world, that after the titanic struggle between the powers of Satan and God's power there will be a realignment of the religions of the world. 

Men and women everywhere have begun to examine their lives, to question themselves and others regarding the vital things pertaining to life. They have become concerned more of deity than ever before. They have come to realize and to ask themselves the question, what of God our Father and Christ our Savior and the hope beyond the grave? It is interesting, in connection with the situation as we see it,  churches are considering amalgamation with other churches, when different branches of some churches are trying to get together and join forces on some common ground, and when men's hearts are torn asunder, to ask ourselves, where do we stand in connection with these things ? Is there need for Latter-day Saints to alter their course? Is there need to change their fundamental teachings? Is there need to join with others in seeking to know the truth pertaining to the history of man, both in life and hereafter? We have no reason to change our idea as to Deity, because that idea has been well founded and established in the hearts of Latter-day Saints as they have become such, following the time when the Prophet Joseph said that God and his son had appeared to him, for we know in our hearts through our faith and works that God lives. The personal testimony has come to his faithful children since the organization of his Church in latter times, that he does indeed live and that his Son is our Redeemer. The minds and hearts of men are being turned to God, not only because of the serious condition in the world, but because men who have heretofore written novels and light literature have come to write pertaining to the more vital things of life. 

The most persistent criticism came at the beginning of the war, or in the first year of the war, when members of the church of England began to question whether or not the church was living up to its requirements. Criticism was found on every hand for the church for a time, and then celebrated writers began to elucidate- things  perhaps were new to these people. 

H. G. Wells, the widely read novelist, wrote an unusually interesting book entitled "God the Invisible King." Sir A. Conan Doyle also wrote very pertinently as to religion, — all tending I believe to prepare men's minds to look differently than heretofore on the questions relating to Deity and the hereafter. Great religious newspapers began to take up the fight, some in defense of the church but many of them intimating and admitting that the churches as a whole, the so called Christian churches utterly failed in this crisis of the world's history. "The Biblical World," of Chicago, not long" ago, in defending the attitude of the ministry declaring that Biblical students had taken their place in the ranks and had not availed- themselves of the right to remain out of the war, said that if there was one supreme thing that the church should heed it was the spiritual side of life, and the particular sentence I refer to, and the closing - sentence of this artcle, read : "After the war we shall need religion." We need religion during the war; we need it now, when our sons are giving up their lives, or are prepared to do it, and when our daughters are going to the front and the very faith of many is being" sorely tested, we need religion perhaps in a measure among- our own people but more especially among doubting men and women everywhere, that they may acknowledge that Jesus is the Christ. I verily believe that this truth is coming to the hearts of men more today than ever in the history of the world before. In the midst of it all it seems to me that every  movement, everything that has been done looking to the betterment of nations, of communities or of individuals, has all been a vindication of the teachings of "Marmonism." 

I said a few moments ago that we believe in a living God, in his Son Jesus Christ, as a verity. The world will come to know and acknowledge that more than ever before. You will remember that in the first few months of this awful struggle of nations the minds of great men were turned to the physical. They wondered whether or not men would be fit to fight under the then present conditions, — they began to look for some means of betterment, and so they abolished first in Russia the use of vodka, then in France they followed with a restriction upon the use of absinthe, and soon England took the cue and the restraining hand was put upon the use of beers. Later on, when they saw the almost unheard of benefit that came to the soldiers, they began to look for another underlying cause of weakness. They found that there were physical ailments affecting whole cantonments, and it was admitted in the first year of the war that more men had been put out of commission because of d : sease than from any other cause, and investigation on a huge and scientific scale was begun in order to better the moral atmosphere, and they have succeeded until the beneficent effects have been astounding. Today men are better fit than in any year of the war, because they have been restrained, and because protection has been thrown around them, and because they are getting different ideals of human experiences. The Word of Wisdom, if they only knew it, has been the watchword in many ways. It is true they have used tobacco, and will probably continue to do it. When men use it, if they do so of their own free will and pay for it themselves, it is their own business; but there ought to be objection to sending- tobacco to men, to give it to them and entice those who perhaps otherwise would not use it to become users of it. In the midst of it all, my brethern and sisters, there is one supreme thing that stands out, and that is that all of us who have anything to do with this struggle, either at home or abroad, should make individual .sacrifice, should be willing to sacrifice from day to day in our appetite, our social necessities and in what we wear, that we should be constantly willing to make a personal appearance before the world that we are right living, and that our example here and everywhere should be made to conform to those who believe firmly that God lives, and determine in our hearts to uphold and sustain and maintain such belief. If we do that we have not much to fear. The Lord will bless our sons and our daughters. He may not preserve them all in life, but he will bless them, so that the example they set before the world will teach men and women that we know how to live, as well as how to die, and our faith and knowledge of the life beyond the grave is beyond nearly all else, and we can hold that hope out to every one and we can ,say to them that here is the supreme moment in our lives, when we can teach men to believe that we live after death and receive reward according to individual acts. If we follow the ad of those who are our leaders, heed their instruction from time to time, listen to the inspiring words that come to us from the .servants of God, we will be in the line of duty. If we are willing to sacrifice, if we are willing to live the Word of Wisdom, if we are willing to teach it by precept and example, and if we keep our lives unspotted, and if we send our boys away free from the sins of the world and do our utmost to encourage them in the line of their duty, we will have done a splendid work. 

May God bless Israel in its noble attempt to help the world in its struggle for democracy and for freedom. May we all have the assistance of God, that when the supreme time comes in our lives we will be ready to make every sacrifice that is demanded or required; aye, that we may go farther than that, and offer that sacrifice, whatever it may be or where best we may serve, and may he bless and preserve his leaders in Israel, bless our beloved America and all who need our petition, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Before the adjournment of this meeting I would like to present to the Conference one or two items which I desire to get an expression upon from them prior to the presentation of the officers of the Church, this afternoon. 

JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR., SUSTAINED AS MEMBER CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION. 

I need not announce here that a vacancy was caused in the General 

Board of Education of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by the death of President Francis M. Lyman. Joseph F. Smith, Jr., has been suggested to fill the vacancy in that Board, caused by the death of President Lyman. I would like an expression of the Saints present at this conference as to whether they approve of the choice or not. All who are in favor will please signify it by the uplifted hand. If there are any opposed they may signify it by the same sign. I see no opposition. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN CHOSEN TO FILL THE VACANCY IN THE COUNCIL OF TWELVE. 

It has been brought again to our remembrance that there is a vacancy in the Council of the Twelve Apostles, which should be filled at this conference. We have to offer to you the name of Richard R. Lyman, a son of President Francis M. Lyman, to fill the vacancy in the' Council of the Twelve. All who are in favor of this choice as indicated by the Spirit of the Lord to his servants, will manifest it by raising their right hand. If there be any opposed they may manifest it by the same sign. [The vote was unanimous.] 

THE TITHING USED FOR ALL LEGITIMATE CAUSES PERTAINING TO THE BUILDING UP OF ZION. 

We feel, as the Trustee-in-Trust and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and as the Presiding Council over all the Church — the First Presidency, in connection with the Council of the Twelve Apostles and the Pre Bishopric, at liberty to use the tithings of the Latter-day Saints in all legitimate causes pertaining to the building up of Zion. You are aware that our special duty and obligation is to build up Zion in the latter days. This includes the building and maintenance of temples, in which the ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ are performed and administered for the living and for the dead. It is our duty to assist the poor and the needy. It is our duty to build places of worship for the Latter-clay Saints, using such portion of the tithings of the people that come into our hands as we can use agreeable to the amount we have to use for the accomplishment of these purposes. We may use the tithing of the people for the building up of settlements — to assist our people when they attempt to make new settlements, to reclaim the desert and to procure water for irrigation purposes, and in this matter the Church has been somewhat liberal. 

It is our duty also to maintain schools and seminaries throughout the length and breadth of Zion, where our children who are in the district schools where no religion is permitted to be taught, may have the privilege of being instructed in connection with the secular learning that is given to them, those principles which are necessary for their faith and for their establishment in the knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is our duty to use the means that are committed into our hands for the assistance of the missions that are appointed and established throughout the nations of the world, and in many other ways legitimately for the building up of Zion and for the spread of the truth, the proclamation of the gospel, the maintenance of the authorities of the priesthood, whose time and talent are devoted exclusively to the ministry, that they may be fed, not luxuriantly, not superabundantly but in sufficient measure that they may not suffer for the necessaries of life. Part of our means is distributed to assist the bishops in the arduous duties that they have to perform, for services that are necessary in keeping' the records of the Church, of the tithing and of other records necessary to be kept. All these things we esteem as legitimate and proper within the sphere of our authority and we do not, under such circumstances, publicly ask for approval of the Church at large for sanction in the discharge of our duties in this regard. 

SPECIAL APPROPRIATION FOR THE PURCHASE OF LIBERTY BONDS. 

But when we go apparently outside of these well known and beaten paths to use the means of the people of the Church, we feel that it is our duty to present the cause to them and obtain their sanction and approval for the use of the means that we may think wise to put it to. 

You are well aware that at our late conference, by the voice of the conference and their approval we used $250,000 of the Church tithings for the purchase of Liberty bonds, thus placing that amount of means in the hands of our Government for the defense of liberty and of freedom that we enjoy to worship God according to the dictates of our own consciences. 

Now, I have a similar proposal to make to this conference this morning, that we offer again, or at least  the same amount for the purchase of more of the bonds of the United States. I submit it to you and I ask that those who are in favor may signify it by the unlifted hand, and if there i.s anybody opposed to this, who has a right to have a voice in the use of the means that he contributes to the Church, let him manifest it by the same sign. [Out of the 10,000 persons present there was not a single neg'ative vote.] I believe that the vote is unanimous. 

AN AUTHORITATIVE DECLARATION. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is no partisan Church. It is not a sect. It is The Church of Jcstts Christ of Latterday Saints. It is the only one today existing in the world that can and does legitimately bear the name of Jesus Christ and his divine authority. I make this declaration in all simplicity and honesty before you and before all the world, bitter as the truth may seem to those who are opposed and who have no reason for that opposition. It is nevertheless true and will remain true until He who has a right to rule among the nations of the earth and among the individual children of God throughout the world shall come and take the reins of government and receive the bride that shall be prepared for the coming of the Bridegroom. 

Many of our great writers have recently been querying and wondering where the divine authority exists today to command in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, so that it will be in effect and acceptable at the throne of the Eternal Father. I  announce here and now, presumptuous as it may seem to be to those who know not the truth, that the divine authority of Almighty God, to speak in the name of the Father and of the Son, is here in the midst of these everlasting" hills, in the midst of this intermountain region, and it will abide and will continue, for God is its source and God is the power by which it has been maintained against all opposition in the world up to the present, and by which it will continue to progress and grow and increase on the earth until it shall cover the earth from sea to sea. This is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and I have a fulness of joy and of satisfaction in being able to declare this without regard to or fear of all the adversaries of the truth. 

The choir and congregation sang : "O ye mountains high." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Heber Q. Hale, President of the Boise, Idaho, stake of Zion, and conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


