Morning 
07 04 1918

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Why the Gospel is preached — A gathering dispensation — The world's opposition — God will not be thwarted — The parable of the Feast — A compelling situation — Testimonies, then judgments — The Great War — America and her Allies preparing the way for the spread of truth and freedom. 

"Is true freedom but to break Fetters for our own dear sake, And, with leathern hearts, forget That we owe mankind a debt? 

No! true freedom is to share All the chains our brothers wear, Arid, With heart and hand, to be Earnest to -make others tree! 

"They are slaves who fear to speak For the fallen. and the weak; They are slaves who will not choose Hatred, scoffing and abuse, Rather than in silence shrink From the truth they needs must think; They are slaves who dare not be Tn the right with two or three." 

"Then to side with Truth is noble 

when we share her wretched crust, Ere her cause bring fame and profit, 

and 'tis prosperous to be just; Then it is the brave man chooses, 

while the coward stands aside, Doubting in his abject spirit, till his 

Lord is crucified, And the multitude make virtue of the 

faith they had denied." 

I have quoted these lines of the poet in order to create an atmosphere for some reflections that have been running through my mind since the beginning of this conference; and perhaps I can best approach my subject proper by relating two little incidents of my personal experience. 

Not long ago I stood beside the bier of an aged woman, a Latterday Saint, speaking at her funeral. One of the brethren then present had read to the congregation a sketch of this good woman's life. She was as old as the Church itself, lacking two months, and was born, if I remember aright, in far away Gloucestershire, England. At nineteen she heard the gospel preached by an elder of the Church, and her 

.sympathy was at once enlisted. She believed the message that he brought and straightway offered herself for baptism. Her family were much opposed to this step, and it was over the protest of her father and mother, brothers and sisters that she espoused the unpopular cause, the religion of a people hated the world over. So intense was the prejudice that she had to leave home and support herself by the labor of her hands; but she had the courage of her convictions and her faith did not fail. Ten years later she emigrated to America and came on to the Rocky Mountains, but not before her heroic example had had its effect upon those around her.* Her parents, brothers and sisters had all followed her into the Church. She had become the- savior of her father's house; this little slip of a girl aged only nineteen. 

I contrast this with another incident, one that happened many years ago when I was a young missionary in the State of Ohio. In the city of Cleveland I formed the acquaintance of a very estimable lady, the widow of a Union officer who had fallen in battle. She loved her dead husband devotedly; she revered his memory, and was much taken up with the doctrines that I presented to her, particularly those pertaining to salvation for the dead and to eternal marriage, both in person and by proxy, marriage for all eternity. She said, "Do you mean to tell me that if I become a Latter-day Saint I can be sealed to my departed husband and be his wife hereafter?" I replied, "I do mean that very thing, for it is the truth." She exclaimed almost in rapture, "I never heard anything so beautiful; and if you will convince  that it is indeed true, I will be baptized if it be in a lake of living fire." I answered, "I cannot convince you, 1) am only a bearer of God's message. But he can convince you as he has convinced me, and I will make you this promise: If you will humble yourself and ask the Lord, he will grant you a testimony that that is a true principle." She said, "I will ask him." 

Not long afterward she wrote informing me that God had answered her prayer, and that she was ready to be baptized. I was overjoyed. There is no joy that can compare with that of a missionary who has been made the instrument for the salvation of a soul. I wrote at once that I would make up a little party and meet her at a certain point on the shore of Lake Erie, there to baptize her; and I was about to start for the place appointed when I received another note from her, reading something like this : "I did not dream that I was such a poor, weak, frail creature as I am. I believe what you have told me, I feel that it is true, and I thought myself strong enough to take this step; but I am not. I haven't the stamina, the strength to endure what would follow. Why, if I should become a 'Mormon' I would be hated by the people who now love me, my friends would turn away from me, my name would be cast out as evil; I would lose my social standing. I cannot do it. I  hope the day will come when I shall have the necessary strength, but I don't possess it today. 

These are some of the experiences that attend the preaching of the gospel in this dispensation — a dispensation destined to gather into its capacious bosom all the dispensat ions of the past, and which represents the winding up scene of God's great work pertaining to the salvation of man upon this planet. The dominant thought in the mind of the Prophet Joseph Smith during his last days on earth was expressed by him in the following forceful language : 

"It is necessary, in the ushering in of the .dispensation of the fulness of times, that a whole and complete and perfect union and welding together of dispensations and keys and powers and glories should take place and be revealed from the days of Adam even to the present time; and not only this, but those things which never have been revealed from the foundation of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise and prudent, shall be revealed unto babes and sucklings in this the dispensation of the fulness of time." Paul the apostle also referred to this great and final period as one in which God would gather together all things in Christ, both in heaven and upon earth. 

Involved in this mighty scheme of bringing together all things that are Christ's, is the gathering of the scattered house of Israel, the children of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the chosen people, through whom God has worked from the beginning for the salvation and betterment of mankind; and Joseph Smith, a descendant of that Joseph who was sold into Egypt, was the divinely appointed instrument for lifting up the ensign for the gathering of Israel in the last days. 

And what is the object in view? Why all this stupendous labor and sacrifice? Why must the house of Tsrael be assembled? Why must the gospel dispensations — 'links of a  chain extending from the creation down to the end of time — be bound together in one ? It is because God is coming down upon the earth, and the way must be prepared before him. Jesus Christ is coming to reign as King of kings, to inaugurate the millennial era of universal freedom, righteousness and peace; and in order that his coming, which is designed as a blessing, may not prove a curse, a calamity, through the unpreparedness of his people and the world at large, he has set his hand in these days to perform the marvelous work and wonder that the Prophet Isaiah foretold. Israel must be gathered because this God who is coming is the God of Israel, and no other people have the right to receive him. He will come to his own as he came anciently, but his own  will not reject him as they did be'fore. Neither will he come again as a lamb led to the slaughter; he will come as the Lion of the tribe of Judah, to sit upon the throne of David and reign for a thousand years, sanctifying the earth and preparing it for future glory, when it will become a heaven, a celestial abode for the righteous. God raised up Joseph Smith and revealed to him anew the everlasting gospel, and conferred upon him the powers of the eternal Priesthood, that he might lift up the ensign as a rallying center for the tribes of Israel, that a people might be ready to receive the Lord when he comes. And for upwards of eighty years this has been the message proclaimed by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

One would suppose, looking at things naturally, that the world would welcome such a message :  they would rejoice at beingtold these glad tidings. Think of it! That same Jesus who ascended into heaven two thousand years ago, is coming again to bless the earth with his divine presence! The world ought to be glad of it, and love to be told of it. But it is not so. They do not believe it. They think we are deluded, and that we are trying to deceive them. They regard these things as the vaporings of minds frenzied by fanaticism. But we have a testimony by the Holy Spirit that they are true. 

"He that scattered Israel will gather him and keep him as a shepherd .doth his flock." This is the message of "Mormonism." But when our elders go forth to proclaim it they meet with all sorts of experiences, all kinds of opposition. The laws of men are in conflict with the laws of God; their traditions and superstitions are opposed to divine revelation. Indifference, prejudice, selfishness, jealousy, passion, pride, wealth, politics, religion, all are in the way of the spread of truth and the accomplishment of God's sublime purpose. A few receive the gospel gladly; some believe it, but are afraid to obey it, because of the sacrifices entailed; while the great mass ignore the saving message, or array themselves against it, sit in judgment upon it, imprison or banish or put to death the messengers, and stand in the way of the progress of God's work, which has as its one object the happiness and salvation of the race. 

What is the Lord going to do about it? Will he allow himself to be thwarted? No. He has set his hand to do a certain work, and that work will be done, though all man's  go to pieces in the process. The Savior, in one of his parables, (Luke 14:15-24) indicates the means that will be used to induce men to receive the gospel and "eat bread" in the kingdom of heaven. "A certain man made a great supper and bade many, and sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come for all things are now ready." I shall modernize the language a little, but this is the substance : One of those invited said, "I cannot come, for I have bought a piece of ground and must needs go and see it;" another excused himself by saying, "I have bought five yoke of oxen and must prove them;" and a third entered this plea, "I have married a wife and therefore I cannot come." The Master of the house was angry at these excuses, and said to his servant, "Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city and bring in hither the poor, the maimed, the halt and the blind." This was done, and the poor gladly flocked to the feast : they had no social standing, no wealth, no politics, no material or other interests to hold them back, to keep them from accepting the invitation. They came, but still there was room. The Lord then . uttered a very strange command. Said he to his servant, "Go now into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled." 

I know what your thoughts are. You are wondering, Is it possible that God will compel men to be saved ? No. Compulsion is the doctrine of Lucifer; it is the doctrine of the German Kaiser, who stands upon the devil's ground, compelling men to do his bidding. The doctrine of Jesus Christ is freedom, free agency, the right of choice. He is the God of freedom, his gospel is "the perfect law of liberty;" he is the God of this land, the land of liberty, and the only King who will ever rule over it. You need not fear that any German kaiser will ever set up his throne upon this land. Read the Book of Mormon and be convinced. 

But you are wondering what the Lord of the Feast meant when he sent his servant to "compel them to come in." I believe this to be the solution : God will never coerce- the human mind — never fetter the human will. He will force no man into heaven; no man into hell. But he has never said that he would not create compelling situations, and so .shape human affairs as to induce men and women to do things of their own volition that they would not do if circumstances remained unchanged. 

Let me illustrate with another incident of my experience. When I was a little boy I used to study my spelling lesson out of an old blue book, "Webster's Spelling Book." Some of you gray-haired men may have done the same. None of the sisters, of course, will think back that far (Laughter). In that old book were several rude. wood cuts, one. of them representing a farmer holding an altercation with a bad boy up in an apple tree. The boy was doing wrong — taking the farmer's fruit without permission. In a gentle persuasive voice the owner of the tree asked the thieving urchin to come down, but he only laughed; he was satisfied with things as they were; he wanted to stay there and enjoy himself, and he politely declined the invitation to descend. The farmer then grew  serious. Putting on a stern manner, he took up some grass or turf and threw it at the boy, sharply demanding that he come down. But a little grass did not hurt him; he only laughed and jeered the more. Then the farmer became terribly in earnest. Picking up some rocks he gave that boy a good pelting, and clown he scrambled in a hurry — of his own accord (Laughter). His mind, you see, had remained unfettered; he had his free agency; he could have .stayed up there indefinitely had he wanted . to; but for some reason he did not want to (Laughter). His mind had changed, and he came down of his own sweet will. That is my idea of a compelling situation. 

God is not going to be thwarted. The Creator will not be baffled by the creature. Having set his hand for the gathering of his elect, he will break down every barrier to the spread of truth and the deliverance of the house of Israel. He has sprinkled many nations with the blood of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the blood that believes, and has sent into those nations spirits answering to that blood. As a result, when the gospel goes forth and the children of Israel are commanded to gather, faith is found among all peoples and the progress of God's work is thereby facilitated. Like the rain-showers from heaven over the parched and thirsty soil, this choice blood, having accomplished its object, having made the world — the unbelieving, spiritually barren world — 'fruitful 'of good things, is summoned back to the ocean of its origin. This is the significance, the symbolism of the scattering and gathering of Israel. 

After testimony will come judg — stern measures, if the mild ones prove ineffectual. In December, 1832, Joseph Smith prophesied that war would be "poured out upon all nations," and that famine and other plagues would follow. During the same month God commanded the elders of the Church to go forth and sound the gospel warning. Every man warned was to warn his neighbor, and this was the substance of the divine declaration : "After your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes that shall cause groanings in the midst of her;" the voice of tempests, the voice of thunderings and of lightnings, the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. The sun .shall be darkened, the moon shall be turned to blood, the stars fall from Heaven like figs from off a fig tree. Earth shall reel to and fro like a drunken man; all things shall be in commotion; men's hearts shall fail them for fear, and they shall fall upon the ground and not be able to stand. 

There's the program — the prophetic program marked out for the consideration of those who stand in the way of Omnipotence, lifting up their puny arms to prevent God's people from carrying out his command to prepare the way before his glorious coming. 

Oh, how thankful I am that our nation, our beloved America, is standing where she ought always to stand, and doubtless always will — standing for freedom and the rights of man, imperiled by the selfish ambition of a bloodthirsty tyrant bent upon dominating the world; that she is standing for those principles of liberty and equalitv which are a part and portion of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

This gospel must make its way into every nook and corner of the world, and woe be to that nation that tries to prevent. I want my boy, who has enlisted in the cause of our country, to feel — not that he is a martyr — I want him to feel that he is a soldier of Jesus Christ, and that upon him devolves in part the duty of spreading a knowledge of these principles, the principles of truth and freedom. The fetters of tyranny were not stricken from America for the sake of Americans alone. God loves the whole world; he gave his Son to save it; he is using America and her allies as instruments for the spread of the Gospel of Liberty, and in their wake, after they have cleared the way, will follow the missionaries of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY. 

The reality of Christ — Testimony of Peter and Paul and of Joseph Smith — What a change, af all the world would accept the teachings of Christ and his actual divine personality as the Son of God — The Latter-day Saints do so — Testimony of some of our boys who have gone to establish liberty in the world — An example — Individuals and nations must accept the truth that Jesus Christ is in reality the Son of God and be guided by his principles of everlasting truth and justice— The war a preparation for the spreading of the true plan of salvation. 

I sincerely hope and pray that I may be able to express whatever the Lord desires me to say this morning. If ever there was a time in my life when I needed his guidance and his support it is at this moment. 

I feel it an honor to be associated with men and women who believe in the reality of Christ, our Redeemer. I should like to express what I mean by that, and so shall call attention to two incidents in scripture — one, the experience of two of the ancient apostles, and the other the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The apostles one day after the death and resurrection of their Lord were preaching in the temple, and the Sadducees and officers came and arrested them, and put them in prison. The next day Peter and John were brought before the high priest, before Annas and before Caiphas, some of the very men who had been the means of crucifying the Lord. "And when they had set them in their midst they asked," (referring to the miracle which Peter and John had performed the day before by healing the impotent man at the gate,) "By what power or by what name have ye done this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them : Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day he examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he was made whole, be it known unto all and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner." And then, "neither is there salvation in any ofher, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby ive must be saved!" 

To Peter and to John on that occasion Christ, the Redeemer, was a reality. They had associated with him in the flesh, they had sat in his company, they had seen his miracles, they had listened to his .divine , they had stood by, John at least, when the Master was nailed to the cross. They had associated with him for approximately forty days after his resurrection from the tomb. And now clothed with the power which the Lord had given them they faced the very men who had crucified their Redeemer and said : "By him whom thou didst crucify is this man made whole." To them, Jesus was not an imaginary being; his life was not an idealism nor a mere mental conception. Christ, I repeat, was a reality. He was indeed the very Son of God, the divine Redeemer of the world. 

Now listen to another testimony and this within the age of few of the men — I wish there were many — who are here assembled today : "When the light rested upon me I saw two personages whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air, one of them speaking unto me, called me by name and said, pointing to the other: 'This is my beloved Son, hear him!' " The Prophet Joseph's object in going to the Lord on that occasion was to inquire of him which of all the sects professing to be followers of the Redeemer was right. This then was his answer: "I was answered that I must join none of them for they were all wrong. And the personage who addressed me sai.d : that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight, that those professors were all corrupt, that they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They teach for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." 

To him who accepts Jesus of Nazareth as the very Son of God, to him who believes with all his soul that Jesus lives today, that he can influence and that he does influence the world, to him, I say, who accepts that truth, Christ's teachings as well as his personality, become a reality. You can not profess to be truly a Christian and refuse to live up to the principles that Christ taught and obeyed. 

Now, why do we honor him today? Why does the world profess to honor him? First because he is the Son of God; and second because he was an ideal man. They accept him as one who was sinless before God, an exemplar to all the world. Then those who follow him should possess, at least strive every day of their lives to possess, those same characteristics, and approach, at least as near as weakness of mortality will permit, some of those qualities manifest by their Lord. Regarding the universality of the acceptance of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer, I read recently, in an excellent work in many respects, this statement: "The printing presses on both sides of the sea are flooding the world with books about the life and times of Jesus, and the result is he looms colossal before the eye's of the world. It is not simply the church that sees him. All men can see him now. He has broken out of ecclesiastical circles; he walks through all the cities and lands." 

O, if only that were true! If only that were true! What a different world we should have today from what it is! Do you think that if men everywhere ,saw Christ as the Prophet Joseph saw him — 'I do not mean physically now as he alone saw him, but if they will accept him as the Prophet Joseph has revealed him, having seen him, if they  accept him as John saw. him and accepted him when he hurled into the face of Annas and Caiphas, the truth that "By his power whom thou didst crucify is this man made whole" — do you think that you would find in Christian communities the brothel ? Do you think that you would find other allurements that entrap the feet of the young and lead them from Christ? I ask you if the Christian who professed to be a Christian in reality believed in the doctrines and the teaching of the Redeemer as he gave them, should we have today the carnage, the bloodshed, the infamy that is now depopulating the Christian nations? I do not, I do not. 

I will tell you what I am inclined to think: That many who profess Christianity are accepting Christ as an ethereal being, and are inclined to look upon his teachings as impractical. They do not fully realize that before the zvorld can be saved they must accept his teachings, they must walk in his paths as individuals and as nations, they must accept as a veritable truth his saying: "I am the light of the world." 

As individuals we should emulate him, then, because of his divine character. The professing Christians do not honor him, even with the honor they give him, because he was a great poet, because he was a great scientist, because he was a great discoverer, a great inventor or great statesmen or a great general. They honor him because he was a great man. In the realm of character he was supreme. In addition to all that. Latter-day Saints revere him because he was in reality the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. In thus accepting him we, as inviduals, must emulate his divine character, approach it as nearly as we can by keeping ourselves celan and unspotted from the sins of the world. 

I said I rejoice in associating with men and women who thus accept him; and it matters not where they go, they feel that they have a realization and a testimony of that truth which they would like all the world to accept and know. 

I rejoice in the knowledge that many of our boys who have gone out to establish liberty in the land possess that same testimony, and I am glad to get a glimpse, once in a while, of their efforts to bear that testimony to their soldier companions. I love these boys. I love the cause for which they are going to fisrht. I love the Nation they are called upon to defend and the principles of everlasting truth, so far as the liberty and freedom of mankind is concerned, for which it stands; and when I see these boys impressed with the testirhony that Tesus Christ is their Savior and that he has appeared in this dispensation with the gospel which is the power of God unto, salvation, which is the science of life, the philosophy of true living, I thank God that they have a desire to influence their associates, and at least attempt to exert that influence to lead them to the same truth. Illustrative of this, and by way of commendation of a mother who has that same testimony, I wish to quote from a boy who met one of our boys in one of the cantonments. This boy from another state, Kentucky, I think, is writing to the "Mormon" bov's mother. The circumstances calling it forth may be inferred as I read. This young "Mormon" soldier is from Idaho. I chanced  meet him in Camp Morrison, Virginia, a few weeks ago, but he knows nothing about my having this letter : 

"I can not tell you how glad I was when I met Burgess for it seemed to me that I was alone as far as friends were concerned, for there was not any in this squadron that I could trust as a friend until he came. The first time I saw him I knew he was living for something higher, and as we were of the same type, of course, we became fast friends. I certainly felt bad when the time came for him to leave the field. He did so much for me that it was hard to part. I have been striving for a long time to make myself right with God, as I had fallen from grace and I felt that he could help m,e and he truly did. Of course it was hard for me to see just exactly as he did, but we just forgot for the time that we were of different faiths, and studied together and talked of and dug into spiritual things which I was so much in need of. He certainly showed his colors. And / wish that I was the young man that he is. I have been reading and studying the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants which he gave me, and I see things different than I ever did before, and I only wish that he was here with me for he would be such a help to me. I don't know how I can ever return what he has done for me, and also your kind words and advice which means more to me than I can tell. I need help so badly, as it seems to me that something is in the way, for T do not feel spiritually as I should. I would be so happy if I could be as full of the spirit as Burgess is and as I once was. I try to get hold of all the good reading that I can and try to get just as far from bad company as I can get. I heartily thank you for the little book Key to Theology. You are doing so much for me that I almost feel ashamed that I can not return it some way, but I hope that some day I can in some way." 

There is a mother in Idaho, her boy in Camp Morrison, or in France, the other boy in Kelly 

Field, and distances separating them, but that mother has the testimony that Jesus Christ is her Savior, she evidently knows that God has spoken in this age, and she desires to lead others to know the same truth. So she is teaching the soldier boys by letter, trying to cultivate the good seed sown by her young boy, who, though scarcely out of his teens, ''showed his colors" by testifying to his companions that Jesus Christ is in reality the Son of God,  the Savior of the world. 

I will tell you, brethren, the time has come when not only individuals but nations must accept this truth. They must be guided in their national and international dealings by the principles of everlasting truth and justice. The nation that started the terrible war now raging, started it because it ignored the principles of Christ. The Savior's life was guided principally by two things; viz.. Individual Purity and Service. He kept himself wholly unspotted from the sins of the world, and devoted his life to the consideration of others, to salvation for the human family. He was always looking out for the oppressed, comforting the sick, healing the maimed and disabled, giving his life for the world. So when a so-called Christian nation, or at least when a coterie of men, will meet together and decide months before the war breaks out, that a neighboring nation must be crushed in order that territory may be gained, I want to tell you that group of men, though professing, with their lips, at least, in Christ, do not believe in the principles he taught. 

I thank God that the United States upon entering the great conflict started out with the declaration, 

"we go to fight for the ultimate peace of the world and for the liberation of its peoples, including the German people. We are seeking no selfish purposes of our own, we desire no conquests, we seek no aggrandisement, we ask for no material compensation for the sacrifices we shall freely make; all we ask is that nations, great and small, shall enjoy the liberty and the freedom which God has given to the people of America."!n that respect, at least, we are emulating the teachings of the Savior; and I see in it a preparation, as has been said time and again at this conference, for the spreading of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the true plan of salvation, the perfect law of liberty. 

May I say in conclusion, brethren, to you who hold the priesthood after the order of the Son of God, that a mighty responsibility is resting upon you; a great responsibility is resting upon the elders of Christ's Church, wherever they may be, to bear this testimony to the world that all who are honest in heart, and there are millions and millions of them. I think, who should have the privilege of hearing this gospel, may be brought to a knowledge of the truth. 

God hasten the day when "every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ." Amen. 

"He intercedes for me," a .sacred duet, was sung by Mabel H. Clark, and Evan Arthur. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Questions on persistence of life that have arisen through the Great War — Literature that seeks to answer the question: What happens after death? — No two writers agree — Testimony of the Holy Scriptures, the Bible and Book of Mormon — The testimony of Joseph Smith the Prophet to whom appeared in this dispensation men who lived in former times — With these before us, why doubt the immortality of man? — Without other evidence the life of Jesus is sufficient to answer the question forever — All who die shall live after death, through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live. 

For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he gi\cn to the Son to have life in himself; and hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man. 

Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good, to the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, to the resurrection of damnation (Jonn 5:25-29). 

Had I, or any other speaker, declared from this pulpit, four years ago, that the question pending- between the Austro-Hung"arian Empire, and the Kingdom of Servia, resulting from the assassination of the crown prince of the former country, and his wife, while they were visiting in the Balkan States, would plunge the world into the most stupendous war of history, a war which would affect, either directly or indirectly, every human being in the civilized world; that millions of soldiers would be trained for war, and battles terrible beyond the dreams of men fought; that nations would devote themselves to war until it would be easier to fight on than return to a condition of peace; that our own country would become involved in it, and would equip and send to Europe vast ar of men, and expend treasure almost beyond the comprehension of the human mind; that- the bed of the ocean would be carpeted with sunken ships, and death hurled upon defenseless women and children from the air; that before the end came whole nations would be blotted out, ancient autocracies go crashing down, and the guarantees of international law be utterly ignored, he would have been regarded as either a harmless dreamer or a dangerous dunatic; yet we who have . lived through the past four eventful years have witnessed the development of these conditions. 

Millions of men have been slain, other millions have been wounded and maimed for life. In some instances families with long and honorable history behind them have lost their last representative on the field of battle, and to all human appearances the worst is yet to come. 

This tremendous sacrifice of human life, the thousands whose remains lie upon the ocean bed, and the countless numbers whose burial places will never be known to the parents, brothers, sisters and kinsmen who sent them forth to battle, has awakened in the minds of thinking people a widespread desire to know something of the condition of man after death. What happens after death? What of ourselves after death? Shall we ever meet these dear ones again? If there is a future life, what of our personality, does that persist, or are we to be so changed that we will have no greater knowledge or recollection of conditions as they exist in this mortal life than we now have of the past? 

These are some of the pertinent questions which are being asked,  in which we are all vitally interested, for whether in peace or war, we are constantly being 1 separated from those we love by this condition which we call death. 

Many books have been written and published, since the war began, in which the endeavor is made to answer this all important question, "What happens after death?" I have read a number of these books, in which the opinions of some of the world's greatest scholars and thinkers are expressed; and as I read, the one striking thought which came to me was the great diversity of opinion which exists among these learned men. No two agree. There is a certain uniformity of opinion among Christian ministers, it is true, they all accept the doctrine of future life, but are hopelessly divided regarding the personality of the individual, and his relationship, in the life to come, with that which is in any way connected with this life. The doctrine of the resurrection, if admitted at all, is held to be a kind of new sp : .ritual birth, while the reunion of the spirit and body of man, to become a diving material soul, is not admitted by a single writer. 

Among those who are most pronounced in their unbelief, Max Nardau, the great French scholar and author, is perhaps the most outspoken. Death, he declares, means the final extinction of consciousness, and the eternal dissolution of what was a personality. The immortality of the personality, he says, is neither conceivable nor desirable, nothingness is more consoling. 

Sir Hyrum Maxim asserts that there is not one little particle of evidence to prove that we live after death, as preachers would have us . He argues that the only future life we may expect is as we live in our children, and that he who has failed to leave posterity is forever dead, 

John Blundelle-Burton would like to believe, but is in .doubt, because, he says, no one comes back to tell; while Madam Besant assures us in the most positive terms that there is a life after death, but destroys our hope by telling us that we may be re-incarnated in the form of a plant, an animal, or some other human being, until we finally reach a condition that we pass into Nirvana, whatever that may be. 

Undoubtedly the fondest hope of every person .who has been separated from those he loves by death, is that at some future time, when he too is called, as he knows he must be, he will meet them and renew the associations which bound him to them in this life. If there are men like Max Nardau, who really feel that a future existence is nether conceivable nor desirable, it is their privilege, I presume, to remain in the : r faithless condition. I shall enter into no argument with them at this time, they deny the divine authenticity of the scriptures, and consequently no basis for discussion, from the point of view of a Christian, exists. But to John Blundelle-Burton, who would like to believe, but is in douot because no one comes back to tell, or Madam Besant, who asserts her belief in a future life, but would have us accept her theory of re-incarnation, and most of all to those devout Chrisf'ans who earnestly believe in, and hope for, reunion with those they love after death, there is evidence sufficient to satisfy the most exacting mind, evidence which, when we come to understand it, leaves us without doubt, and the testimony of the Christian is founded upon far more convincing proof than the opinion of the unbeliever. The latter does not believe because he has not seen, but neither he, nor any witness he can produce can disprove the testimony of the Christian who has seen, he can only assert his unbelief, which proves nothing, though thousands do it. 

The testimony of one reputable witness, however, who avers that he knows because he has seen, is of great worth, and where many testify to the same thing, the fact becomes established, whether the multitude accept it or not. 

The holy scripture is not the product of a single mind. The contents of the Bible were not written by one hand, but by many. It does not deal with a single dispensation or period of time, but covers the world's history, and the handdealings of the Father with the inhabitants of the earth, from the creation to the present, for men not only wrote their own observations and experiences, but by the spirit of revelation, and gift of prophecy, foretold the future with .such accuracy that only one who is determined to not believe can be left in doubt. To some of the truths bequeathed to us by the scripture, and attested by men of God, I wish briefly to refer. 

One thing about the scriptures, which struck me with great force, when I began to study and understand them, is the fact that the word of the Lord never comes to us as an opinion, no attempt is made to support it by argument, it comes as a /definite, abstract statement of fact. "In the begining God created the heavens and the earth. So God  man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." So it is from the first words in the Bible to the last, the works of the Father are declared as facts, not theories. 

The words of the Redeemer, which I read before beginning my remarks, declare definitely that the hour is coming when all that are in the graves shall come forth, they that have done good to the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil to the resurrection of condemnation. In corroboration of this doctrine permit me to read from the words of Mormon, as he contemplated the slain of his people : "O, ye fair sons and daughters, ye fathers and mothers, ye husbands and wives, ye fair ones, how is it that ye could have fallen ? But behold ye are gone and my sorrows cannot bring your return, and the day soon oometh that your mortal must put on immortality, and these bodies which are now mouldering in corruption must soon become incorruptible bodies, and then ye must stand before the judgment seat of Christ to be judged according to your works. And if it so be that ye are righteous then are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone before you" (Mormon 6:19-21). 

This doctrine of the universal resurrection of the dead is taught by Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel and other of the prophets. That the dead will live again must be admitted by every believer in the Bible. 

Just as definite as is the doctrine of the resurrection, is the fact that all who participate in it must appear before the bar of God to be judged according to the deeds done in the body. 

Paul, writing to the Corinthian Saints, said : "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For .since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the .dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (1 Cor. 15:19-22). 

In that remarkable revelation, given by Christ to the x\postle John, on the Isle of Patmos, which he sent and signified by his angel, we read : "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them : and they were Judged every man according - to their works" (Revelation 20:12,13). 

The scripture which I have quoted makes clear two vital points of doctrine connected with this subject, that as in Adam all die so in Christ all are made alive through the resurrection, and that the personality of the individual persists after death, otherwise how could he be responsible for the deeds done in the body? 

The two outstanding attributes of God are justice and mercy. How can I in justice be held responsible for the transgressions of another or rewarded for his righteousness? No; I must answer for myself, just as you must answer for yourself; so my personality must persist, I must be the same man, my future life inseparably connected with this life. 

We are told that upon a certain occasion Jesus took Peter, and James, and John, and went into a mountain to pray and behold there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias (Matt. 17: 1-4). These men were seen of the apostles who bore record of their presence, which was so real that Peter suggested that three tabernacles be constructed, one for Jesus, and one each for Moses and Elias. Moses lived 1500 years before Christ, and Elias, if we are to identify him with the Elijah of the Bible, 1000 years before:, one instance from the many where some one came back to tell. 

The revelation given to John, on the Isle of Patmos, from which' I have quoted was delivered by a heavenly messenger, and when John would have bowed down to worship him he was forbidden, the messenger declaring that he was one of his fellow servants, one of the prophets who kept the commandments of the book (Revelation 22: 8-9). 

Of greater importance to us, because we are more directly affected by it. is the appearance of men. who long since lived and died, in the present dispensation. Let Joseph Smith tell the story in his own simple language. It should be remembered that at the time the first of these manifestations were given, Joseph Smith was a simple country boy, not yet fifteen years old. and incapable, even if he had so desired, to conceive of or execute a great fraud or deception. He simply desired to do his duty to God, and the great confusion among sectarian churches left him in doubt as to which denomination he should identify himself with. He went to the Lord for wisdom, with the following result : 

In accordance with this, my determination, to ask God, I retired to the woods to make the attempt. * * * * Having looked around me, and finding myself alone, 1 kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time that I was doomed to sudden destruction. But by exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink dnto despair and abandon myself to destruction — not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being — just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended until it gradually fell upon me. 

It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which had me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other: This is my beloved Son, hear him! 

Three years later, and after he had retired for the night, Joseph Smith says : 

While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was brighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did .not touch the floor. He had on a robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond any earthly I had ever seen, nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also a little above the wrists, so also were his feet naked, as were his legs a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. 

Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him I was afraid, but the fear soon left me. He called me by name and said unto me that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do, and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people. Six years after the a'oove incident the following is related by Joseph Smith : 

Two days after the arrival of Mr. Cowdery (being the 7th of April) I commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he began to write for me. We still continued the work of translation, when, in the ensuing month of May (1829), we on a certain day went into the woods to pray and inquire of the Lord respecting baptism for the remission of sins, that we found mentioned in the translation of the plates. While we were thus employed praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us, he ordained us saying: "Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Araon, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall jiever again be taken from  earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." The messenger who visited us on this occasion and conferred this priesthood upon us, said that his name was John, the same that is called John tlie Baptist, in the New Testament. 

Many other instances might be cited where men who lived long ago have returned to the earth and communicated the will of the Lord to his servants here. If this be true, and it is, why should we be in doubt regarding the immortality of man, or his resurrection as a material being, with a body of flesh and bone, as he now has, but a body cleansed and purified, no longer subject to the pain, suffering and final death with which mortality is burdened. 

If we had no other evidence the life of the Redeemer is sufficient to settle this question forever. Jesus was the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. He came for the very purpose of making clear to us this mystery of human life. Born as we are born, he lived, labored and loved much as we do, except that the power of God, love, charity, patience, .self sacrifice, those Godlike characteristics which were his birthright, were manifest in his life as they never have been, and never will be, in any other human being. Finally, when his work was finished, he died, very much as we would have died under similar circumstances. Up to this point the gerat mission which he came to perform was but little understood, but when on that Easter Sunday morning he arose from the tomb, with a- glorified body, the sting of death was made sweet, the victory of the grave was turned to defeat, for he made the resurrection of the whole human family not only possible, but  fact, whether they accepted him or not. 

His disciples doubted, and when he appeared to them they were terrified, supposing that they saw a spirit, for like some of us they could not understand that one who had lived and died, could live again, and Jesus said to them : "Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself : handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have" (Luke 24:39). It was the same Christ, with the same body, but glorified, who stood before them. Why should we be in doubt regarding the future status of the ,souls of men? I bear witness to you that just as Christ was raised from the dead, with a material body which his disciples saw and felt, just as he will appear to the Jews with the prints of the nails in his hands and feet, and the spear wound in his side, so is it the design of God that every one of us shall be raised from the dead with material, but not mortal bodies. 

The sea will give up the dead which are in it, the battle fields of France will give up the dead who are interred in them. Every mother who has lost a son, every kinsman who has lost a relative, will receive them back again through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and the associations, the covenants, the bonds of love which bound us together in this life will be renewed and continue with us throug"h the endless ages of eternity. 

I love the gospel because of this hope which has come to me. I live in anticipation of reunion with those I love after death. I want no heaven away from my own, but to be with my father and mother, my children and kindred, with you my brethren and sisters, with whom I have labored and borne the burdens of this mortal life, and I know that my desire will be realized if I am true to the covenants which I have made with the Lord and my fellow men. 

I wanted to bear this testimony, hoping that it may bring comfort to all who are separated from those they love by .death. It is only for a little season. The graves will be opened, and the dead will come forth to answer for the deeds done in the body. God help us to live righteous lives, that we may be worthy of eternal life, through faith in Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I am forcibly reminded of the saying of the Savior about the rich man, who concluded that he had so much in the world that he could well rest content, and take his ease. The Savior said: 

The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 

And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? 

And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my bsrns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. 

And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merr>. 

But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?  abominable works, there is none that doeth good. The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God. They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy : there is none that doeth good, no, not one." 

I trust we are beyond and above this dreadful condition, and that we ( 1 o know that our Redeemer lives, and that we have put on Christ, and have adopted his glorious plan of redemption and salvation and exaltation beyond the grave. 

The choir sang the anthem : "God is our refuge," and conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 

Prayer by Elder David H. Cannon, of St. George. 


