Afternoon
05 04 1918

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: "O say what is truth?" 

Prayer was offered by Elder Rey L. Pratt, of the Mexican Mission. 

The choir and congregation sang : '"Though deepening trials throng the way."  

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

It is with great joy and thanksgiving that I am able to meet this afternoon in this congregation with the Latter-day Saints in general conference. You who sit down in the body of the audience cannot look upon this vast congregation as we do who are on the stand. We have a magnificent sight before us. The beauty of the congregation is enhanced in my view by the absence of so much millinery as we used to have in our congregations many years ago. We not only behold the countenances of our brethren, even the bald heads, but also we can see the faces of our sisters, not disfigured by any frills or furbelows or artificial flowers or anv encumbrance, and the view is very fine. I rejoice in it. If it was only to look upon this congregation this afternoon that I was privileged to do, I should feel very thankful, but having the opportunity of saying a few words, bearing my testimony to the truth of the great work in which we are all engaged, I am doublv thankful; also for the measure of health and strength that I have, as during the winter that is about over, I hope, I have been somewhat affected by the errippe. I either had the grippe or the grippe had me; perhaps both. But T am able to be here  and to rejoice in the good things that have been given to us, the words spoken by our President. this morning and by President Lund and by Brother Callis who bore a powerful testimony at the close of the services. I enjoyed it all very much, and I rejoice in the Spirit that is present this afternoon, and hope that by its help I may be able to say something worthy of your hearing and remembrance. 

I have prepared no discourse for this conference; I am not in the habit of doing that. Still, I'have ideas passing through my mind, but I. generally find when I come to conference that the things I thought about are not those that come to my memory, so I have to trust in the inspiration of the time, which I do now, desiring in my soul that I may say that which is rght and which can be understood by those who listen, and will be of profit to somebody if not to everybody present. 

HOME PRODUCTION AND HOME SAVINGS 

This morning when the President was speaking in regard to the conservation of our foodstuffs and our production of the things that we need for home consumption, and the wisdom of sending out for export as much or more, if possible, than that which comes in, I reverted to the old instructions given years and years ago in this house, and sometimes before this house was erected, by President Brigham Young and his then immediate associates. That was one of their regular themes — home production and home savings. We have a good deal of talk now about the conservation of our products. Well, we have been in the habit, or were some years ago, of practicing this. It was one of the texts preached upon and one of the policies urged upon us, and, to a very great, extent, carried out as far as we could in the conditions in which we were then placed. But latterly there has been, no doubt, very much extravagance. What I mean by that is not getting a number of things we were not able to get, but having our desjres, our wishes, go beyond our necessities and indulging in luxuries, some of which are not beneficial, but to the contrary, to the human body. These things were pointed out to us this morning very clearly, and I hope those remarks will have their impression upon the Latter-day Saints. 

It is very poor policy for a people like us to be exporting little or nothing and importing a great deal, importing very often things that we could produce ourselves at home, if we would be prudent and wise and industrious and careful. Particularly I have noticed the waste of fruit, bushels and bushels rotting upon the ground, and then sending to California for canned fruit. There is no place where we can get better peaches than we can raise right here in LItah. They have a special good flavor to me. When I have been away from here and could get a peach raised in Utah, it was indeed a peach to me. I speak of this merely as a sample of other things that we do, waste what we raise at home, then send out and buy it from abroad. It is very poor policy and I echo the remark that it is indeed a shame and a d; sgrace to some of us. I know that there are excuses for this and some reasons perhaps, but I think that the intimation made to us by the President this morning should be sufficient to us all to do what we can to save that which we produce and to put it to good use, not to "strew our ways to strangers" or strew our fruits on the ground to be of no use to anybody. I think if we will get that idea into our minds it will suffice in regard to a great many things that we do produce, and perhaps stir us up to produce things that we do not now bring forth either from the ground or by our industry and our skill. 

SAVIORS ON MOUNT ZION 

I have thought during this conference many times of a text which we have used very freely in the world, not particularly in relation to this subject, but, I think, just as applicable to it as to other things, that in the last days "saviors should come up on Mount Zion -to judge the mount of Esau; and the kingdom shall be the Lord's." If my memory serves me right, it is the last verse in the book of Obadiah, in the Old Testament scriptures. We have used that text a good deal in regard to the salvation of the dead. I have seen a periodical recently in which it is stated that the only way in which we can become saviors on Mount Zion, is to be baptized for our dead. Without des'ring to say one word against that, I would only like to strike out the word "only." I think there are many ways by which the Latter-day Saints can become "saviors on Mount Zion." The work that we are doing for the dead, performing for those who have departed, ordinances which they cannot themselves attend to, but which we can do for them by proxy, is a grand and glorious work, and I am pleased to know that it is going on to a very large extent. In all the temples that are built, the four temples that we now have in our use, thousands upon thousands of baptisms for the dead are performed from month to month, and we have the reports come to us in the President's Office so that we can see what is being done in that direction, and the work is really marvelous. Of course, when we consider the hosts of the departed who are in the spirit world and who never had the opportunity of receiving those ordinances of salvation, the number may appear rather small by comparison, but the work will go on not only in th : s condition that we find ourselves in, but when the glorious millennial day shall be fully ushered in, temples will be built at various points on this great land of Zion which extends from the north of the continent to the south thereof, and the work for the dead will continue, and the saviors on Mount Zion will be multiplied in our posterity, if we happen to have gone away from here by that time, and it will go on until the work is fully consummated, and all that is needful to be done shall be performed for the redemption of those who have passed away without having an opportunitv of hearing the gospel and obeying the commandments of the Lord in relation thereunto. 

It is a grand and glorious work, and I wish to impress it upon the minds of my brethren and sisters gathered in this great audience today, that a duty rests upon them to continue this work, and to do all that they can that it may be properly accomplished according to the mind and will and commandment of the Lord, for the commandment is upon us and  is necessary to our perfection as well as the perfection of our ancestors that these ordinances shall be performed, and none of our work will be wasted. The time will come when those who do not at first accept the gospel even in the spirit world will, through the experiences which they will have to suffer, be willing to bow the knee to King Emmanuel and acknowledge him to be the Lord, to the glory of God, the Father, and every ordinance performed for them will stand in its place and effect its' object at some period or other. 

MANY WAYS OF BEING SAVIORS 

But there are a great many other things in which we can be saviors. We can be saviors if we carry out the instructions given to us this morning, that is, to take care of that which we produce and put it to proper service, and use it in preference to sending away to other places to get articles that would be perhaps inferior; but, whether or not, that we should use that with which the Lord has blest us in the land that he has given to us in these mountain valleys and which can be made to produce almost everything that is absolutely necessary for our comfort and convenience as a people and as individuals. If we will take away with us from this conference the desire and determination in our hearts that we will carry out this instruction in the spirit and meaning thereof, it will amount to a great deal for the spiritual as well as the temporal salvation of the people and everyone will be a savior on Mount Zion who aids in this glorious work. 

We are to be saviors of men, too, in sending or carrying the gospel to every nation, kindred and tongue and people. That is imposed upon us; that is required of us. We are here on the earth with a mission to perform. Every Latter-day Saint, every man and woman and boy and girl born in the covenant or who has received it, is under obligations to do all that is possible for the sending forth of the word of the Lord to all the nations of the earth. A good many of my brethren here on this stand and around have been out to the world, and we have done our part as far as we could in sounding a warning to the nations of the earth. We have traveled extensively among the nations that are now at war. We have preached and lifted up our voices and warned them of troubles and judgments to come, and now these things are upon them. We see the fulfilment of the words of the Lord; and while we do not rejoice in human suffering, we cannot help rejoicing in the fact that the Lord made known to us, years and years ago, that these things would come, and showed us how we might escape and. help others to escape them. I remember the words of Isaiah, the prophet, which we have often quoted, where he says unto Zion : 

''Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: Hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast. 

"For, behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: The earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain" (Isa. 26:20,21), These things have been literally fulfilled in our time and our experience; and how thankful we ought to be that we are here in these chambers of the mountains, that Zion, bringing good tidings, has come up into the high mountain as Isaiah predicted, that we are here dwelling in quiet places and peaceable resting- places just as Isaiah saw that we would in the latter days, (chap, 32) and that in the midst of the troubles and .dangers that are abroad in the world, we have the consolation of having done our duty and warned the inhabitants of the earth of judgments to come. And the Lord sard that after our testimony would come the testimony of earthquakes and of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds, of floods and fire and flame and the sword and wars and rumors of wars and earthquakes in divers places, and these are but "the beginnings of sorrows" for the latter davs. Now, we have done a great deal in warning the inhabitants of the earth concerning this, and those who have gone forth weeping sometimes, have come back bearing precious seeds and planted them right here in the chambers of these mountains, and we are surrounded by peace and good-will and kindness of heart among the ranks of the Latter-day Saints. 

Sometimes there is a little riffle here and there, a little contention, a little dispute, a little strife, but in the main "the peace of God that passeth all understanding" rests down in the hearts and in the homes of the Latter-day Saints. We can bow down before the Lord in the morning and in the evening and ask his blessings upon us when we partake of "food, in the spirit of peace and kindness and charity and love for all, and we desire in our souls the welfare and salvation of mankind, and whatever there is to do in this direction we feel that we want to do it. As a people we have done something towards helping in bringing about the reign of truth and liberty and the establishment of good government and ' righteousness in the earth, but the end is rot yet, and the work has yet to be done and there is more for us to do, that we may be indeed assistants in the salvation of mankind in these troublous times that have come upon the world. Our boys who go forth to the front representing us, go out in that spirit, as saviors who have come out of Mount Zion, bearing with them the sp : rit of Zion, setting a good example to their comrades, taking a course which will show that we are a people that observe the laws of health and of strength and of virility of manhood, living clean lives setting a good example to the world, and they are objects of the admiration of others who do not practice such good things. 

NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL SALVATION. 

Now, "the end is not vet," as I have said. More will have to °o more means will have to be raised to carry on th : s good work and we are not doing it in the spirit of conquest or of a desire merely for victorv over our fellow creatures, except to establish righteousness and truth and peace m the earth. The grand and glorious principles referred to bv our President this morning embod:e<1 in the Constitution of our country have to be proclaimed, and if by means of war onlv they can b e proclaimed  war will have to come and we will have to engage in the good work at any cost and at any sacrifice. In this our cause is .salvation. We want to -save the nations from bondage, from tyranny, from oppression, from the grasp of avarice and ambition. As alluded to by President Lund, there is a power in Europe which seeks to overspread the world and bring the whole earth under bondage. But the principles embodied in the Constitution of our country are at variance with this, and it is part of our mission as children of the Lord, as saviors on Mount Zion, to carry the spirit of good government, to establish peace on righteous principles, to extend freedom to all mankind, freedom to the full extent of human rights, preservative also of the rights of others. That is the genius of our government and this has to be carried abroad, and we had to go into strife "willy-nilly." We are with our country in this conflict. Let us be reasonable. Let us be liberal also in our feelings, not narrowed up in our souls, but feel that we are engaged in a great and glorious work for the salvation of humanity from oppression and tyranny and autocracy. That is part of our duty, part of our work as saviors. 

The elders will remember that years ago we used to repeat that it was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith that the t : me would come when even the very Constitution of our country would be in danger, and the elders of this Church would arise in the might and the power of the Holy priesthood and bear the standard of liberty aloft, and save, or help to save, this country, from the evils of oppression and tyranny and bloodshed. Let us remember these things and while we are doing the work of salvation for the dead, let us continue in the work of salvation for the living. Let us produce that which we need for our own sustenance and comfort, and what we save thereby we can use for the benefit of people abroad, and we can plant in the hearts of our children a desire to do that which is right, to keep God's commandments, and train them up in the ranks of his kingdom, for "the kingdom is the Lord's." It is true, that we Latter-day Saints in these mountains in Utah, form a part of the great government of the United States. That is all right; thank God for it, that we have influence in this Nation and that our influence is growing and we are getting better understood, and the way is opening up for the fulfilment of all things spoken of concerning Z; on and her power in the earth; and let us use that power in wisdom and in righteousness, with discretion and judgment, and not go crazy about anything. 

TRAINING OUR CHILDREN IN RIGHTEOUSNESS 

Now, in regard to our children. Brother Lund said considerable on this matter this morning. That is right. Let us train up our children in all things that are mentioned in our Sunday Schools, in our Religion Classes, in our Primary departments and in those for the older members of the youth of Zion, the Mutual Improvement Associations, sustaining at the same tine that great and glorious institution, the Relief Society. All these auxiliaries are necessary in the Church; and the Sunday Schools, of course; they form a very great part. Brother Lund talked about them this morning, and I am adding a few words to what he said, which I wish to emphasize. There is need for us to instruct our children at home and in the Sunday School and in these classes, in morality, in honesty, in truthfulness and in integrity. 

A number of our children, it appears to me, do not have impressed fully upon their minds the need of telling the truth and of avoiding lies, falsehoods. They do not, all of them, understand the rightfulness and the benefits of using for themselves only that which is their own. I don't want to particularize too closely, but I have known of children who had just come out of Sunday School going rampant into orchards and stealing fruit, not thinking that they were doing very much harm, perhaps encouraged by the notion that a great deal of it was wasting on the ground. 

So, I see the need of teaching our children not only the Word of Wisdom, to abstain from certain things, I will not say a word against that, by any means, I would emphasize that, train up our children to do without these things that are injurious to the human body, but also instil into them, in the home particularly, truthfulness, honesty, integrity, respect for the rights of others. Don't let little children take toys that belong to their brothers and sisters without the permission of those to whom they belong. That is the idea. That is only a small matter, but the great principle is to train up our boys and girls that they will be honest and tell the truth, that they will not lie, that they will not take things that do not belong to them, that they will respect the rights of others. That is one of the fundamental principles of our faith. We want the privilege of worshiping God according to the dictates of our own consciences, unmolested, and we want to give that privilege to all mankind. That is part of our religion. So let us remember this, and in the schooling of our children don't forget to teach them these fundamental principles of righteousness and truth, for therein will be the strength of our people. Righteousness exalteth a nation. 

PEACE WILL NOT COME WITHOUT RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

We must have righteous government, good government or peace will not continue, but there will be war and trouble and strife and bloodshed and all the ills that have afflicted humanity for many years past But the turning time is near at hand, the time of peace is to come and the Prince of Peace, Jesus Christ our Redeemer, is to come and be King of kings and Lord of lords. b 

I believe in that with all my heart. I believe in Jesus Christ as an individual, not merely as an idea, not merely as a light not merely as an influence, but I believe in Jesus as the son of Mary and the Son of God, that he was the only begotten of the Father in the flesh and that he lived and set a splendid example, committing no sin, doin- no evil obeying every commandment of the Father, and thus being a sinless being he could offer himself voluntarily as a sacrifice for sinners, and he 

r r> iTr I - unjust ' tf P f er says ' " that he mi S ht bri "g ™ to God. I believe m him, and that he will be our King, but before he comes to reign on the earth there will have to be a great preparation and  will take some time to bring it about. Of course, we understand that certain things predicted through the Prophet Joseph Smith are to take' place before tnis generation shall pass away, and the Lord will see to it that the generation in which those things were predicted will not all pass away until all shall be fulfilled, but there is no fixed period for a generation, no set time in the revelations of God, no year or date given when these things shall take place, and it is folly for anybody to put a date to it. Leave that in the hands of the Lord and he will take care. that his word is fulfilled; "not one jot or one tittle shall pass away," as Jesus declared, "but all shall be fulfilled." 

REVERENCE FOR THE TRUE AND LIVING GOD. 

In training up* our children we must also plant in their minds belief in and reverence for a living and true God, the Father of their spirits, that they may learn the lesson that Paul taught, that "we have fathers of our flesh who corrected us and we gave them reverence, but how much rather should we be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live." Belief in a Being, a personal God, that is the very foundation and beginning of our faith. "We believe in God, the Father, and in Jesus Christ, his Son, and 'in the Holy Ghost," and we believe in them as individuals who are at the head, who form the presiding quorum as a trinity in unity, the power being in them and proceeding forth from them, and "by and through them and of them the worlds were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." And in sending out of the State for books of instruction for our children, let us be careful that we don't bring in too much of the nonsense that is incorporated in some of the text-books of the times, the ideas and notions of men, the theories and inferences and reasonings of men, not real, solid, substantial facts or the actual truth. God is the Author of all things in the universe that have been organized for . progress and for salvation and for blessing. He is at the head of this Church. 

REVELATIONS OF THE PROPHET THE WORD OF GOD. 

The revelations that we have are not simply utterances of the Prophet Joseph or others to whom they have been given. They are the word of the Lord. Don't let us forget that. When we talk about Joseph Smith as a scientist, that is all right when we go to show that things revealed to him as truths have since been received and understood by the learned of the age and have come to them without knowing that he predicted them, but was he their author? We do not pit him against them, but we take the word of the Lord, and don't let us forget that it is the word of the Lord that has come to. us, and this Church is founded upon it. Christ prayed to the Father concerning his disciples, "Father, sanctify them by the truth, thy word is truth." The word of the Lord, my brethren and sisters, is truth and can be relied upon, and we can take our stand upon it and bring everything to it, and that should be with us the standard. We don't want to prevent men from thinking. I have heard some of my brethren say, "Well, do you want to stop men from thinking?" Not at all. Liberty to think and liberty to act upon the thought if you don't infringe the rights of others. Liberty to think, liberty to read, liberty to have theories and notions and ideas; but, my brethren, it isn't your province nor mine to introduce theories into the Church that are not in accordance with the revelations that have been given. Don't forget that. And if any change in policy, is to be introduced, it is to come through the proper channel. The Lord said only his servant Joseph should do that while he lived, and then after he died others were to be called to occupy the place, and the key is in the hands of the man who stands at the head, if any change is to be introduced in our Church. Don't let us fix our minds too much on the ideas and notions that are called science. If it is really science that they produce, something demonstrated, something proved to be true, that is all right, and there is not a doctrine of our Church that I can find that comes in direct conflict or contradiction to the sciences of the times if they are sciences, but a great deal of that which is called science is only philosophy, and much of it speculative philosophy, and these ideas change with the ages, as we can see by reference to what has been called science in times that are past. 

WHAT WE SHOULD DO AS SAVIORS OF MEN. 

Now, brethren, what I am after is this: Let us Latter-day Saints, called to be saviors of men, called to be saviors of this world, called to be saviors to introduce that which will save mankind and bring them up from their lowest state into a condition where they will be fit to hold converse with Deity, let us be careful that we plant in the minds of our children the truth and nothing but the truth so far as we can understand it, and as to the opinions and notions of men, value them for what they are, if they have any value, and some of them do. not have any, but many of them do. We do not want to cripple men's minds, we do not want to wean men from investigating and reaching out into the field of thought. 1 he boundless universe is before us all to learn and to live and to come up to the standard occupied by our Eternal Father and to be fit for his society. Let our minds enlarge, our understanding increase and let everything that is proved to be true and established and demonstrated come m to us as part of our belief, but the theories and notions of men that are m contradiction to the revelations of Almighty God are not to be considered m the light that some people view them. Let us be verv careful about these things. 

Now, we want to teach these things to our children, train them up to believe m the living and true God, the Author of our being, our Father in heaven, and in Jesus Christ, his Son, who died for us ^ and without whose redemption, as we read in the Book of Mormon, our spirits would have been banished forever from the divine presence, and our bodies would have mouldered in the dust forever. But through that atonement wrought out by Jesus Christ, and by our obedience to his commandments we shall come forth from the dust and stand upon our feet and have all 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE. 2i 

things that we have made ourselves fit for by our own acts. Forgiveness of sins, redemption from personal sin, is a doctrine of Christ to be obtained in the way that he has appointed. He died that we might live, and thus he atoned for the sin of Adam. He died that we might live and attain glory if we would repent and obey his commandments and receive the blessings in the way he has appointed; and our mission in the world here, what we have come on the earth to do, is to live that gospel and carry it to the ends of the earth and send it forth to all people, that all nations may hear the glorious sound of the glad tidings of salvation to the human race. And when we have done with our earthly work and gone into the world of spirits, that we might be allowed there to carry it to any part of the spirit spheres, even into the lowest hell, if necessary, in the great work of saviors of the children of men, so that the laws of God might be proclaimed, that God's truths might be made known, that opportunity might be given to all the race of Adam, in the body or out of the body, to receive the truth and walk in its light, and come as near as possible, considering their conditions and transactions and doings, as near as possible to the light and glory and presence of the Father. These are themes that are very simple, very plain, very clear to us all. UNITY AMONG THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH. 

Now, let us live according to the teachings given tc us this morning, walk in the ways of the Lord, teach them to our children, set a good example to all the world, put away from us everything that is contralto the mind and will of the Lord, and become sanctified before him, a holy and a mighty people, saviors on Mount Zion, and our kingdom, or the kingdom that we are in is indeed the Lord's and we will be his peo ple. May his peace abide with you, may the blessings and power of God rest down upon President Smith and heal him up fully, and upon all our brethren who are laboring with him. I want to say that we are united. There is no jar, no contention, no quarreling among the leaders of the Church. We are united in spirit. We bless and praise the Lord for his goodness to us. We enjoy each other's presence and company and society. We are a band of brethren. We are knitted and united together. We are one before the Lord as near as human beings can be with the failings and .weaknesses of mortality; and we love the children of men, and we want to see salvation come to all people who will receive it. We want to see salvation come to this nation, we want the principles of the government of the United States to be exalted here and eventually throughout the world, as the preparation for the coming of him whose right it is to reign, Jesus the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

May the peace and blessings of God abide with you all, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred duet : "Hail to the ing," was sung by Prof. J. R. Boshbrightness of Zion's glad morn- ard and Marie Hedquist. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

I rejoice in being- permitted again to meet with the Saints in general conference. I do most earnestly and humbly pray that the Lord will assist me to give utterance to some of the thoughts which have come into my mind during the last few months and while listening to the remarks made since our conference opened, and to the beautiful songs sung in our hearing. I do not desire to say one word that shall offend, or that shall not be in keeping with the inspiration of the Lord. In all humility I desire the assistance of your faith and your prayers, that what I may say may be for the benefit of the Latter-day Saints here assembled. 

HYMNS APPROPRIATE TO PRESENT CONDITIONS. 

It has seemed to me that the hymns sung in our hearing since this conference opened are wonderfully appropriate to the present condition of affairs in all the world. I believe in very deed that it is a time when the Latter-day Saints should feel in their hearts the inspiration which came to Brother William Clayton when the great pioneer, Brigham Young, told him to write a hymn that should cheer and bless the Saints in their great pioneer journey to these fair valleys. Brother Clayton wrote: "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, but with joy wend your way." And again: "Why should we think to earn a great reward, if we now shun the fight?" And again: "And .should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well." I feel that we are entering today, as a part of our grand Nation, upon a great and wonderful journey, that we are engaging in a war of righteousness in which the Nation is risking its life, a war which undoubtedly will mean death to many of the noble boys who have volunteered or been drafted into the army and navy. I feel that every Latter-day Saint can with fervent spirit sing this splendid pioneer hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear," and that those who have an abiding faith in our Lord Jesus Christ and his redeeming blood, should go forth to war under the inspiration of the Lord, and that they can honestly and conscientiously pray that the Lord will preserve and bless them and give them success, even in war. 

I think one of the grandest hymns which has ever been written by any of our local poets is John Jaques' 

Say, IV hat is Truth:' 

O say, what is truth? Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; And priceless the value of truth will be when The proud monarch's costliest diadem 

Is counted but dross and refuse. 

Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize 

To which mortals or gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies. Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies; 

'Tis an aim for the noblest desire. 2 b 

The scepter may fall from the despot's grasp 

When with winds of stern justice he copes, But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, And its firm-rooted bulwarks outstand the rude blast, And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. 

Then, say, what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, 

For the limits of time it steps o'er: Though the heavens depart, and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, 

Eternal, unchanged, evermore. 

"out of their own mouths." 

A couple of days ago a friend of mine lent me this book that I have not yet read. It is entitle:!, Out of their own Mouths, and the scripture quotation, "Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee," is on the cover of the book. Sentiments which are anything but true. Speaking of truth, let me quote from Frederick the Great. Frederick was one of the men who stole those provinces and robbed other people of their possessions, as referred to by President Lund this morning. 

If there is anything to be gained by it, we will be honest; if deception is necessary, let us be cheats. — Frederick II, Letter to Minister Radziwill. 

Remember this standard of "Truth" of Frederick the Great : 

Do not be ashamed to make alliances with a view to gaining advantage 'from them for yourself only. 

Do not commit the gross blunder of not abandoning them when it suits your interest. 

One takes when one can, and one is wrong only when obliged to give back. 

I understand by the word "policy" that one must make it his study to deceive others; that is the way to get the better of them— Works of Frederick II, Berlin edition (1848). 

No ministers at home, but clerks. No ministers abroad, but spies. 

Form alliances only in order to sow animosities. 

Kindle and prolong war between my neighbors. 

Always promise help and never send it. 

There is only one person in the kingdom, that is myself. — Marginal notes in a copy of Tacitus, written by the King and cited by Diderot. 

"All written constitutions are only scraps of paper." — Frederick William IV, Speech from the Throne, April 11, 1847. Remember in contrast our beloved "Mormon" poet John Jaques' inspired words : "Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, eternal, unchanged, evermore." 

Here are some of the truthful ( ?) statements of the present kaiser of Germany. When meeting a general and the governor of the province of Liege, he said when they visited Berlin : 

"You are the governor of a province with which we have always maintained good neighborly relations. Recently, I understand, you have felt in your country serious apprehensions. Believe me, these apprehensions were unnecessary." And at a banquet following- the interview, he said to the general from Belgium: "You were quite right to trust us." The solemn word of honor of a nation guaranteed the neutrality of Belgium, but that word of honor was a "scrap of paper." "You do right to trust us." By trusting that emperor, what came? The destruction by the thousands and tens of thousands of Belgium's citizens, the destroying of their property, the levying upon them of vast sums, the taking of millions of the nation as prisoners, and making them work in as hateful a slavery as existed in the South before the days of the rebellion. 

We shall conquer everywhere, even though we be surrounded by enemies on all sides; for there lives a powerful ally, the old, good God in heaven, who * * * has always been on our side. — William II, Speech, March 28, 1901. 

He talks as familiarly as the man who profanes the name of the living God. It is a profanation of the living God to talk about his being on the side of a nation which breaks its solemn pledges, and treats constitutions and treaties as "scraps of paper." 

I believe, as does our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, that the Constitution of the United States was written by the inspiration of Almighty God. I was taught this from the knee of my dear mother, who has passed to her reward in heaven. I know that any ruler who claims to be the representative of Almighty God who would take away the liberties of his fellow men, is not a representative from God. You can draw your own conclusions whom he does represent. I was going to tell, but maybe I would better not. 

Remember that you are the chosen people! The Spirit of the Lord has descended upon me because J am the Emperor of the Germans! 

I am the instrument of the Almighty. I am his sword, his agent. Woe and death to all those who shall oppose my will! Woe and death to those who do not believe in my mission! Woe and death to the cowards! 

Let them perish, all the enemies of the German people! God demands their destruction, God who, by my mouth, bids you to do his will! — William II, Proclamation to the Army of the East, 1914. 

No honest person need be told where the inspiration for such a damnable statement comes. 

The triumph of the greater Germany, which some day must dominate all Europe, is the single end for which we are fighting. — William II, Proclamation, June, 1915. 

Not by speeches and resolutions of majorities are the great questions of the time decided — that was the mistake of 1848 and 1849 — but bv iron and blood. — Bismarck, in the Military Committee of the Prussian Chamber of Deputies, 1862. 

INSPIRED POEMS. 

When I was in Germany, some years aeo, while presiding over the European Mission, I had the pleasure of visiting many of the cities upon the continent, and one of the cities that I visited was Berlin, one of the  in all the world, another was Dresden. While riding from Dresden to Berlin I read and committed to memory a poem, by Goethe, Germany's greatest poet. I believe that John Jaques, William Clayton, Parley P. Pratt, Eliza R. Snow and others, whose beautiful hymns we have heard sung here today, were inspired by the Lord. I believe that men like Goethe, in writing, are inspired of the Lord, when they are upright and honest and endeavor to write that which is uplifting and noble. I would to God that every German would learn the four short verses of Goethe's poem as I did and realize that they are divinely inspired words : 

Three Lessons. 

There are three lessons I would write, 

Three words as with a burning pen; In tracings of eternal light 

Upon the hearts of men. 

Have faith, though clouds environ round And gladness hides her face in scorn, 

Put-off the darkness from thy brow, No night but hath its morn. 

Have hope where'er thy bark be driven, The calm distorts the tempest's mirth; 

Know this, God rules the hosts of heaven, The inhabitants of earth. 

I hope Kaiser William will live to have these words burned into his very brain : "Know this, God rules the hosts of heaven, the inhabitants of earth." Goethe winds up with this supreme declaration of love, a declaration in keeping with the teachings of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ; a declaration in keeping with the will of our Father in heaven : 

Have love — not love alone for one, 

But man as man thy brother call, And scatter as a circling sun 

Thy charities on all. 

WHAT THE KAISER SAYS HE IS. 

What kind of charities have been scattered by the ruling- house of Germany? Murder, rapine, robbery, is the kind of charity and love which thev have scattered. Let me read to von the words of the Kaiser from a book entitled, My Ideas and Ideals — William II; 

As I look upon myself as an instrument of the Lord, I am indifferent to the point of view of the present day. 

I, too, like my imperial grandfather, represent the kingship by God's grace. 

Each of the Hohenzollern princes was from the outset of his career conscious that he was only God's vicegerent upon earth. 

Again I say the inspiration of William II comes from a different source than from God — (the speaker here pointed downward). My course is the right one, and in it I shall continue to steer. There is only one master in this country; I am he, and I will not tolerate another. 

There was only one master, so Napoleon Bonaparte thought, but he' did not finally triumph. "Know this, God rules the hosts of heaven, The inhabitants of earth;" and the kaiser will find this out if he lives long enough, and I hope and pray he will. 

There is only one law — my law; the law which I myself lay down. 

There is the law of justice, there is the law of virtue, there is the law of honor, there is the law of Almighty God, that this man and those who sustain him are violating, and they will find it out! 

The best word is a blow — the Army and Navy are the pillars of the State. 

An immense amount of inspiration from Alm : ghty God in this infamous statement. The following sentence of less than three lines tells whether this man represents the Lord Almighty or not : 

Hurrah for the dry powder and the sharp sword, for the end we have in sight and the forces we are bending towards it, for the German Army and the General Staff. 

A fine representative of God! 

PAN-GERMANISM. 

I had the privilege of becoming acquainted on the steamer with a German who was returning from Japan, who had been there training the Japanese army. I learned that he believed that nrght was right, and that weak nations had no right to live. The teachings of our Father in heaven and of our Redeemer are just the exact opposite of any doctrines of that kind. I recommend you to read a book entitled Pan-Germany, a little twenty-five-cent pamphlet. You will find that Germany started out to do exactly what President Lund said they expected to do, to gain dominion through the heart of Europe from the North Sea clear down to the Persian Gulf; and if they get peace today, without indemnities they have won the war. Germany has since the beginning of this conflict placed over 75,000,000 people under her dominion, and she is working millions of these people in her fields and factories. 

WHAT GERMANY WOULD DO. 

For example, they worked one girl in the harvest fields from sun-up until dark, and they pa : d her for six mortal months' labor less than two dollars. From the time that the war broke out until February, a year ago, the National Imperial Bank increased its reserves from 1,300,000,000 marks to 2,500,000.000 marks. They are enslaving Turkey and AustriaHungary financially by selling to them the munitions of war which are used in the interest of the German empire. Their allies have been practically bankrupted by Germany running a printing press and furnishing them money. Today if Germany could get peace without indemnities she could enslave the world. The kaiser claims to be the representative of God, but he knows nothing about the laws of God, or of justice, and this is why he will eventually be defeated. The Lord has said that this land of America is a choice land above all other lands, and that if the people are pure in heart and serve him, that it shall be preserved from any king ever ruling here. That is the word of God to his ancient servants upon this continent, as recorded in the Book of Mormon. The Kaiser mistook the fiber of the Belgian people. He thought might was so great in the empire that he ruled over, that the Belgians would not dare oppose him. but those Belgians gave their lives for truth and honor. He thought that France would not dare fight, but the Frenchmen offered their lives upon the altar of honor. He never dreamed for a moment that England unprepared would enter the war, but again he mistook the character of the English people. He instructed his legions to "destroy the little contemptible English army." He believed that he had the might' to crush them, but the people of England stepped forward with that sense of honor, right and justice which is inborn in her people, and fulfilled her pledges to Belgium. 

AN INFAMOUS CONCEPTION. 

Now I want to read to you -one of the most infamous things that was ever conceived by a ruling class : 

In 1895, when Germany decided upon what she wanted, (viz., to conquer the world,) she proceeded to make a list of all Germans on the face of the globe, in order to pick out from among them those who were most likely to prove useful tools of carrying out the Pan-German plan. The result of this registration of the German element throughout the world may be found in the Pan-German Atlas of Paul Langhans, published by Justus Perthes, at Gotha, in 1909. (The Pan-German plan was to split Europe through the center and eventually to conquer the world.) 

The Pan-German societies have carried on a vigorous propaganda among all these Germans, especially since 1900, and in Argentina and Brazil, which were intended to be the principal German protectorates, they were organized with particular care. The German law of July 22, 1913, known as Delbruck's, which deals with nationality under the Empire and under the State, _ has greatly favored German organization in America, and it is important to know at least the gist of it, since it is full of significance, and marks the last stage of PanGerman organization prior to the war. 

The second part of its article 25, reads as follows: "If any person before acquiring nationality in a foreign state shall have received the written permission of a competent authority of his native state to retain his nationality of that state, he shall not lose his nationality of the said native state. The German consul shall be consulted before this permission is granted." 

"From these words we can measure the depth of German astuteness," and pardon my saying, we can measure the depth of depravity of the German statesmen, who ask men to bold up their hands before high heaven and pledge allegiance to another country, when they never intended to fulfil that pledge made in solemn covenant before God. "According to this provision a German may become a citizen of a foreign state but if he obtains a written permission 'from a competent authority of his native State,' he still continues to enjoy, for himself and his descendants, all the rights of a German citizen, and may claim the protection of the German Empire." Such a law is infamous beyond my language to tell. 

WHAT HAS BEEN DONE FOR THE WAR IN UTAH. 

I want to read what we have done here in Utah for the war in which we are engaged — a brief summary made on December 21, 1917: 

Men Supplied by Utah. 

Army — quota asked for 746 men 

Furnished  2,344 men 

Marines — quota asked for 126 men 

Furnished 346 men 

Navy — no quota — Utah and Southern Idaho furnished 641 men 

Utah also furnished one regiment of field artillery and one field hospital .. 1,500 

Asked, 872; given, 4,831 men. 

Red Cross — apportionment $350,000 

Raised $520^000 

First Liberty Loan — apportionment $6,500,000 

Amount subscribed $9,400*000 

This is one of the largest amounts raised, in proportion, by any State in this Federal Reserve District. 

Second Liberty Loan — minimum apportionment $10,000,000 

Amount subscribed $16,200',000 

Soldiers' Welfare Fund, including Y. M. C. A. and Training Camp 

Recreation Fund — apportionment $100,000 

Amount raised $105*000 

Red Cross Membership Campaign — allotment 60,000 members 

Subscribers 66^000 members 

Asked, $17,010,000; Giver., $26,291,000 

NO QUESTION EVER SETTLED UNTIL IT'S SETTLED RIGHT. 

Allow me to read to you the inspired words of Ella Wheeler Wilcox. She has entitled her poem 

An Inspiration. 

However the battle is ended, 

Though proudly the victor comes, With fluttering flags and prancing steeds 

And echo of rolling drums, Still truth proclaims the motto, 

In letters of living light, No question is ever settled 

Until it is settled right. 

Though the heel of the strong oppressor 

May grind the weak in the dust; And the voices of fame with one acclaim 

May call him great and just; Let those who applaud take warning 

And keep this motto in sight — No question is ever settled 

Until it is settled right. 

Let those who have failed take courage, 

Though the enemy seems to have won; Though his ranks are strong, if he be in the wrong, 

The battle is not yet done; For sure as the morning follows 

The darkest hour of the night, No question is ever settled 

Until it is settled right. 

O man, bowed down with labor, 

O woman, young, yet old; O heart, oppressed in the toiler's breast, 

And crushed by the power of gold, Keep on with your weary battle 

Against triumphant might; No question is ever settled 

Until it is settled right. 

Let me again quote Goethe : "Know this, God rules the hosts of heaven, the inhabitants of earth." 

LOYALTY OF GERMAN LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 

In my anxiety to get through with as many items as possible in twenty-five minutes I came near neglecting to say one thing which I desire to say : I have never traveled with a man who impressed me more as loving God, and more determined to give to this work of our Redeemer his life's labor, than did the late Karl G. Maeser. I believe that the men and women that the gospel found in Germany, and who in all honor embraced it, are as loyal, as true, and as patriotic as any other people who have joined the Church of Christ. The night following my call for a mission to Japan I lay awake until after three o'clock in the morning, and in thinking of those who were aged, and whom I hoped and prayed might live until I returned, I thought of my own dear mother, of John R. Winder, of George Romney, of Karl G. Maeser, and of others whom I loved with all my heart. I feel that the Germans who have embraced the Truth and who have the love of God and the love of our Redeemer in their hearts, are as willing to go forth to battle against wrong and error as the people of any other nation who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May the Lord help us who know the Truth to go on proclaiming it, and bringing people to a knowledge of the Redeemer, and teaching them to love their fellow men instead of robbing and killing them, is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Obtaining knowledge by study and by faith — Value of the book of Genesis — It answers perfectly the false doctrine of evolution — The law of marriage instituted that mankind might multiply and replenish the earth — Relationship of Abraham to us and the world — The lesson of obedience in the lives of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob 1 — The blessings of these patriarchs have come down to us — Modern Scripture to be studied, and also the counsels of the living oracles. 

Brethren and sisters, "The glory of God is intelligence," and this great truth is confirmed and emphasized in another statement occurring in the Doctrine and Covenants. The Lord, in speaking to Joseph Smith the Prophet, said : "As all have not' faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom. Seek learning even by study and also bv faith." 

I take it that this is very important counsel to the Church of God. We know that there are two ways of getting intelligence — one is by .study, the other is by faith; and these two methods go well hand in hand. The injunction is that we should seek words of wisdom out of the best books. The world today is full of literature. There are very many good books, but as members of the Church of Christ I assume we will agree that the very best books in the world today are the standard church works — the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. Take, for example, the Bible. This book, brethren and sisters, has come down through the centuries of the past and is hoary with age, but never it breathes forth the very strength and vigor of youth. It contains many wise sayings and thrilling" incidents and teachings of priceless value. From this book and other church works we are constantly taking lessons and compiling them into manuals and sending them forth into our various organizations and priesthood classes and auxiliary associations, but . these books are especially recommended for general use throughout the Church and for careful study, and should often be consulted by Latter-day Saints. 

Referring to the Bible, I may say that if there was not one vestige of the Holy Record left to us but the book of Genesis, it would still be worth while, and would be of priceless value to the children of men. In the first chapter of Genesis many valuable truths are imparted. We learn that God created the heavens and the earth and all things that in them are. We are also given to understand in this matter of creation that the Lord operated and worked in an orderly way and by law, for we are told that the Lord God of heaven and his Son Jesus Christ work by law, that in the beginning things came into being by the power of God. God* said, "Let there be light," and there was light, and this was effected, as I have just said, by the power of God. 

We are told that God made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and the fishes of the sea after their kind, and the winged fowl of the air after its kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, after its kind. And the Lord saw that they were good, and he blessed them, saying, "Multiply and fill the waters of the deep, Let the fowl  upon the earth." But the supreme creative act came with the appearance of man. ''And the Lord said, Let us make man in our own image and after our likeness, and let him have dominion over the fishes of the sea and the fowls of the air and over the earth and every living creature." "So God made man in his own image, in his own image made he him, male and female created he them." But the Lord did not stop there, he blessed them and he said, "Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it and have dominion over it," and so forth. 

Now, it seems to me that there is to be a very great lesson learned from this important chapter in the Bible. In the first place, I think that it answers perfectly the false doctrine of evolution. We are distinctly given to understand that every living creature was made after its kind. We are not to expect that a lion will grow into a horse, or that a cow will grow into an elephant, but we have reason to believe that a horse will always be a horse. You may be able to improve the horse, but it will still be a horse, and so with the other , animals of God's creation. 

And since man in the beginning was made in the imag'e of God and after his likeness, and since he is still in the image of God and will so continue, we have no reason to conclude that there has ever been any change at all in the order of things as first instituted. 

Furthermore, you will remember, and there is a great lesson in it, that God commanded these living creatures throughout all the animal kingdom as also man to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the , but man could not properly do this without matrimony, and so God instituted the law of marriage in the garden of Eden. We must know from this that marriage is honorable, because it originated with the Almighty. He introduced it in the garden of Eden, and this law has since prevailed throughout the earth. But we also find in many places and in very many instances that the command of God is not obeyed, and that people, even those who are married, sometimes do not fulfil this obligation, for they are not fruitful and do not multiply and replenish the earth. In that particular they come short. This ought not to be so with the Latter-day Saints. It is expected of us that we shall be a fruitful people, that we shall become a numerous people, that the Church shall g'row until it shall fill the whole earth, because it has in it the spirit of endurance. As Latter-day Saints we must of necessity obey this great and important law of marriage. That is one of the lessons that comes down to us from the very beginning. 

How very beautiful, brethren and sisters, is the story of the patriarchs, our progenitors. What would we know about them, how could we ascertain their names, how coukl we learn what they did, if it were not for the record, and I ask you candidly, how could we know anyhow, unless we searched the record and made a study of it, because I take it that you cannot find any knowledge in the mind of man that is not put there. 

Take Abraham, for instance. Have you ever thought of him? Have you ever considered his relationship to us and to the world? It seems upon one occasion that God appeared unto Abraham and commanded him to* leave his country and go out from among his own people into a strange, land. Abraham did not hesitate. He obeyed the voice of God willingly, andwhen he came into this strange country the Lord said to him, "Lift up now thine eyes from the place where thou art to the northward and the southward, to the eastward and the westward, for all the land that thou seest, to thee will I give it and to thy seed, and I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth, so that if any man can number the dust of the earth, so also shall thy seed be numbered." What a wonderful saying, what a glorious promise! and the lesson that we can draw from it is that Abraham was obedient, he was willing to follow the voice of counsel and to do the will of God, and thus he secured a blessing. Upon another occasion he was subiected to a very severe test, as great, I think, as any test that could come to us or any one of us. The Lord commanded him to take his beloved son, the son of promise, to take Isaac up into a mountain and offer up as a sacrifice to the Lord. To do this he must needs slay his son with his own hand. But he did not hesitate. No. It was the command of God. He responded readily — I would not say willingly — it must have been a great sorrow to him, but he was obedient and the Lord accepted this act upon the part of Abraham as a sign of obedience and of righteousness, and did not require the sacrifice. After the offering was made then came the blessing, in other words, after the sacr'fice comes the blessing. The Lord then said to Abraham, "By myself have I sworn, saith the 

Lord, for because thou hast done this thing and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, that in blessing I will bless thee and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven and as the sand upon the sea shore, and thy .seed shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in thee and in thy seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed." What greater promise than this could come to a man, and yet it came through the righteousness of Abraham through the spirit of obedience. It is a very great lesson. Latter-day Saints, and we should take it to heart. We should cultivate the spirit of obedience in our hearts, be willing to listen to the voice of God, and walk by the counsels of his servants who are divinely called. 

The blessing - that was put upon Abraham was also conferred upon Isaac, for Isaac as a boy and as a man exhibited the spirit of submission and obedience. He honored his parents. They desired him to go down artiong his people and kindred for a wife rather than marry among strangers, or among the daughters of the Canaanites. 

Isaac yielded to the wish of his parents. He honored them, and God honored him, and put upon him the blessing of Abraham. 

And so it was with Jacob. He was willing to listen to the voice of his parents, and went down among his people to get a wife, while Esau seeing that it displeased his parents went straightway among strangers and married some of the daughters of Canaan. Now, in the one case the displeasure of the Lord was shown, and in the other case the blessing followed, because the blessings that were put upon Abraham  Isaac were also put upon Jacob, and thus, brethren and sisters, the names of those great patriarchs were linked together, and they were called Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. The Lord himself has greatly honored them by sometimes saying, "I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." Jacob was further distinguished by a change in his name. The Lord said to him upon one occasion, "Thy name shall no more be called Jacob but Israel, for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed." So the name of Jacob was changed to Israel, and the children of Jacob after that were called the children of Israel, and the blessings of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were pronounced upon their posterity. These blessings were to be realized by them through their righteousness, through their faith and faithfulness to the God of heaven. So the blessings of the patriarchs have come down to us, even to us who are assembled in this great building here, for we are of the posterity of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. 

All this seems wonderful to me, and I have obtained the knowledge of it, by a study of the scriptures. We would do well to give attention to this matter, so also to the study of the New Testament, and the Book of Mormon, which is closely identified and connected up with the Bible, and the book of Doctrine and Covenants, containing the revela of God to his prophet and to his people of latter times. Oh, what a wonderful, marvelous book is the book of Covenants! And then there is the Pearl of Great Price. Is it not beyond price, embodying, as it does the writings of Abraham, Enoch and Moses? We ought to familiarize ourselves with the scriptures that have been given. 

May the Lord bless us and sanctify to our good these great books which have been committed into our keeping; and may he sanctify to our good also, the counsels of the living oracles, the teachings of the servants of God in our day. Let us remember them and let us receive their words and honor their teachings, and God will bless us and multiply us abundantly, which may he grant, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A notice of the performance of "Elijah" in the Tabernacle at 5 o'clock tonight, was given out. 

It was also announced that the General Priesthood meeting would convene in the Tabernacle at 7 o'clock tonight. 

The choir and congregation sang : ''We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

Conference adjourned until Saturday morning at 10 o'clock. 


