Afternoon
07 04 1918

President Grant announced overflow meetings to be held in the Assembly Hall this afternoon, under 155  of Elder. J. Golden Kimball, of the First Council of Seventy; and in the open air meetingnear the Bureau of Information Building, under direction of Elder Charles H. Hart, of the First Council of Seventy. 

The choir sang-, "For the strength of the hills we bless the, our God, our father's God," music by Evan Stephens. 

Prayer was offered by Elder E. J. Wood, President of the Alberta, Canada, stake of Zion. 

The choir sang the anthem : "Watching over Israel." 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

Blessings and advantages of the gospel — Tunning to God because of the war — Are the people observing his commandments-? — Restrictions and conservation are means of teaching righteousness — Is this means being taken advantage of? — A warning voice to the Latter-day Saints — The office and calling- of prophets and teachers. 

I have but one desire this after. noon and that is to add my testimony to the testimonies that have already been given at the sessions of this conference, to the truth of this great latter-day work, and to testify that I know, as my brethren who have spoken have testified, that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God who was called, raised up and filled with the Spirit of the Lord that he might establish in the world the truth of the everlasting- gospel which for so many hundreds of years had been absent from the earth, because of the transgressions of the people. It was the purpose of the Lord in calling- Joseph Smith to warn the people, to call them unto repentance, and bring them into the , if they would come, where they could obtain all the necessary privileg-es, blessings and advantages belonging to the gospel before the great and dreadful day of the Lord should come. The Lord has always raised up prophets when prophets were needed, to teach the people, warn them of threatened dangers and give them the knowledge, through repentance, by which they might escape. It became necessary therefore in the dispensation of the fulness of time and before the coming of the Son of God, for the gospel to be restored, the nations of the earth to be warned, and every man to have the privilege of accepting the truth or rejecting it. 

Permit me to read a few passages of scripture from a revelation that was given over eighty-six years ago, a revelation that was given to the world for the benefit of all the, children of our Father in heaven. I read from the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants where the Lord says : 

Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken, ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shalr not see, neither .ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people^ by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

We learn from the very first verse which I have read that this warning is primarily to the members of the Church. The Church had only been organized a little more than a year and a half, for this revelation was given on the first day of November, in the year 1831. The Lord speaks first unto his people and ,says unto them, "Hearken, O ye people of my church." Then he goes on to tell what shall befall the nations of the earth, all peoples, every kinderd and tongue, provided they reject the testimony of his servants; and this warning is not only unto the Latter-day Saints, the members of the Church, but unto all the world, but I say first, unto the members of the Church, because we have come out of the world and have made covenant in the waters of baptism Jhat we will ,serve the Lord and keep his commandments. I wonder after the passing of eighty-six years and upwards if there is not room even in Zion for repentance. 

I was very pleased to hear one of our mission presidents declare that from his observation he could report that the people within the borders of these United States, because of the troubles now coming upon the earth, were turning unto God. It was very pleasing to me to know that their hearts are being touched. While he spoke I wondered if our hearts are being touched as they should be, and if we are repenting of our transgressions, our follies, our imperfections, and if we are putting forth a greater effort to serve the Lord now than ever before? If not, then let me say to you who are here assembled, and I pray you to carry the word to those who are not here assembled  belong to the Church, that it is the will of the Lord that his people hearken unto this commandment from which I have read and from which I expect to read still more, and observe and obey all his commandments. 

Are we observing the Word of Wisdom? Are we abstaining from the use of those things forbidden of the Lord which are injurious to our health? Are we faithful in the discharge of our duties as members of the Church, in the attendance at meetings, both priesthood and sacramental, and all other meetings which it is our privilege and duty to attend? Are we true and faithful to the law of tithing as it has been given unto us, and which is, if you please, a preparatory doctrine, given as a schoolmaster to lead us unto the higher law, or are we neglectful of our opportunities in this regard? Are we faithful in remembering our prayers before the Lord day by day, not only our secret prayers, but our prayers in family organization, in the family circle ? Are we in possession of the spirit of prayer? Have we made it a part of our very being? Are we in touch with our heavenly Father through the Holy Spirit, or are we not? And so I could go on and enumerate other principles of the gospel and other duties, if time would permit, but this will suffice. The thing I want to impress upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints is this : that perilous times have come. As we heard in the singing of the choir, the tares and the wheat are growing together and have been growing in the same field for all these years, but the day is near at hand when the wheat will be garnered, and the tares likewise will 

157  gathered to be burned, and there will come a separation, the righteous from the wicked, and it behooves each one of us to keep the commandments of the Lord, to repent of our sins, to turn unto righteousness, if there is need of repentance in our hearts. 

Now, let me read again a verse which I have already read : 

And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

Now again: 

Wherefore, the voice ,of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: 

Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

And the ano-er of the LorcLjs kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth; 

And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will n,ot hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people. 

Now, that is the word of the Lord. This declaration is not mine, but I declare it unto you in words of soberness as being' the truth which will prevail, and there is reason for us to seek the Lord and be more sober in our minds and in our actions than we have m the past. 

Again, I was thinking when our brother spoke of the condition in the world wherein the people are becoming more humble than they were before the breaking out of the , and I wondered if they are turning from their Sabbath breaking — their excess of pleasure seeking on the Lord's day? I thought that this Government of ours is overlooking one of its most important duties in this hour of conservation, wherein they are restricting us, necessarily, perhaps, in what we shall eat, in what we shall wear; restricting the railroads in their transportation, the merchants in that which they shall buy and sell; and when they are taking charge of various other branches of industry. It struck me that they are overlooking one of the most important things that ought to be considered by the leaders of the Nation for the purpose of bringing to pass righteous peace and a successful ending of the war. That is they have forgotten or have overlooked their opportunity to restrict the people in their amusements and their Sabbath breaking, and teach them righteousness. Oh, what an opportunity there is, in all this restriction and conservation, to conserve faithfulness and humility before the Lord, if they would only require of the people to do so; but as we find, on the Sabbath day, which has been set apart by the Lord our God as a day on which we should worship him, the theatres, the places of amusement and recreation throughout this land from one end to the other, are filled and overflowing. The people are seeking pleasure, and there is still room for a great repentance. The Lord would be more inclined to hear the cries of the people of this land and aid them in the present awful struggle, if they would repent and worship him. But all this has been overlooked! 

I want to raise the warning voice GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Latter-day Saints and say to them that it is the will of the Lord, and I think I dare say so, that they should be more sober-minded as well as industrious, and should spend more time and give more attention to the things of the kingdom of God and less to the things of the world and the seeking of pleasure in this hour of trouble. Before we are through I fear we will be sobered. 

Now, I will read again : 

Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received, for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth, T the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh, 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion; 

Remember this revelation was given over eighty-six years ago; again : 

And also the Lord, shall have power over his saints, and shall reigrn in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself: and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

Now, just another passage from this same section : 

Wherefore I, the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets; 

The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong .ones, that man shall not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh, 

But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

That faith also might increase in the earth." 

The Lord called Joseph Smith, and gave unto him his mission, and those who were associated with him, to teach the world the principles of the gospel. The Lord has declared, as I have read it to you here, that if the people refuse to hear the voice of his servants, and the prophets, they shall be cut off from among the people. 

Well now, who is a prophet ? The world has a very peculiar notion of what a prophet is. They think that the whole duty of a prophet is merely to foretell what is going to take place, that prophecy is the relating of future events, but that is only one of the duties of a prophet. I am reminded of a circumstance that took place in Israel in the days of Moses when he and seventy of the elders went unto the tabernacle to converse with the Lord and they prophesied. Two of the elders who were not with the others but remained in the camp, also received the spirit of prophecy, and uttered predictions and preached the truth without a doubt. Joshua — a man who himself was filled with wis159 , when the Lord through Moses called him to be the leader of the people — seeing that these men were prophesying, complained to Moses and demanded that he stop them. Moses' reply was : "Enviest thou for my sake?" Would God that all the Lord's people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them!" Then I read again in the nineteenth chapter of the book of Revelation, in that same passage of scripture that was referred to by Brother Ivins this morning, where the angel of the Lord declared to John that the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy; and the Prophet Joseph Smith has declared that every man who has come into this Church; and every woman, for that matter, who has received the testimony of the Spirit of the Lord, is a prophet or a prophetess; that every man should be a prophet, because every man in the Church should have the testimony of Jesus which is the spirit of prophecy; and he .should declare the truth, teach the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, call upon the people to repent of their sins, and instruct them in the things of the kingdom. This is the duty of a prophet and constitutes the office and calling of a prophet just as much as the declaration of things which are yet to come. Now, these things are true. 

The Lord bless you and guide you, my brethren and sisters, in the truth. May we seek for the testimony of the Spirit of God and become filled with the testimony of Jesus, that we can declare to the world that he is the Son of God and the Redeemer of mankind; and when we can do that in words of soberness, we are prophets and we  prophetesses. Now, remember that. The Lord bless you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

The last days — 'The gospel older than the law — Successive dispensations — Early apostasies — The gospel greater than any book — Need of a living Priesthood — A testimony to current revelation — Our particular interest in the .outcome of the present world conflict— Principles of the Gospel unnumbered. 

Verily these are the last days, the days seen by seers, predicted by prophets, proclaimed by revelators throughout the ages, and affirmed by the representatives of God in this current dispensation. In these days events develop rapidly. As on the mimic stage action increases, and in the working out of the plot and plan developments occur with bewildering rapidity as the finale approaches, so in the great drama of God on the stage of the world, the purpose of the great Master is being made plain through the portentous events of the current day. By the "last days" we do not mean the end of time. Such a concept indeed is impossible to the human mind. Duration is of necessity eternal, just as space is unbounded. So with respect to the gospel of Christ and its effects; this gospel is eternal and its extent unbounded. 

Bible students recognize that Israel lived under the law, and that Christ brought the gospel which superseded the law, and they have drawn a wholly incorrect inference, namely, that the law is in fact older than the gospel. Be it known that the gospel, so far as this earth and its inhabitants are concerned, dates GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Adam. Unto him was taught the necessity of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, not merely mental belief, but abiding, impelling, living faith, the necessity of repentance, the indispensability of baptism in water by immersion for the remission of sins, the indispensability of the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. These principles and ordinances were taught unto Adam, administered unto him, and by him were taught and administered to others. So was it also with Enoch, with Noah, with Abraham, with Moses, and with the hosts of God's righteous servants in the early dispensations, who in many instances laid down their lives in defense of the principles which they promulgated. 

No, the gospel did not begin upon earth in the meridian of time. There had been gospel dispensations before, and there had been widespread apostasies from the truths declared in those several dispensations. The great apostasy following the apostolic ministry was not the first. There was an apostasy in the days of Noah, and the people suffered therefrom in their disembodied state, until in the Lord's due time He went unto them and offered the principles of the gospel by which they could in a measure make amends. 

One of the inherent weaknesses of the human mind is that of reaching after completeness. We like to feel that we can begin and end a subject of study. We are like those thoughtless students in school who seem to think that all that is known about the subject is to be found within the covers of their text book; and a reprehensible but still somewhat popular custom prevails in some of the colleges on the part of the classes who finish  study of some book, to hold a cremation ceremony and burn up the texts as evidence that they have no further use for them; they think they know the whole thing. 

We have learned the solemn truth that the gospel is greater than any book, greater than the Bible, indispensable though that volume is; greater than the Book of Mormon, great as is the mission of that Scripture, brought to the world in these latter days by the power and inspiration of God; greater than our current volume of modern revelation, for there is more to come. More is included in the gospel than all Scripture thus far written; and the living oracles are established in the Church to give unto the people from time to time the mind and the will of God in addition to what has been placed upon record with relation to the ages past. We have yet to find the first discrepancy, the first instance of inconsistency, of lack of harmony between the Scriptures that are given unto the people by those who speak in the name and by the power of the living God, and those words that are written of similar ministry in by-gone times. 

What, some may ask, are we not told that we have the fulness of the gospel ? Verily so. When Moroni came to announce to Joseph Smith the existence of the record from which Joseph was afterwards to translate, by the gift and power of God, the volume known to us as the Book of Mormon, Moroni declared unto him that that book contained the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as made known unto the people in their age; but "fulness" is relative, even as perfection is. Many have stumbled over that admonition of Christ, "Be ye 161  even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." Men have asked : How can that be ? We are not like Him; we are still mortal, with all our frailties. Even those who believe in the eternal progression of man so reason, so argue, and they would make out that Christ uttered fable and fiction; for to so admonish in the face of impossibility would be nothing less. But Christ told the people in that day, and He has repeated the admonition and injunction unto us : Be perfect in the sense in which your Father in heaven is perfect. What man calls "perfection" is after all comparative. Plainly a man in mortality cannot be perfect in power nor in influence nor in righteousness, in all details in the sense in which God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ are perfect. Both of Them are resurrected men, both of Them have passed through conditions strictly analogous to those of mortality through which we are passing, both of whom have died, both of whom have been resurrected, both of whom are glorified, supremely so. In the sense in which They are perfect you and I cannot aspire to be so here in the flesh. But we can be perfect if we will in our sphere, as They are perfect in Their sphere; and perfection in the lesser is the greatest possible preparation for perfection in the greater. 

So with respect to the fulness of the gospel. That expression is relative. Unto the Nephites was given a fulness of the gospel as it applied to them, embracing and embodying the fundamental principles and ordinances and blessings arising therefrom, uncounted and innumerable; but nevertheless, there is much more in the gospel, in its , in the blessings which it holds in store, that shall yet be made known unto man. We recognize the varied offices in the priesthood, and we know something of the functions connected with each, but there are functions of which we have not yet learned, but of which we shall learn hereafter. The powers and functions of the Holy Priesthood, as manifested in mortality today, are but as the foothills compared with the towering peaks beyond. The priesthood is eternal, and therefore when it is conferred carries with it the possibilities of this endless progression, development and expansion. When shall we have more ? God grant that we receive it not until we are well prepared for it, for many of us have not yet learned to live up to what we have received, and if we receive and reject, we bring ourselves under condemnation. 

I have met here and there a disgruntled one, one who is saying: Why don't we receive further revelation from God today? We are receiving it day by day. I speak of what I know when I say unto you, if ever the Church of Christ was led by a prophet enjoying communion with God, inspiration from the source of divine revelation, from heaven direct — and none of us can doubt such leadership in the past — this day witnesses that condition. I testify unto you that the man who stands at the head of this Church is the mouthpiece of God unto His people, and if we fail to heed his words, his admonitions, his instructions given unto us as they have been, and are, in love and nevertheless with firmness and with no uncertainty of tone, we bring ourselves under condemnation. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

We recognize in the events of the present day the very conditions that were foreseen and foretold. Do yon not remember how anxious and eager the eleven apostles were of old to win from Christ some definite expression as to when He would come? Before His crucifixion, before His betrayal, the Twelve seemed to be equally concerned, whatever may have been the personal condition of the mind of Judas, and they asked Him : "When shall these things be, and what shall be the sign of thy coming?" The Lord warned them against men who would set dates, and that warning has never been abrogated, but, on the contrary, has been repeated and emphasized. I say unto you, beware of the men who undertake to set the year and the day in which the Christ shall come, for that has not been revealed unto man. Nevertheless, Christ did give certain signs and conditions which would indicate the imminence of His coming, and one of the most remarkable was this : He told of wars; He told of the awful tragedies that should come upon the earth, and, with respect to all these, He said "the end is not yet." Then having explained further He said : "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come." 

This Church has been preaching that gospel. It has not yet completed its commission. It was so engaged most earnestly, and is engaged most devoutly to the extent, I believe, of its means, condition, and attendant circumstances. Before the outbreak of this great conflict it maintained a standing army of approximately two thousand, a very small army compared with the , but approximately two thousand men in the world, crying repentance, warning the people of the calamities that were to come, crying: "Come out of her,, that ye partake not of her plagues." Many heard and believed and are here. Many heard and scoffed, and have remained. Now, not all the good were taken, and not all who were left are bad; but there were those who had faith enough to lay hold on the blessing placed within their reach, and to come out into this land of relative safety, and of great blessing, the land in which the Lord has spoken and from which has gone out the word of God unto the nations. 

I would have the Latter-day Saints consider the fact that of all peoples on the face of the earth we are peculiarly interested in the outcome of this struggle. Therefore we have a sound foundation in this for our patriotism, for our sacrifice, for our efforts in behalf of this government, for our unqualified allegiance to the Constitution of the United States, which is veritably the scripture of the nation; for upon this Church has been laid the commission to preach the gospel in every nation as a witness. How can we do this when the doors of the nations are barred and bolted? To discharge this commission we must have freedom; there must be freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and above all, freedom of conscience, ever remembering that freedom means real liberty in righteousness, and not license to do wrong. Therefore we Latterday Saints are praying, and not only in words but in deeds, that victory may attend the arms that have been taken up in the vindication of the rights of men, that we may 163  access to the nations, that we may lay before them the saving principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and thus discharge the high commission that has been placed upon us. 

This gospel is broad enough, and deep enough, and of such towering heights as to surpass the powers of the greatest mind to comprehend, and yet so simple in its fundamentals as to satisfy the honest inquiry of the child. We speak of faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands, as the first principles and ordinances of the gospel. We have gone so far as to number them — the first, the second, the third and fourth principles, and the first and the second ordinances. Are there others? Verily, verily, yes. What, a fifth? Yes, and a sixth, and a seventh, aye, and a tenth, and a hundredth and a thousandth. There is no end to the principles of truth embodied in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and yet each one is dependent upon the fundamentals, and each one grows out of those that have been given before. 

May the Lord open our minds and expand our souls, and give us the desire to live up to what we have, that we may receive the more; for "We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." Be we ready, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Increased interest in the things of God — Conditions that need a warning word — Amusements conducted for money dangerous to youth — A knowledge of God and his Son 

Jesus Christ the best gift that can be bestowed on children — Some dangers to provide against — The Priesthood of God the most precious thing in the world — Conservation now enjoined in all things, but let us not forget to conserve our young manhood and womanhood — Foundation of character to be laid in the home. 

We approach the close of a great conference. We have come up to be fed, and we have received the bread of life. I can scarcely hope, my brethren and sisters, to be able to add anything of profit to the splendid instruction and admonition and counsel that have come to us during the sessions of this conference. I feel certain that I could not give to you any principles of the gospel which have not received some attention. With the help of our Father's Spirit, however, I should be pleased if I could make some application of the great truths of the gospel as they have been presented to us. 

During the past year I have had the high privilege of going about among the people, participating with them in their meetings and enjoying with them some of the functions of the Church. I have had some little opportunity for observation. My observation is that the people of God are trying more day by day to live according to his word and to keep his commandments. The larger percentage in attendance at the conferences of the Church, as they are held in the various stakes, and in the wards of the Church, give rather striking evidence of an increased interest in the things that pertain to our Father's kingdom. An increase of attention to the various duties which are imposed upon those who hold the priesthood and also upon those GENERAL CONFERENCE.  work in the various organizations of the Church, corroborates the notion that we have that the people are in very deed trying more and more to conform their lives to the pattern laid down by the Redeemer of the world. These observations bring much of encouragement and satisfaction to the general authorities of the Church, as I am sure they bring encouragement to all of the people. 

We are able to observe, however, from time to time, some few conditions that seem to deserve a warning word and a little caution, and without being guilty of painting a picture that might be considered black or gloomy, I would call to the attention of the Latter-day Saints a few things which, I think, deserve their immediate consideration and which if treated properly may bring something of increased devotion on the part of a large number of the members of the Church. 

Perhaps because my work during the past ten or twelve years has been largely devoted to the young people and their interests, my heart goes out particularly to them. I never can forget them. I always see in the young the future of the Church, of the State and of the Nation. I always look to. the children as the hope of Israel. They draw out from me the best that is within me and the tenderest thoughts and the greatest desire to be of service, and as I see throughout some of the stakes of the Church conditions which, in my opinion, militate against their welfare, against their growth, against their accomplishment of the great purposes that the Father of us all has in store for them, I feel that it is my duty to call attention to some of these  in the hope that they may be rectified. 

Let me give you an example : Only a week or two ago I was in one of the stakes of the Church where a bishop reported to me that within the confines of his ward a resort given over to swimming and dancing, refreshments and other forms of amusement, in attendance upon which there had been counted upon one Sabbath day more than four hundred automobiles loaded with people, and particularly young people; a resort where the children of the Latterday Saints and the children of other good people were enticed by the things that are made to appeal to them; a resort kept and promoted by a man who has at heart no purpose except to make money and who cares not a farthing for the morals and the welfare of young men and young women; and by the way, that is not an uncommon thing in the amusements of this day. There was a time when the amusements and the entertainment^ among our people were conducted for the benefit of the people themeslves. Unfortunately, they have now in some measure, at least in too large a measure, become commercialized, so that the only thing to which attention is paid is the making of money, irrespective of the fact that disgrace and dishonor may be brought upon those who patronize such places. The example I cite to you is, I believe, an exceptional and an exaggerated case, but I know, as you know, that there are within the Church other places that tend to lead our young people away from their duty,' from the path of integrity, wholesomeness, purity, morality that our fathers and our mothers have bidden 165  tread. So, my brethren and my sisters, I appeal to you to have care for your children and I appeal to the boys and the girls of this Church to live according to the plan of life that is laid down for them in this great and beautiful gospel of ours. 

If we can only bring our boys and girls to know and feel the depth and the height and the breadth of this great plan of life which is given to us by the Savior of the world, they will be safe. But, are we making them feel it? Are we giving them the same firm testimony of the truth that has come to us ? Are we implanting in their souls a keen desire to live the gospel as they ought to live it? We are not implanting in their hearts that desire when we permit them to partake of the amusements and the sins and the accompanying dangers that come to them from the world. When we let them think that it is more important for them to be in fashion and in style than it is for them to keep the commandments of God we are giving them the opportunity of straying away and of becoming estranged from these great truths and from this great plan of life and salvation. And so I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that there never was a time attendant with greater danger to the youth of Israel than the present time. There never was a time when there were more allurements for them to be led away from the truth. There never was a time when it was harder to make boys and girls believe and feel that the greatest thing in their lives is the gospel, than today. That is my observation. It is my conviction. And it needs all- of our courage, all of our strength and considera and attention to keep our boys and girls in the path of truth. 

I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am proud of it. Never was my heart so lifted up in just pride, I think, as it was in this great assembly yesterday when the President of our Church bore that striking testimony of truth that went into the soul of every man and every woman who heard him. I am proud to be identified with this great work. I am proud to bear the name of Jesus Christ. God help me to be worthy of it. I want you, my brethren and sisters, to teach your boys and your girls to be proud of that name, prouder of it than all else in the world that may come to them. It is their salvation. They may hanker after the things of this world, they may spend their lives in trying to attain the comforts and the luxuries and the riches of this life, but I tell you, in the name of Jesus Christ, they will die in spirit if they do not have the gospel of Jesus Christ in their hearts, and all their lives will have been spent in vain, and all their possessions will be as naught and their whole lives will be one great regret and one great sorrow to them. 

Therefore, let us give to these boys and girls of ours the testimonies of the truth that we have. Let us be careful of them. As President Lund said in his address, let us have confidence in them, but let us not abuse that confidence. Boys and girls need care. They have not arrived at the age of maturity that enables them always to act wisely for themselves. They need direction, they need supervision, particularly in their play. They can not always be trusted to do the thing that is best for them GENERAL CONFERENCE.  they are on their own responsibility. 

If I may without giving offense, I should like to suggest to some of you fathers and mothers that you be careful about giving to your boys and girls the unrestricted, unsupervised use of your automobiles and your conveyances. Time after time, as I have traveled over our roads in the night time have I seen automobiles loaded down with boys and girls in positions that' would have shamed their parents and that will some day be a shame to them, I tell you we need to be careful. We need to have charge and concern of these precious souls given into our care and our keeping, and that need is only emphasized by modern times. Thousands and thousands of the boys have been called away from the farms. The farmers will be obliged to hire trnsient help. Hundreds of men will come to our homes in order to do the work that has to be done. We shall welcome their aid, but we will beware of their influence. Let me caution you, let me caution you never to permit your boys and your girls, if you can help it, to associate with men and women whose influence you are not sure is good. 

And I want to say to my brethren, my younger brethren, those young men who are now just approaching the prime of life, that it is incumbent upon them that they learn to appreciate the priesthood of God. Thousands of them have had this holy priesthood given to them. Some think that it is cheap because it comes to so many. I tell you it is the most precious thing in this world, and if you will only come to appreciate it and know its full meaning, you will agree that it  in value all else that has ever been given to you, and it will be of greater strength and greater joy and greater satisfaction to you than anything else. Boys appreciate the priesthood of God. It is an honor to be a deacon. It is a high honor to be a priest and to serve in the various functions which are given to that order in the priesthood. It is a great and mighty and ennobling honor to receive the holy Melchizedek priesthood and be ordained an elder. Never do one thing in your lives that will degrade you in that priesthood. I believe that no one can receive that priesthood and fail to honor it, without being held accountable in the sight of our Father. Indeed I sometimes think it would be better if some who have lightly thrown aside this great high privilege and honor and opportunity and authority that has come to them if they had never received it. Their condemnation, I fear, will be all the more severe. 

We are talking a lot now about liberty bonds and we are talking a great deal about conservation of food, and saving wheat, and saving all the products of the land, and it is well that we should. We believe in it. We know it is necessary, but I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that there is nothing in this wide world that we need to conserve quite so much as the manhood and the womanhood of the nation. Talk about the value of wheat, talk about the value of war munitions, they don't compare with the men, and the women, too, who go to make up the state and the nation. You can not have a great nation without great men and women, and while it is not possible for every one of the citizens of a ' 167  nation to achieve high places of distinction, this I always remember, as was once said on this subject by a great writer, that while we may not all be Washingtons, we can all be such men and such women as will uphold and sustain a Washington in the path of duty and the way of glory. We can all teach our sons and daughters the fundamental principles that underlie true citizenship, true honor, true loyalty, and let me tell you that the place to teach loyalty, as we sometimes say about charity, begins at home. The place to teach all boys and girls the value of citizenship and the value of being loyal and honorable in their duties and obligations to state and country is at home by teaching them to receive and honor and obey the people who are placed to preside over them. Never say a word that would detract from the influence of the bishop or of the president of the stake or of any of the elders of the people, and I promise you your boys and your girls will be good citizens of the land. 

God help us, my brethren and sisters, to be true to our obligations. Help us to be true to the high name that we bear. God bless us that we may indeed be the Church of Christ, that we may have his Spirit to go out from our midst among our fellows in the land to convince them of the greatness and the efficacy of the work in which we are engaged. And help us to so live that the sermon of our lives may preach the word of God to the whole wide world, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder Horace S. Ensign sang a sacred solo : "The Shepherd King." 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN. 

Vivid impression of the teachings of President Joseph F. Smith — Appreciation of the doctrines and principles of the Gospel as taught by a Latter-day Saint mother — Prayer the strongest factor for good that can come into the life of a boy — A desire that the speaker may merit the love and friendship in some degree the Latter-day Saints had for his father, the late President Francis M. Lyman. 

It is new and strange for me to occupy this place. I wish President Smith, in his eloquent and forceful way, had spoken during the few minutes left for me, and had given me six months in which to prepare a few remarks. 

While in Tooele recently I visited the same church building and saw the same seat in which I sat as a child many years ago and listened to the powerful and eloquent words of President Joseph F. Smith. Such was the impression he made that I remember what he said then as clearly as I remember what I have heard him say at this conference. From that time in my childhood to this hour I have heard no public utterance of his that was not thrillingly eloquent. Can you wonder then that, being new in this position, I wanted him to speak in my place ? 

Who am I ? Why should I be here ? My life, my work, my attention have been .directed almost exclusively to educational work. I have not done service as a regular missionary. I do not stand before you, therefore, as a preacher, but merely as a "Mormon" boy and all I can do is say a few blunt words in defense of my religion and my people, as I have done during my GENERAL CONFERENCE.  life and at other times when separated from you — my people. 

I, too, am pleased to bear testimony to the truth and .divinity of the remarks that have been made at this conference. The words of Brother Stephen L. Richards concerning the welfare of our sons and daughters — our most precious resource — made a marked impression on my mind. Seven years of my life have been spent in eastern colleges and during that time, .separated as I was from my kindred and from the Church, I had nearly all the temptations to resist. The teachings of the Church and the training of my good "Mormon" mother gave me strength. I prayed as she taught me to pray, I believed in God and in his guidance, I began every day's labor with an earnest prayer for help, I closed each day with an expression of gratitude to my Heavenly Father for his guidance. Thus was I able, when surround with temptation, to make my life, conform with the teachings of the Church and to live in accordance with the wishes of my excellent parents. 

Prayer, as I see it, is the strongest factor for good that can come into the life of a boy. Unfortunate the youth who has to face the temptations of the world if in his childhood he has not learned to pray. If your soldier son learned this childhood lesson at your knee, rest assured his faith in God will keep him clean. If he returns he'll do so in the strength and majesty and power of his clean manhood. If he gives his life to the glorious cause of human liberty he, by so doing, adds undying luster to your family name. 

I have never been sufficiently  to think that I deserve to stand in this sacred place that was occupied so recently by my distinguished father. His heart is aglow with delight, if he knows with what intensity many of you have expressed your congratulations to me for his sake. My fondest hope is that as a member of the Council of the Twelve I may merit in some degree the precious love and friendship you had for him. 

May our heavenly Father make us better and happier from day to day, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I do not purpose to detain you long, but my mind has been particularly awakened on one or two subjects which I would like to call to the attention of this vast assembly of Latter-day Saints. 

THE CRIME OF ADULTERY AND UNCHASTITY 

I wish to announce to you and call to your attention the fact that the next to the greatest sin and crime that can be committed, and for which the penalty in the law of God is just the same, is the crime of adultery and unchastity. Sometimes we hear rumors and reports from various parts of our country that are heart-rending and awful if they are true, and that is in regard to the lightness in which the principles of chastity are held by some of our young people, and in some respects are lightly passed over by those who ought to be teachers in regard to these principles, and who ought to instil into the hearts of the youth the principles of virtue and of chastity. 169 

The Lord Almighty affixed in the law of .Moses the penalty of death for the crime of murder or the shedding of blood, and the Lord Almighty affixed the same penalty of death upon the crime of adultery and unchastity. I hope that the Latter-day Saints will hold in mind the fact that there is no greater crime that men and women can commit, except the crime of murder itself, than that of adultery and unchastity; and let this be a precept to be taught and instilled into the minds of our children, and to our children's children henceforth, with all earnestness and fidelity on the part of those who are called to be watchmen upon the towers of Zion. 

WHAT IS LIBERTY? 

We have been talking, and we do talk very much, about this wonderful, this glorious, this most choice principle of liberty, for which we are willing to sacrifice all that we possess in a worldly sense, and that we are also willing to add in that sacrifice our own lives to defend it. What is it? What is this liberty for which we are willing to fight, for which we are willing to sacrifice life and all that we possess in the world? Let me tell you. It is simply the liberty of all mankind to worship God in righteousness; that is what it is; for all mankind to have the liberty to do right, the liberty to do good, the liberty to pursue happiness, in honor, in virtue and in uprightness. But it cannot for one moment descend in any degree to license or to infringement upon the rights of others. No man has any liberty to impose upon his brother, to rob or to steal, to lie or to bear false witness, or to injure or wrong his . When we are talking of this great and glorious principle of liberty it is that we may be free to worship God and to love him with all our hearts and minds and strength, and to love our neighbor as ourselves, and to protect the principles of virtue and honor throughout all the world. That is the liberty that we are looking for and that we are willing to fight for. 

We are not trying to defend the liberty of mankind to be drunken, to be debauchees, to advocate crime, to interfere with the rights of others. This is not liberty. The law of nations, as well as the law of God, prohibits it, and it cannot exist except it exist contrary to the laws of righteousness and contrary to the principles of liberty that we are willing to fight for and that we are striving for. 

GOD NEITHER DESIGNS NOR IS THE CAUSE OF WICKEDNESS AND CRIME 

I do not want this congregation, or any of the congregations of the Latter-day Saints, to conceive the idea, or to entertain it for one moment, that the true and living God — the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ — who so loved the world that he sent his Only Begotten Son into the world, to bleed, to die, and to be sacrificed for the sin of the world, the Father of our spirits, he who loves his children, is in any degree responsible for the carnage, the bloodshed, the crime and the infamy that is today being perpetrated because of war, or any other cause, throughout the world. God is not responsible for it. I want you to let this sink into your hearts and remember it. God does not design wickedness or crime in the midst of his children, neither is he the cause of it. One of the aposGENERAL CONFERENCE.  said : "Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God : for God cannot be tempted with evil; neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed." The Lord God Almighty has no pleasure whatever in the nations of the earth contending one with another and destroying themselves. All this is contrary to the will of God, contrary to his purposes, and contrary to his love, and to the very nature of the true and the living God. He loveth his children; he desires them to have life everlasting and nOt death. I pity the expressions that I have heard so many times in the public print from ignorant preachers and some poor mothers whose sons have been sacrificed at the front : " Why does God permit it? Why has God permitted my son to be slain ? Why does God permit the war that is existing today in all the nations of the earth?" The answer is: Because the nations of the earth, together with their leaders, exercise their freedom, the freedom of their agency, to pursue their wicked course, which results in war and in the death and destruction that is being perpetrated today throughout the nations of the earth. The Lord has no pleasure in it, and I do not want the Latter-day Saints to conceive the idea that God is responsible, or to charge him with the crime of desiring the destruction of his children. It is not true! 

GOD LOVES AND IS THE AUTHOR OF RIGHTEOUSNESS AND PEACE 

I just wanted to say those few words to the Latter-day Saints. The Lord loveth peace. The doc of the Savior of men was "Peace on earth, good will to men," love, love unfeigned. The greatest of all the commandments that was ever given to the children of men is : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." If in the central nations of the earth this spirit of love had existed, this principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ; if this glorious admonition had been taken to heart by the rulers of those nations, there never would have been any war, there never would have been any bloodshed, there never would have been the devastation and ruin and evil conditions that exist today. It is because the people of the world have not the gospel. It is because they do not obey the truth. It is because they have not Christ, and therefore they are left to themselves, and the results that we see are the consequences of their own misbehavior and of their own wicked deeds. 

CLOSING ADMONITIONS 

I thank you, my brethren and sisters, for your attendance at this conference. You have shown your integrity, your love for the work in which you are engaged, your respect for this great occasion of meeting together on the 6th of April, in commemoration of the day on which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. We want you to continue to entertain this faith, this confidence, this love, this deep interest in the work in which you are engaged, 171  at every recurrence of this occasion, and of the semi-annual conference of the Church, you may be punctual in attendance at the conferences and show your willingness to uphold and to sustain the work throughout all the country where you dwell. 

I feel to extend my gratitude and my thanks to my brethren who have spoken the words of truth and of righteousness, and who have given exhortation that an angel from the presence of God could not have given more clearly, more intently and fervently from the heart than our brethren have given it to you during our conference. Let us prize their words, their admonitions; let us hearken to their cautions, to their warnings, and to their exhortations to us to observe the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and live like Latter-day Saints — more especially like Latter-day Saints than like some "Mormons" live. I want to say to my dear Brother Richard, when he speaks of that mother of his and calls her a "Mormon" mother, he means well, but really she was a Latter-day Saint. I knew her. ( Laughter. ) 

I also desire to express my pleasure and gratitude and ' thanks to those who have made music for us, our soloists, our singers of duets, the choir, and the leaders of our music. We thank them for their , and we rejoice and enjoy exceedingly their harmony, for it is a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the true spirit of worship. We will now sing, "TfojC Spirit of God like a fire is burning," and this semi-annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be adjourned for six months. 

The choir and congregation sang : "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph C. Bentley, President of the Juarez stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing in the Tabernacle. Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball, and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Clarence Cramer; and in the Asembly Hall and by the Bureau of Information, by Elders Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

IN SIX VOLUMES COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per Vol $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per Vol :. 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge,per Vol. 4.00 

WRITE FOR 1918 CATALOG FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, . SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

The Restoration of the Gospel 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, with an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. 

Adopted by the Priesthood Outlines Conxmittee as a TEXT BOOK FOR THE PRIESTS' QUORUMS for the year 1918. 

Bound in cloth, 75c postpaid. 

TWO BOOKS THAT EVERY L. D. S. FAMILY SHOULD HAVE 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, for 

histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25. 

Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. 

$1.25 and upward. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized History of the Church, and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, 75c postpaid. 

WRITE FOR 1918 CATALOG FREE 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







