15
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
Elder William H Smart 

(President of Uintah Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel just now very much in the frame of mind that Elder McKay expressed himself to be in at the meeting this morning, that is, weighed down by a feeling of responsibility, in occupying this position as a representative and humble servant of the Lord. In voicing such sentiments as shall come to my mind I feel to trust in the Lord and your sympathy, faith and prayers for that which will be given unto me. I feel that we are being very greatly blessed in this conference. Indeed, it is coming to be a trite and common-place saying that each of our conferences seems to be better than that which preceded. I am glad to be able to bear testimony unto you that, after having attended all the sessions of this conference up to the present time, and having listened attentively to what has been said unto us by the various speakers, there has been no principle advanced that I have not felt to say amen to. I feel thankful to my heavenly Father, therefore, that He has given me the spirit of this conference, and I believe that you have enjoyed that same blessing, receiving a witness of the Spirit that the teachings of the brethren have been inspired of our heavenly Father. Indeed, it has beerr a time of refreshing. 

It may or may not be in place to express my absolute concurrence in the appointment of Elder Ivins to the apostleship. This is in keeping with the statement I made, that I endorse, with all my heart, the sentiments expressed and the business transacted so far at this conference. I think, brethren and sisters, that this is one of the greatest testimonies that the Latter-day Saints have of the divinity of "Mormonism," and the foundation stone of our faith, the rock of revelation, the avenue through which God makes known His mind and will unto His servants upon the earth. One of the strongest principles of our religion, I think, is the nomination by the head, and the sustaining, or rejection by the body. The world are pleased to say that, through our being united in the acceptance of that which is nominated by the head, we are blindly led, that we are not independent, that we do not exercise free will and individuality; and therefore they urge young "Mormondom" to throw off this alleged yoke of priestcraft, bondage and slavery, the slavery of mind and spirit. I am sorry to say that the adversary, through those deceivers, is having power, in some instances, to influence our young people against the great principles that we have espoused. . We do not think it is anything out of place that the sun  every morning, 365 days in the year, and sets every evening. We do not think it is peculiar that the trees bud in the spring, and shoot forth their leaves, and yield their delicious fruits in the fall. We do not think it is peculiar that the moon accompanies the other planets of this constellation regularly, from one years' end to another. We do not think it peculiar that when we throw a ball in the air it returns to the earth, by the law of gravitation or attraction. We do not think it peculiar that when we throw a body into the water it goes beneath the surface, and yet it rises afterward to that position that has the same density as itself. We do not think it peculiar that when we take the two elements, hydrogen and oxygen, and mix them in proper proportions, we may form the element of water. In other words, we do not think it peculiar that the universe and all that is therein heeds the voice of order and fulfils its destiny. When there is right, truth, honesty, superlative love at the head, unchangeable and unsullied in character, are you misled? When God speaks through the Priesthood we are just as certain that it is truth as we are that it is right and proper for all things within the universe to subscribe to and follow the laws of nature. How beautiful is the thought that the Spirit of God possessed by the Latter-day Saints is such that we can spiritually analyze the counsel that is given to us, and, if we are living according to the Gospel of the Son of God, we can thereby ascertain as to whether that which is given is true or not. That is the Touchstone of truth, therefore, when the servants of God proclaim the wishes of our heavenly Father,  are entitled to know whether He sanctions that which is said or 

not. . . , 

While we were sustaining the authorities, this passage of modern Scripture came to my mind : "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings . are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." I regard this as one of the most beautiful passages of spiritual philosophy that there is in the Scriptures. Another passage also came to my mind, a revelation given unto the Prophet Joseph Smith in Kirtland, March 8, 1833 : 

"Therefore thou art blessed from, henceforth that bear the keys of the kingdom given unto you; which kingdom is coming forth for the last time. Verily, I say unto you the' keys of this kingdom shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come." 

That is, the keys of the kingdom that were bestowed upon the Prophet Joseph Smith, by the laws of our heavenly Father, should not only continue with him in this life, but in the world to come. 

"Nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another; yea, even unto the Church. And all they who receive the oracles of God, let them beware how they hold them, lest they are accounted as a light thing, and are brought under condemnation thereby; and stumble and fall,. when the storms descend, and the winds blow, and the rains descend, and beat upon their house." 

Brethren and sisters, if we observe the laws of God we can understand that the oracles of God were given unto the Prophet Jos, and that, while he still holds the keys behind the veil, those same keys were given unto his successors. If we do not understand this, then we are liable to be overthrown when the rains descend and the winds blow, etc. Let us endeavor to keep our hearts attuned and our eyes open, that we may be impressionable to the Spirit of God, and be united with His servants upon the earth, that when, in the "times of- refreshing," the Lord comes we may be counted among His jewels. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
