19
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
Eider Joseph W. M'Murrdt. 

My brethren and sisters : I am requested to speak a few words before the benediction is pronounced. 

In common with others of the brethren who have borne their testimonies during this general semiannual conference, I can say that I have been exceeding happy, and have been thankful to my Father in heaven that my spirit has been in harmony with the counsels and teaching that have been delivered  the people by the servants of the Lord. 

One of the peculiarities of the Latter-day Saints is their belief in Divine revelation. It has been stated in this meeting- this afternoon that we are believers in the revelations of the Almighty, and that there is necessity for the word of the Lord to come unto the people in these latter times as in former ages. I sometimes wonder that there should be so much doubt in the minds of the people concerning divine revelation, when we think of th: marvelous advances that are being made scientifically among the nations of the earth. It is possible now, so we are told, (while we may not comprehend the principle altogether by which this thing that I have in mind is accomplished, I suppose we have no doubt that it is being accomplished), that messages are sent through the air without any means of transmission that we can see, through the agency of what is termed wireless telegraphy. All that the most of us know about it is that there are delicate instruments that are so in tune with each other that, by some mysterious means, when an instrument is touched here, afar off, hundreds of miles away, there will be a response with another instrument that is - in harmony with the first, and the message will be received and understood. Something akin to that is also said in relation to musical instruments, that where two musical instruments are in perfect accord with each other, if a note be sounded on one, another instrument in the same room, if in exact harmony, and responsive to the note, will make reply. Is it not possible, my brethren and sisters, when we see these things transpiring among the children of men, to  that we can be so in harmony with our Father in Heaven in our spirit, in our thoughts, that we can receive and recognize the message of the Almighty when the voice of the Master speaks through His servants? There is, or should be, a responsive key or spirit within our own souls that should be in perfect accord with that that is divine. I believe in this doctrine with all my soul. I do not only believe that the manifestations of the power of God and the inspiration of His Spirit has rested upon those who have occupied prominent and presiding positions in the Church, but that it has been with the people of the Lord generally. 

I could not help but recall, this afternoon, when the name of Brother Anthony W. Ivins, the President of the Stake in Mexico, was named as an Apostle, that, years ago, there came into my own soul this very spirit to which I refer. I remember at one time when I was afar off in the missionary field, reading of the appointment of Brother Ivins to preside in Mexico; as I read there came over me the spirit of inspiration, and whispered to my soul that the time would come when Brother Ivins, who was then called to break up his home and go afar off into an adjoining republic, among a people that could hardly be deemed desirable,when he would much rather, I imagine, have remained with his own people, he, nevertheless, broke up his home, sold his possessions and, at the call of the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, cheerfully undertook the accomplishment of the work allotted to him, — I say, as I read of these things, and thought and pondered over the sacrifices that he was willing to make, there came into my soul the testimony that God would yet call him to the ministry of the apostleship. 

A few years ago, probably seven or eight years, in journeying with one of the Apostles, on a trip south, I spoke to him in relation to this impression of the Spirit that had come to me. I was beginning to wonder whether I had been rightly impressed, as a number of vacancies had occurred in the apostleship and had been filled, and still Brother Ivins was not chosen. To my astonishment that Apostle either took a little journal from his pocket and read to me, or related to me, I am not sure which, but I believe that he read it from his journal, that one of the great pioneers of this country, one of our statesmen, who was also one of our noted apostles, the "father of the southern country," Apostle Erastus Snow, many years ago, in the days of the boyhood of this brother who has been chosen to the apostleship, prophesied that the t; me would come when he would be called to this very position, and stand in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Men may laugh and sneer and doubt the possibility of the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and the revelations of the Almighty that come to man, but in my soul, and in the souls, I trust, of those who are gathered together in this congregation, who have taken upon them the name of the Lord Jesus, there has come answer to prayer, there has come understanding in relation to the truth, there has come the revelation of the Lord God of heaven to us, that this work to which we have set our hands is the very power of God, the work of the Almighty. I thank the Lord for it. I  God for the testimony I have of the truth. And I do know the truth; I know that this people have been established in these latter days ly the revelation and commandrLent of the Almighty, and that the predictions spoken through the mouths of the old prophets in relation to the marvelous work of the latter days are being brought to pass. The work we will accomplish hereafter will continue to be a fulfilment of the sayings of the prophets, and nothing can stay it. God has promised it. God has set His hand to accomplish this work, and He has said concerning those who may oppose it, that the wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall be brought to naught, while the Lord of heaven continues in the accomplishment of his strange and wonderful work. These promises relative to the latter days will all be wrought out in the Lord's own time. There is power with God to decree and to fulfil His decree, and there is no power in the nations of men to thwart the decree that God has made. And in this we are strong. In this we are mighty, though we may be classed among the weak things of the world, we are nevertheless doing the thing appointed unto us of God, and the Lord will carry it through. This is my testimony, and I rejoice in it. I bear it to you in fear and trembling, in a sense, and yet with an unutterable joy, a joy that passes all understanding. I know that God has established His work, and that in this Church there can be found the doctrines and the power of God to salvation. May God help us to believe it, and to indicate our belief by practicing the things that 

have been revealed, is my prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
