20
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley. 

(President of Millard Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, the sessions of the conference that it has been my privilege to attend thus far I have enjoyed most thoroughly. I have rejoiced in the spirit of the conference, in the blessing of the Lord that has accompanied our brethren who have borne testimony, and spoken to us, and I sincerely hope that, for the few moments it is my duty to appear before you, I shall be remembered by you in your faith and prayers, that the Lord may assist me. I have absolutely formulated nothing in my mind in all the anxiety that I have experi) A. HINCKLEY. 99 

enced in the last two hours, since this meeting was appointed, but I have felt in my heart that, if I could do nothing more, I could bear an honest testimony to the truthfulness of the work of the Lord. 

I have been called to labor in the Millard Stake of Zion, over a most excellent people; and, as I was remarking to one of the brethren yesterday, we feel that we cannot help but accomplish good when, out of a Church population of about 4,700 souls, in the Millard Stake of Zion, we have 2,000 who bear the Holy Priesthood, a majority of whom are faithful and true in the discharge of their duty. In a calculation that was made some three weeks ago, by members of the Stake Presidency, we felt we could safely report that, in the Millard Stake of Zion, all the officers, including the presidency, high council, alternate high councillors, and those who preside over the various auxiliary associations of the stake, the Bishops, their counselors, and those who work in organizations in the various wards of that stake of Zion,numbering 1,700, are honest and faithful tithe payers, and all are observers of the Word of Wisdom, so far as tea, tobacco and alcoholic drinks are concerned; not one but has full faith in the Gospel. I say that, with that force of brethren and sisters, of that sterling quality and manner of life, and such faith in the Gospel, we have felt we could not help but succeed in the work that the Lord has called us to perform. 

The great duty that rests upon the Latter-day Saints is, not so particularly in declaring the word of the Lord, but it is living the Gospel as we have received it. It is not sufficient that a child should learn to repeat, "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God," but, the proper impression to be given to the child should be, when they learn that beautiful saying is, "I will be pure in my heart, that I may see God." It is not sufficient that they should learn, "Thou shalt not lie," but that they should feel in their hearts, I will not give myself to deception of any kind. Every principle that is taught should become active in their every-day life. It is not sufficient that our children should hear their father and mother in family prayer, kneel down and pray for the authorities of the Church, but that they should also hear father and mother in their conversation upholding and sustaining the authorities, and yielding obedience to the counsel and instructions that come unto them through that source. It is not sufficient that a father or mother read the Word of Wisdom, contained in the eighty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. They will not be excused before the Lord, when they tell their children that it is the word of the Lord, and at the same time those parents sit down and drink tea or coffee; I consider that the sin is greater than merely transgressing the word of the Lord in that particular. There are the children; they hear that read as a revelation of the Lord unto His people, and then they discover that their father or mother pay but slight attention to that revealed word. I take it that, when the child hears other things that the Lord has spoken, their inclination also will be to treat that lightly, if they have discovered that tendency in their father or mother. The responsibility of living the Gospel is greater than the responsibility of „ simply hearing and professing. The  of living is greater for good upon those with whom we are associated, than simply hearing that which we have to say of the Gospel. 

I thank the Lord when I discover in the world the good examples that we occasionally meet. I thank the Lord that it was my good fortune to have been born of goodly parents. I never forgot the lessons of a good mother. When days of hardship came upon my father, I remember the lessons mother taught her boys. I happen to be the son of the second wife in a polygamous family, and I say, to the credit and the honor of my parents and also of my aunt, his first wife, that, in our household, I hardly knew which was my mother, for my aunt was as devoted and attentive in her care for my mother's children, it seemed to me, as she was for her own. In the days when hardship came upon our family, and father was away from home, I remember that mother came, after we went to bed at night, and taught us, and said, "You boys ought to be thankful for the comfortable bed that you rest in;" and she would tell us of the many who were not so blessed. She would tell us of the authorities of this Church, and of the great sacrifices they had made and were making, until it became second nature to me, when I met the servants of the Lord, to have a very high regard for them, to look upon them as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I praise my mother today for those early impressions, and feel that they are worthy of commendation to all parents. 

It has been my privilege to bear my testimony to those who are not of our faith. I have been delighted in this conference to meet numbers 101  those to whom it was my privilege to proclaim the Gospel, and to find in them the same love of the truth that was first engendered in their hearts when they heard the glad tidings of great joy. One good sister, when she spoke to me said, "My brother, while I am delighted to be gathered up to Zion, I hope that I shall be given your faith and prayers, for my trials are many. I do not find among all of my brethren and sisters the exemplary life that I had hoped to discover." Notwithstanding, this good sister had been taught faithfully by Elders that, when you gather to Zion, you should not look for perfection. They have sung of the time when they would come to Zion, to learn of the ways of the Lord and walk in His paths, and no matter how thoroughly they have been warned, when they gather here, if they discover coolness and indifference, it is a severe trial to them. I hope, my brethren and sisters, that we may sense the responsibility that is upon us, of living worthy the name of Latter-day Saints. Our everyday acts should preach the Gospel, and bear testimony of our sincerity, that we might have the confidence of our brethren and sisters, showing that our lives are characterized by humble spirits, and devotion to the work of the Lord. 

I desire to bear testimony to a knowledge that we are engaged in the work of the Lord. I have not been privileged to see any marvelous manifestations connected with the work of the Lord, only as I have seen it progress, but the Lord has made manifest unto my soul the divinity of this work. He has made manifest unto me that development, comfort, and blessings come unto all those who are faithful, and that  comes unto those who prove derelict in their duty. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful, that we may cherish a love for the truth; and while we may seek the favor of the world, that we shall never sacrifice principle, but that we shall declare the truth by word and deed every moment of our lives, serving the Lord with full purpose of heart, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
