21
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
Elder Edward H. Snow. 

(President of St. George Stake.) 

I have been thinking, my brethren and sisters, during my attendance upon this conference, that we live in a momentous age; and at this particular period of our history we are, as a people, both in this nation and in. the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, making very important history. We live under the leadership in political life of a very strenuous President. As members of the Church, we are living, in our religious affiliations and obligations, under an equally strenuous leader. Pessimists have nearly all turned optimists, and patriotism, nationally, has been aroused. Our faith in the nation's leaders springs almost spontaneously in our hearts. We believe that, generally, they are just men, that they have the welfare of the nation at heart. They have seen dangers that the ship of State was liable to be wrecked upon and have grappled with the great problems of our day with a firmness and integrity that challenges love, admiration, and support, regardless of our affiliations or beliefs. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that, while that condition obtains in civil affairs, it is emphasized and marked to a greater degree, perhaps, in our spiritual life, in our connection and membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is not necessary, I believe, with the great mass of the members of the Church, to preach confidence in the authorities of the Church. Their acts, lives, labor, integrity, and the good results which come from following the counsel of those men, all bring from us, without restraint, our love, respect, and unfaltering support. We are animated and sustained by a determination to do our duty, to be faithful and true. These are auspicious signs of strength, and unity, and I say, my brethren and sisters, that we are fortunate in living in these days. We are fortunate in living when there are so many who are faithful and true, and when we behold the progress, uplifting, and spreading abroad of the Church and its people. We are also gratified as members of that Church, and rejoice in the goodness of our Father, that He has lifted the veil of prejudice that has surrounded the nations with reference to our people. Not an Elder has gone into the world but has suffered in his feelings when he has stood upon the streets of the great cities, or in the house of the prejudiced man or woman who has been filled with lurid tales concerning the "abominable Mormons." He has felt in his heart to pray, "O Lord, how long shall we suffer from the ignorance of the world regarding the virtues, aims, and purposes of our people?" Thank the Lord for the changed sentiment; I feel that we are becoming better known every day. 

It is perhaps a good thing, al at times we have questioned it, that we are surrounded on all sides by the civilization of the world. We have felt sometimes as though it would be a question with us as to which would survive religiously, we or they; whether we should leaven the whole lump, or whether we should be influenced altogether too much by them and their customs. But, to the Latterday Saint who has been faithful and true, and who has a testimony and knowledge of this Gospel, there has never been any question as to the ultimate outcome. We must be tried in all things; our faith must be tried. We must rise triumphant over the temptations of our day. We must love righteousness for its own sake, and virtue for its own reward. That being the case, there is no question of ultimate victory. Being on the highway where travel has been through our midst, where the great of the land, editors, statesmen, and politicians have come among us, have seen us in our homes, have witnessed our lives and labors, the people of these United States can no longer be made to believe that we are what our enemies have represented for the past fifty years. Our reputation is fast merging from the clouds of misrepresentation, our true character, that of a God-fearing, righteous and uplifting people, is becoming known, and this has been brought about through the benign influence of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. We ought to be thankful that we have been born in these valleys, in the midst of these mountains, where the environment has been pure physically and morally. We ought to be thankful for the sweet and uplifting influences of the Gospel upon 103  lives. I believe that we are thankful; and ]ust in proportion to the heartfelt expressions of gratitude we offer to our Father, do we manifest that we appreciate these blessing's day by day. 

I pray the Lord to bless us as a people, to bless the Presidency and other authorities of the Church, and the people, that we may see eye to eye. That we may labor together, unselfishly and harmoniously, for the redemption of Zion, for the spreading of truth, for the setting up of the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, that His purposes may be fulfilled, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
