22
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
Elder Charles H. Hart. 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you this afternoon. Of course, you are disappointed that vou were not able to secure seats in the large Tabernacle, or perchance in the Assembly Hall. There are only a few of us here, but we are nevertheless entitled to an outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord upon us. That is His promise, when even a few meet together in His name He will be there, and that to bless them. My experience has been that, in some of the smallest meetings I have ever attended, I have enjoyed and witnessed a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. I trust we shall enjoy the same good Spirit that has characterized the instructions, admonitions, and words of encouragement we have received throughout the meetings of this conference. 

I was reading in the Deseret News, this morning, a report or interview that was sent out from this city to the Indianapolis Star. 

There are a few words of the excerpt that were printed in last evening's News that I wish to call attention to. We do not notice all the evil things said against us, just as a selfrespecting man will not deign to pay attention to every small dog that may snarl at his heels; but occasionally, when we read a report that is a type of misrepresentation, we feel justified in calling attention to it. The words of this interview or report that I specially wish to call attention to are as follows : "They," meaning the Latter-day Saints, "do nothing until the priests direct them. You would not believe how subservient these poor Mormons are. Mostly from the European slums, they are naturally serfs. They know nothing but to be dominated." It may be that the gentleman who sent out a report, or interview, of that kind, actually believes what he says to be true. Emerson, the philosopher, from whom Elder Whitney quoted yesterday, says, "Nothing shall warp me from the belief that every man is a lover of the truth." That is the general rule, men and women love the truth. I sometimes feel that, patient as we are in standing abuse that may be heaped upon us, after all, we may not be patient enough, perhaps we are not as forgiving and charitable in all instances as we should be, because those who traduce us may be among- that universal class Emerson speaks of who love the truth. 

I was thinking, in reading this excerpt today, how the whole history of the "Mormon" Church disproves the truth of every statement that is contained in those words I have read to you. In the first place the "Mormon" converts were formerly members of other Christian GENERAL CONFERENCE. . They had espoused different religions and denominations of the Christian world, and in order for them to join the Church, they had, in the first place, to break the ties that were already established between them and the churches to which they belonged. It required independence and individuality to do this. If there was not a test thus early in their experience, as proposed converts to the "Mormon" Church, they very soon afterwards, in most instances, experienced some other trying test. It came to individuals in different ways. To the father in poor circumstances, working under a master for a livelihood, in many instances the ultimatum came to leave the Church or leave that employment. That meant very much of serious consequence to the struggling parent, seeking to earn a livelihood for his children, to lose his employment, but, in such cases, he did not hesitate a moment in the choice. Sometimes the test came to the son or daughter from unbelieving parents. After using every effort to persuade that son or daughter not to espouse an unpopular religious cause, the verdict was given that they must either forsake "Mormonism" or forsake the home; turn away from the family hearthstone, cross the threshold for the last time, or abandon the prohibited religion. They met social ostracism, as well as experiencing a disruption of family ties. I noticed today, in the printed program of a meeting of the Daughters of the Pioneers, a number of talks assigned on reminiscent subjects, among others the breaking and severing of home ties. I venture the assertion that those of you who may hear those reminiscent speeches will hear pathetic accounts of individual ex in the severing of ties of kinship and affection which were dear to them, but which became necessary in order for them to be true and loyal to the Gospel. Some parents met their tests in having their children turn against them. The husband in having the wife no longer his affectionate helpmate, on account of his alliance with the "Mormon" religion; and the same with the wife in some instances. But they had received a witness for themselves of the truth of the Gospel they had espoused; they had received a fulfilment of the promise that was given to Joseph Smith, that if they would do the will of the Father, He would manifest Himself unto them. It could be said of them as the poet Lowell says of the month of June : 

"It is as easy now for the heart to be true 

As for grass to be green or skies to be blue, 

'Tis the natural way of living." 

And so with those true hearts who had courage and strength enough to sever the religious ties that formerly bound them, also home and kindred ties, for the love of the Gospel, demonstrating that they were able to comply with that divine admonition recorded in Matthew 10 : 37: "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me : and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me." 

In gazing today on the faces of those aged brethren who sat in front of me in the large Tabernacle I thought that it could almost be said of them, as the prophet of old said of a vision given unto him, "These are they who have come up out of much tribulation." I saw 105 -cart veterans, men whom I knew had witnessed the death of many "Mormon" emigrants upon that trail between the Missouri and the Rocky Mountains, scores who died, without murmuring, at the hard lot that had caused them to forfeit their lives. The test came to the "Mormon" convert all along the line. They buried loved ones in unmarked graves, in the sea and upon the plain. When they came to these valleys they found such work as heroes perform, in overcoming the hard condition that confronted them, in order to secure suitable inheritances, homes and comfort for their children and their children's children, and which are now being enjoyed by them. . 

The line that I have read to you brought to my remembrance an article that I read a long while ago, the report of a speech delivered refuting a charge that was made at that time to the effect that the "Mormon" people were lacking in those qualities that make individuals independent, that make true men and women. It was an article in the first volume of Tullidge's Magazine, published about '81 or '82. The speech I refer to was made by one who was formerly a member of the "Mormon" Church, but who at that time had apostatized, but yet he recognized the fact that the charges then being made against his former associates, by his political colleagues and associates, were untrue. In that speech, made in support of the political cause that he had joined, he took occasion to refute the erroneous accusations his associates had uttered, and which find an exact re-echo in the lines I have read to you. He pointed out the fact that, instead of being subservient individuals, it required the  strength of individuality and character to perform the work that had been accomplished by the "Mormon" people. He called attention to the fact that, to become members of the Church was to become iconoclast, in a certain sense, to the systems with which they had previously allied themselves. And so, the history of this people all along the line, from the time of their conversion abroad, and after they settled in these valleys and upon these plains, haiving been brought up "to the mountain of the Lord's House," established in the mountains and exalted above the hills, their history has shown courage, independence, manhood, all qualities which are the opposite of the epithets applied in the quotation read. 

The historian, Bancroft, in referring to the "Mormons," says that the missionary adventurers of no sect are more devoted, more selfsacrificing, or more successful than were the missionary efforts of the "Mormon" people. He further says that "the Catholic friars, in their new world excursions, were not more indifferent to life, health, wealth, or comfort, not more indifterent to sarcasm ana io siariuer, had no more high courage or lofty enthusiasm, than had the 'Mormon' Elders in their Old World enterprises." That is the tribute an impartial historian gives, after the examination of hundreds of original sources of * information, manuscripts, magazines, papers and books bearing upon that subject. 

My thought during this conference time, has run something along the same line as that of others who have spoken. During the remarks of Brother Frank Y. Taylor, at GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Priesthood meeting - last evening, in reference to the care of our children, it occurred to me that while 150,000 people had visited the Fair, and looked with pride upon the products of the field, fruits of the farm, and the works of art, after all, the most important thing, the most important question — the most important product, if you please, is the character and kind of young men and women we are raising and developing in this country. I recall the lines of a certain poetess, and say to mothers, "What a holy charge is theirs; with what a kingly power their love might rule the fountains of the new born mind; warn them to wake at early dawn and sow good seeds before the world has sown its tares." And that early dawn, that time to sow those good seeds, is before the child reaches the age of eight years, as we are given to understand in the Doctrine and Covenants. There is no sadder thought with a parent than to realize he has raised sons and daughters who have turned out badly. What a ioyous thing it is to father and mother when they realize that their children have been properly trained, that they are virtuous, that they have been able to sufficiently educate them, and have started them out in life right; that they have been fortunate in securing happy wedlock, married to others equally virtuous and honest. I have a sublime admiration for the young man and wife who are willing to go upon, a quarter-section of . sagebrush land and redeem it, and make a home there for themselves. I have high esteem for a young mother living upon one of those places, desolate to begin with; see her nursing a real live baby, not fondling a teddy bear or poodle dog,  devoting herself to those things that tend to the building of empires. 

We hear in this day a good deal said in reference to the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. Where, my brothers and sisters, will we find greater evidence than in the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the great fact of the brotherhood of man, and the reality of the Fatherhood of God. His work was established for the benefit of His children, that faith might increase in the earth, that those who sin may be chastened, that they may repent; that those who seek wisdom may be instructed and that those who are humble might be exalted. The divine injunction is given to man to esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before the Lord; man is not to speak evil of his neighbor, nor do him any harm; he is to visit the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief. A general compliance with these divine injunctions, for the betterment of mankind, would establish bonds of brotherhood and fraternity so strong that contention and strife would be done away with. If those simple requirements were practiced universally by the children of men, what a transformation it would make in the condition of the world! 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
