24
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
Elder Nephi L. Morris. 

(President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

I have greatly enjoyed the remarks made by the various brethren who have spoken during this conference. I could not help feeling while looking over the vast audience at the Tabernacle this morning, how fundamentally great a thing is this semi-annual conference which is held by the Latter-day Saints. Its importance is guaranteed in the fact that God, by revelation, has made it a permanent institution in His Church. From the very beginning of the work conferences have been held until the holding of them has become a charac of the people. Not only does this practice obtain in the Church in Zion, but it extends out into the missions of the world, as it does also in every stake and ward or branch in the Church. The various Priesthood quorums, and the auxiliary organizations also meet in regular conference capacity. The Church, or mother organization, in these semi-annual conferences, calls her children together for counsel and instruction and to give reports while each of them has already convened in smaller assemblies to prepare for these great gatherings which represent absolutely every interest of the Church of Christ. 

I am aware that other religious societies beside our own observe a practice in some respects similar to ours : for instance, the Y. M. C. A. holds occasional conferences, the Epworth League has annual conventions, which are held in different parts of the country. Various churches convene their synods and convocations, but the Latter-day Saints are the only people who call these vast assemblies of the members and the officers for a series of eight or ten general meetings. 

The response to this call is so general that the Saints have for a long time been confronted with the problem of accommodations. As an effort at a partial solution of this perplexing problem, we find ourselves convened as the third section of the final session of this conference. From a consideration of this subject we may anticipate the day when conferences may be necessarily confined to sections of the Church where convenient groups of stakes will be convened in turn throughout the whole Church. 

It is interesting to study one of these conference congregations. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Among- them will be seen the husbandman and the scholar, the artisan and man of affairs, the school boy and the professor. In short, men and women from every calling and station in life are represented. The mere contact of such diversified elements is necessarily educative, and broadening, as well as being conducive to unity and harmony. And, perhaps, the greatest effect is found in the augmented conception which all must gain of the magnitude of this great latterday work. 

In speaking of the diversified elements which compose one of these great gatherings, one is reminded of the fact that nearly all of the races of the earth are here represented. This remarkable achievement is brought about by the principle of gathering, another characteristic of our faith. In every Gospel dispensation the Lord has separated his people from influences which would have restricted Him in the accomplishment of His purposes. It is very befitting that this great latter-day gathering from all nations should be brought about in a nation whose foundation stones were laid on precisely the same principle. Inter-mingling and crossing of races or types, under favorable conditions, produce the greatest results. Our national life verifies this statement. Washington, Franklin, Jefferson, Jackson, in fact all the fathers of our nation, were the products of an inter-mingling of races on new soil, and in a better environment. The present occupant of the White House is another illustrious example of this principle. His ancestry may be traced back to the good old New York Dutch. If in a generation or two this principle has produced such individuals  those named, may we not in succeeding generations look for an entire people to become superior ? This theory is greatly strengthened bv the results of Mr. Burbank's experiments with plants. He seldom obtains results in one or two crosses of species and often not until the tenth or even the twentieth generation. His final results, however, are astounding the scientific world. 

Does not this suggest that the Lord is employing the most natural, and at the same time the most effectual means of bringing about similar and even greater results in calling His chosen people from all the nations of the earth, and making of them a united whole? 

As Mr. Burbank, by painstaking care, brings each plant to a higher development in order to accomplish the final results, so should we as fathers and mothers and guardians of the youth of our people, by prayerful vigilence bestow like care upon the tender and beautiful plants God has entrusted to our nurturing in order to promote His purposes in the perfecting and exalting of the human race. To this end may we consecrate our lives is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen.
