25
Second Overflow
06 10 1907
President Seymour B. Young. 

I am led to say a few words this afternoon in regard to what was said in Priesthood meeting last night, looking to the distribution of the Book of Mormon among the people of the world. Brother Ellsworth, of the Northern States Mission, reported that they had distributed recently, by sale, several thousands of the Book of Mormon; and so greatly had the demand inIll  for this scriptural volume, that he had given an order for a supply for the following year to be sold in his mission and in the Southern States, Central States, and Eastern States missions. He had ordered one hundred thousand copies, and he believed that would not quite fill the demand that would be made upon them during the coming year. Now this, my brethren and sisters, is very encouraging. It makes my heart glad to see this great book, containing the revelations of the Lord, the restoration of the Gospel, the pure principles of life and salvation, coming to be better known among the children of men, more universally appreciated. 

I am reminded now of something that I read a day or two ago that appeared in a morning paper, in regard to the laying and dedication of the cornerstone for the building of a church in Washington, D. C, the United Christian Church, that is to cost seven millions of dollars. J. Pierpont Morgan, one of the greatest financiers of the age, was present, and it is said that he was one of the largest contributors to the construction of that church. President Roosevelt also was present, and congratulated the general board of administration on the wonderful success they had met in obtaining subscriptions toward the large amount of means needed for the building of this great house of worship. I am reminded, my brethren and sisters, of a house of worship that was built in the early part of the nineteenth century. In 1833 a house of worship was commenced in Kirtland, Ohio. It was erected under direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the dispensation of the fulness of times. In the commencement of that build it was conceded that there was not means enough in possession of all the members of the Church to erect the house; but, faith in God, the eternal Father, was the inspiring word, and they were successful. In less than three years from the time of its commencement the house was completed, known as the Kirtland Temple, the first that was built by the Latter-day Saints, and it cost about $70,000. The Saints taxed themselves to the utmost in time and means to erect and complete that house of worship; it was most earnest self-sacrifice and devoted labor. 

I would like to call your attention to the prayer of dedication that was given by revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith. On the 27th day of March, 1836, this temple was dedicated, not as the Church I spoke of that is to be erected in Washington, D. C, to Saint Peter and Saint Paul, but it was dedicated to Israel's God. "Thanks be to thy name," was the prayer of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as he extended his hands to heaven, and bowed before the congregation of the Saints : 

"Thanks be to Thy name, O Lord God of Israel, who keepest covenant and showest mercy unto Thy servants who walk uprightly before Thee.with all their hearts. Thou who hast commanded Thy people to build a house to Thy name in this place (Kirtland). And now Thou beholdest, O Lord, that Thy servants have done accordfhg to Thy commandment, and now we ask Thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of Thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask Thee to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which Thou didst command us to build; for Thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation, and out of our poverty we have given of our substance, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  build a house to Thy name, that the Son of man might have a place to manifest Himself to His people." 

On that occasion, Sidney Rigdon preached the dedicatorial sermon, and he took for his text the following scripture, "The foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man hath not where to lay His head." Then he proceeded and said in effect: Many edifices, churches, and temples of worship have been erected by the Christian sects of the world and dedicated to St. Paul,' St. Peter, St. John, St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke and others of the Saints and Prophets named in church calendars, but for the first time in this generation, or dispensation, or during many hundreds of years past, a house is being dedicated this day to the name of the Lord, for His divine acceptance, a place for Him to visit or to dwell in. In proof that He did accept of this house, I beg leave to call your attention to section 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants, from which I read to you as follows : "Visions manifested to Joseph, the Seer, and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, April 3rd, 1836 

"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us, and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold in color like amber.   . . And His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: T am the first and the last, I am He who liveth, I am He who was slain, I am your Advocate with the Father. Behold, your sins are forgiven you, you are clean before Me, therefore lift up your heads and rejoice. Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all My people rejoice. For behold I have accepted this house, and ... I will  unto My servants, and speak unto them with Mine own voice, if My people will keep My commandments, and do not pollute this holy house.' " 

My brethren and sisters, the following points I wish to impress upon your minds : The circumstances under which this first temple was erected were seemingly unpropititious for its completion, yet, by the faith of the Saints, and their united efforts, although but a handful, they did complete the house and dedicated it to the Lord, and the Lord accepted it. 

I am led to mark the difference that exists in the Church then and today, in regard to erecting public buildings. It is not a serious matter now, nor one of long postponement, for the Saints to undertake and complete any kind of public building needed by them, and finish it in beauty and excellence as they may desire to do, for we are much more numerous than we were in Kirtland. We have better facilities, and more means at our command to accomplish the work that is required at our hands, and in this we rejoice exceedingly. I am led to note, at this time, the difference in the condition of the Prophet and his brethren in the early days of the Church and conditions as they are now. President Joseph F. Smith and his brethren are free to eo and come as they may deem proper. Not so in the days of the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. They knew no peace from the time of the Prophet's first vision in 1820, until their martyrdom in Carthage jail, in 1844. President Joseph F. Smith occupies the same position before the people and before the world that his uncle, Joseph Smith the Prophet, occupied; and his brother John occupies the 113  that their father held, viz., Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we truly rejoice in our improved conditions. We are glad that our brethren who preside over us now have liberty, have freedom of speech, are free to travel to and fro. As I said before, we rejoice at the improved opportunities that are now given to the people of the world to become better acquainted with the Saints, and with the Book of Mormon, that priceless book translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith from plates of gold, committed to him by the Angel Moroni, who gave to the boy Prophet of the nineteenth century the record which he translated by the gift and power of God. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that Joseph Smith was indeed a Prophet of God; that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that from it will grow His kingdom that shall fill the earth. I pray that we may prove faithful and maintain our integrity and purity of life, and be witnesses for Him that we may be acceptable unto Him, and increase in knowledge in regard to this great work which He has established in the earth. May we be true and faithful to all things committed unto us is my earnest prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
