4
Afternoon
04 10 1907
Elder John Henry Smith. 

Scholarly education an assistance in missionary work. — Influence of the Spirit for the blessing of man temporally and spiritually. — Purpose of the Lord's work, and mission of the Saints. 

I have enjoyed the remarks that were made by the brethren during the session of the conference this morning, and the goodly instruction that has come from the lips of President Lyman in his conversation here this afternoon. I believe that the attendance is among the greatest we have ever had upon the first day, unless that day has come upon the Sabbath. I believe it to be indicative of a feeling in the souls of the Saints of their desire to be in touch with the Church and its onward movement in the world. 

Brother Lund informed us this morning that the returns from the various fields of labor in which Elders are at present ministering, indicates an extension of the cause that we love. I trust that such will continue to be the case, until the great obligation that rests upon the Latter-day Saints in regard to their brothers and sisters in all parts of the world, shall have been discharged in all honor. I trust, further, that, in the continued awakening, thousands who have in the past been in some measure informed concerning the nature of the Lord's work, will be inclined to listen and accept the whole truth. I believe such will be the case. But, that we may be successful, to the proper limit, among that class of men and women who are considered by the world as in some degree better educated, and better informed, being more scholarly than the mass of their fellows, it will be requisite that we shall accomplish more hereafter in the educational line among ourselves. There is not a necessity for sending any person into the world today to preach the Gospel of the Redeemer who is unable to read and write. There may have been a time, in the early introduction of the work, when some very choice men and women accepted the testimony of the truth, and became enthused with the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, who could go into the field with meager education, and labor effectively. They could declare Christ and Him crucified, testify of the goodness and mercy of our heavenly Father, and proclaim the fact of the visitation of heaven- " ly messengers, and the restoration of the Gospel in its fulness and purity, among the children of men. It is my belief that not alone are the  of our Father's great family who have lacked in the opportunities of worldly education, and have been limited in their knowledge of letters, entitled to hear the Gospel, but the brightest minds of the world should also have the privilege of hearing the truth from persons who have acquired light and knowledge from among the wise and prudent educators of mankind. 

It seems to me that every child of our Father, blessed with intellectual power, with industry, and perseverance, with an abiding love of the best that can be found in the world, should be most successful in securing an understanding of these eternal truths which God has revealed and be better able to impart them to his fellow men. When we remember that among the early revelations of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, given to the boy Prophet, was one showing that the degree of intelligence at which we arrive in this life is to continue with us in the life to come, no man or woman should be an idler in the line of utilizing the intellectual powers, in gathering ev-' idences of the divine will that would make an impress so deep and thorough upon their souls that thev could readily perceive the handiwork of God. 

No wonder that those gifted of the Almighty in unraveling mysteries of the universe should exclaim, when light dawned upon their minds, and new thoughts were engendered in their souls, "What hath God wrought ?" Such was the expression of the man who unlocked to the world the principles of the electric telegraph, and such is the sentiment of all men devoted to the well-being of the human race, who look for the advancement, ex, and spread of everything that is noble and good. 1 

It was a revelation of the divine will that declared to the boyProphet, "The world is in darkness, but the Spirit of God shall be poured out upon the human family, young men shall dream dreams, and your old men shall see visions, and the Spirit of the Lord shall be poured out upon all flesh." The key was turned, and spiritual light was let into the world by the visitation of the Father and the Son. It was increased in the ministrations of those angelic beings who understood the beginning from the end, and who inspired the soul of this chosen instrument of our Father; introducing the spiritual element of truth again among the children of men, writing it in their souls that it should never be effaced. It was the same God who gave revelations that conveyed keys of knowledge in the interests of the human race that are manifest in the great lines of improvement seen upon the right hand and upon the left. The divine light touched the heart of a Morse. It reached the minds of hundreds of others, who in various fields, sought to unravel the mysteries of the universe, and present to the children of the world the accomplishments that we see to-day. Our brothers go to the ends of the earth, heralding these truths upon the steamships and railroads of the world, conversing over the telephone from home to home, from city to city, from county to county and from state to state in all parts of the world. These are some evidences of the inspiration of heaven which has touched the hearts of His children, and pointed them to the way of life. In every direction are seen the evidences of revelation,  that affect the material interests of the human race, and also affect their spiritual well-being in the world. 

A few days ago, in Sacramento, I listened to a gentleman explaining the results of some of his own efforts in the interests of his fellow men. He was a modest, quiet, and retiring man, but I could read in the expressions of his face, in looking upon him and in listening to his words, that there was in his soul a touch of the divine, that was moving him forward in the direction of the betterment of his fellows, aiding them in securing results which cause them to say, with the grand old man before referred to, "What hath our God wrought!" 

And this body of men and women who are congregated here beneath the shades of this roof today, under the inspiration of that faith which God has given them, as they look around can exclaim, "What hath our God wrought!" in connection with the work of the Lord. He has called us from the ends of the earth; He has turned the keys of Eternal Truth, never, mind it, never to be taken from the earth, and never given to another people. Its mission is the regeneration and uplifting of the human race. The spirit of revelation came from the Father and the Son. It has extended and spread in the declaration of the principles of faith. It has gone forward in the development of the world. It has opened the doorway to the great family of our Father, and is causing, them in all the world to turn their faces Zionward, and to recognize that the forces put in motion by our Father in Heaven will be utilized to accomplish His divine will. Nothing but rejoicing and pleasure and satisfaction should  ours. The spirit of restlessness and discontent that is manifest in some parts of our land should cease. Every man and every woman, every believer in the doctrines of the Redeemer of the World, should be found engaged in the accomplishment of God's purposes, blessing all men and wronging none, calling the thoughtless and vicious to repentance, opening the door to the understanding of the wise and prudent, proclaiming that the voice of the Eternal One has been again heard in the world, declaring liberty to the human race, calling them to repentance and obedience to the Gospel of the Son of God. 

My brothers and sisters, I believe we should congratulate ourselves upon the possession of the gem of gems; that our hearts should be alive to the full purpose of the work that is ours; that our souls should be bent upon applying, as far as lies within our power, in the control and government of ourselves, the principles embraced in this glorious work. Ours should be the grandest manhood and womanhood the world has ever seen. Wherever we go, with whomsoever we mingle, they should feel the impress of that dignity which the Spirit of our Father writes in the soul of the repentant man or woman, who purpose to do the bidding of the Master. The key was turned; the light was let in upon the world. It will extend until everything that is noble, and good for the well-being of every child of .our Father, will be applied along those lines designated in the opening of this work to the world, when the Father and the Son pointed the way of life to the children of men, and set agencies to work to cause them to repent and turn to the ways of life. 

My brothers and sisters, with you I rejoice in this great work. I rejoice in the liberty that is ours in this land we love so well. I rejoice in the knowledge that day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, this work and its spirit will spread, and the strongest and best the world has seen will bow their heads in reverence and respect for its wonderful accomplishments. But work, work is our duty. The sense of responsibility, determination, unyielding courage, undying hope, prudence and wisdom must be cultivated by us, and great accomplishments may be achieved. Our fathers have given us sinews of truth, and have laid upon us the .duty to see that our part is well done, and the results are as glorious and sure as we live or that the sun rises and sets. 

God bless you all. Amen.
