8
Morning
05 10 1907
Elder George Albert Smith. 

Children a priceless heritage from the Lord. — Childless homes a national calamity. — Beautiful examples of affection for destitute children. — An appeal to the childless to adopt homeless orphans. — A splendid way to help mission work. — A missionary magazine. 

I am sure that all who are here today have been edified by the instruction we have received, and can testify that the sweet influence of the Spirit of our Father, that was so bountifully poured out upon us yesterday, has been continued. 

I was very much impressed with the report made by Brother Clawson concerning the exceedingly large number of children in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and I was reminded of a passage of Scripture that is often referred to in tenderness, and that has been illustrated upon canvas by some of the greatest painters of the world. When the Savior was surrounded by a multitude, and He was laying His hands upon the heads of small children and blessing them, His Apostles suggested that they trouble Him not. He then made use of the memorable saying that we all cherish, "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." If it be true that nearly one-third of the population of some of our stakes are very young children, not yet accountable for sin, then indeed, in those stakes there should be an outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that should be felt in every home. As a people we believe in children. We believe that they are an heritage given to us by our Father in heaven. We can understand how, in the olden times, as recorded in the Scriptures, when some of the grand women of Israel were childless, and deprived of the joy of having little arms cling around their necks, and sweet innocent lips to give them the kiss of childish affection, they cried unto the Lord that they might have children, to take away their reproach. We understand what that means, if we understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and we comprehend that one child, born under proper conditions and reared under suitable circumstances, is worth more than all the cattle and sheep upon a thousand hills, aye, than all the treasures of the world. That is why, as Latter-day Saints doing our duty, we welcome these priceless treasures from the throne of God when they come into our homes. In the world it is not always so, but, lacking understanding, some are stopping the springs of life, and assuming the responsibility of cutting off posterity, by avoiding fulfilment of the great commandment given to our first parents, to "multiply and replenish the earth." Children are the offspring of God, their spirits were begotten in the holy heavens of our Father, and they are given to us for our blessing. We, as stewards, are permitted to receive them in their infancy, to educate and prepare them, not alone that they may become great in this world and bring honor to us here, but by observing the laws of God, that they may live again with us in the presence of our Father, throughout the endless ages of eternity. 

I was reading a short time ago that in France the birthrate is diminishing so rapidly that it is viewed as a national calamity, and a national association, which is studying the matter, has reached the conclusion that any couple raising more than three children merit public gratitude and protection. In this connection, I am reminded of the remark of a gentleman not of our faith who lives in the East whose home is childless, who met, a few months ago, one of our sisters who is the mother of thirteen children, and she, by the way, sits in the congregation today. (God bless her. ) She had told him she was the mother of thirteen children, and he said to me, "Mr. Smith, I took my hat off to her. She was deserving of great honor." 

I saw in the press a few days ago a report that there is a union of women, in one portion of Europe, who have agreed that they would give birth to no more children, and members of their organization are traveling among the people teaching this pernicious doctrine, and many have joined the deplorable union. I wondered if they realize that, of all the blessings God had been good enough to bestow upon them, of all the privileges that they might enjoy in this life, they are blindly rejecting the most priceless of all; I thought that, if the Gospel of Jesus Christ could but touch their hearts, if they could comprehend that this is a part of the great plan of our Father, if they could understand that the purpose of their existence in this world is that they might have joy, and that joy could come to them in perfection only by being the mothers of sons and daughters, how differently they would act. No Latter-day Saint woman, understanding 1 or comprehending the Gospel of Jesus Christ, will refuse the legitimate opportunity to bear sons and daughters in the image of God. No man properly realizing his privileges and opportunities, would do anything to prevent himself being a father in Israel, and having the privilege of rearing and educating children created in the likeness of our Father whom we worship. But our brethren and sisters in some parts of the world fail to understand that, and, in the place of sweet, innocent children, and the prattle and joyous laughter of those of whom our Father has said, "Their angels are ever present with me," we find dogs, birds and cats receiving the affection and taking the place of those jewels that the Lord intended should embellish the crown of every good man and woman in the world, who are capable of being fathers and mothers. 

A few years ago a family consisting of father, mother and several children, residing in Bear Lake Stake, took a little child from the orphanage and gave it a home. I have queried what the result would be, and whether it would be satisfactory. Yesterday this same mother came to my house with a little boy, five years old, she had just received from the Orphan's Home and Day Nursery, and was en route to her home with him. That was sufficient answer for me. The first sacrifice has been suitably rewarded and the joy experienced in the development of the first child has opened the door of welcome to another little stranger. I questioned the little fellow, yesterday, as to his knowledge of animals, etc., and learned that he was fond of them. I told him he was going to live  they had horses, cows, sheep and chickens. His face lighted up and he asked, "Can I have some, too?" in such an eager way that it almost brought tears to my eyes. A new world was opening for him. The narrow limits of the orphanage were stretching out, and he was beginning to realize that there was some place in the world that would be home to him, somebody he could call mother. He was dressed in a nice new suit, and as he stepped aboard the train, in the care of that good woman, I could not but feel that the Lord would accept the offering of the family in opening their home to the little man. I pray that He will bless them for the good they do this orphan child. 

Only a few months ago there was brought to this city a little child, whose mother had died and the father was unable to take care of it in a suitable way. The question was raised, "What stiall we do with the child?" A daughter of one of the most prominent brethren in the Church, a girl only 17 years old, responded surprisingly. She had no parrot, no dog, no little pet lamb, but she had a number of brothers and sisters whom she had learned to love and cherish. She had been reared in a Latter-day Saint home, and understood the duty of doing good to the children of our Father. She knew what it meant when the Lord said, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of one of these ye do it unto me," and she requested her parents that she might take that little child and care for it until other suitable provision could be made for it. She received permission, and gladly gave her time, day and night, for baby's comfort. That daughter of Zion did something in assuming such a responsibility that would surely endear her to all good people; and the Father of us all will not be unmindful of her consideration of one of His little ones. 

How will those feel who fail to obey that first great command when they stand in the presence of the creator, who says to them, as He said to those in olden times, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and- forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." How can they comply with that invitation if they have no children to take to the Father? They must remain childless throughout eternity. They have been blind to their rights and privileges. It is only by a proper understanding of the laws of God, and by compliance with the Gospel of Jesus Christ, only by doing what the Lord has said we should do, that we will enjoy the fulness of happiness that our Father in heaven has promised those who are faithful. I do not feel to censure, but with all my heart I pity the man and woman who grace their home with the lesser animals of God's creation, and keep away from their firesides those angels from His presence who might be theirs through time and through all eternity. I realize there are some men and women who are grieved because they are not fathers and mothers, thev are not blessed of the Lord in that particular, they haye r.c children of their own, and by no f f ult of their own. I believe the Lord will provide in such cases. If they will do their duty in keeping the other commandments, their reproach will be taken away. I raise my voice among the sons and daughters of Zion, and warn you that if you dry up the springs of life and abuse the power that God  blessed you with, there will come a time of chastening to you, that all the tears you may shed will never remove. Remember the first great commandment; fulfill that obligation. 

Are there any here who have no children in their homes? If there are such, I say to you that in the orphanage, near this city, there are, I am told, thirty or forty little children. They are being fed and clothed and kept from the cold, and are nursed when they are sick, but they know not what it is to receive the affectionate embrace of loving parents that most of you have enjoyed. They know not the joy of roaming the fields and woods, and having toys and pets like children who have parents to care for them. Oh, how they would appreciate a real home! There are many childless homes, where the presence of these children would be a God's blessing; and there should be no orphan child depending upon charity in this land. If you have no children of your own, if you realize the admonition of the Savior, then some of you who desire this blessing should reach out your arms and adopt some of these homeless children. And, though they may not prove in all respects all that you could wish, the intent of your heart will be rewarded by the Father who knows your desire to do good. I do not hesitate to say that the blessing that will return to the one whose home is opened to a child without parents will not only be that they will rejoice in the growth and development of that child, but that other blessings of our Father will be added to them in proportion to their good works. If there strayed into your dooryard a fine colt or calf, without an owner, and  prospect of anybody claiming it would you cast it. out ? Wouldn't you consider it valuable and take possession. Perhaps it would be worth a few dollars at the most, yet you would rejoice to get it. But if it were an orphan child, a homeless waif, created in the image of God, its spirit begotten by Him, and its possibilities incalculable, would you consider it valuable, and be willing to give it a home? Let me ask you, What is the value of an immortal soul? 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I will rejoice more when I learn that we who have ability, we who have opportunity, put into effect the law of God, "Love your neighbor," and prove it by taking the orphans to our homes and providing for them. Another suggestion : There are ' some of our people who have no sons to go into the mission field; some whom God has blessed with means and ability, who live in palatial homes and have all the comforts of life, but they have no sons to bear their names in honor in the mission field. My brethren and sisters, look around you, and perchance not very far from your doors there may be a faithful son of some good, noble man and woman who are unable to furnish him means to fill a mission. If you will provide the means whereby that man may go into the world and proclaim the truths of the Gospel of our Lord, and have his faith planted securely in a knowledge of the divinity of Jesus Christ and this Latter-day work, I think the means expended in that way will bring an abundant blessing to you; your compensation will be adequate in the souls brought to Christ. 

A sister said to me, not very long ago : "Brother Smith, I have no son, the Lord has not given me any children, but he has blessed me with a little means; if you know where there is a faithful Latter-day Saint Elder who is in need, and who can be helped to fill his mission by a little .means taken from my account, it is your privilege to draw on me and help to keep him in the field until he is released." I felt to bless her, because she has a proper conception of the duties of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There may be others who have no sons in the mission field, and there may be many who could not afford to assist to the extent of keeping one laboring there to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the salvation of our Father's children, but there is another opening for missionary aid that comes to my mind. At Independence, Mo., the old and the new center stake of Zion, the place that God ordained should be a gathering place for the Latter-day Saints, there is a missionary paper printed, and it goes to the 'people by the thousands every week; it is called Liahona, the Elders' Journal. It contains the truths of the Gospel, and, like the sacred Scriptures, it bears witness of the divinity of our Lord, the Redeemer of the world, and also bears testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Perhaps you cannot send a son to the mission field, nor assist some other man's son similarly, but there are few of us who cannot afford to send the little messenger to somebody in the world, that truth may be disseminated thereby, and we may to that extent, have part in the glorious privilege that the Lord has given us to teach the Gospel to His children who are in the world. I commend it to you, my brethren and sisters. You can contribute in a small way of your means, and you can have a missionary, yea, you can in this way have thousands of missionaries in the field by reason of your contributions, and they will be preaching- the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the honor and glory of our Father in heaven. 

I rejoice this day to be with you. Let us be grateful for the children God has blessed us with, and let us be grateful for the children that He has blessed our brethren and sisters with, and help to make them great and honorable men and women in the earth, as we desire our own to be. Let us be ever on hand to contribute of our means for the comfort and blessing of the poor, take care of those who are in distress, and ever be ready to minister to those who are in want, for the Lord has said, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of one of these, my children, ye do it unto me." God grant that when we go back to His home we may hear the welcome plaudit: "Well done , good and faithful servant; you have been faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things, enter into the joy of your Lord," is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
