Second Overflow
06 10 1907

ELDER WILLIAM H SMART 

(President of Uintah Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel just now very much in the frame of mind that Elder McKay expressed himself to be in at the meeting this morning, that is, weighed down by a feeling of responsibility, in occupying this position as a representative and humble servant of the Lord. In voicing such sentiments as shall come to my mind I feel to trust in the Lord and your sympathy, faith and prayers for that which will be given unto me. I feel that we are being very greatly blessed in this conference. Indeed, it is coming to be a trite and common-place saying that each of our conferences seems to be better than that which preceded. I am glad to be able to bear testimony unto you that, after having attended all the sessions of this conference up to the present time, and having listened attentively to what has been said unto us by the various speakers, there has been no principle advanced that I have not felt to say amen to. I feel thankful to my heavenly Father, therefore, that He has given me the spirit of this conference, and I believe that you have enjoyed that same blessing, receiving a witness of the Spirit that the teachings of the brethren have been inspired of our heavenly Father. Indeed, it has beerr a time of refreshing. 

It may or may not be in place to express my absolute concurrence in the appointment of Elder Ivins to the apostleship. This is in keeping with the statement I made, that I endorse, with all my heart, the sentiments expressed and the business transacted so far at this conference. I think, brethren and sisters, that this is one of the greatest testimonies that the Latter-day Saints have of the divinity of "Mormonism," and the foundation stone of our faith, the rock of revelation, the avenue through which God makes known His mind and will unto His servants upon the earth. One of the strongest principles of our religion, I think, is the nomination by the head, and the sustaining, or rejection by the body. The world are pleased to say that, through our being united in the acceptance of that which is nominated by the head, we are blindly led, that we are not independent, that we do not exercise free will and individuality; and therefore they urge young "Mormondom" to throw off this alleged yoke of priestcraft, bondage and slavery, the slavery of mind and spirit. I am sorry to say that the adversary, through those deceivers, is having power, in some instances, to influence our young people against the great principles that we have espoused. . We do not think it is anything out of place that the sun  every morning, 365 days in the year, and sets every evening. We do not think it is peculiar that the trees bud in the spring, and shoot forth their leaves, and yield their delicious fruits in the fall. We do not think it is peculiar that the moon accompanies the other planets of this constellation regularly, from one years' end to another. We do not think it peculiar that when we throw a ball in the air it returns to the earth, by the law of gravitation or attraction. We do not think it peculiar that when we throw a body into the water it goes beneath the surface, and yet it rises afterward to that position that has the same density as itself. We do not think it peculiar that when we take the two elements, hydrogen and oxygen, and mix them in proper proportions, we may form the element of water. In other words, we do not think it peculiar that the universe and all that is therein heeds the voice of order and fulfils its destiny. When there is right, truth, honesty, superlative love at the head, unchangeable and unsullied in character, are you misled? When God speaks through the Priesthood we are just as certain that it is truth as we are that it is right and proper for all things within the universe to subscribe to and follow the laws of nature. How beautiful is the thought that the Spirit of God possessed by the Latter-day Saints is such that we can spiritually analyze the counsel that is given to us, and, if we are living according to the Gospel of the Son of God, we can thereby ascertain as to whether that which is given is true or not. That is the Touchstone of truth, therefore, when the servants of God proclaim the wishes of our heavenly Father,  are entitled to know whether He sanctions that which is said or 

not. . . , 

While we were sustaining the authorities, this passage of modern Scripture came to my mind : "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings . are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." I regard this as one of the most beautiful passages of spiritual philosophy that there is in the Scriptures. Another passage also came to my mind, a revelation given unto the Prophet Joseph Smith in Kirtland, March 8, 1833 : 

"Therefore thou art blessed from, henceforth that bear the keys of the kingdom given unto you; which kingdom is coming forth for the last time. Verily, I say unto you the' keys of this kingdom shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come." 

That is, the keys of the kingdom that were bestowed upon the Prophet Joseph Smith, by the laws of our heavenly Father, should not only continue with him in this life, but in the world to come. 

"Nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another; yea, even unto the Church. And all they who receive the oracles of God, let them beware how they hold them, lest they are accounted as a light thing, and are brought under condemnation thereby; and stumble and fall,. when the storms descend, and the winds blow, and the rains descend, and beat upon their house." 

Brethren and sisters, if we observe the laws of God we can understand that the oracles of God were given unto the Prophet Jos, and that, while he still holds the keys behind the veil, those same keys were given unto his successors. If we do not understand this, then we are liable to be overthrown when the rains descend and the winds blow, etc. Let us endeavor to keep our hearts attuned and our eyes open, that we may be impressionable to the Spirit of God, and be united with His servants upon the earth, that when, in the "times of- refreshing," the Lord comes we may be counted among His jewels. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

EIDER WALTER C. LYMAN. 

(President of San Juan Stake.) 

I trust that during the short time I occupy this responsible position I may be blessed with the Spirit of the Lord, that my mind may be led in such channels as may be profitable to us who have gathered this afternoon. I rejoice in the privilege I have of living upon the earth in this day and dispensation, when the Gospel of the Lerd Jesus Christ has been restored; and I rejoice in the fact that I have been counted worthy, with my brethren and sisters, to receive, through the manifestations of the Lord, a testimony of the truth of the gospel. 

When I was laboring in the mission field, a number of years ago, in the Northern States, I used to wonder why it was that the Latterday Saint Elders rejoiced so exceedingly in their labors in the mission field, and wondered if we should ever have the same spirit, the same influence, and the same peace and happiness in our labors at home. Since my return I have been called to labor in the ministry at home, and I have found that it is possible to have that same degree of pleasure and happiness in our labors at home that we have in the mission field. I am pleased to say that, in my associations with the brethren and sisters of the San Juan stake of Zion, notwithstanding there are many things that are not pleasant, I have enjoyed myself even, better than while engaged in missionary labors abroad. 

I presume that a majority of the brethren and sisters who are here this afternoon have read in the Book of Mormon the statement made by one of the writers, quoting the words of our Savior, in regard to the city of New Jerusalem, that the Gentiles should be called to assist the Lamanites, or the seed of the house of Israel, in the erection and building of that city. I have wondered many times how this was to be brought about, but, since I have been laboring in the San Juan stake of Zion, I begin to see a little of the preparatory work that I think is going to fit and prepare the seed of Lehi, or the Lamanites, to peYform this great and glorious work that has been predicted upon their heads. One of the ancient prophets predicted that kings and queens should be the nursing fathers and nursing mothers of the seed of Israel in the latter days; and I find that, in a sense, this is being fulfilled in the stake over which I preside. The government of the United States, which, I presume, may be classed with the kingdoms of the earth, is establishing schools, and there is one in our neighborhood that I desire to refer to briefly. It is upon the San Juan river, among the Navajo Indians, and is costing several hun of thousands of dollars. The buildings and surroundings there are such that the Indian children are being trained under conditions that are far more favorable than those surrounding the schooling and education of the Latter-day Saints in that vicinity. They have the latest modern appliances in everything that they are doing, and many of the Indians are becoming skilled mechanics. There are hundreds of them employed by the government in farming, in carpenter work, and in learning the trades and sciences. Many of them are becoming quite proficient along these lines, and their children are becoming used to the conveniences and appliances of modern civilization even to a greater extent than we who have been more fortunately situated in the past. This, to my mind, is one of the evidences that the Lord is working with this government alongthese lines, and we who love to labor among this people rejoice exceedingly in this fact. It was my privilege about 28 years ago, when I was yet a boy, to remove to that section, and I lived there for a number of years when those Indians were not in the condition that they are today, when it was hardly safe for one to be among them, even his life was in danger. At the present time nearly all the men we can get to work for us are the Navajoes and Utes, and we have quite a number of them employed, and they are becoming very proficient in the work they have to do. They are gradually taking hold of the methods of civilized countries, and are learning to adopt the methods and manners of the people among whom they live and labor. 

I rejoice exceedingly in this, my brethren and sisters. Although they have not yet attained to that degree of advancement in civilization that we feel it wise or proper to preach the Gospel among them, whenever that time shall come that they are fitted and prepared to be colonized, to live in homes and houses of their own, their natures and dispositions are such that it would be in my opinion, a very simple matter to convert a majority of them to the principles of the Gospel. Some years ago, volunteer Elders went to labor among them, and a great number of them were baptized, but owing to the fact that we had no place to colonize them, and the impossibility for them to live up to the principles of the Gospel in the condition under which they were living, it was deemed unwise to preach the Gospel among them further at that time. But we look to see the time, in the very near future, when the possibilities we have in the section of the country where we are living and laboring will be such that it will be possible for them to have homes and farms of their own, and the Gospel may then be taught to their children as it is being taught to us and our children. 

I was quite impressed with the remarks of Apostle Heber J. Grant in regard to the Word of Wisdom, and if I may be inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, I wish to say a few words on this subject. Many years ago, in listening to one of the leading brethren speaking upon the Word of Wisdom, I remember he took up the financial phase of the question of our breaking that commandment, and he made the statement that he believed that from every town, city and village in the community there was a stream of money going to swell the river  out of this state every year for those things that are forbidden by the Lord. Further, he said that he did not believe there was a family or household in any ward in the whole Church but had contributed somewhat to that river of money that was flowing from among the Latter-day Saints. I thought to myself, there is at least one family in the Church that has never contributed one cent towards that stream; and on my return home I made this statement to my wife, when, to my chagrin, she acknowledged that we had one pound of tea in the house; so we had contributed at least the price of that pound of tea to that great river. However, I believe there are families among the Latter-day Saints, and many of them, who do not in any manner use these things, and do not keep them in their homes. It seems to me a strange thing that, after the many years this principle, this law of God, as it is to us at the present time, has been taught to us, that there are not more Latter-day Saints' homes in which tea and coffee, and those things that are forbidden, cannot be found. I find among the young and rising generation, where I labor, that those boys who are tempted to use tobacco and liquor, and other things that the Gospel forbids, have not the same moral courage, the same moral strength, that others have who have not acquired those habits; and I find that this will apply to those who are older in the Church. I believe the time will come when the Lord wall not look with the same degree of leniency upon the violation of this commandment that He did in former years. Another phase of this question that seems to me ought to stimulate us in the keeping- of this commandment is, that we ought to teach and set a proper example before our families. I have known families that were almost model Latter-day Saints, and yet some members of the family were not able to control their appetites in the use of tea and coffee; sometimes grand children of people having that appetite fixed within them find it almost impossible to get away from it and keep the Word of Wisdom. It seems to my mind that, even though men and women go without articles of food they have been accustomed to all their life, even though it might shorten our life a day or two, that it would be well to get the spirit of this work, and leave off those habits rather than go to the other side with our bodies stained with things that the Lord has forbidden us to use. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel that the Lord has given unto the Latter-day Saints, and I bear testimony that the men who preside over us are inspired of the Lord. They are not tyrannical at all, they labor among us in love; and I am happy to say that, in the stake I preside over, there is not among the presiding authorities, so fas as I am acquainted with them, the slightest feeling of anything but union among us all. I pray that this feeling and spirit may be with all the Latter-day Saints; I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Edith Grant sang, "The Lord is my Light." 

ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of 'Northwestern States Mission. 

I do not know how to give prop expression to my appreciation of the spirit of this conference. The Spirit of the Lord has been poured out upon our. brethren who have spoken, and upon the congregations that have gathered together in this conference, in a very remarkable manner. I feel to thank the Lord for the timely instructions that have been given this people, from time to time, by the Apostles, Prophets, and Elders of the Church that God has established in these last days. To come to this conference from that portion of the United States where I am on a mission, is indescribably sweet to my spirit, and praise and thanksgiving goes up from my heart to our heavenly Father for these great blessings. While you at home are busy in the various towns and cities where you live, the Elders who are on missions are going from town to town, and mingling with the throngs of men that congregate in the places of change and exchange, attempting to find the "one of a city and two of a family" who are to receive the Gospel, according to the words of Jesus. Many of your sons sometimes feel as lonely as though they were in a forest, when they are upon the streets of some of the great cities, surrounded by crowds of unsympathizing strangers. But the Lord sustains them, and we are increasing, by the blessing of God, the friends that used to be like "hunting for a needle in a haystack," they were so scarce. Wherever your sons, the Elders, go and put up at a house, we hear remarks of this kind, "If I had known they were Mormon Elders when they first came to my house, they could have got no shelter under my roof; but I have discovered that they are gentlemen, not only pol outside, but the honesty and innocence shown forth in all their actions has attached us to them, and never within my. habitation have I had more welcome guests than the Mormon Elders." We are establishing a good reputation also with landlords, people who take us in for money, and give us a room and shelter. The prejudice against the Latter-day Saints is giving way in the Northwest to a great extent. The Oregonian, the greatest paper published in Oregon, printed in Portland, has to say of us that we are worthy of all commendation for the part that the Latter-day Saint men take in their religion. That paper calls attention to the fact that men, instead of women, teach in Mormon Sunday schools, and they teach a consistent theology; whereas, in the Sunday schools in the churches of the various sects in the Northwest, the teachers arid superintendents of Sunday schools generally are women. I notice that other papers also are alluding to the active participancy of men in the affairs of religion among the Latterday Saints, and state that it is because of the men putting forth their strength in this Church that the Sunday schools are a success. We are selling sacred literature up in our country to the Gentiles. I wish that you could come to us and feel the good spirit that accompanies the Elders in their work. 

The spirit of the nation has been described today as one of great indifference; but once in a while we have things happen like I am now going to relate to you. A woman said to a Latter-day Saint brother residing where my headquarters are: "Mr. So-and-So, you have been more affectionate in your manners toward mv little four-year-old , and have spoken more kindly to her than her father has done in all the years since she was born. Tell me where you have been raised?" He answered, "I was born and raised in Salt Lake City." ^Well," said she, "what are you?" "Why, I am a Mormon," he replied; "my mother and father are prominent in the Mormon Church; my mother (I think he said) is the fifth wife of my father." She shrank from him, and said something like this : "Don't tell me that. I would rather have thought of you as being a Chinaman, and belonging to a Chinese club, than to have thought of you as a Mormon, and belonging to that people." And this is about what he said : "Madam, you have the appearance of a lady, but I have been raised, apparently, better than you; I have been taught to respect the religion of any of my fellow creatures, and could not sneer at you as you have at me, for religious convictions." It took the woman so aback that she said: "I regret that I spoke as I did, and to show you that I regret it,_ since I have never read anything in favor of your people but everything against them, bring me some of your books that I may read your side of the question, and I will read to show you that I am sorry I stepped over the bounds of decency in my language to you." Honorable and fair; but she had to be rebuked before she knew how to behave. Then she received some literature of ours. In the meantime this brother had gone off 180 miles to a mill, and this woman wrote in a letter to him : "Your literature has taken away from me the desire to go to pink teas and to associate with frivolous women. If there be a God, a true and living God, he must be the God that Joseph Smith has worshiped. Send me, if you please, the Book of Mormon, or tell me where I can find it." When she received directions how to get the Book of Mormon, she sent over to my headquarters and purchased one. Then she wrote another letter to this man, in which she said : "I am all lit up with this book, and I believe that no wicked man ever wrote it to deceive. I wish I knew what to do." Women came to her, she said, and inquired, "What are you so abstracted about ? Why don't you come with us, and associate, and call, and return our calls, as you used to?" A friend came to her and said : "What is it that is occupying your mind?" The woman replied, "It is Mormonism." She was not afraid, when she found that "Mormonism" was good, to tell her fashionable friends. Then this second lady said, "I am very much astonished and very much disappointed in you, to think you could be taken away from everything you have loved before, for we ( haven't seen you lately, and you seem to be changed to us." "Listen," said this first woman (as I shall term her by way of description for our convenience), and she read out of the Book of Mormon the account of Christ's appearance unto the Nephites. And they cried with joy together, and said, "Did you ever read anything so beautiful, and so accompanied with power!" Then said the first lady, "I want to go to a Mormon meeting, but it is raining so all the time and is so disagreeable; but I intend to go to the meeting, and so, let us pray to Joseph Smith's God; we will put Him to the test,and I know that He will answer us. Come with me into my bedroom." And they  together, and knelt down and prayed, saying: "O Lord, if Mormonism is true, and it is Thy work, give us a sign. Let it be that the weather shall clear off, that tomorrow we may go to the Latter-day Saints' meeting; and let it come to pass that the nurse girl that comes to stay with my little one may have liberty to come here and take care of my girl, that I may seek the things that are pressing upon my mind; and also this : may my husband come to me and say, T am going away tomorrow,' so that I may be free to go to the Latter-day Saints' meeting." And it cleared off in the night, and in the morning the nurse girl came and said, "Mrs. So-and-So, I have come to tell you that my mother says I am at liberty to stay all day with your little girl, if you want me." And the man of the house came and said: "My dear, I am going away today, down to Hood river, and I shall not be home till tomorrow." Then these women began saying to themselves : "Did you ever see anything like it? What God is it that answered us? Have we ever from our girlhood days seen a manifestation, such an absolute answer to prayer before?" When they were going to the meeting they talked together, and said something like this : "Wouldn't you like to have described to you the God who answered our prayers last night ? Oh, that we might find out something about him." And they went to the meeting, and young Elder Gardiner was called on to speak, and he talked upon the subject of the personality of God, and as he talked the power of God came upon him, and his tongue was loosed, and the hearts of these women were softened, and they said to each other, "He is answering the very ques that we wanted to know about." When the meeting was over, they got two of the sisters to 'Stay with them, and they invited two of the Elders to speak to them, and they spent five hours in conversation together. A few days subsequently they came over to headquarters to see the president. They told me all these circumstances, bearing testimony that they knew "Mormonism" was true, and they wanted to know what they must do to be saved; and I said, "Repent, both of you,of every offense against God, and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of >our sins, by one having authority, and have the hands of the servants of God laid upon your heads, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." I enquired if they were married. The second lady said, 'T am not;" but the first lady said, "Yes." "Well," said I, "we have got to talk to your husband, for it is said that we are breaking up families, and we don't propose to violate the rights of families; we never baptize a child or a woman without the consent of the parents of the child or the husband of the woman." She then commenced to cry as if her heart would break, and we tried to comfort her. I told her that I would speak to her husband, but she forbade me. The second lady said, "When can I be baptized?" I said at the regular baptizing day, next Sunday morning at 9 o'clock. And when baptism day came, we led her down into the water with six or seven others, and she was baptized. This was the lady who was so astonished at the other lady, because she was taken up with Mormonism. The woman that can not come into the Church because of her husband is  to us, and is doing all she can to keep faithful and keep the spirit that has possessed her mind. This is a sample of the work of the Elders and the influence of the Book of Mormon, but, of course, such cases are rare. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May the Lord pour out upon Zion His blessings. May we missionaries be strengthened in our important labors among the nations. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

My brethren and sisters : The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has a very interesting history, and what we have listened to from the lips of President Nephi Pratt is but a small chapter of that history. We have existed, as a Church for seventy-seven and a half years; during which time a great deal has been done, and a great deal has been written, concerning the Saints of these the last days; but we are in the same position that the Nephites were many years ago, when the Savior appeared unto them in the Land of Bountiful. In order to illustrate what I mean, I will read to you a few verses from the Book of Mormon. It is recorded here, in III Nephi, twenty-third chapter and seventh to the thirteenth verses : 

"And it came to pass that he [that is, the Savior] said unto Nephi, bring forth the record which ye have kept. And when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said, Verily I say unto you, I commanded my servant Samuel, the Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the day that the Father should glorify His name in me, that there were many Saints who should arise from the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minister unto them. And he said unto them, Were it not so? And His disciples answered Him and said, Yea, Lord, Samuel did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled. And Jesus said unto them, how be it that ye have not written this thing, that many Saints did arise and appear unto many, and did minister unto them? And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written. And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." 

I have no intention to make any remarks in regard to the resurrection of the dead among the Nephites, but I desire to make this quotation illustrate the situation we are in as a people at the present time. Only a small portion of our most interesting history has been written, and only a small portion will ever be written, because so many of our Elders who have been abroad preaching the Gospel, and who could easily have written books similar to the autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, for instance, have written scarcely anything at all. Elder Pratt's book is interesting, indeed; but, while he wrote a book that is still being read by thousands, others might have written in like manner, embodying their testimonies and experiences. This work, however,has not been attended to. Many who should have done such writing neglected it, and their testimony is, consequently, not now before the people. Your historians, however, are doing something now that will astonish you at some future day; and I now address this congregation as if I were addressing the whole Church. Should Christ appear and speak to us, as He anciently did to the Nephites, He  refer to many important events, pertaining to His latter day cause on earth,, about which no record has been made. Perhaps He might say, "Did not my servant Joseph Smith, or my servants Brigham Young, Orson Pratt, Heber C. Kimball and others prophesy so and so, while they were on the earth?" "Yes, indeed they did," would perhaps be the response by some of our veterans. "We remember quite well that those things were predicted." "Why, then, were they not written ?" might be the next question. 

There has been a great deal of neglect, in this Church, in regard to the writing of history and personal experience. The Church was small in the beginning, and Joseph, the Prophet, perhaps did not have any adequate idea of the future magnitude of the Church which he founded, as a humble instrument in the hands of God, or that it should grow to its present dimensions in a few years; hence he, apparently, did not keep a complete or unbroken journal. He wrote considerably at times, but at other periods of his eventful life wrote only a very little. Consequently his history, as it has come down to us, is somewhat incomplete; and he did not, apparently, attach as much importance to some of his movements, or official acts, as some of us are disposed to do today. We can speak in the same strain about the life of the Savior. What the evangelists of old have written about Jesus Christ simply whets our appetite for more. Every student of the New Testament soon finds himself possessed of an earnest desire to know much more concerning Jesus than that which has been written by Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. 

And so also when we read about the Prophet Joseph Smith, the comj ing forth of the Book of Mormon, and subsequent events. But we are trying to do the best we can at the present time to make up for the past. The publication of the hisstory of Joseph Smith of late, with a great many foot notes, has been read, undoubtedly, by many of you with great interest. These foot notes that have become so necessary, on almost every page of the books, can but suggest that there must be a vast amount of material which has not yet been properly . compiled into history. And that is true. We have, at the Historian's office, tons of valuable writings, — very valuable books, documents, letters, reports, statistics, etc, some of which belong to the earlier days of the Church and some to a later period. Our collection is the result of many years of patient labor, and an ordinary mortal could easily think, in looking at the immense pile, that it would be impossible to go through it all. The mountain, using a figure, looks so high that he would not dare to approach it, much less attempt to climb it. The genuine historian, however, knows that he must trace everything to its source; he must surmount all obstacles; he must tackle the entire pile; he must reach the pinnacle at all hazards and endeavor to look down the other side, or he cannot expect to be classed as a thorough historian. Our documents at the Historian's office have gradually increased year by year, in proportion to the growth of the Church; but, aside from the natural accummulation, we have gathered from many different lands and climes a great number of books, thousands of them. We have been doing this  of gathering documents more especially during the past fifteen years, until we now, as I said, have an immense collection of these books and documents, which have been arranged in years, months and days, commencing with the 6th day of April, 1830, and coming down to the present time, or at least to the close of the nineteenth century. 

It is very interesting to note the growth of the Church, commencing with its incipiency at New York, with six members, and then looking at it today, with its 55 stakes of Zion and 21 missionary fields. But, notwithstanding the historical material we have at our command at the present time, we find there are many links lacking to make a complete chain. Much valuable history has been lost. I think, perhaps, I was the means of saving from destruction about one-tenth of the records in Europe, but in America I have not been nearly so successful. During the exodus from Nauvoo, when the Saints were driven from their homes, circumstances compelled them to leave much of their property behind, many heavy things that they could not take along, and among these many books and records. There were records of great value, from the missions in the Eastern and Southern States, that never crossed the Missouri river, much less reached the valley. Consequently, we find that with all the material we have on hand, we are lacking a great deal to fill up the gaps. 

In writing a detailed history of the Church, as we are now endeavoring to do, we desire information about every settlement, every stake, and every ward, and also something about every quorum of the Priesthood, and auxiliary organization. We find it a very difficult task to obtain some information that we desire. But after we have obtained all we can from public records, and after we have put to the best possible use all fragments of records from the different stakes of Zion, particularly the older stakes, and gathered together all the books that we can from the different missionary fields, there is at least one more class of indispensable records required, and it is concerning this class that I appeal to you today; we wish you to help us to procure it. Listen! Many of you are sons or or grandsons, daughters, or granddaughters of members who figured prominently in the early days of this Church. Brother Pratt, who has just spoken to us, is a son of one of the most illustrious men that figured in our early history, and there are in this congregation todry, not to speak about the whole CTurch, a great many descendants from just such noble parentage. Many of you are, undoubtedly,without your knowing it, in possession of historical knowledge.in the shape of old papers and documents that you may think are not worth anything at all, but which would, in the hands of the historian, fit in beautifully in some of these gaps that -I have been referring to. We have evolved a somewhat original system, a natural system, so perfect, so complete, and yet so simple in its scope and arrangement, that there is scarcely a document that you can produce, or a book or record of any kind which may be procured, that will not fill up a gap in some conference, branch, ward, stake, or ouorum or organization of the Church. Hence, we appeal to you, my brethren and sisters throughout the whole Church, that you will  together such remnantsold letters and documents — from the days of your grandfathers and grandmothers, and that you will lend them to us at the Historian's Office, that we may read them and cull from them such information as we need. Of course, we do not know what use we can put them to until we see them, but, much that some of you may deem worthless may by us be found very useful indeed, as it may fit in nicely somewhere and help in making a complete history of our people. And not only that, but, by co-operating with us, you may be the means of placing your fathers and mothers, and your grandfathers and grandmothers, on record. Furthermore, the private documents may enable us to bring forth, as it were, from oblivion many choice testimonies, similar to those related by Brother Pratt today. My brethren and sisters, will you comply with our request? Will you carry this message home with you? Will you go to your different settlements and spread this call among your neighbors, and search here and there for the material that we desire so much ? 

The Book of Mormon, to which I have referred, is a very precious document, precious even from a historical standpoint. I admit that I may, perhaps, look upon that book a little differently to some of you. Some of you may love and admire, to a very great extent, the doctrines contained therein, and so do I; but, when I was a little boy and read the Book of Mormon the first time, I skipped over a great many doctrinal parts, and long sermons, that are contained in it, such as King Benjamin's discourse, the instructions that Alma gave to his sons  many similar things, because they were not so interesting - to me as some other parts were; but, being, perhaps, a natural historian from my early youth, I read and re-read the historical parts of the book with particular interest, and I came to the conclusion that the Book of Mormon was the most interesting book I was ever permitted to peruse when I was a boy. I have not changed my ideas very much since. Do you realize what that book is to you and yours, as Latterday Saints, and what it would be to the whole world, if they would accept it? Do you know that, if it was not for the Book of Mormon, this western half of the world, in which we live, would have no written history for about 4,000 years ? It is no secret among the Latter-day Saints that the Garden of Eden was located on this land. Hence, we can claim as a part of our history the first chapters in Genesis. But, when Noah built his ark, and that floated during the deluge nearly half way around the world, and landed somewhere on the mountains of Ararat, in Asia, the history of the world, as given us by the Jewish historians, was transferred to the eastern hemisphere. From that time to the days of Christopher Columbus, when .he sighted San Salvador, off the coast of North America, the western world is almost entirely lost to history, so far as eastern writers are concerned. They tell us next to nothing about America. But, in the Book of Mormon we have a history extending from the days of the tower of Babel to the time that the family of Lehi left Jerusalem, 600 years before the birth of our Savior. Thus a period of about 2,500 years is covered by the history of the Jaredites. 

Then, taking up the history from the time Lehi left Jerusalem to the destruction of the Nephites, we have the accounts of another thousand years, which brings us down to the year 420 after the birth of Christ, and the historical narrative in the Book of Mormon leaves the Lamanites in very much the same condition that Christopher Columbus found them in, over a thousand years later. Thus you will understand, my brethren and sisters, that the Book of Mormon is about the only historical document we have at the present time of this great western world? The eastern world has the Bible; it also has Josephus; it had Greek and Roman historians, and writers of other nationalities who left on record many precious books, telling us all about the eastern world. But the western world is minus such histories, and must acknowledge a great lack of historical documents. This is, perhaps, in a great measure due to the fact that the Spaniards, in the sixteenth century, tried their best to destroy all records and documents, and all information that the Aztecs and other Indian nations possessed in relation to their ancestors and their ancient history. But, thank God for the Book of Mormon, it revives the whole matter. It tells, briefly, it is true, a story that at once could be accepted by scientists, philologists and all other men who would investigate it. Every year brings to our knowledge something that corroborates that book as a true historical document; we learn more and more about the cliff dwellers, the mound builders, the tribes of Central or South America and Mexico; and everything thus produced goes to prove that just such a people as the Nephites at one time lived in this land. 

Two weeks ago today, we could have celebrated the eightieth anniversary of the delivery to the Prophet Joseph Smith of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated; I wonder how many of you remembered the day. We have scarcely commenced yet to celebrate anniversaries of important events in the history of the Church, but perhaps we will do so more frequently in the future, when the Church has grown a little older. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, will you kindly remember what I have said in regard to our modern history. I have alluded to the Book of Mormon in order to show how valuable that book is to us as a historical document, not to speak of the glorious doctrines and prophecies which it contains. But our own history is necessarily more interesting and valuable to us than ""he history of any other people; not only interesting but necessary, from the fact that out of the Church of Christ, to which we belong today, shall, in due course of time, grow the kingdom of God. When the time comes that Christ shall reign upon the earth, as King of kings and Lord of lords, it will, most assuredly, give the citizens of that kingdom a great deal of satisfaction to look back upon the history of that persecuted people who struggled so hard, as we have done, to establish the Church of Christ on the earth. They will read, with deep interest, the history of the Latter-day Saints in Missouri, in Ohio, in Illinois, and of the early days in these valleys. The little handful of Latter-day Saints who labored and traveled, in the midst of all the opposition and persecution that bitter  could invent, to establish this Church, will be great heroes to them. . Let us also remember that many of us who now live, even if we did not take an active part in the very beginning, nevertheless are numbered among the founders or early workers in this great Church, and this great kingdom that shall finally usher in the glorious millennium. 

Let us do what we can to honor our fathers and mothers and oursdves; let us place them and ourselves on record; let us make those who brought us into the world speak, even if they are dead, by bringing their books and records forth that they may be transcribed. With modern facilities for writing and copying, we can now write a hundred words much easier than we could ten words a few years ago. Thus we can afford to make copies of your old records; and if you will only produce them, and let us have the use of them a short time, we will show you something as the result of our labors that will cause your hearts to leap with joy. God bless you, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

EIDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRDT. 

My brethren and sisters : I am requested to speak a few words before the benediction is pronounced. 

In common with others of the brethren who have borne their testimonies during this general semiannual conference, I can say that I have been exceeding happy, and have been thankful to my Father in heaven that my spirit has been in harmony with the counsels and teaching that have been delivered  the people by the servants of the Lord. 

One of the peculiarities of the Latter-day Saints is their belief in Divine revelation. It has been stated in this meeting- this afternoon that we are believers in the revelations of the Almighty, and that there is necessity for the word of the Lord to come unto the people in these latter times as in former ages. I sometimes wonder that there should be so much doubt in the minds of the people concerning divine revelation, when we think of th: marvelous advances that are being made scientifically among the nations of the earth. It is possible now, so we are told, (while we may not comprehend the principle altogether by which this thing that I have in mind is accomplished, I suppose we have no doubt that it is being accomplished), that messages are sent through the air without any means of transmission that we can see, through the agency of what is termed wireless telegraphy. All that the most of us know about it is that there are delicate instruments that are so in tune with each other that, by some mysterious means, when an instrument is touched here, afar off, hundreds of miles away, there will be a response with another instrument that is - in harmony with the first, and the message will be received and understood. Something akin to that is also said in relation to musical instruments, that where two musical instruments are in perfect accord with each other, if a note be sounded on one, another instrument in the same room, if in exact harmony, and responsive to the note, will make reply. Is it not possible, my brethren and sisters, when we see these things transpiring among the children of men, to  that we can be so in harmony with our Father in Heaven in our spirit, in our thoughts, that we can receive and recognize the message of the Almighty when the voice of the Master speaks through His servants? There is, or should be, a responsive key or spirit within our own souls that should be in perfect accord with that that is divine. I believe in this doctrine with all my soul. I do not only believe that the manifestations of the power of God and the inspiration of His Spirit has rested upon those who have occupied prominent and presiding positions in the Church, but that it has been with the people of the Lord generally. 

I could not help but recall, this afternoon, when the name of Brother Anthony W. Ivins, the President of the Stake in Mexico, was named as an Apostle, that, years ago, there came into my own soul this very spirit to which I refer. I remember at one time when I was afar off in the missionary field, reading of the appointment of Brother Ivins to preside in Mexico; as I read there came over me the spirit of inspiration, and whispered to my soul that the time would come when Brother Ivins, who was then called to break up his home and go afar off into an adjoining republic, among a people that could hardly be deemed desirable,when he would much rather, I imagine, have remained with his own people, he, nevertheless, broke up his home, sold his possessions and, at the call of the authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, cheerfully undertook the accomplishment of the work allotted to him, — I say, as I read of these things, and thought and pondered over the sacrifices that he was willing to make, there came into my soul the testimony that God would yet call him to the ministry of the apostleship. 

A few years ago, probably seven or eight years, in journeying with one of the Apostles, on a trip south, I spoke to him in relation to this impression of the Spirit that had come to me. I was beginning to wonder whether I had been rightly impressed, as a number of vacancies had occurred in the apostleship and had been filled, and still Brother Ivins was not chosen. To my astonishment that Apostle either took a little journal from his pocket and read to me, or related to me, I am not sure which, but I believe that he read it from his journal, that one of the great pioneers of this country, one of our statesmen, who was also one of our noted apostles, the "father of the southern country," Apostle Erastus Snow, many years ago, in the days of the boyhood of this brother who has been chosen to the apostleship, prophesied that the t; me would come when he would be called to this very position, and stand in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Men may laugh and sneer and doubt the possibility of the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and the revelations of the Almighty that come to man, but in my soul, and in the souls, I trust, of those who are gathered together in this congregation, who have taken upon them the name of the Lord Jesus, there has come answer to prayer, there has come understanding in relation to the truth, there has come the revelation of the Lord God of heaven to us, that this work to which we have set our hands is the very power of God, the work of the Almighty. I thank the Lord for it. I  God for the testimony I have of the truth. And I do know the truth; I know that this people have been established in these latter days ly the revelation and commandrLent of the Almighty, and that the predictions spoken through the mouths of the old prophets in relation to the marvelous work of the latter days are being brought to pass. The work we will accomplish hereafter will continue to be a fulfilment of the sayings of the prophets, and nothing can stay it. God has promised it. God has set His hand to accomplish this work, and He has said concerning those who may oppose it, that the wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall be brought to naught, while the Lord of heaven continues in the accomplishment of his strange and wonderful work. These promises relative to the latter days will all be wrought out in the Lord's own time. There is power with God to decree and to fulfil His decree, and there is no power in the nations of men to thwart the decree that God has made. And in this we are strong. In this we are mighty, though we may be classed among the weak things of the world, we are nevertheless doing the thing appointed unto us of God, and the Lord will carry it through. This is my testimony, and I rejoice in it. I bear it to you in fear and trembling, in a sense, and yet with an unutterable joy, a joy that passes all understanding. I know that God has established His work, and that in this Church there can be found the doctrines and the power of God to salvation. May God help us to believe it, and to indicate our belief by practicing the things that 

have been revealed, is my prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Temple choir sang the anthem, "But in the last days it shall come to pass." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Rudger Clawson. 
