Overflow
06 10 1907

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. Elder George F. Richards presided, and Prof. Chas. J. Thomas conducted the singing. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Be it my only wisdom here." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wilford Woodruff, Jr. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah." 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

I sincerely desire your prayers of faith, my brethren and sisters, in my behalf, that the time I occupy shall be of mutual worth and advantage. I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, sensing the fact that it is "the power of God unto salvation." I rejoice in the labors which have been assigned to me, and in the companionship of some of the bright and noble spirits with which God has blessed the fathers and mothers of Zion, my companions in the mission field. I note the faces of some of the parents of my companions in this audience. I note, too, some of my brethren who have been honorably released and re home to their loved ones and the home circle. 

The work in our mission is going on apace. We have been able to do a little better this year than last, despite the fact that there have been some contingencies arise that have, in a way, deprived us of accomplishing all we might have done. There is a very unsettled condition, politically and socially, in some parts of California. You who have read the papers know something of the conditions that have obtained in the city of San Francisco, since the Lord visited that place with an earthquake, eighteen months ago, The conditions that prevail there now are very deplorable, from a social and civil standpoint. This has hampered our work in what was the biggest city and the best field that we had in the mission. In Los Angeles, a new survey of the city streets and the removal of some buildings, made it obligatory upon us to vacate the church that we had occupied for some four years. This upset the work a little while, in that city. Also, during the month of August, when we have very peculiar weather, several of the Elders, nearly every Elder, I might say, in the mission suffered from an attack of the"grip." One of our brethren, a dearly beloved Elder, died after 40 hours of illness. This was a sad blow to us in our field, being the first of the kind that I have met in my experience. Other matters, such as the burning of all our tracts forwarded from the Southern States mission, in a railroad wreck; the fact that the enemy had aroused the animosity, of some of the police officers in two of the leading cities, Sacramento and Los Angeles, who forbade us the occupation of corners where we had been  to holding- our street meetings, and sent us into some of the larger alleys, also handicapped us for a short period. But during the Irrigation Congress, when the Ogden Tabernacle Choir visited us, and sang for the people there, the prejudice was largely removed, and our conditions are much more favorable toda»y, and we are going on, as I said in the beginning, better than we did last season. We have not as yet been able, seemingly, to resort to the successful way of selling books as have some of our brethren in eastern fields. If you offer a book to the average Californian, he wants to know if there is any money in it, before he buys or accepts it; and if you make answer, as President Joseph F. Smith did one time when this same question was put to him as a boy missionary in that state, in the early fifties, that "it has in it the eternal riches of heaven," they will reply that California is a good enough heaven for them. But there are some of our Elders who made a very excellent record last month in the sale of books, and it encouraged us, and we hope to emulate the example of our more successful brethren in the eastern states missions. 

I rejoice in the testimonies that have been borne by the brethren at this conference, and in the spirit of the conference. The remarks of President Smith and of the brethren who followed in the same line of thought, in relation to the proper development of our youth, the care of our children, the education of the sons of men, recalling to my mind some of the statements made by the leading educators of America, in the late National Educators' Association that met in the city of Los Angeles. President Shafer, in  that Congress, spoke of the proud record that had been made by the United States in the past fifty years, since that Association was instituted. He called attention to the fact that there were some undesirable features in our educational system, and also that there were coming to our land people who seemed not to appreciate its institutions, its freedom and its liberty. To correct this, he thought it would be necessary to teach a little more of Christian doctrine in the schools, or at least, he went so far as to say this, that it was necessary for the perpetuity of the institutions of our government that there should be Christian training of the youth of our country. He made a protest, too, in a measure, against the teaching that the only heroes of our nation, the only names that become immortal, almost, in the pages of history are those of men who have won their laurels upon the battleship, or upon the field of blood; that when our boys and girls open the pages of history, the names there placed and decorated with laurels of immortality are the warriors of our country. He wished the teachers of America to teach the youth thereof that in the field of industry, or of art, commerce, or science, there was greater room to immortalize one than upon the battle field. We know ourselves; my brethren and sisters, those who have grown aged, or to mature years, that the arts of peace have their heroes no less than the arts of war. But this does not occur to the average student in the schools of the day. They do not read much of what the great statesmen and social reformers of the world have done. They are but little acquainted with what Franklin, Stephenson, Watt, Howe, Edison and Marconi, have done for the people of this world. Possibly it is because they have been, some of them, contemporaneous with us, and others have left this stage of action but a few years since. I thought when the doctor was speaking of girls who ofttimes wish that they were men, because of having read history such as I have spoken of, that it would be an advantage to them if all read the life of Florence Nightingale, and what she did to immortalize her name. At a dinner party given by Lord Stratford, in commemoration of the Crimean war, when he gathered his old associates about him, at the wine cup after dinner, he proposed that each man present should write upon a slip of paper the name of the one whom he felt should be crowned' with immortality, that they might have a concensus of opinion in relation to that person whose name should go down in the annals of history. Strange to say, when a collection of the papers was made, they all bore the same name, and instead of it being one of the old warriors, one of the great chiefs of martial strife, it bore the name of a weak woman — Florence Nightingale. I thought what an angel of peace and mercy she must have been to the soldiers of that day, that they should recognize her as the superior, in that sense, of all who had taken part in that strife. She was spoken of affectionately by one of the old soldiers, who lay in a sick ward in the hospital. He said she came, and in fact was known, as the angel of light. He said, "She could not speak to us all, as she went through the wards where were so many suffering, prostrate forms; she could not lay her hand upon the burning brow  every sick soldier, but where she could not go, her shadow fell, and kissing her shadow we could turn our faces to the wall content to die in the peace of her presence." I thought, if a few such examples as this were portrayed and held forth before the young' women of America they would not wish themselves unsexed; and, if they could have heard the remarks made by Elders Clawson and George Albert Smith yesterday, they would not seek for the warrior's crown, but for that which is most regal above all, the crown of sweet maternity. 

There were two other great educators, who, in dealing with their state papers in relation to the matters of education and its bearing upon commerce and upon civilization, Professors Storm, of Iowa, and W. O. Thompson, of the State University of Ohio, each called attention to the fact that they were treating the topic from the view point that was assigned them, but they wanted men and women to understand that there could be no true civilization, no true education, aside from a deep-seated religious conviction and Christian training. The sentiment of that gathering seemed to me to be this, that we are a Christian nation, a Christian people; that .it was Christian fathers who sought out this land as a haven of rest wherein they might worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, untrammeled by the oppression and fears of the old world and its priestcraft; that the very organic act that secures to our people their rights and privileges was conceived, founded and made under Christian inspiration, and that because of a few who doubted the fact that there is a God over all. and because there are some of the 

House of Judah who do not believe in the teachings of the New Testame nt — because these individuals are citizens of our great republic we have listened to their protest, and permitted the withdrawal from the schools of the republic the great text-book, the book of books, the Bible, and the young of our nation are growing up unfamiliar with its characters and with the ideals which it holds out to men. So there was a great discussion precipitated as to whether the Bible should not be admitted again to the schools as a text-book, it being thoroughly understood that there should not be any teaching, in a religious sense, of any of the creeds, but that it should be placed in the hands of the people, that they may become familiar with its sacred history. In one of the side meetings that was held, reviewing the statements that I have made in brief, the question arose, How shall we teach the youth, what shall form the basis of their education in a religious sense, and upon what shall they found their faith ? There were many views entertained and expressed, but none seemed satisfactory, and finally an appeal was made to the most learned of all, Dr. William T. Harris/the great psychologist of Washington, D. C, to express his opinion as to the basis for proper religious training and belief. If there be a man in the pedagogical world prepared to answer that philosophically, it is Dr. Harris, a man acquainted with the workings of the mind, an authority upon psvchic phenomena, a man familiar with the emotions of the soul and the workings of the heart. As he drew up his bent form — for he is an old man — he expressed himself in this wise : 

"For the proper training and for a deepseated religious conviction,that the interests of our country may be conserved and its institutions perpetuated,it is absolutely necessary that our young shall be inculcated and have the proper conception of a personal God." 

Tears of joy ran down my cheeks, my brethren and sisters, when I heard this. I felt, O how the little . leaven is leavening the entire lump. If the spirit of this convention shall go forth into the schools of these United States, ten years hence the Elders will not meet the objection to the teachings of Holy Writ, and of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that they do today. The experience I have in our field is this, that it does but little good to quote the Scriptures to the people, until you have convinced them that they are of worth and true. It is a proposition of "Show me by your philosophy or by your reason or logic how this can be true, and how this will benefit me and mine; what are the results of your ethics, the fruits of your religion or mode of worship, and your lives, what are they?" Then when we meet these people, we have to take them to the school of theology to be instructed; we teach them that this is the religion that is told of in the Scriptures, in fact that it is scriptural, and then only do they seem to care for the scriptural proof. But it seems to me that conditions would be very different indeed if this spirit that I have spoken of should go out among all the people of these United States. 

I have often heard Elder Heber J. Grant speak of one of his renowned friends in writing to him  about religion, unable to comprehend it, not a devotee or member of any church, but viewing the economics of "Mormonism," he said: "Heber, if there is anything in religion, there is everything in it." I have often quoted that, and yet until late years never understood its weight, and possibly now do not comprehend its full import. If we review the history of this world and its people, we cannot help but see that those who have lent themselves to religious training and impulse are the people who have blazed the way for education and civilization. They are the people who have conserved the best interests of the world, and have lived longest as nations of the earth. We speak of Egypt as the cradle of civilization. Egypt had the Gospel preached to her, but fell by the way, and her glory is known only in her works, the pyramids of Gheza and Cheops, the temple of Carnack, which come down to us from the distant past, and her sphinx that speaks with mute tongue of the long silent dead. The same may be said of Chaldea and Babylon, almost the same of Greece and of Rome. We go to those old countries to study their architecture, their art in painting and sculpture, in rhetoric and verse, but the sons and daughters of those lands are strangers to the tongues in which their ancestors spoke and sang. Each in turn had some of the princes of the House of Judah declare the Gospel of the one God unto them, whether they had Jesus Christ preach to them or not. Upon the ruins of the civilization of Greece, the Apostle Paul declared unto them the God that the degenerate Greeks ignorantly worshiped. Peter proclaimed the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to the households of the Caesars, as doubtless 

Paul did also, and their teachings were rejected. But those stiffnecked people of the House of Israel, though they were rebellious and received only a part, a law of carnal commandments, to be to them a school-master to bring them to Christ, they were in subjection to Egypt, to Babylon and to Rome yet preserved their education, language, customs, individuality and their name to this very day. The Jew, disliked even to this time, driven, oppressed, scattered and peeled still they are the one nation of all people who have been preserved from time immemorial, because they have given themselves, in part to the teachings of God. Today' before any civilized nation of Europe, and possibly America, can declare war, they must ask the Jew the Baron Rothschild and their fellows, who hold the purse strings of the world, in fulfilment of prophecy which said that they should suck the milk of the Gentiles. If religion would do this for a people on y half understood, and havinoonly a lower law which was to bring them as a schoolmaster to Christ, it must appeal to every thinking man that a religion having as its basis the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God unto salvation, will best subserve the interests of government in the world, and preserve its people, and prepare them for the reign of peace and righteousness when Christ shall come with the holy Saints and dwell upon the earth. That that epoch may be hastened, that we may participate in its blessings and rejoice with all those who love the truth who love liberty, who love equality before the Lord, is my prayer, m the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

It is with feelings of gratitude that I stand before you for a few minutes to give a brief report of the conditions of the work of the Lord in the Northern Stajtes Mission. We have been wonderfully blessed in that part of the vineyard, with health and strength and with energy to prosecute the labors that have been assigned to us. With few exceptions, the Elders have enjoyed the best of health, and through their energetic efforts have had the power of the Lord with them. In a great measure they have realized the responsibility that rests upon them. They have made an effort to reach all the people in their districts, and proclaim to them the restoration of the Gospel, and call upon all men to repent and work works of righteousness in the earth, that they may be worthy to stand in the presence of God when they have left this stage of action. 

In the last two and a half years our efforts have turned from distributing tracts when making the first call to that of presenting the Book of Mormon to the people. The Book of Mormon was the only book used, along with the Bible, as a text book for the first eight years in the history of the Church, and wonderful were the results following its distribution. We have placed this record given of God, containing the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, first and foremost. It has been placed in the grips of the Elders first, and if there was any room left, they have put in such books as Cowley's Talks, the Voice of Warning, the "Durant," and some tracts. 

In connection with putting the Book of Mormon as our leader, we have divided each conference into small companies. Each company of six or eight going by twos for the week, along different routes to a common point for a Saturday and Sunday conference. At the close of all street meetings held by each pair, the Book of Mormon was offered to the people, followed by the smaller books and tracts. During the past six months the Elders have maintained a very high record. In the month of August each pair of Elders in the mission made an average of 38 Books of Mormon, 180 Cowley's Talks, Voice of Warnings and other books. In the same month each pair averaged 1,200 tracts and 30 meetings — the Elders leading in Books of Mormon leading also in all other lines. The total number of Books of Mormon for August was 2441, other books, 12,177, while the tract distribution reached 81,990, most of them containing 32 pages. Every Elder who has pushed the distribution of the sacred record — the Book of Mormon — has received a wonderful blessing from the Lord. One of our conferences had not been following the plan proposed, because they had not fully understood, but after holding meetings with them they started out to do so. Within ten days we received a letter from the conference president, stating, 'We have had bills printed; we have divided our conference into two divisions, and we are determined to make your plan, or the plan that has been adopted by some of the other conferences, a success." The Elders accepted what was told them, and went forth to prove it the right thing, not to demonstrate whether it was or not. The spirit manifest by this conference in proving the proposed plan inspired of the Lord, seems to be the spirit of all the Elders laboring- in the Northern States Mission. Hundreds of people have listened to the Gospel in that part of the earth, and we rejoice greatly in the power that the Lord has given the Elders in teaching the principles. We rejoice in the success in distributing the sacred record that was given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith to help bring the world to Christ. President J. A. McRae, in talking with some of the brethren concerning the Book of Mormon, said, "It is laid upon our shoulders to distribute it to the world; it is a message to the inhabitants of the earth, a letter given to us to be delivered to the people that live in this day and time. If we received a letter to be delivered to somebody, and we failed to deliver that message, and people were lost because of not receiving it, we would be held responsible for the destruction of those people or for the calamity that came upon them." We believe that we have felt this responsibility, although we have not put it in just that language, but we have sensed the importance of the message of the Book of Mormon, and have striven earnestly and carefully to distribute it among the people. We believe that the results from its distribution are wonderful compared with anything that has been done before in the Northern States mission, both to develop the Elders and to turn the hearts of the people towards the restored Gospel. 

We rejoice and feel thankful for the success that has come to the Elders laboring in that part of the United States, and for the spirit manifested by the people towards us  toward the work of the Lord. 

One thing said by one of the brethren in the opening of our conference concerning the environment of the home, and the environment of the Church, has been in my mind ever since it was said. I was led to think what a wonderful thing environment had worked in the hearts of some of the leaders of God's people in this day, and above all, the wonderful development that came to the Prophet Joseph Smith because of his environment. I thought of the time this summer when I was privileged to visit the birthplace of the Prophet, Palmyra, the Hill Cumorah, and the Rutland temple. Several mornings I visited the grove in which the Prophet Joseph Smith knelt in the personal presence of God and Jesus Christ; and the sacredness of the spot was uplifting to my soul. I thought of the Prophet Joseph, just merging from boyhood to manhood, when the influence and the power of environment could work wonders in the life of any person kneeling in that sacred place, in the presence of the heavenly Beings. I said to myself, "Oh, that every boy might be so influenced at such a stage in life." Standing in the grove, where, it is said bv the people who live there, the Prophet Joseph Smith beheld the Father and the Son, I was moved, and felt what a glorious thing it would be for the young men and young women of Zion, if they, too, could stand in the presence of God and Jesus Christ, and then grow up under that influence. What a great work they could perform, how powerful they would be in the earth in bringing the people to know the true character of our Father who is in heaven, and of His Son Jesus 

Christ. The world has a vague idea of some great spiritual force that manifests itself in all the phenomena of life, that is everywhere present. To the Latter-day Saints, all these manifestations are but the result of laws operated by our Father in heaven, who is indeed a personal God. 

After visiting the Hill Cumorah, the old homestead, and the wood in which these wonderful things were explained in the life of the Prophet Joseph, I had the privilege of visiting his birthplace,where now stands the monument that has been erected to his name. I learned from the man who quarried the stone that, as far as he could find out, it is the largest polished shaft in the world; and I thought how fitting that such a stone should be erected to the memory of the man who declared that he had seen God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and that we are indeed His children. Why should we not erect such a monument to the honor of the man who gave to the world the greatest of all truths — the truth by which we might gain life eternal. I do not believe that the power and influence of such a manifestation as he received could leave any boy. They did not leave him. He stood alone, and when the weight seemed great, holy angels ministered to him, and cleared all doubt .away, and the Church of Jesus Christ was established by our Father through him. 

From our earliest recollection we, as Latter-day Saints, young men and young women, have been informed of this great revelation. Most of us have had a testimony that the Gospel is true; even before we had the language to express it, and even before we realized that we knew the Gospel was true that tes was ours. With such a beginning, and with the environments that ought to surround the Latterday Saints, every young man and woman could erect a monument to his or her memory that would stand eternally, not a monument of stone, but a monument most precious in the sight of God. 

My heart has rejoiced this summer in the things that I have learned concerning the history of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, in this dispensation from the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the building of the temple at Kirtland. These facts, added to my visits to Independence, Nauvoo, and Carthage, as well as many spots on the plains made dear by the dead buried there, has made the Gospel dearer to me than it has ever been before. I, in common with the Elders in our mission, have striven to magnify the name of our Father, and to erect a shaft of truth that will stand throughout all the ages of eternity. 

There is a wonderful change in the feelings of the people, and many things have been making for the spread of truth. The arguments of the elders have counted for nothing, but it has been the spirit in which they have spoken, and the power of the Lord that has accompanied their testimonies, and in the distribution of the Book of Mormon and other literature. One more testimony of the Book of Mormon and Joseph Smith. It is the experience of many an Elder when downcast, gloomy and oppressed, that all he needed to do was to testify of the divine mission of Joseph Smith, or speak of the Book of Mormon, and the mist was ' dispelled, and the power of the Lord came upon them, and the} have stood forth grateful to our Father in heaven for. the power that He has given them over the hearts of men. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints, and bless the young men and women of the rising generation, that they may keep burning bright in their hearts the spirit of the Gospel, and by the power of the Lord that will be given them be able to dispel the darkest clouds, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Glorious things are sung of Zion." 

ELDER JOSEPH A. M'RAE. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you this morning, and listen to the remarks that have been made during this conference. My heart has gone out to the young people of Zion. 

There have been many questions flash through my mind that I have been unable to answer. A short time ago, in talking with a gentleman who professed to be religious, he asked if we had stopped receiving revelations. He said : "I don't hear of any revelations having been accepted by your Church of late years, or since the close of the Book of Doctrine & Covenants, some years ago." I answered, "Of course we receive revelations; we receive revelations every day." "But," he said, "you don't place those revelations before the body of the Church to be accepted by the Church, as directed in the Book of Covenants." That remark has led me to reflect on the history of this Church, and I have been wondering where the Church would have been if we had  depend upon a congregation of the Saints to decide upon accepting the revelations of God. I was trying to think where we would be today if it had been left to a council to decide as to whether or not the Father and the Son had appeared unto the boy Joseph Smith in the woods as you have heard related here this morning by Brother Ellsworth. What would have become of the Church, or where would the Church be today, if it had been left to a council to decide as to whether Moroni appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and taught him the things of God, and told him that his name should be had for good and evil among all the nations of the earth? What standing in the earth would the Church have if it had been left to a council to decide as to whether John the Baptist came to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and placed his hands upon their heads and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood? Where would we be today had it been left to a council to decide as to whether Peterjames and John appeared unto those men and conferred upon them the holy Melchisedek Priesthood ? Even the date of that event has been lost; we do not know the exact time when it occurred, and yet, with thanks to our Father in heaven, we accept the ordination of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, magnifying the holy Priesthood that has been given unto us through them. Of course, that Priesthood was conferred by holy messengers, the fact was duly made a matter of record, but the precise date of its occurrence, as I have stated, has been lost. And so, we might go on from the beginning down to the present time. The appearance of the various messengers  came to confer the powers of Priesthood and authority upon His servants in this dispensation, where would we be today, I say, if these thing's had been left to the decision of a council? We might be quarreling' and contending one with the other as to the authenticity of the various revelations. But we are perfectly content; we know that those whom God has chosen in this dispensation, whom He has ordained, set apart, and directed to accomplish His work, have been men of God, divinely ordained to accomplish the things given them to perform. And so, we stand forth boldly declaring that God has spoken from the heavens, that He has restored the Gospel in this dispensation, and that the Book of Mormon is indeed the word of the Lord, that it contains the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, and we do not need to submit these things to the decision of a council. All we need is to do as our Father in heaven has instructed us, go to Him in humble prayer and ask whether these things are true or not, and we have the assurance that we will receive a testimony of their truth. There are men and women who creep into our homes, wards, and missions, and seek to lead astray the people who have accepted the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are leading a few away by their sophistry, not saying- harsh things against the authorities, because they know, perchance, that our young people would not listen to such things; but at times some of the young are deceived and led away from the paths of truth. We have had Elders come to us in the mission field who said, "We do not have a testimony of the Gospel of Christ, we do not know that it is; we have come here because we have been requested." We have said to them, "You do have a testimony of the Gospel, but you don't know it; you nursed the testimony of the Gospel from your mother when you were infants; it is a part of you, but you have not had it awakened yet. When you are in the mission field a little while, and come in contact with those who oppose you, this germ of truth that was born with you, and has grown up with you, will be awakened, and you will find that you can be a power in the world in testifying of Jesus Christ, and the mission of Joseph Smith and the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon." And these young men have been encouraged, and they have gone forth, and have returned after a while, thanking their Father in heaven for the testimony which He had given them. 

Some time ago a gentleman came and asked, "Why do you believe this is the Gospel ? and why are you a member of this Church?" I said, "My answer to that is very brief : I belong to this Church, because it is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that is the reason I am here declaring its truth unto the people." I believe that most of our young people have a knowledge of the Gospel, and have a testimony of it, but many of them are not aware of the fact. Sometimes we are dilatory and lazy; we think the Lord is going to do all for us. We go to school or to the university, and the young man or woman who wishes to progress, and receive a degree, must burn the midnight oil; and yet, to get a knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ they feel that all that is necessary for them to do is to ask their Father in heaven, and, without any effort on their part, the Lord will manifest the truth unto them. I want to say that God requires that we shall seek Him earnestly, exerting- the powers and faculties He has given us, and then will He impart a testimony of the truths of heaven. 

This great body of Saints who are in attendance at this conference is a revelation to me. The utterances of the' servants of the Lord yesterday in the tabernacle, and this morning, have been revelations unto me that we possess the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God unto salvation. I have asked the Lord to bless me with testimony, that He would give unto me a knowledge that we have the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I have not desired that I might be an orator, that I might stand before an audience and, in flowery speech, declare unto them the principles of the Gospel, and reason with them; but I have desired that I could bear that testimony to my fellow men, and that they may be impressed with it. And the Lord has been merciful and good to me. I see the revelations of God, and hear Him speak in all of His operations in the world. He has been mindful of me in this particular, and I feel sometimes that I cannot be grateful enough for these manifestations. 

In the mission over which it has been my privilege to preside for a few years, the Elders have been performing excellent missionary work. We are not baptizing many people, but we are making thousands responsible for the testimonies we bear unto them. Some time in the future the testimonies that are being borne by the Elders will stand as a rebuke unto those people if they do not accept the 

Gospel of Jesus Christ. This afternoon, the Elders in several cities in our mission will stand upon the street corners, and will bear their testimonies unto the congregations that will, assemble. This evening they will do the same thing, and will declare that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and that the Book of Mormon is a divine revelation from our Father in heaven. The people will listen to the testimonies that the Elders bear; they will have the words told unto them that have been proclaimed many times in many places, and they will go away paying little heed at the time unto the remarks that the Elders have made; yet, in after years they will remember the words and the speakers who uttered them. It is a peculiar fact 'that the people whom the Elders come in contact with are very much impressed with their personality. I have met people who have seen an Elder but once, perhaps five or more years previously, and they have described the Elder with such minuteness that I was able to tell his name. The Elders have gone to their houses, and when they have stepped inside they have said, "Peace be unto this house;" and it has had a great effect upon the minds of the people, and the people ask them to come back and partake of their hospitality. A few weeks ago two of our Elders were approached by a gentleman — some of you may have read of it in Liahona, the Elders' Journal — who said: "I met two of your Elders in my home town and I treated them in a shameful manner, and now I have walked seven miles to meet you,because I thought perchance I might meet one of the men, at least, whom I had driven away from my home, and I have  here for the purpose of asking pardon of those whom I treated in such a mean and contemptible way." The Elders sold him some books, and he. went back rejoicing that he had met them, and had the privilege of shaking their hands and giving them a message that they might give to the Elders whom he had mistreated so before. 

I want to say a few words about the little missionary paper that has been established. I do not wish to appeal to you in any way that would make you think that I am mercenary, or that I had a feeling of commercialism about me. I want to tell you what the paper has been doing in the mission field over which I have the privilege of presiding. One of the Elders said that in the city of Pueblo he had been in the habit of leaving in a certain public place some tracts almost every day. He said sometimes he would find them still there. When the publication of the Liahona was begun, he laid that little "missionary" down in the same place, and now when he goes back to place others there he never finds one of them left; it seems to have an attraction for the people, and they have taken it and probably read it. We have a number of people in the city of Denver who are subscribers to this paper, some of them work in the postoffice department, and those men look forward with as much eagerness for the coming of that little periodical as they do for the coming of a letter from home. They come to us and talk about the articles that have appeared in the paper, and say that there are wonderful things in it, that they did not know our people preached any such doctrines, until they saw them there. The editor of the Liahona  informed us that there are about twelve baptisms traceable almost directly to the influence of the paper already. The first copy was issued on the 6th day of last April, and it was begun under trying circumstances. We had a great deal of opposition in various ways,but today the Liahona has a weekly circulation of 18,000, which is something phenomenal. I bear testimony that the power of God has accompanied the work; it has been magnified in the eyes of the people, and they are turning their attention to it, and are recognizing in that periodical a magazine that has been established for good. You will find, my brethren and sisters, if you take it into your homes it will be a factor for good to your families, because it carries the spirit of the missionary. It comes from the mission field direct. It partakes of the influence of the Elders who are laboring in the vineyard, and brings it right to your home; and it is a message from your boys and girls who are in the mission field today. The Lord is blessing and helping us, and we are performing a good work in that direction. 

I pray that God will continue to bless us, and help us to do right, that we may ever serve Him and keep His commandments, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. M'QUARBIE. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Relying upon the earnest prayer that was offered, upon the sympathy of those present, and upon the Spirit of the Lord, I will attempt to discharge the obligation resting upon me, and embrace this opportunity of bearing testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel. 

It is rather difficult, in the springtime, when we look out upon the fields and behold the vegetation breaking through the soil, to distinguish between a weed and a vine, or between a willow and an oak. They all look pretty much the same when they first break through the soil. And so, too, in looking out upon the field of human thought and activity, it is hard to distinguish the various systems of religion or philosophy; that is, it is hard when they first make their appearance to tell whether they will develop or evolve into a fad, a superstition, or a religion; but as the tree grows we are able to distinguish the nature of it. Time and experience are sure to reveal the nature of the various systems which are organized in various communities. So when, in the spring- time of the past century, "Mormonism" made its appearance amid the great forest of isms,_ the ecclesiastical botanists unanimously pronounced it a weed of a season's growth, which could and should be plucked up by the righteous. But the frosts of hatred, the blighting winds of persecution failed to loosen its roots or to stay the growth of its branches; and now, as it continues to grow with the century, and stretches its arms out, defying gravitation, it presents more the appearance of the sturdy oak than of the frail weed. "Mormonism" is either the greatest of all the trees growing in this forest, or else it is the least; and while it has something of the nature of the oak, yet it is unlike any of the trees of that forest amid which it grew. It is more like that tree which stood in the Garden of Eden, not the one  fruit of which our mother Eve partook, but the tree which was guarded by the fiery sword of Cherubim, if they had partaken of the fruit of it they would have lived forever. "Mormonism" has outgrown its experimental stage, and, as has been said, it possesses features which have characterized all the great world movements. There is in it that inspiration which for its source looks to God, and upon the part of the people that abiding faith which amounts to positive comprehension. And where there is a combination of these forces, inspiration and revelation upon the part of the leaders, and abiding faith upon the part of the followers, there has been no power in the world that could resist the growth, the development and the progress of such a people. It was a combination of these forces which, in Moses and the Hebrew children, established the commonwealth of Israel, which, in Jesus Christ and His Apostles, established Christianity, and which, in Mohammed and his followers, established Islam. And we see to a marked degree the combination of these forces in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it has been established. 

I was impressed by the remark of one of our most learned young men who had returned from a college course in the East. He was not blessed with a very strong faith, even when he left Zion, and he came back impressed with the greatness and the learning of the world, and with the knowledge that he had acquired, and perhaps to some degree with the smallness of our own communities and the comparatively few people who were engaged in this great work. Yet in  one of our conferences and looking out upon that vast congregation, which represented at the most only the captains of Israel's hosts, he was able to see back of them the branches, the divisions, the battalions which were following them, and when he witnessed that unanimity of feeling, that similarity of testimony and expression, and that spirit that seemed to pervade them all, he said, "There is no power on earth that can resist or stop such a movement." 

It seems to me that we have everything to make us feel encouraged. I am sometimes impressed when I return from the great metropolis of our nation with the fewness of our people, and I sometimes wonder why such a handful of people create any special interest in the world, why they excite the attention of the people of this nation. If all the people in Utah should arrive in New York tomorrow, or in Philadelphia, or in Boston, it would make no difference at all, any more than a little picnic company arriving there. And yet, regardless of our numbers, whether they have been few or great, our power, our organization and the spirit and genius of this work is being felt throughout the world. Not only are the predictions of the ancient prophets being fulfilled in the great panorama that we see moving before us in the tops of the Wasatch mountains, not only are the predictions of some of our modern prophets being fulfilled in our actions day by day, but there are others who have made predictions concerning us.. While President Ellsworth was talking about some of trie places he had visited, I thought of a kind of a prediction which was made by Governor Ford, in writing  history of Illinois. He said: "The Christian world has hitherto regarded the growth of Mormonism with a kind of an air of indifference, but unfortunately, they may yet awaken to feel her power." "It was not at all improbable that within the course of a century some great orator may arise, some man gifted like the Apostle Paul, who will make the name of the martyred Prophet ring even as does the mighty name of Christ itself; and it is not improbable that Sharon, Manchester, Nauvoo and Carthage may become to an after generation places of classic interest even as Bethlehem, Jerusalem, Gethsemane and Mount Calvary to the Christians of the present day; and, in such an event, the author of this history feels degraded by the thought that he stands a fair chance of having his name attached to the wheels of time, and dragged down through the generations even as has been that of Pontius Pilate, because of his official connection with the death of the true Messiah." "There may be some who would desire an immortal name, even under such circumstances, but I am not one of that number." Retribution was no doubt following him. He had played the same part that Pontius Pilate played, and he was wise enough to know that history would repeat itself. These spots are becoming places of classic interest to thousands of people. Thousands are visiting the birth place of Joseph Smith, while only two years ago it was almost impossible to identify the exact spot of his birth, and now the people of Vermont, from, the governor down, are visiting that place, and are commencing to feel proud of the fact that their state gave birth to a man who had exercised such an influence upon this generation, that at least 400,000 people give evidence of their gratitude and their admiration of him, by the beautiful monument that has been erected to perpetuate his memory. 

Nauvoo, that city that the Prophet loved, that city from which his people were driven, none of his followers have been welcomed there for years; in fact the people in those sections have been fed on "Mormon" depredations; but a wonderful change is coming over the scene. Every Sunday, meetings are being held there. Perhaps at this very time in the Sabbath school children are being taught in relation to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith. And there is a great company in New York City who are undertaking the development of that region of country, Hancock county, Illinois, and especially of Nauvoo, and they are more than anxious that the Church should cooperate with them in that land. The attorney for the company said to me, I think it was just the day before I left New York, "We have discussed this matter, we have thought over it often in our councils, and we know that that section has never developed since your people were driven from it, and we fear that it never will until they return to it." 

Independence, that spot around which our saddest memories and our fondest hopes cluster, there is a remarkable change of sentiment and feeling with reference to that section. It was there that the first effort was made to publish to this generation the revelations which our Father had given for our salvation and development; but the feeling of bitterness was so intense  they were unable at that time to accomplish their purpose. But that stream has continued to grow. There has been time to test the value of these revelations, and today there is being issued weekly from that very point one of the strong religious journals of this country, and one of the strongest publications of the Church, with a subscription list close upon 18,000, and many of these are reaching outside of our own immediate circles. There must be now about 700 subscriptions in the Eastern States. This is at least double the number of families in that mission, and there are many more in proportion in some of the other missions. 

Carthage jail, which for many years has been occupied by people who made their living by telling people of the bad reputation of the men who were martyred there, and trying to glorify those who put them to death, is today owned by the followers of the Prophet Joseph Smith, those who take delight in telling of the true character of those men who were willing to seal their testimony with their blood, and also the true character of those who assassinated them. 

Not only is there a change of mind in this regard, but also this wonderful change of interest in the work that we are doing. ' We have more liberties today to preach the Gospel upon the streets of New York City than ever before; and just since I have been on this trip I have received a letter from the president of the New England conference that they have permission to preach anywhere on the streets of the City of Boston. This is a privilege that we have not had before, at least during my administration in that section. And while this wave  enthusiasm on the part of the Elders, and wave of interest on the part of the people that is manifested, especially in the Northern States and in the Middle States, and in the Colorado or Western States mission, has not yet reached us to the degree that is manifest there, yet there is a marked improvement in our work, that is in the results of our work and in the interest manifested by the Elders. Up to the present time there have been about 2,000 more books sold during the corresponding seven months of last year, and this increase is largely in the sale of the Book of Mormon, this new witness for God that has come forth in this day and age of the world to be joined with the stick of Judah. 

I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I do know that the Gospel is true, and that the kingdom of God has been established, and that it is going to roll forth in the world until the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our God, whose right it is to reign. And I pray that we may all have strength to be valiant in the fight, and be able to take part in the battle and share in the victories of peace, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. .Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O say, what is truth ? Tis the fairest gem." 

Benediction was nronounced by Elder James G. Duffin. 
