Morning
06 10 1907

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith, and he announced that, as the Tabernacle could not accommodate all who desired to be admitted, an overflow meeting would be held this morning in the Assembly Hall, under direction of Elder George F. Richards. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, 

Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption will come. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Nephi Pratt. 

The choir sang the chorus, "Rouse oh ye mortals, the dawn is near." 

ELDER REED SM00T. Medical fakirs, and other traveling quacks. — Serious danger in use of patent medicines. — Denunciation of speculation and debt.— Prevailing indifference concerning religion. — Appreciation of parents, wives and husbands. 

I had hoped that someone else would be called upon this morning to speak at the opening of this meeting. On account of my having been absent the two days previous, I felt that I would like to hear at least one of the brethren speak, so that I could get the spirit  the conference. I shall claim an interest in the prayer that was offered by Elder Pratt, that the same spirit may influence the speakers today that directed them in the meetings held before. 

In these general conferences we gather from all parts to sustain the authorities of the Church, to receive instruction, counsel, and admonition, to speak of God's goodness and mercy unto us, and testify of the restoration of the Gospel rf Jesus Christ. While traveling through the stakes of Zion we sometimes see errors and wrongs that exist among the people, and we try to call attention to them in the spirit of counsel, and by way of advice — not in a spirit of fault-finding, but for the purpose of bettering the condition of the people as a whole. I have not had time to read the papers giving a synopsis of remarks made by the brethren, but I do feel, this morning, like calling attention to some things needing correction that I have noticed, concerning which it would, perhaps, be proper to counsel you who are present, and through you other members of the Church, to see that in the future there is a change made respecting the points I may mention. 

I want to speak, for a short time, upon fakes and fakirs. I am led to speak on this line because of the fact that, not long ago, in one of the counties adjoining this, in a town inhabited almost entirely by Latter-day Saints, there came in the midst of the people — heralded by newspapers — a man claiming that he was the greatest doctor in the world. He was a phenomenon. He had such great wisdom that he could cure all the ills that mankind is heir to. He was well dressed and looked like a gentleman. One t>f the first things he did on arriving in the town was to hire the brass band, for the purpose of drawing a crowd and preceding his carriage to all meetings. He went to one of the business corners of the city, where a little stand was erected, and in order to hold the crowd until he could convince some of them that they had worms, or something worse, he had three or four niggers sing songs — by the way, I have been told that the niggers furnished the best part of the entertainment. He got the people worked up to such a pitch, by his vivid description of various horrid diseases and their symptoms, that it was not a question among his credulous hearers as to whether fhey were sick then, but that perhaps they would be at some future time. He gathered in money by the thousands, from the sale of his medicine. When interest lagged, as after a few days it did, he advertised in the papers that he was going to throw money broadcast upon the streets of the city, to be picked up by the people that followed his carriage to the lecture platform. I say to you, my brethren and sisters, that I was humiliated to see crowds following the man. He held before him a little valise containing a great many pennies, a few quarters, and perhaps one or two half dollars; and every three or four rods, as he went down the street, he would take a handful of copper pennies and throw in the midst of the people. 

After the crowd had scrambled for these copper pennies, I saw women coming from the midst with their dresses torn, and children almost maimed. I was astonished, and wondered what the people were thinking of, and I resolved to speak of it in public- the first chance I got. I was told, by one of the officers of the city, that one evening this man sold bottles of his medicine as fast as four men could hand them out, individuals almost climbing over one another to get it, and the fakir sold over $600.00 worth; the people were almost as eager to purchase it as they were to pick up the copper pennies from the dust of the road. My brethren and sisters, I strongly denounce this as wrong; and I hope that such a sight will never again be seen in Utah. No fakir in the world ever gave people something for nothing." My counsel to the people is that, if any ars sick, and have not faith enough to be cured by administration of the Elders of the Church, send for a doctor that you know and get his advice, one who lives in the community where you live and has a reputation to maintain. 

We also have eye doctors, socalled, traveling among us. I remember, years ago, meeting one in a little town in the southern part of Utah. I knew the man well; he was a resident of Idaho, and a blacksmith by trade. I was surprised to see him there, and asked him what he was doing away down in the southern part of Utah. He told me that trade had been rather dull and he thought that, perhaps, he could make more money, and make it easier, by selling spectacles to the people than by following his trade. "Well," I said, "Heber you are not a doctor; you know nothing  the eye; aren't you afraid that you are going to injure somebody's eyes by selling spectacles that you know nothing about, especially when you can not fit them properly?" "Oh," he said, "Brother Smoot, they will never hurt anybody; they are only common window glass; they cost only thirty-six dollars a gross." He told me how he proceeded in selling: these spectacles. He would go into a town, and the first place at which he would call was the residence of the Bishop of the ward; and if he succeeded in selling the Bishop's son or daughter a pair of spectacles, his spectacles would immediately become popular in the neighborhood. He found hundreds who imagined that their eyes needed doctoring, and that spectacles were absolutely necessary. I could say more along this line, but this will suffice. 

There is another objectionable thing to which I desire to call your attention — that is patent medicines. I wish to say, however.that since the pure food law passed people are somewhat protected, and conditions are considerably better. I have a list of positively dangerous patent medicines, rpublished by a man who has taken great interest in the subject. This man warns the people against the use of patent medicines; and he names the ingredients of many that are well known and popular, showing that they contain drugs seriously injurious to the people using them. You are familiar with "Mother Winslow's Soothing Syrup," a decoction that soothes the baby to the grave, so slowly, but oh, so surely. "Peruna," "the booze medicine," as it is called, is another well known. I haven't the time now to enumerate the long list that he warns the people of this coun against buying or using. I wish to say here today that I hope the Latter-day Saints will let such stuff alone. 

There is another evil that I want to call your attention to, because I see it so plainly, not only in this part of the land, but all over tlie country, and that is over-speculation. I am not going to say that you must not deal in stocks, or that it is not your prerogative and right to buy anything on earth you wish to; but I do assert tliat there is too much speculation in stocks, most of the transactions being on margins, and there is a reckoning day coming as sure as the sun will rise tomorrow morning. If you have the money, buy what you feel it is proper for you to do, but don't jeopardize your good name nor your credit; don't jeopardize the good name or the credit of a friend for the purpose of speculating in any kind of stocks. Now, I might continue on this line, and preach a sermon about the evil of debt; such advice is always good, always timely, and it does seem to me that, at this particular time, it is proper to counsel the people to keep out of debt, and, if in debt, to get out as soon as possible. 

On the train the other day, coming from New York, I met a gentleman, and, in conversation with him, the question of religioH came up. He, I believe, is a type of millions of men. He was indifferent to all kinds of religion, and had little use for creeds; his attitude convinced me that the sin of indifference is one of the worst things we have to contend with today. Every missionary who goes into the field, everyone who travels upon the railroads in any pari of this country, encounters this prevailing sin of indifference. We see it even in our communities and, I might say, on all hands. This man told me he believed that, as long as he had strength of body and vigor of mind it was his duty to provide for his wife — she was all on earth that is dependent upon him, he having no children — and surround themselves with all the luxury and comforts possible to attain. Said he, "After my strength is gone, when I am old, then is time enough to take up the question of religion." I never could believe in this doctrine, the next thing to death-bed repentance, nor do I see how any sane man can believe it. This man believed it was improper for him to use any influence whatever to induce people to study religion; and I quietly suggested to him that I had doubt as to whether he had the right to claim to be a Christian. He shied at that, but reminded me of the boy who summed up his father's religious standing in these words: "Yes, Dad's a Christian, but he does mighty little at it." That is the way with the world today; many millions claim to be Christians, but they do "mighty little at it." They will wake up some time and find it is too late, that procrastination has cost them dearly in this life, and I have no doubt will seriously affect them in the life to come. There is nothing that steals man's time, his talents, his vigor, his energy, even his prospects of salvation, in greater degree than the crime of procrastination. Procrastination means making an appointment with opportunity and then asking her to come around some future time. My brethren and sisters, I hope that whatever good we undertake to do we will do it with all our hearts. Let us give the best part of our  to the service of God. I take the view directly opposite to that expressed by this man. I think that the time to give God the service He desires of us is when we have the full strength of our bodies and all the vigor of our minds. 

I desire to advise my young brethren and sisters to be faithful to their fathers and mothers, not only to honor them as such, but let ine ask you to make life just as easy for them as you can, and to do it now. Don't wait for some future opportunity; I know from personal experience what that means. I used to build air-castles, and the trouble with them was that they were always built in the wrong direction — I tried to construct them from the top to the bottom, instead of from the foundation to the top. While a boy, I was always anticipating the time when I could take my mother back to old Norway, the place of her birth, back to the old homestead, and show the people there what the Church of Jesus Christ, "Mormonism," had done for her. I dreamed of the day when that pleasure would come to me and to her; but I left it until too late— my mother passed to the great beyond, and my desire was not accomplished. Perhaps every boy and girl builds a similar style of aircastle; they think of what they will do for their parents, when they are able to, at some future time. My advice, my. young brethren and sisters, is, Don't wait, but do whatever you can to make life happy for them as soon as you can. If you don't take your parents on a journey, you can do a thousand and one other things that will help to make the path of father and mother easier, and thus bring joy and peace to those who gave you birth. 

I rejoice in the growth of the work of God. I reioice in seeing the baptisms increase as they are doing in all parts of the missionary field. It is true that many people are opposing the Church, but the Church is like the mustard tree, the more you kick it the more the seeds spread. If people wish to oppose the Gospel of Jesus Christ, let them oppose it, it is their loss; but as sure as God lives it is true, and He will see that this work goes on to final victorv. 

I wish to say to you husbands and wives, be considerate of each other in your homes, be appreciative, and speak all the good you can of each other. Husbands, tell your wives how much you esteem their labors in the home; wives tell your husbands how interested you are in their struggles. A little praise in this life is a very good thing. I would rather have a single flower given to me in life by a friend than I would have my coffin banked with roses. Fathers, stop and observe the constant labors of the mother, day in and day .out, year in and year out, consider how she has helped you to make the home, and sustained the trials of motherhood, and then don't be afraid to tell her you appreciate all, don't leave it until she is on her death bed. And so I might say to the wife : be interested in what your husband is doing; encourage him along the line that he is laboring. If you mutually do this, you will love one another better, there will be a stronger bond between parents and children than if you neglect these courtesies 'and leave things to be taken for granted. 

I ask the blessings of our heavenly Father upon the people as a whole, and upon His Church. May the Church grow and increase, even  fast as the Father would have it. This with all other blessings that the Father sees the people need, I pray for, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder John W. Summerhays and Noel S. Pratt sang, as a duet, the hymn beginning: 

The morning breaks, the shadows flee; 

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day 

Majestic rises on the world. 

ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Futility of efforts to prevent the growth of the Church. — True growth the result of healthy conditions within. — Spiritual disease acquired by evil doing. — The true Latter-day Saint home. — Each individual a vital part of the Church. 

My brethren and sisters : To face this vast assemblage this morning makes me tremble. I believe I can sympathize, now, with a four-year old boy who was asked by a magician to come up on the platform, and who became quite overwhelmed as the magician apparently took from the little boy handkerchiefs, watches, eggs and other miscellaneous articles. When he got back to his parents and friends he was asked how he felt. "O my!" he said, "I just shivered." Well, I "shiver" when I am called upon to face an audience of Latter-day Saints, not from fear of my brethren and sisters, because I look upon them as dear friends and sympathizers, but I tremble because of the responsibility that I feel in this position, realizing my inability to sustain that responsibility without their aid, and without the inspiration of the Almighty. So I tremble, this morning, and pray for your assistance and for the same spirit that has prompted the remarks throughout this conference. 

I am thankful, and my heart is made glad, when I listen to the reports and testimonies concerning the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ; and I rejoice more when I realize that this is a true growth — that the Church is growing from within, in harmony with natural law and with the spiritual law. It is not a spontaneous outburst of enthusiasm, it is not made to appear large by any outward, sign. As I have just said, the Church is growing from within; and that is the condition that makes my heart rejoice this morning. When I listened to the reports of our enemies' attacks upon us, I thought : how futile all their efforts will be, if we . but remain true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I picture the Church as a mighty oak, against which little boys throw mud, covering the bark, and sometimes injuring the leaves; they even use their pen-knives in an attempt to chop down the tree. At worst, they only riddle a few leaves and besmear the bark. In a few days, the mud is all gone, the rains have washed it off. The life of the oak has pushed out new bark and new leaves; and the mud, which defaced only the outward part, is all gone. Why? Because the life of the oak was untouched, and it had the power within it to throw off those excrecences thrown upon it by thoughtless boys, or malicious youths. So it is with the Church — calumny cannot hurt it, if it is pure within. We are told that "He who steals my purse steals trash, 'twas something, nothing; 'twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; but he who filches from me my good name robs  of that which naught enricheth him, but leaves me poor indeed." But we are poor only in the fact that he has injured or robbed us of our reputation, or good name. If we are true within, if our souls are unimpaired, if we remain steadfast to the integrity of our lives, to the Gospel, we are just as pure, and as strong, and as rich in the eyes of God, who sees the heart and judges therefrom. 

My brethren and sisters, this feeling, this desire to be all that the Gospel would have us become, is what I would like to speak about this morning; that the true life within is what we should put forth efforts to protect. No matter what a man is thought of by his fellow men, as Brother Grant intimated yesterday, if he is true, God is his friend, and he is rich indeed. In the twelfth chapter of First Corinthians, the Church is compared to a person. We are dual beings; our body, the outward part — the temple, if you please; the spirit within, the true life. So, the apostle says, is the Church : 

"For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be JeWs or Gentiles.whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. For the body is not one member but many. . . . . If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling? But now hath God set the members eveiy one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him. And if they were all one member, where were the body? But now are they many members, yet but one body. And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee; nor again, the head to the feet, I have no need of you. Nay, much more, those members of the body, which seem to be  feeble, are necessary: and those members of the body, which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness, . . . And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now ye are the bodv of Christ, and members in particular." 

I like that comparison because it suggests the element I mentioned in the beginning : true growth. Take one's body, what does it need? When is it in good condition? I have here a selection from the work of Everett Hale, in which he mentions our physical needs; he says : 

"The peril of this century is physical decay. This peril is gravely eminent with respect to all who dwell in our great cities. All the conditions. of life in the modern American city favor it, wealth or the accumulation of the wherewith to gratify the desires is the great incentive of our contemporaneous life, and under its fevered stimulation, vast numbers of men and women, utterly careless of the body's needs or demands, struggle in the great conflict, and eventually go down victims of the unchangeable law of Nature which decrees that the fittest shall survive; and all these weak persons, who succumb to the inevitable before they have reached the ultimate span of life, bear or beget children who are weak in proportion as their parents were weak, and these children, not possessing strength, resisting power and vitality, succumb quicker than their forbears. There is a great natural truth, universally demonstrated, with regard to the various forms of living organisms, and that is when all the functions of the body work together harmoniously — such as the digestion, the respiration, the circulation and the excretion, there is found a normal, strong, healthy organism, capable of existing under conditions that would mean the quick dissolution of one in which there was a derangement of the natural functions." 

How much more beautiful is that woman who has natural beauty  of true growth, because of the working harmoniously together of all the ' organs of the body to foster and build up the demands, the needs of nature, than she who plastering the outside, tries to get beauty from without. The latter cannot be compared to that beauty which comes from true growth, and which results from the healthy condition of every organ of the body. How strong is that man, how admirable in structure, who has health throughout his body, whose organs are in good condition! The healthy man, who" takes care of his physical being, has strength and vitality; his temple, if you please, is a fit place for his spirit to reside in. There are many things that attack the vitality of the body. We expose ourselves to disease; it gets into an organ that is somewhat impaired, then the ravages of disease weakens that and impairs other organs, the result being that the body succumbs to the attack. Only the other day, a brother and I were called to administer to a woman, a mother. Two weeks ago she was healthy and strong, a beautiful young frwoman. She exposed herself — not needlessly either — by going to a place where the water was impregnated with typhoid germs. Those germs entered her system, and attacked the organs of her body. One organ after another became impaired and deranged, and when we reached her bedside we found that she was literally poisoned by the ravages of that disease. If you had heard her husband's prayer, as he knelt by the bedside, pleading with God to abate that fever, to restore his wife to him and to the two little children.your hearts would have been touched as ours were, and vour faith would have been exercised, as ours was, that she might be restored, the ravages of the disease be counteracted, that she might again enjoy good health and strength. 

Bodily ailments deprive us of the full exercise of our faculties and privileges and sometimes of life itself. It is necessary, therefore, to take care of the body. But, great as is the peril of physical decay, greater, far greater, is the peril of spiritual decay. The peril of this century is spiritual apathy. As the body requires sunlight, good food, proper exercise and rest, so the spirit of man requires the sunlight of the Holy Spirit; proper exercise of the spiritual functions; the avoiding of evils that affect spiritual health, that are more ravaging in their effects than typhoid fever, pneumonia, or other diseases that attack the body. These diseases may stop the manifestations of life in the body, but the spirit still lives. When disease of the spirit conquers, the life dies eternally. Such an extreme spiritual disease would, of necessity, be an unpardonable sin. When men get spiritually sick, they do not care much for religion* They think it not necessary for them to attend to their spiritual wants. Dissatisfied with themselves, they find fault with those who do enjoy the true life of spirituality. Why? Because they don't know what real spiritual life is. Their bodies are succumbing to the diseases that are attacking the spirit. How? Why, in many ways. Those boys who sat, one week ago, in the rear room of a saloon, playing cards for hours, drinking whisky or beer, profaning the name of God — invited into their souls a malady that is more fatal than typhoid fever, or any other disease that can attack the body. 

Their spiritual life was being deranged; it is deranged. Though the mothers did not detect, when their boys came home that night, just how deeply imbedded were the germs of that spiritual disease, the germs were there, and those boys' spirits were poisoned. This condition kept them from Sabbath school the next Sunday; it keeps them from their quorum meetings during the week; it keeps them from the Mutual Improvement assembly; they have not the life, the moral strength to go to these places for spiritual sunlight, and the healthful exercise of the spirit. The man who hates his brother, and kneels down for prayer with that hate in his heart, has in his spirit a disease which will impair his spiritual life. The man who cheats his neighbor— I care not whether anybody knows it or not, he knows it (remember it is the real growth we are speaking of) — the man who takes advantage of a brother is weakening his spirituality. He cannot enjoy true growth in this Church, so long as he harbors that dishonest sentiment. Dishonesty is a spiritual disease. The man who steals' is inviting into his soul that which will prevent him from growing to the perfect stature of Christ. The man who fails in any way to live up to that which God and conscience tell him is right is weakening his spirituality— in other words, is depriving himself of the sunlight in which his spiritual nature will grow. 

Let us then, as individuals, grow from within; be what President Smith suggested at the opening of this conference: be men of God, pure within, repentant; for no man, said he, can gain salvation unless he repents of his sins. No matter where we are, no matter what peo outside of this Church may think of us, no matter what the ministers of the world may say, we are what our inner life makes us, what God knows we are. If our character is true, the mud they throw upon us will at some time fall off, and we shall stand pure and undefiled. As the world shall some day know that Christ is the Son of God, so shall they know that the members of this Church, being true within, are His righteous followers. 

There is another important factor in our lives that is also suggestive of the body and spirit, and that is the home. Every home has both body and spirit. You may have a beautiful house, with all the decorations that modern art can give, or wealth bestow. You may have all the outward forms that will please the eye, and yet not have a home. It is not home without love. It may be a hovel, a log hut, a tent, a wikeup, if you have the right spirit within, the true love of Christ, and love for one another — fathers and mothers for the children, children for parents, husband and wife for each other — you have the true life of the home that Latter-day Saints build, and which they are striving to establish. No matter what they may be without, are your homes pure within? Are morning prayers offered there regularly? Or do the things of this world take . you away from your homes and make you deprive yourself of morning prayers with the children? "Woe to that home where the mother abandons her holy mission or neglects the divine instruction, influence and example, — while she bows a devotee at the shrine of social pleasure; or neglects the essential duties in her own household, in her  to promote public reform." We must consider the home; it is the spring of life, if you please, of our social conditions today. It is no winder, when we think of some home pictures that are shown to us, that millions and billions of dollars are spent trying to- purify streams made impure bv the unholy fountains of home life in the world. One author gives us a description of such a home — a home in which the parents lived lawless lives, and subsisted, like leeches, upon what they could extort from their fellow men. In this environment two young girls grew to womanhood — what were they? 

"Sad creatures, without name, without sex, to whom neither good nor evil were any longer possible, and for whom, on leaving childhood there is nothing more in this world : neither liberty, nor virtue, nor responsibility. Souls blooming yesterday, faded today: like those flowers which fall in the street and are bespattered with mud before a wheel crushes them." 

From such homes come the men who are trespassing upon the rights of others; come women who are degraded, and who are dragging their virtue and that of others in the mud. It is such homes frpm which springs much of the evil in society today. I wish the money now spent in police and detective work could be used in purifying those homes. What the world needs today is good parents. Where parents are incapable of rearing their children properly, the state should assist by means of guardians of the young who should be required to do individual work. 

Latter-day Saints, how thankful I am that true "Mormon" homes are pure homes — you know they are; if they are not pure, they are not Latter-day Saint homes, no matter what the world thinks. We know the lives of the Latter-day Saints, and we know that their influence is to produce pure boys and girls; O, my heart rejoices that we can bear testimony to the world that the homes of the Latter-day Saints are godly homes. If there are those among us who contaminate the world, or who take advantage of .their neighbors, we can truly say they have not been influenced by the Latter-day Saint home, but by influences they have come in contact with outside the home. Parents, you Latter-day Saints, let us beautify our homes. It is all right to make them as attractive as possible, .but O, live within, live within! If mothers feel incompetent to train their children, if they find that there are conditions outside which are counteracting their influence in the home, go to the parents' classes, and there unite with your neighbors in overcoming the social conditions that may be contaminating your children. Let us live within. 

The body of the Church is composed of many members, yet all one body; and it is healthy, vigorous, strong, and influential when all the members of that body are working harmoniously together. You Deacons, think of your quorum; you are members of the body. If you injure your finger, the whole body suffers; and if a little Deacon's quorum, away off in some remote stake or ward, is inactive, to that extent the body of this Church is suffering. You who preside over Teachers' quorums, see that the body is in healthy condition. You Elders throughout the Church, and you presidents of Elders' quorums, how is the spirituality of your quorum? You have the outward ; you have your meetings, and your courses of study; but are the members of the body all in good condition? If so, happy are you, and you are promoting the welfare of the Church. You Seventies, you are called upon now to make a special effort each Sunday morning to put that body of men in proper condition. If any members of these quorums be not in condition for service, the body will suffer to that extent. We want all the members of the Church to be in true working order. If we are true within we shall grow, and the whole Church then is strong. What matters it though the world turn against us? If we are one, if we are pure, if we are sincere, God is our stay and our inspirer. The world cannot hurt us any more than the lions hurt Daniel, in the den when God protected him. They cannot hurt us any more than the fire hurt the three Hebrew children when they were cast into the flame. 

My voice is not adapted to address this audience, and I fear that it is grating on you; but there is one more truth which I wish to ex press before closing. I wish to bear testimony that I know that this Church is the Church of Jesus Christ. We are strong in it only to the extent that we are pure and true as individuals, as members, as leaders in organizations. I know that the men who lead this Church are men of God; I know their hearts: and you know them. You know that they have nothing but good for you, and for the whole world. I know the three men who stand at the head of this Church, who sit here today, are inspired men; God bless them. May He bless all who are striving to establish truth among mankind, is my prayer, and 

I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. 

Amen. 

The hymn, "Who are these arrayed in white," was sweetly rendered, as a soprano solo, by Sister Edith Grant. 

ELDER RULON" S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters : That I may be led by the Spirit of the Lord is the sincere desire of my heart at this time. I feel the great responsibility in standing before this vast congregation, and, unless my heavenly Father shall aid me, I feel that I will not be able to speak to you satisfactorily. 

Reference has been made today, by one of the speakers, to the great sin of indifference. I wish to echo my belief that this sin is one of the prevailing ones in the world. I appreciate the fact that this congregation may not be charged with that evil; their presence here is evidence tli at they do feel some interest in the welfare of Zion, and that they are not totally indifferent to the word of the Lord. I appreciate the fact that they have come up hither to be fed the bread of life. I rejoice in the words that have been spoken. My soul has been made to feel that I have been fed the bread of life, and I believe that the Latter-day Saints assembled here today have that same sentiment in their bosoms, and they rejoice in the truths of the everlasting Gospel. They rejoice in the influence of God's Holy Spirit that has been made manifest in our midst. Nevertheless there are of our own number many who are indifferent regarding the religion which has been revealed in the day and age in  we live. The great enemy to religion is this spirit of indifference. Men are prone to take advantage of the free agency which our heavenly Father, in His infinite wisdom, has given to every soul, and in taking this advantage they have misapplied that agency, in making a wrong use of the talents and ability with which our Father has endowed them. 

There are two things which are very valuable to every human soul. There are others, but I wish to point out these two and the wrong use that is being made of them. They were given to us for an allwise purpose, and with the bestowal of these gifts upon us, came the responsibility of making a proper use of them. The two things to which I refer are time and money. Some one has said that "time is money." We will all concede that both are regarded by the children of men as ranking among the things of greatest worth. If they are valuable to us as individuals, let us ask ourselves the question: Are they not also valuable in the bringing to pass of God's purposes among the children of men? What are we doing with our time and money? Are we devoting these great gifts of God unto our own selfish purposes, or are they being devoted to the service of God who made us? There are some who are foolish enough to think that if they devote a few hours of their time to serving the Lord that that is all He requires of them. They argue that, if they go to church upon the Sabbath day, if they attend the Mutual Improvement Association, or perform some other particular duty that devolves upon them, by reason of an appointment which they have received, they think that all the rest of their time belongs to themselves, and they can do with it just as they please. My brethren and sisters, if any have taken that view they do not understand the responsibility that the Lord has placed upon us, in giving us the life we have to spend upon this earth. 

The Lord expects us to devote all our time in serving Him. That may be regarded by some as an extravagant expression, but, if you will stop to analyze it, you will find that the Lord expects no less of you. The same thing can be said of money, the accumulation of wealth. Many argue : If I pay my tithes and offerings to the Lord, all the rest of my money belongs to me, and I will do with that just as I wish. This again is a false conception of what God expects from every child of His. As in the case of time, so with our wealth, the Lord expects us to devote it all to His service, and in the accomplishment of His great purposes upon this earth. That may again surprise you, but if you will stop to analyze it, you will find that He expects no less from every one of us. But may I not employ a part of my time in earning a livelihood _ for my family? Yes, certainly. But cannot you at the same time serve God ? Is it not a service to God when we provide for our own? Has not the injunction been laid upon us by inspired men that we should support our families? and is it not written that "he who will not provide for his own hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel?" It makes a great deal of difference how we provide for our own, whether in the employment of our time we are using it in the proper way and with honest purpose, or whether we are wasting that time or making an im use of it. The same with wealth : May I not use a part of the means that God has blessed me with in giving to my family the necessaries of life? May I not leave some of that for the benefit and welfare of my family? Yes, most assuredly; that responsibility is also enjoined upon us. It is not alone in the payment of tithing that we have the opportunity of serving God, but we also have the oppor" tunity of serving him in the use of every other dollar that we spend, and we ought to see to it that we spend our own money in the proper way, and in a way that will be in harmony with the will of God. If we were to employ our means in gratifying the lusts of the flesh, in profligate life, would that be considered a service of God? Certainly not. If we leave immense fortunes to our families without giving them the necessary wisdom to employ that money in the service of God, but leave it for them to waste away in wickedness and sin, that thereby they apostatize from the truth, would you call that a service of God? No, most assuredly not. Hence, those who are entrusted with great fortunes ought to consider in what way their means will be employed to further the purposes of God. One thing that I think ought to be encouraged among the well-to-do Latter-day Saints is to employ their means in such a way that every dollar of it may eventually be used to build up God's kingdom upon this earth; and, if they are able to prevent it, that not one dollar of their money should be utilized against the purposes of our Heavenly Father. It is this indifference regarding the employment of our time and of our money, the indifferent manner in  we regard these precious gifts, that leads us oftentimes in the ways of wrong and error. The proper employment of our time and our money will develop spiritual growth; it will develop that religious fervor which ought to abound among the Latter-day Saints, and which in many cases is woefully wanting. It seems to me that if we can surround our families by wholesome influences, by a proper utilizing of these gifts which our Father has given to us, if we create a love of the truth, so that every energy, every gift, all the time and all the means that we have may be devoted to the service of God, a more wholesome influence would be in the families of the Latter-day Saints. Some people think that they are not religious, that it is not necessary that they should be so devoted to God. It seems to me that a want of religion, a want of religious fervor, a want of spirituality, is mental deformity, more hideous than any physical deformity that we know anything about. Rather would I have my children maimed; rather would I have them without an eye, without a limb, without an arm, or some other important member, and thus be deformed through their natural life, than to have this mental deformity, this want of true religion, without which we form a false conception of the use that should be made of the things God has given us. It seems to me that if we love the truth, and love God with all our souls and with all our hearts, we can form no other conception of our obligations t© Him. "Son, give Me thy heart," is the commandment of God to every soul, and it means this: that we should give to God our lives, because the heart is an  of life, the vital organ which causes the life fluid to circulate throughout the body, imparting vitality to every part. So that, the Lord requires us to give our hearts, our whole lives in His service, and that means all we have and all that are, our time, our talents, our wealth, all should be devoted to the service of God. 

Brethren and sisters, let us endeavor, as members of the Church of Christ, to devolp this conception of our obligations to our heavenly Father. You laborers in Zion, ask yourselves the question whether or not the interests that are entrusted to your care are suffering, because, terchance, your time is being devoted in some other direction? Are any of the interests entrusted to yon languishing because you feel t at you must be out with your herds of sheep, or with your cattle upon a thousand hills ? Are any of the interests of Zion suffering at :ne hands of any of the Elders of Israel, because they are begrudging ihe use of the means that God has blessed them with? 

My brethren and sisters, I testify to you that I know this is the work of God; I know it of myself and not from another. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet sent of God to usher in this great and glorious dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times. I know that the men who stand at the head of this Church today are inspired of God, and are there by His appointment. May we uphold and sustain them; may we prove by our good works that we are devoted to that cause in which they are spending the energies of their lives, their time, and their means, in helping to accomplish God's holy purposes;' may the Lord help us to do these things, I ask it, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

Conference was adjourned till 2 p. m. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Ben E. Rich. 
