Afternoon
06 04 1901




ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

The world seems to prefer falsehood to truth— The testimony of Jesus— Necessity for moial courage— T.ie law of tithing— The Saints a loyal people. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly at this Conference in the testimony of my brethren, and I have thought, What are the people of the world thinking of? Have they eyes, but see. not; ears, but hear not; and hearts, but understand not? I wonder why it is that the inhabitants of the earth prefer falsehood to light and truth. I remember that, in England, they had a play at one of the theaters, called "The Danites" — a most infamous thing, calculated to prejudice the minds of the people against the unpopular Latter-day Saints. I noticed the other day that in the refined, aristocratic city of Boston they are enjoying a play termed "The Mormon Wife." Is anybody justified in rejecting the truth because of the scandals circulated against the Latter-day Saints? I understand that all men and women are their own agents; and I do not know a worse degree of slavery than to be afraid to think for yourself and speak what you believe. I wonder how many of this congregation would be present today if the Latter-day Saints had been moral cowards. But they are men and women who desire to think for themselves. Many were raised in the pop religions of the day, and came out of them and took up the cross of Christ.by obeying the doctrine of Christ as taught in His Church. They turned from the worship of the unknown God to the worship of the true and living God. They acknowledged the atonement of Christ, repented of their sins, were buried with Christ in baptism, thereby obtaining the efficacy of the sanctifying power of the precious blood of Christ, and received the Holy Ghost, through the laying on of hands. 

Every Conference where the Twelve Apostles have been they have borne their testimony that they know Joseph Smith was a true Prophet sent of God. How do they know it? Because they have accepted the doctrine of the Savior, taught by His authority. We bear testimony that the authority of God is restored to the earth. The Priesthood of Melchisedek, after the order of the Son of God, and the Priesthood after the order of Aaron have been restored; and the Gospel is being preached in all the world for a witness, by divine authority. The word of the Lord is unto all people, Repent and be baptized, and obgy the Gospel, worship the living and the true God, and you shall have a living witness that He lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. That was the message which came unto me years ago. I accepted it. I sought the Lord, and He answered me; and from the day I obeyed this Gospel down to the present time I have had a living witness concerning the truth of this work. 

Now, what is the. use of being an idolater? What is the use of being led by priestcraft and false tradition? What will be the outcome of all such, when men have the opportunity to obey the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, to become the children of the Father by adoption, and to be taught of Him? Our beloved brother, John W. Taylor, this morning spoke of the necessity of revelation. Why, "the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God." "Neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal Him." "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ," said the ancient Apostle, "for it is the power of God unto salvation. * * For  is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith." If it were essential for Peter to have a revelation from Almighty God to know that Jesus was the Christ, is it not essential that every man and woman should have the same opportunity, we all being the children of God, and He being no respecter of persons? I often wonder what excuse men and women will give the Almighty when they pass behind the vail, who have lived in the midst of the Latter-day Saints, who have heard the doctrine of Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints, and have seen the temples of God, in which the ordinances of the Gospel are performed for the living and the dead by the authority of God and the power of an everlasting priesthood. My friends, what excuse are you going to give to the Almighty? His ears are open to your cry, as they have been to ours, if you are honest and desire to know the truth. The Lord has said, Look unto me. What is to hinder you from doing so? "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." Is it possible that you have no faith in the living and true God, your Creator, and in the principle of revelation? If so, it is a bad condition to be in. That is my private opinion, publicly expressed. I am afraid it is like I once heard a gentleman say in Virginia. We had been preaching the Gospel and bearing a faithful testimony to the people, under the power and influence of the Holy Spirit; and at the close a gentleman said, "There is no doubt that these men have the scriptures on their side, but it would never do to belong to them, for they are so dreadfully unpopular." But what excuse will you give to the Lord for not receiving the message of the Gospel that we declare unto you? Will you say that you were moral cowards? 

We want no cowards in our band Who will their colors fly; We call for valiant-hearted men, Who are not afraid to die. 

Do you not sing that? Are they not your sentiments? If not, how came you to be Latter-day Saints? When I heard this Gospel it was threatenings, threatenings all the time. I was told what calamities would come upon me, and maybe death, if I associated with these unpopular people. Thank God for the courage He gave me to embrace the Gospel, contrary to the counsel of all my friends'. Why, our Master was unpopular. He was an innovator, because He told the truth; and we are innovators, because we tell the truth. Our testimony is true, and those who accept the Gospel at our hands bear witness that it is true, because they receive the recompense of reward. No man ever embraced the Gospel of Christ with a broken heart and contrite spirit, and lived its principles, who was disappointed or found fault with it; but the closer he lived to its principles the more of the power of God he had. 

Now, our beloved brother, George Q. Cannon, is lying sick unto death per. haps. He is an object lesson to the nations. He has traveled extensively. He took these glad tidings of great joy to the house of Israel in the Sandwich Islands. He went down "below all things." Then he has represented the people in the halls of Congress. And no man or woman could ever say of George Q. Cannon that he was anything but a gentleman. Take all our leaders — President Joseph Smith. President Brigham Young, President John Taylor, President Wilford Woodruff, President Lorenzo Snow — and they are the highest type of intelligence; men who have known no fear. God has given them a testimony, and that testimony is before the world. Because the people are unpopular is no excuse foi not embracing the Gospel. The Lord Jesus Christ said, "In me ye shall have peace; but in the world, tribulation." We have had plenty of tribulation; but the Lord has sustained us through it all the time. I know He has sustained me in my weakness, and has made me strong when I have been weak. He has come to my aid and enabled me to discharge my duty. So with my brethren. I remember, in 1868, when I was called upon a mission to the British Isles, I had an impression that I would never return. I remember speaking to President Heber C. Kimball. He made some remark to me, and said. "Boy,  you hear that?" I said, "Yes, sir." "Well," he said, " I want you to remember it, for you will not see me again." That confirmed the impression I had, (I never thought of him dying), and the agony I passed through when I left my wife and three children to go on that mission, no man knows, except he has gone through it himself; but by the grace of God I was enabled to say, "It does not matter to me whether I ever come back or not; the Lord has called me on this mission, and by His grace I am going to fulfill it." I never could have done it only by the grace of God, and to Him be all the glory. In other circumstances and at other times, when my life has been in danger, He has sustained me so that I did not flinch. Glory be to Him, not to His weak, unworthy servant! 

These are evidences to me that it is the Lord's work, and no man-made system. It is the "Marvelous work and a wonder" that is being performed by our Father in heaven. All glory to His holy name that we have the privilege of being associated with it! I am thankful beyond expression. Our leaders are just men, upright and honest men. They are devoted to the establishment of the righteousness of God upon the earth. They are natural gentlemen and gentlewomen, who have the spirit of this work, and who labor for the accomplishment of the purposes of the Almighty, that His righteousness may be established upon the earth. O my beloved brethren and sisters, how much we owe to our Father in heaven, that in our lowly condition He brought us to these glorious vales of the mountains, as predicted by the Psalmist: 

"O that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! 

"Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy; 

"And gathered them out of the lands from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south." 

Just think of it! that we should live to fulfil that, and to be associated witn this "marvelous work and a wonder." Then there are so many opportunities given unto us to assist in this work. There is plenty of room for all, male  female, who desire to labor for the glory of God. But the Lord has said that those who assist in this work should be full of love, having faith, hope and charity, being temperate in all things, trusting in the Lord, and doing good. 

I have noticed that since we have been more faithful in the payment of our tithes and offerings the Spirit of the Lord has increased in the hearts of the people. This is a very light thing that He requires of us — one in ten. I sometimes ask a little boy, if his father should give him ten apples and then ask for one-tenth to be returned to him, how many would he give. Why 5 one, he says. Then do you mean to tell me that grown people do not know what a tenth means? "Of all that thou shalt give me," said Jacob of old, "I will surely give the tenth unto thee." Are we doing it? If we are not, what is our justification? The Lord requires it of the widow as of the millionaire. He requires of His people one-tenth of all that He blesses them with, and also that they should be considerate to the widow and the fatherless. "Pure religion and undeflled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." We have nothing to do with the world, except to preach the Gospel to them. When you desire to pattern after the world and come under their influence and dominion, you are on the wrong side. "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." Do we want to be plagued? Do we want to be consumed with the brightness of the coming of the Son of God? The Lord hath said that those who are tithed shall not be burned at His coming. Those that rob Him in tithes and offerings shall become as ashes under his feet. Do you want to be in that condition? 

I would like to encourage all men to be kind to themselves, and to worship the living and true God. Come out of your broken cisterns, that hold no water; cease your idolatrous practices and the worship of an imaginary God, without body, parts or passions; and come to the light of the glorious Gospel of the Son of God. We have done this,  I tell you it is glorious. There is nothing under the heavens more valuable than the fellowship of the Spirit of God. Do you not want it? Humble yourselves before the Lord. "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness; for they shall be filled." The Lord has made it possible for us to assist in the establishment of His righteousness upon the earth, and to enjoy the pure happiness there is in the practice of righteousness. There is nothing that gives greater happiness than the doing of the will of God. And who is to judge us? Who can tell whether we have these principles or whether we have not? Only those who embrace them; only those who hear the word of God and do it. That is the only way in which you can obtain a testimony. I am frequently asked why it is that tourists and visitors to this city cannot go into the temple of the Lord; for they are so curious to know what is done there. Why, you can all obtain admission into that temple. How? By obeying the Gospel, worshipping the living and true God and being worthy, through keeping His commandments, to enter there. What is it you do there? We perform ordinances for the living and the dead, we learn the ways of the Lord. It is all summed up in the covenant we made when we went down into the waters of baptism, that we would serve God and keep His commandments. That covenant covers all our after life. Then we should be what we profess. I say to our friends, Repent, and obey the Gospel; for Jesus Christ became the author of eternal salvation to all that obey him. It is decreed in the heaven of heavens that you must be born again. You must be born of water and of the Spirit, and you must be adopted into the Church of Christ by His authority. This is not difficult to understand, if you want to understand it. I knew a man who was engaged in the Liverpool office of the Church for twenty or thirty years, but never embraced the Gospel. He would talk about it, but never seemed to sense the necessity of doing the will of the Father. Well, I suppose there are reasons why some people reject the Gospel, and why others accept it. But those who accept it certainly have the advantage, to the glory of God our eternal Father. We love Him. We are not hypocrites. "We do not teach false doctrine. We do not beguile the people. At the same time we sustain our government, though we have been accused of not doing th:s. I think when a people are willing to give up one of the highest and most holy of their principles at the dictation of the government, it bears a testimony that cannot be impeached. More than that, when the government wanted our boys to help them defend or subdue, they were on hand. We believe in the government; we believe in the Constitution. Our lawyers, if they want to be loyal to God, should stand by that Constitution. Let this be a State that is under the blessing of Cod, and a firm supporter of the Constitution, that we may be an example to all people in justice, truth, righteousness, and the protection of life and property. The Lord did not inspire the fathers that wrote the Constitution for nothing. He knew that He was going to establish His Church upon this land. Had the inhabitants of this land stood by that Constitution, the nation today would be much more prosperous than it is. The Lord has said that those who love Him and keep His commandments shall prosper, and it is the same with nations as with individuals. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I praise the Lord that I have the privilege of being with you, an Elder in the Church, having a living testimony concerning this work. I love my associates. We know the value of President Snow. Ten years he presided over the quorum of Apostles. He schooled us, and made us better men through his glorious administration. If you Latterday Saints will listen to the voice of the Lord, I will promise you, in the name of my Master, that you shall prosper in the land, your enemies shall never overcome you, and you shall be able to establish the righteousness of God in the earth, to the glory of the Father, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRT SMITH. 

Failure to fulfil the law is in the nature of a revolt — The way of deliverance and prosperity — Necessity of self-examination. 

Thus far in the conference the brethren who have spoken have received a most liberal portion of the Holy Spirit, and some absorbing thought has been expressed by each one, which has afforded food for reflection. The witness of the Spirit has followed their utterances. The manifest strength of President Snow in the opening of the conference, the clearness of his voice, the fulness of his words, gave to every person present an assurance that the head of this great organization, (the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints), was receiving help from the proper source. As each one of the brethren has taken his place upon this platform and --given utterance to the words suggested by the Spirit of the Lord, there has been a renewal of that Spirit which rested upon our chief as he placed before us his thoughts, and congratulated the people upon the measure of improvement that had been exhibited in their efforts to apply in a practical way the principles of the Gospel. 

The words of truth as they have fallen from the lips of our brethren have pointed out very clearly to our minds the fact that our Father was not afraid to tell us the truth, to give us credit for the efforts we have legitimately made, and to clearly expose to our own view our lack of fidelity and faithfulness in the performance of our part. The Spirit has portrayed before our minds the necessity that exists for testing each one of us. We have been informed that there are many who have been registered with the Latter-day Saints through the waters of baptism, and in many instances have been ordained to the Priesthood and been made partakers of the various callings and obligations that attach thereto, have been unmindful of their sacred covenants. 

It has not been the weakness of the flesh alone that has stood in the way of their development. All of us are possessed of many weaknesses: we have received an assur that they would be forgiven us if our fidelity to the Gospel should be fixed and established. It cannot be charged as a weakness that men and women to whom the truth has come are not tithepayers in the Church of Christ. It may be through a weakness that a man may sometimes tell that which is untrue? It may be weakness that exhibits itself in our lives when sometimes we drink ardent spirits and by that means lose our judgment, and possibly are drawn away from our moorings? But the continued and persistent neglect of a requirement such as is placed upon those that have been made partakers of the Gospel in its fulness, to pay their tithing, ceases to be a weakness. It becomes in its nature a direct revolt against an absolute commandment of God, designed to establish us in the generous and considerate fulfillment of providing for the development of the work of God and our own well being, and registering ourselves as willing to utilize that which Providence shall place in our hands as worldy means for the betterment of our fellow creatures and the dispensing of the word of God among the children of men, in the building up and beautifying of Zion, in the extending of her borders, and in carrying forward that work of His in the way designed by Him, as well as in an exhibition on our part that we hold no worldly goods above His work. While we may fall down under the temptation of the moment, passion may govern us briefly, and we may make this error, yet when the years come and go and Elders of the Church, holding the Priesthood of the Son of God, are not enrolled upon His records — upon the record of the Lamb's book of life, if you please— it is an evidence, not of a weakness, but of revolt against an absolute requirement of heaven. 

President Snow, in his efforts to maintain the dignity and honor of the work of the Lord in the world, when he came to the forefront as the chosen leader of the Saints, under the direct revelations of our heavenly Father, pointed out to us as a people that there had been upon our part a fearful lack of earnestness and devotion, as written in the books. He  the way of freedom from the trammels that were holding us down. He pointed to us the way, not alone of the avoidance of dishonor and disgrace 

by unpaid bills on the part of the Church itself, "_| t the way of freedom also for the Elders of the Church who had gone beyond the proper limits in their own business concerns. He said 

that their liberty, their hope lay in turning to the Lord, and seeking by earnestness and devotion to utilize their powers, by paying their just dues and being placed upon that record from which every member of this Church its to be judged. By fixing in their own souls the thought that this is the test law which the Almighty has established, and if you will fulfill that obliga. tion rightly, your own trammels will be relieved, your own burdens will be lightened, the sunlight of the Spirit shall descend in richness upon you. The efforts of those who would retard your progress and bar the advancement of the cause of Christ will be futile. The hands of your enemies will be weakened, the light and inspiration of truth will mark the way for you to indeed become that conquering host which our Father in heaven has decreed you shall. This is not to be done in the spirit of hate, nor in malice directed against any of our fellow creatures, but in the spirit of independence and love, tempered by that legitimate humility that would lead every man and woman conversant with the principles of the Gospel and the spirit of this work to sense fully the nature of the great mission that is theirs. We should not fail to sense that this world is before us, with the design of God who sent us here; that it is our world, if you please; not a world to be conquered by the sword, not a world to be conquered by the spirit of hate, not a world to be subdued simply to satisfy the ambitions of men and give them place in connection with it and its development, but a world to be brought into subjection to Almighty God through the cross of Christ and through the principles of love enunciated by Him and revealed anew in the day and age in which we live; that no matter what may come, our own hearts purged by the requirements of our God, we would indeed utilize the worldly means that that Father gave us to provide for the accomplishment of His purpose, as far as we had the power; that the hand which He chose to hold within its grasp the elements of power should not be paralyzed by our failure to place within that hand, so far as we possess the capability, the sinews of war that should enable him in any and every field where His purposes required a work to be done, to accomplish that work. He congratulated you upon the wonders that have been accomplished, and yet there are wonders still to be accomplished. 

You have been flattered that you were the best people in the world. I hope, my brethren and sisters, that each man and each woman will look into the inmost recesses of their own hearts, weigh the conditions of the duty imposed by the Almighty upon them, and ask themselves the question, as the cold investigation is made, Is this statement of our brethren correct, so far as we are concerned? Words of flattery, it is true, sometimes drop sweeter upon our ears than words of reproof. We bear illy sometimes the words of reproof, and especially if we have been in violation of some requirement or law of God. But when we look into the recesses of our own hearts, or examine the record of our own deeds, are the words of commendation that are spoken to us as a body merited by each one of us? As I have sat in the presence of my associates and listened to their good words of counsel and commendation, their words of censure, I have sought to put myself on the rack, to examine myself. I wish that I could feel that I had fulfilled as thoroughly the work the Almighty has given me to do in connection with you as I should have done? But while I was examining myself I wondered if all of us were undergoing the same examination, and if so, we had determined that with the help of God under the inspiration of His Spirit as it came from the lips of His servant, we would be tithepayers, we would be exemplars in every walk of life, so far as we had the power. While some little weakness might overtake us, we would not register ourselves as in revolt against any proposition that 

Almighty God had laid upon us as a duty that we should discharge. We might miss for a brief season the payment of tithes, but the years should not come and go and our names not be found on the records of the judge of the house of Israel; that the days and the months should not pass by and we utilize our means with which Providence blesses us without being mindful of that aid that we should give for the furtherance of the purposes of that Father who had given us the right to the receipt of His Priesthood, or who had permitted us, if we had not attained this, to enter the sacred door of the waters of baptism and receive the baptism of water and of fire and the Holy Ghost, while hundreds and thousands around us as good as we, so far as their lives are concerned, as earnest as we in that which they deem right, and in many instances much more liberal than we, and yet by some condition that can scarcely be explained remain aloof from the consoling and convincing influence of that Spirit that comes from on high. 

But yesterday in passing from this building to my own home, I met a gentleman whose friendship I appreciate very highly, not a member of our Church; a man that I believe to be in the business world a man of perfect honor and integrity, a moral man. I met him upon the sidewalk. I put my arm around his shoulders, and said to him, "My friend, I believe I have the prize of prizes, that has been given of God to our Father's children. You and I have met in the business world for years and years; your treatment of me has been the treatment of a gentleman; I have respected and do respect you as a man of honor." "He says, "I have been a moral man, Mr. Smith, but I have not been a religious man, in the sense in which you religious men sometimes speak." Said I, "Look here, by and by this race will be run, and you and I will be on the other side. I do not want you to say to me on the other side, 'Mr. Smith, in that sphere yonder, you had the prize of prizes, and you never offered me an understanding of it.' I want to ask you as a matter of friendship — for I believe that I have the truth— that you will make it in your  to visit the religious services of the Latter-day Saints. Seek to receive of their spirit and to comprehend that which they are engaged in." He promised me that he would, and I believe he will. As to the impressions that the Almighty may make upon his mind as he shall listen to the words that may be spoken by the Elders of the Church, it is not for me to determine. His spirit must be in that condition that the spirits of some of you were in in times past when you drank in of the truth; but if his spirit does drink in of the truth, I believe him to be of that mould that means and abilities would be utilized by him for the accomplishment of that which in his honor he believed was true. I think that many of the Latterday Saints are discrediting themselves in their neglect of that which the Master has placed within their reach by a failure to meet these obligations and to have their names registered by the common judge upon the records designated by the Almighty for preserving the evidence of the goodness of their hearts and their conversion to His truth. 

I see, my brethren and sisters, that my proportion of the time is gone, but standing before you with the full knowledge of the responsibility that attaches to my chief as well as to my associates in connection with this work, I say to you, write your names in the Lamb's book of life; for it is the Lamb's book of life when you register yourself as a bestower of that which Providence places in your hands and give it into the hands of the parties designated by the Almighty to utilize that means for the extension and upbuilding of the Zion of our God. There is no requirement resting upon you to pay tithes upon somebody else's property or earnings; but the law of God to His people is that that which is yours, which comes into your hands each year, shall be tithed. He requires of His people that that witness for His truth shall be registered by the payment of tithes and offerings; and no man or woman that fails and continues to fail in this duty can be in any other condition in connection w'ith the work of God except in open revolt. The missing for a season may be a lack of judgment, maybe a fault, but when it con without limit, that man or thai woman has rejected in his or her soul the law that God has given. Theit names will disappear in connection with our Father's work. 

Brethren and sisters, let us obey the commandments of our Father in heaven, register our names in His book, register our name in words of comfort and advice, guiding, as far as we may have the power, our fellow man to an understanding of the truth. Let us ever remember that these sons and daughters of His, scattered throughout the world or mingling with us in our own homes, though not of our own faith, are His children, created in His likeness and in His image; and that while the truth has come to us, the responsibility in the receipt of that truth upon us is indeed great. Every word that can be spoken, every deed that shall turn the hearts of our fellows to our Maker, should be performed by us. That which we have embraced is indeed the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We are indeed in the Church of Jesus Christ. Our mission is the purifying of God's children in all the world. He who fails to perform his part in this ministry, after having been made a partaker of the heavenly gifts, will find himself outside of the holy communion, and the blessings in store for our Father's children. I pray for our country and its good; for the development of that truth which our Father has given us; for the spirit of hate to be banished; for the spirit of love to reign supreme among this people; and that in their love of mankind they shall be enabled to turn indeed "the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers," extending not alone unto that future time, but encompassing all the good that will be saved upon this earth in the flesh in the day and time we are acting among them. I know that the Gospel is true; that His Priesthood and power is among the children of men; that it has been given to man, "never again to be taken from the earth nor given to another people," but to be established, carried from land to land, from clime to clime, to be preached to every nation, to every kindred, to every tongue, and to every people, that they to whom the message comes through the ministrations; of God the Father and His Holy Son may fulfill their destiny and be crowned with His approval, because they obeyed His laws. Amen. 

ELDER C. W. PENROSE. 

Mankind in the image of God-Every soul is immortal—Obedience to law essential to salvation -.Universal redemption — Glory to be regulated by merit. 

This is a most magnificent sight to me. When I looked upon the congregation this afternoon and saw the uncovered heads of both brethren and sisters, I thought of the saying of Scripture, that God made man in his own image, "in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them." I also thought of one remark made by President Snow in his opening address, that every one of us is immortal, that the spiritual part of our being is the offspring of God, and no matter how long we may have existed before we came into the world, or what is the mystery of our origin, we are immortal beings, and while ages go and come and changes will take place in the worlds that God has created and in the beings who inhabit them, that we shall live on forever and ever, and there will be no end to our existence and to the development of the powers that exist within us as the sons and daughters of God. What a grand and ennobling thought this is! that though we now are weak, clothed around with mortality, and subject to the infirmities of the flesh and the weaknesses that we have inherited through a long line of ancestry, who in many respects have transgressed the commandments of God — notwithstanding our frailties, and that with which we have to contend through our environment and the influences of the past, all eternity is before us. There is no end to our existence, and there will be no end to our advancement. Every person upon whim I look in the congregation this afternoon is immortal. There will be an opportunity in the ages to come, if we do not avail ourselves of them in the present, to learn the mind and will of our Eternal 

Father and to come into harmony with Him and with His divine purposes. But those who receive the truth in this life, who avail themselves of those opportunities about which we have heard this afternoon, who receive the truth as it is in Christ Jesus, enlist under His banner, fight the good fight ,of faith and overcome, will obtain the crown in the kingdom of the Father, and forever and ever they will be in the advance of those who fail to obtain these blessings, who fail to be obedient to' the Lord and are not found worthy to inherit this "far more and eternal and exceeding weight of glory" which those can attain to who obey the Gospel. That is the advantage of receiving the truth in this present state of existence. We obtain that much of a step in advance of those who do not receive the Gospel. 

It is very gratifying to us who desire the salvation of mankind, and whose work it is to labor for their uplifting, who have been specially called of God and appointed to work under the Captain of our salvation for the redemption of the whole human race, to know by the revelations of God that the time will come, in some future state of existence if not in this, when every soul that can be redeemed will be brought out of darkness and sorrow, and hell, and death, and be placed where they can enjoy existence, to glorify God and obey His commandments. We do not know how long it will take for some people to obtain this redemption. It is certain, however, that justice will claim its own. Our God is a merciful Being. His name is love. He is full of longsuffering, kindness and charity, and He desires the salvation of His children. But He governs Himself by law. His word is law. He lives by the precepts which He administers and reveals to others. We shall find that He sets the example, as Jesus Christ, His Son, our Elder Brother, did. Therefore there can be no salvation for the transgressor until he shall repent and be willing to be obedient. The laws of God are eternal; they are forever and ever; they are inflexible; and it is only by obedience to law that exaltation can be secured. In this condition we are learning to be obedient to 41!  — such law as God has revealed; also to the wholesome rules and regulations that are established in the governments under which we may live. 

We have been divinely charged with the duty of obeying the law of the land as well as the laws of God. All peop'e must eventually be brought into obedience to law, in order to be saved; and their exaltation, their glory, their power and dominion, if they have any, will be in proportion to their obedience to those things that God reveals. He that cannot abide and obey the celestial law, cannot abide a celestial glory. That is written. It is the word of the Lord. If we desire to obtain the great salvation, if we desire to obtain the crown, in the presence of the Father, if we desire to have the gift of eternal lives (which means endless increase in power, dominion and glory forever), we must abide the conditions on which tlrs glory is predicated; we must be obedient to the divine commandments, and devoted to God. We must not only be baptized in water, but baptized into His Spirit, and into the spirit of obedience to Him in all things. He that is obedient in all things and overcometh all things, shall inherit. all things. All that the Father hath shall be given unto him. But if he will not be obedient, if he will not bow to the laws which entitle him to celestial glory, he must receive that condition and that measure of glory in that kingdom the laws of which he is willing to obey. Therefore, we are told that there is also a terrestrial glory and a telestial glory, and there is a kingdom that is not a kingdom of glory; and he that will not abide law, he that will not bow in obedience to the commandments of God, but seeks to become a law unto himself, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot receive a kingdom of glory at all. There will be some who, because they are so self-willed and rebellious and stubborn in their acts, and will not yield to God or man, will be banished from the presence of the Lord and the glory of His power. They will go into "outer darkness, where there is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth." How long? Until they learn obedience by the things which they suffer. 

Thanks be to God, the old crude idea of an everlasting hell of fire and brimstone and torment, out of which there is no redemption, has been dispelled like the clouds of night by the light of the millennial morn which has shone forth from the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Sun of righteousness. There will be an opportunity for all the sons and daughters of God— for they are immortal — at some time to come out of darkness, disobedience, sorrow, sin and suffering, and find some place where they can advance, and that advancement will be forever; for they are the sons and daughters of God, and there is no end to their existence. They will all have life in some degree. But that promise of eternal life which Jesus Christ said should be given to those who are His at His coming— those who obey His commandments, those who enlist under His banner, those that are baptized into Christ and put on Christ will be fulfilled in every particular —they will inherit that glory which He promised, and the gift of eternal life, or eternal lives, will be given unto them. 

What is that, different from immortality? Mere existence is not "life," in its full significance. There are people who have an existence here, but some parts of their being are not developed. Some people live only for that which they eat and drink and wear, and that is the end of it with them. Others have their mental faculties and their intellectual powers developed; and some whose physical and intellectual powers are measurably developed are dead or asleep spiritually. They do not live fully, unless the spiritual part of their being is awakened and aroused apd is alive, susceptible to the influences that come from the Father. So in the eternal worlds. There will be immortality to all the sons and daughters of God, whether they are suffering for sin or have been redeemed; whether they are in the celestial, terrestrial or telestial worlds; but only those who attain to the celestial glory, and the power and dominion and exaltation, and the gift of everlasting increase, wherein their posterity will be multiplied worlds without end, have the real gift of eternal life. All their powers will be developed to the full. They will pattern after the works of their Eternal Father and their Elder Brother, while eternal ages roll along, and they will be in harmony and in communion with them, and will participate with them in the glorious work of the extension of the universe and dominion of God throughout the vast domains of space; and while eternal ages go and come they will increase and multiply in light, in wisdom, in intelligence, in knowledge, in power, and in glory, and the extent of their possessions and dominions in the worlds that will be created will be from everlasting to everlasting. This is what you and I are striving to obtain, my brethren and sisters. One of the things to aid us in attaining to this great salvation is to labor for the salvation of others. 

I cannot prolong my remarks. The time has expired. I did not expect to be called upon to speak for a moment; but I can say this afternoon that I rejoice in this great work. In it are all my aims and ambitions, if I have any. I love it with all my soul. I desire to labor in it while I dwell on the earth, and when I pass away into the other world. I rejoice in the knowledge that God has enlightened my soul and given me to understand the truth, to some extent at least, as it is in Him. I know this work is His, and that it will prevail. I know it will overcome all opposition, and stand and endure. I know it will bring about the salvation of the living and the redemption of the dead, and that all who are faithful and abide the conditions, by the power of God will be raised from the dead, and be clothed with the gift and power of eternal lives in His presence. I rejoice in the teachings that we have had. I feel that we shall yet have the outpouring of His Spirit during the remainder of our conference. I exhort my brethren and sisters to treasure up in their hearts continually the words of eternal life, and to live by them, and bring these things down to the practice of their every day lives, and they shall have joy in this world and salvation, honor, glory and exaltation in the world to come. May God bless us all and enable us to do this, for Christ's sake. Amen. 
