Morning
06 04 1901




ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

Evidence of progress — Temples and vicarious work for the dead — Duties of Presidencies of Stakes, High Councilors and Bishops— Effective methods of settling difficulties. 

I am gratified to see so many in attendance at this conference. We are here from different parts of this State and from other States to receive counsel and advice and to partake of the spirit of the conference. 

While sitting here yesterday I was thinking that is is forty-seven years this spring since I first attended conference in this city, and I have been contrasting in my mind the changes that have occurred from that time until now. At that time none of these beautiful buildings on this block were here. We met, I think, in the old tabernacle, and the congregation was small compared to what it is today. Since that time many of our dear brethren and leaders of the Church have been called to labor in another sphere, and others have taken their places; this beautiful Tabernacle has been erected; and four Temples have been reared in this State to the name of the Lord, at a cost of some millions of dollars. It is wonderful to contemplate the progress and advancement that the people of God have made. The Lord has surely blessed their labors, and multiplied them in the good things of the earth. He has also increased them in faith and in every blessing that makes life desirable. We certainly ought to be a good people, and very humble. We ought to 

D DAY. 

acknowledge God, and in the earnestness of our souls seek Him for a continuation of His mercies. 

Yesterday, in thinking about the Temples which have been built, I wondered how many among us appreciate the privilege of entering into the house of the Lord and performing a vicarious work for our kindred who have passed away. The doctrine of salvation for the dead was revealed to the Church at an early day. From the very beginning of the work the Church has been commanded to build Temples. It was so with the Nephites. They had only been upon this continent a few years before they commenced the erection of a temple. The work in this dispensation had only been inaugurated a few years when the building of a temple commenced. This shows the importance of the work, and the necessity of the Latter-day Saints laboring in the interest of their kindred dead. There are many brethren and sisters who can bear testimony that numbers of those who have been officiated for in the temples of the Lord have approved of the work done for them by their friends. In the midst of all our other cares and labors, this principle of redeeming our kindred should not be lost sight of. Our Elders, when they go abroad, especially if they go to the land of their fathers, should be diligent in searching out the records of their forefathers, so that after their return they may officiate in the temples of the Lord for them. We only have this short life — but a few days — in which to engage in this work and to manifest to our kindred on the other side that we have interest in them, and we ought to avail ourselves of the opportunity. We without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. This work of the redemption of the dead will go on. President Taylor once remarked that it would go on in our lifetime, and in the lifetime of our children, and in the lifetime of our children's children, and throughout the Millennium, and I do mot know how much longer. The small fceginning we have made is as a drop in the ocean compared to that which has to be done; for it is the design of the Father to save and redeem His children. 

The Saints have done pretty well, considering their circumstances; hut the spirit of temple-work has not yet permeated the hearts of the people as a whole. A number have done a good work, and have sought diligently the records of their fathers; while others have been indifferent. I feel in my heart that there should be an awakening among the people in regard to this matter. While we have the opportunity - — while the day lasts — let us avail ourselves of this privilege. Some are putting it off because they have only got a small record, and they say to themselves, "I guess I'll wait a little longer until I can increase my record, so that when I do commence I can continue." I do not think that is a good idea. If you have the record of but few, those few ought to be officiated for; and when you have attended to them, if you are diligent, the way will be opened up whereby you may obtain other records. This has been the case frequently. We cannot afford to wait when we have the opportunity. 

I suggest these things because I am engaged in this work, and I feel the importance of it. It is just as important to redeem our kindred as it is to go abroad and bring souls into the Church. The houses of the Lord have been erected, their doors are open to those who are worthy, and we ought to attend to this. Furthermore, associated with the Temples of the Lord are blessings that cannot be found in other places. The power of God is frequently manifested there to individuals. The visions of their minds are opened, and they see the things of God. Of course, these things are not for the public, nor to be heralded abroad; they are sacred, and given of the Lord for the comfort and consolation of His faithful servants and handmaidens. Hence I urge the importance of the Saints considering these things in their homes. Families should arrange their affairs so that this work can be attended to in their life; for the evidence is manifest on every hand that it will only be a little while before you and I will be among those that were; we will be gone to the other side, our labors, so far as mortality is concerned, finished. Now is the accepted time; now is the day of salvation. 

Many things were brought to my mind yesterday relative to the growth and sanctiflcation of the people. I have found in my experience that it ia a constant labor to obey the precepts of the Gospel. We have a perfect Church organization. Nothing like it can be found anywhere. It has come from the Lord. We have Stake and ward organizations. One of the Stake organizations is the High Council. Now, it has been considered in days gone by that the office of High Councilor was a nominal one, and that there was not much for the High Council to do. This is a mistaken idea. They should be one with the Presidency of the Stake, as the Twelve Apostles aie one with the Presidency of the Church; and it would be an excellent thing if the presidents of Stakes would follow the lead of the Presidency of the Church. We find that the Presidency cf the Church have their regular meetings. They meet one day each week, and as many of the Twelve meet with;,hem as are able. It would be well li this were followed in the Stakes. Let the Presidency of the Stake meet every week, and the High Council meet with them, and talk over matters pertaining to the welfare of the people of the Stake. Let them sing and pray together, and ask the Lord to direct them in their ministry. I know this is a good thing. I will tell you what is needed in the whole Church, and that is, that every ward in the Church be labored with by the officials of the ward and of the Stake, that it may be said one year from now that every non-tithepayer in the Church has been converted. Somebody has to do this labor, why not the Presidency of the Stake and the High Council take it up and see what good they can accomplish the coming years. Let them see if they cannot bring about a reformation, that the report may not come to the President of the Church that there are ten thousand, or any oilier number of non-tithepayers in the Church. 

This law of tithing was not instituted by man; it is the word of the Lord to the people, and those who do not comply with it will certainly meet with loss. Hence the importance of every member of the Church being- enlightened, that they may be brought to realize their position and the necessity of reforming and doing better. And how can a man be converted without somebody to convert him? How can he hear without a preacher? If this labor were to devolve upon the Presidency and High Council, it would give the High Council something to do besides sitting on trials. While the High Councils are organized and prepared to hear and adjudicate difficulties between brethren, their labors should be directed in other channels, and those who have difficulties should be advised to settle them themselves. 

I will tell you how I have done in Cache Stake. For the past year we have not had one High Council trial. We have selected brethren and sent them to parties having difficulty and trouble, and I have said to the brethren, Go and sing the songs of Zion to them. "Well, how many times shall we sing?" "Well, sing once, and then pray; sing again, and continue to sing until the Spirit of the Lord is there, and you can feel that there is a softening." I tell you, it has had excellent results. The difficulties have been settled by the parties themselves. Their hearts have been softened, and they have concluded to arrange their own troubles. That i= the only way they can be settled. The High Council cannot do it; the Bishop's court cannot do it. They may pass decisions, but does that settle it? There is only one way to settle it, and that is set forth in the scriptures: Go to thy brother, and between him and thee alone make reconciliation. Let us settle our difficulties ourselves, and let the High Council be employed in preaching the Gospel and in conversing by the fireside, just as our Elders do in the world. Our Elders make more converts by the fireside than they do in the pulpit. They go to the homes of the people and talk  them. That is just what is needed in Zion. Let our brethren who have authority go to the firesides of the people, and convert them to attending their meetings and doing their duty. 

Especial comolaint is made that tha Elders do not attend their quorum meetings. They need converting. They are good men, but careless and inconsiderate. Their minds need to ba touched by the Spirit of the Lord, and there needs to be an awakening in their hearts. There is no trouble about the sisters; if the brethren will only do right, lead and counsel, and sing and pray in the family circle, the sisters will be all right. The difficulty lies with the heads of families and with the bearers of the holy Priesthood, who have agreed to do their duty, because when we ordain people now we ask them if they will be faithful in their calling and ministry. We need an awakening. 

While it is proper for the Presidency and High Council to meet, and to sing and pray together, the same rule will apply to the Bishopric of every ward. Have these meetings weekly; and do not let some trifling thing keep you from them. One Bishopric said to me that not one of them could sing. I suggested that they call in somebody who could sing; and if they could not get anybody let them sing the best they could themselves. Do the best you can, and the Lord will accept it. Sing and pray, and talk over the affairs of the ward. Just as sure as you will adopt this policy and carry it out, you will be benefactors to the ward and a blessing to the people. Your minds will be led out in the interest of the people; and when they see you have their welfare at heart they will be willing to come to you for counsel. President Snow says there are many Bishops who do not do their duty. I know that is true, and I know the Lord inspired him to say it, for he could not make a personal visit to each ward and find out its condition. The Lord inspired him to say this, and it ought to sink into our hearts. We want to save men and women; we want to save families. We go abroad and spend our time and means to preach the Gospel and gather people into the Church, while in many instances we are neglecting those right at our doors. Everybody is not alike, and it is a good thing we are not. President Snow says we each have our individuality, and we always will. I suppose we will always be .just what we are, and if we make progress in ourselves, so much the better. It is expected that we will make progress, and that we will spread abroad. 

It is designed in the heavens that this people shall be at the head, and that the great men of the nation will come by and by to Zion for counsel and wisdom. Where are we going to get it? What are our opportunities above other people? Why, we commune with the heavens. There is where we are in advance of the world. We not only have the advantages of their learning, but we have divine inspiration, by which our minds are enlightened. The Presidency of t!» Church have the heavens opened to them by the Spirit and power of God, and they will be able to counsel the wisest of the nations. This time will come; nor is it far off. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel the importance of having an awakening among the saints. Do not think to attain to great things by peculiar measures, as Brother Smoot referred to yesterday, such as having special fast meetings for the benefit of somebody. Take the order of the Church as it is, and do not seek to bring in side issues and change the ordinances of the Gospel. If we change the ordinances of the Gospel, we will soon break the covenant we have entered into. The Lord complained to ancient Israel that they transgressed His laws, changed the ordinances and broke the everlasting covenant; and He chastised them because of their iniquities. On another occasion He told them that they had robbed Him. They wanted to know wherein they had robbed Him. "In tithes and offerings." How many of us have robbed the Lord in tithes and offerings? While there has been a very commendable increase in this direction, I feel in my heart that we have not yet fully come up to the mark and satisfied the feelings of our beloved Presi, because he comprehends these things, and God is with him to inspire ana direct him in his counsels to the Latter-day Saints. Let us see if we cannot improve this present year. But if a reformation is brought about, it must be by effort and labor. If it is effective in ourselves and in our families, it will need labor. This devolves upon the Presidents of Stakes, upon High Councils, and Bishops, and all the Priesthood, and the Lord will not justify us if we seek to shirk the responsibility. Hence, my brethren and sisters, I think the best thing we can do is to make new resolutions in our hearts; and wherein we have failed in the past, let us try to make up for it in the future. So sure as we do, the Lord will be with us, and the manifestations of His pow  er will be felt in every Stake and ward of Zion. It is the rule, the discipline of the Church, and we must seek to carry it out in our lives, that it may be said of us when we pass away, as it can be of a number of good people, "Well done, good and faithful servant; you have done well in your lifetime: you have filled the measure of your creation in usefulness before the Lord, and have labored unselfishly in the interest of His work." If we could divest ourselves of selfishness and trust implicitly in our Father, how grand would be our history. 

I suppose I have occupied all the time that belongs to me. I feel well. I know that this is the work of God. I bear record to you that it is. The Gospel has been revealed in our day and time, and we have been privileged to have our eyes opened a little to comprehend the great truths God has revealed. These brethren at the head are the right men in the right place. The Presidency of the Church are filled with inspiration; they are clothed with the power of, God, to the extent that their administration is successful, and will continue to be successful. Let our administrations continue to be successful, and the Church will triumph; the kingdom and the greatness of the kingdom will be given to the Saints of the Most High) by and by, and shall never more be taken from them. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

The Church built upon new and continuous revelation — Divine authority conferred upon and through Joseph Smith— Time of the gathering of Israel at hand— Gospel of the kingdom restored and all nations shall hear it— Coming of Christ is near. 

My brethren and sisters, I trust that our Father in heaven will bless me with a portion of His Holy Spirit this morning, that I may say that which shall be in accordance with His mind and will, for I realize that except the Lord is with us we can accomplish nothing. 

When I behold this vast concourse of people gathered together in this large building, I naturally ask myself the question, What brings them together? And as I am familiar with the fact that you have gathered from the four corners of the earth, and are building up a great commonwealth in western America, I ask myself, What is the great moving force among this people? Elder Merrill has just referred to the great temples that the Latter-day Saints have built in this State, and I am aware that this people are dwelling in upwards of four hundred cities, towns and villages in the Rocky Mountain region. It is truly a remarkable work that is being accomplished by the Latter-day Saints, and I naturally enquire, What is this great work founded upon? I passed a building the other day, and it had poles sticking up against the east and south walls. I looked for a moment at the building, and I discovered that it was going to fall, because the foundation was not good. It was evident, from the appearance of the house, that the more you built upon the walls the greater would be the fall when it should come. In the early history of the Salt Lake Temple there were spme large stones put in the foundation which were not sound. President Young discovered this; and although it had cost a great deal to put the foundation in, he ordered it all taken out. What was his object in doing this? It was that there might be a good, solid foundation under that structure, so that when the temple was completed, the foundation would not crack and give way by reason of the immense weight resting upon . Now that it is completed we can see the wisdom exhibited by President Young at that time. 

I desire to compare our Church to a house; and I say unto you that if you are not building your foundation strong and of good material, the greater the house you put upon it the greater will be the fall when it shall come. What kind of a foundation have you? Is it laid correctly? As I understand it, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is built upon the foundation of revelation from God the Eternal Father — not upon revelation given eighteen hundred years ago; for we would be slow to build a house with stones that had been in a building eighteen hundred years; but upon revelation given in the nineteenth century. In using this word "revelation," I do not refer to it as it is understood by the sectarian world; but I mean new and continued revelation from God the Eternal Father, to guide His people. Are we justified in taking this view of the situation? Let me ask this congregation, What was the Church of Christ built upon in the days of Jesus? This can best be answered by Jesus himself. On one occasion He asked His Apostles. "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" They replied, "Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets." He said, "But whom say ye that I am?" Peter, who was the President of the Apostles, answered him saying. "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Jesus then blessed Peter, saying, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." From this we can see that the Church of Christ in His day was built upon the principle of revelation from God the Eternal Father — the same principle that made known unto Peter that Jesus was the Christ. 

"There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews; 

"The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: GENERAL CONFERENCE.  no nvan can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. 

"Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 

"Nicodemus said unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born? 

"Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee. Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

There are many people today exactly in the same position as Nicodemus was. They will have to be born again before they can understand the things of God. But the Apostle Peter had been born of the Spirit. And how did this come upon him? It came by revelation from God; and Jesus told him that upon this rock of revelation He would build His Church. That is the kind of foundation which underlies the structure of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Jesus went still further in blessing Peter. He said: 

"And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." 

Here was divine authority conferred upon the children of men to act in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ; "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved." 

In this day the keys of the kingdom of God were conferred upon the Prophet Joseph Smith. John the Baptist came and conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon him, and Peter, James and John conferred the Melchisedek Priesthood. Was Joseph Smith authorized to go forth and administer in the ordinances of life and salvation, because God the Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ had appeared unto him? Oh, no! Before he could do that it was necessary that the keys of the kingdom of heaven should be conferred upon him. After Peter, James and John appeared unto him, Elijah came and gave unto him the keys for the redemption of the dead: and Moses came and delivered unto him the keys of the  of Israel in the last days. For behold, my brethren and sisters, that day is at hand which was spoken of by the Prophet Jeremiah: 

"Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that it shall no more be said, the Lord liveth that brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt; 

"But the Lord liveth that brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the lands whither he had driven them: and I will bring them again into their land that I gave unto their fathers. 

"Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the Lord, and they shall fish them and after will I send for many hunters and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks." 

This day is at hand. The fishers and the hunters are going from nation to nation, declaring the Gospel of the kingdom of God; for it has been revealed in its fulness in this our day by an angel from God. After the Prophet Joseph Smith had been ordained and set apart to preach the everlasting Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof, he ordained others according to the commandment of God; and today we have hundreds and thousands of the Elders of Israel going forth to the various nations of the earth, lifting up their voices and crying, "Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." Jesus tried to gather the people together in His day, but they would not. He wept over the city of Jerusalem, and said: 

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" 

On another occasion He told the Jews, because they had rejected Him: 

"Therefore say I unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof." 

After His resurrection, His disciples asked .Him, "Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom again to Israel?" He answered, "It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath  in His own power." There was a certain way in which the kingdom Bhould he restored to Israel; the Prophets had written about it, and Jesus recognized that. He had told His disciples previously that He came not to do away with the law and the prophets, but to fulfil. "Verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled." Jesus also prophesied that they would persecute His disciples and cast them out of their synagogues, and that the time would come when they who killed them would think they were doing God's service. Did this come to pass? Yes. All the Apostles were put to death, excepting one man, and he remained on the earth according to the promise of the Savior as recorded in the sixteenth chapter of Matthew. Who was that? John the Revelator. But it seemed like he was destined to suffer; for he was a slave on the Isle of Patmos, working in the lead mines. While there the angels of God ministered unto him, and he was shown many great and glorious things pertaining to the history of the people who should live upon this earth. He described the way in which this kingdom, which Jesus said should be taken from among the Jews, should be restored again to Israel. In the fourteenth chapter of Revelation, he says. 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to. every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, End give glory to him; for the hour of His judgment is come: and worship Him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

We testify to you here today that this has been literally fulfilled. The angel Moroni came unto the Prophet Joseph Smith and declared unto him the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, and commanded him to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; and he that believeth not shall be damned." 

Some of you have heard that Elder Grant is going to Japan, and you be(;in to query in your minds, Is this nation of the house of Israel? Is it a proper thing for Elder Grant to go to 

Japan? I want to tell you that there is no nation on the face of the earth but will hear the everlasting Gospel; for the word of God has gone forth that the Gospel shall be proclaimed unto all nations for a witness; and this was to be a sign of His coming and of the end of the world. Then our minds may be set at rest in regard to Elder Grant going to Japan. 

How beautiful is this! We begin now to understand why the Savior instructed His disciples to pray, "Our Father, which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come." The sectarian world todav are all praying for the kingdom of God to come. Let me say to them and to all the world, that God has revealed himself from the heavens in this our day. He has organized His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, for the redemption of the children of men. And it is no longer necessary for you, my brethren and sisters, to ask God the Eternal Father that the kingdom of God may come; but pray that He will prepare you for the coming of the King— our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. For, behold, that day is at our doors. As the Prophet Malachi has said: 

"Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare  the way before me; and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to His temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts." 

Some will say that this messengef sent to prepare the way was John the Baptist; but I say unto you that Jesua Christ did not come suddenly unto Hia temple in that day. He grew up as a child, and they said, "Are not these hia brothers and His sisters." It was th« second coming of Christ that Malachi referred to, as the following- will prov« to you: 

"But who may abide the day of Hia coming? and who shall stand when H« appeareth? for he is like a refiner's Are, and like fuller's soap: 

"And He shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver; and He shall purify th« sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness." 

All the children of men abided th« day of His first coming. They lived with Him, talked with Him. and listened to His instructions; but I say unto you that when He comes the second time, following the testimony of His servants, He will come as a refiner's Are and as fullers' soap. "For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." 

My testimony unto you is that the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is nigh at hand. I testify that we have Prophets, Seers and Revelators among this people .and that Lorenzo Snow is the man who has been called upon to be the mouthpiece of God unto this people. It is as Jesus said, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." This principle of revelation is the foundation of the Church of Christ. It is the rock that Christ told Peter He would build His Church upon; and upon that rock the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is built. How beautiful is this principle! 

How nicely this corresponds with the words of Jesus: 

"It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart I will send him unto you. 

"Howbeit when He, the Spirit of truth, is come, He will guide you into all truth; for He shall not speak of Himself; but whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak: and He will show you things to come." 

This is revelation. This is the power of God unto salvation. This is the principles by which God guideth His Church in every age of the world. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that this Church is built upon revelation. I can go further, and say that it is built "upon the foundation of apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ. Himself being the chief corner stone." 

I pray the Lord to lengthen out the life of President Lorenzo Snow, that he may live to fully satisfy his desires upon the earth and the mind and will of God concerning him; that He will also bless his counselors, according as they need at this very hour, and bless and qualify every one of us to perform our duties in the Church and Kingdom of 

God. For I say unto you, my brethren and sisters 1 , it is not he that has the gift of prophecy, or the gift of tongues; it is not he that has received the ministration of angels, that will be saved in the Kingdom of God; but it is he that endureth unto the end. Speaking of the time when He should sit on the throne of His glory and judge the children of men, Jesus says: 

"Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

"And then will I profess unto them. I never knew you: depart from me. ye that work iniquity. 

"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." 

When the Savior came upon the earth, there were men living who held the Priesthood; but would thev receive new revelation? No, they would not; but they said. "We have Abraham to our father." John the Baptist rebuked them for their hypocrisy, and said, "Think not to say within yourself, We have Abraham to our father; for I say unto you. that God it, able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham." Jesus said to His disciples, "Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt hath lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out. and to be trodden under the foot of men" I say unto you that we have men in this day holding the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God, who have lost their savor, and they are good for nothing, but to be cast out. For I tell you, the Lord will not justify any man, no matter what Priesthood he holds, except he hold himself ready to keep the commandments of God, to be humble, and to be obedient to his seniors in the Priesthood. It is an eternal principle, that he that humbleth himself shall be exalted, and he that exalteth himself shall be abased. Jesus descended below all things, that He might rise above all things; and the only way we can be justified in the sight of God is to be humble and obedient. Instead of being determined to have our own will,  us bring- our will, our passions and our ambitions into subjection to the mind and will of God as manifested through His servants who preside over us, and we will be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. But if we determine to have our own way and work out our own will, we will stand condemned; for the Lord will not justify any man in becoming a law unto himself. 

God bless you and fill you with His Holy Spirit, and help us all to keep His commandments, that we may be saved and exalted in His kingdom, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Recognition of the fidelity of the Saints— Actlors the best evidence of sincerity— An exhibition ot true friendship — A testimony to the truth. 

I am pleased to have the opportunity of standing before the Latter-day Saints and addressing them in this conference. 1 have rejoiced in the spirit and inspiration of the conference thus far, and I desire that the remarks which I may make may be under the inspiration of the same good Spirit. As I have often said in occupying this position, I desire only to ' say those things that shall be beneficial to those who listen as well as to myself. If 1 know my heart, I believe I can in all truth testify that it is set upon the building up of the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth. I desire above all things to know the mind and will of God concerning me as an individual; and after having learned that, I want the strength and the determination to carry the same out in my life. 

I was particularly impressed with the remarks of President Snow in the opening of our conference, referring to the man who, when he found a great treasure in the field, went and sold all he had that he might obtain it; or, when he discovered a pearl of great value, he sold all he had to secure it. While listening to his remarks I remembered a letter which I have read in many of the wards and Stakes of Zion, and I may have read it in this building; but if I have, the sentiments therein contained, one sentence in particular, have made such a profound impression upon my mind that I do not  that I can do better than to again read an extract from the letter, with the sincere prayer that it may find lodgment in your hearts. It was written to me by a gentleman with whom I have been acquainted from my childhood. It is something over thirty years since I first knew him, and he has been a very dear friend of mine. I may say that, with the exception of my associates in the Church of Christ and my own relatives, there is no man living upon the earth today that has as warm a place in my heart and that I love as dearly as the man who wrote this letter. I do not know that he would care to have me mention his name; therefore I shall not do so; but I will state that at the time he wrote this letter he was the general manager for the United Kingdom of a corporation of over two hundred millions of dollars; so you may know that he was a man of considerable experience and importance in the business world. The letter was written to me from London: 

"My Dear Heber: 

"Tour very nice long letter of the 10th came duly to hand. Of course, you know, aside from the long and intimate personal friendship we have had together, how much I have always been impressed with the genuineness and sincerity of the religious feeling among the men and women who hold your faith. Many times and oft I have said, in conversation, that the only religious people I ever knew who lived up to their professions, were the Mormons of Utah. And this is true." 

I am indeed grateful that my friend has not access to the list of non-tithepayers, amounting to ten thousand, because I doubt very much if then he could say "that the only religious people I ever knew who lived up to their professions, were the Mormons of Utah." I am grateful that the Mormons with whom this man became acquainted were not only Mormons in name, but that they were in very deedLatter-day Saints. He gained his opinion of all "Mormons" by those with whom he became acquainted; and I have often said in public that I regard it as the duty of every Latter-day Saint to so order his life that his conduct will inspire all people with respect for him, and thereby create respect for the entire people. It is GENERAL, CONFERENCE. 

In keeping with the teachings of our Savior to let our light so shine, that men, seeing our good works, will glorify God and be led to embrace the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

"This it is that inspires respect, even when there is a total absence of a belief in the doctrines. Your people carry their beliefs into daily life, and act as if they think there is something in them. If I had the belief to start with, I cannot see how as a sensible person I could do otherwise." 

Now, here is the sentence that I desire impressed upon your minds indellibly: 

"If there is anything [and my friend draws a big black line under 'anything'] in a belief which involves an eternity of future existence, there is everything [and my friend draws another black line under 'everything.']" 

Do we as Latter-day Saints believe this? Do we appreciate the force of my friend's remark? "If there is anything in a belief which involves an eternity of future existence, there is everything." Are we convinced that there is everything in this belief that involves an eternity of future existence? And do we, as our friend says we do, carry our beliefs into daily life, and act as if we do think there is something in them? Or are we making pretensions? Are we like the salt that has lost its savor, that is henceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men. My friend continues: 

"Now, I have given you my own sincere thought. The fact that I have no Buch conviction is evidenced by the fact that I am agnostic on such questions, as shown by my own actions." 

[f we are to take that standard — what Is shown by the actions — then there are thousands of Latter-day Saints who are agnostics. And that is the standard of Jesus Christ. It is the only standtrd by which we will stand or fall. 

"Still I never attempt to proselyte on behalf of non-belief; and the last thing [ would do, is to disturb those who believe in a theory which I don't; and I wont argue In defense of my own lack of believing. 

"I think, Heber, I have expressed about these views to your mother many years ago." 

This man, as I have said, is a friend of mine, and he has shown  friendship by his actions— a friendship which I doubt very much I could have experienced from many of the Latter-day Saints, if they had been put to the test. In the panic of 1893, this man, learning of my financial distress, wrote me a letter and announced that it was impossible to borrow any money in San Francisco (where he was then located) upon ordinary securities, but that money was there to he loaned upon real estate. He said tuat he had no real estate except his home, but if the money from a mortgage piaced upon his home would save my financial life, he said, "telegraph me upon receipt of this letter; do not wait to write, because delays are dangerous, and the money shall ccme to you by the first mail." I could not restrain my tears when I read that letter, lo think that God had given me sufficient of His Spirit whereby I had been enabled to so live that a man who was an agnostic, ana who had no hope beyond the grave, had been so impressed with the genuineness of my character and integrity that he was willing to risk his home to save my "financial life." What called forth this letter? My friend wrote to me from London, inquiring about my mother, about her sister, and about a number of other people with whom he was acquainted when he was a boarder in my mother's home, and wanting to know how they were getting along. Among others, he inquired regarding my cousin, Anthony W. Ivins; and I wrote and told him of the sacrifices that he had made, in selling his property and moving to a foreign country. With regard to those sacrifices, I remarked that he had gone because of a call he had received, without any earthly hope of reward, and I said; "You see that we Mormons go where we are sent, without regard to the profits that may come to us." This called forth the letter I have read in your hearing. Thai man, to my knowledge, many yean ago, was the instrument in the hand! of God, in connection with anothei friend of mine, of making for this peo. pie a friend of a man who was choser to govern this Territory, namely, Gov Axtell. He wrote to me that he caret  imbued — "filled full," is the expression in the letter — with his ideas of the "Mormons." He said: "He is my friend, and I know what kind of a people you are, and he comes there believing as I believe." 

I maintain that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to so order his life that every man will believe he is honest and sincere. I was in Phoenix, Arizona, some years ago, with Apostle John Henry Smith. We were preaching, by request, in the opera house there, and one of the good sisters overheard the following compliment (though some might consider it very doubtful) paid me while I was speaking. A man said, "Well, that man is a pretty red hot talker, and seems quite earnest." Pretty soon he exclaimed, "I'll be damned if that fellow don't talk earnest." Not many minutes passed, and he said, "I'll be damned if I don't believe that fellow believes what he is saying." Now, if we can impress every person with whom we come in contact that we are honest, then we have done something towards impressing them with the honesty of all the people. I prize very highly a letter that I got from a friend that was managing a large corporation when I was made an Apostle. He said, "Well, I always thought that the Mormon leaders were frauds, but now that they have chosen you I have changed my opinion; for I know you are honest, and they must be, or they would not dare have you in their counsels." 

You will pardon me, I trust, for these personal allusions. They say that personalities sometimes are calculated to impress a lesson more vividly upon the hearts of the people than any other kind of teaching. I do know that God lives. I do know that Jesus is the Christ. I do know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I do know that we are engaged in the work of God. I do know that there is an eternity of future happiness in store for every Latter-day Saint that keeps the commandments of God. The Savior said: 

"He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him." 

This promise is not made to us, only* upon the condition of keeping the commandments of God. The Savior also said: 

"Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. 

"And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was. the fall of it." 

We find here in the very first section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants teachings to us as Latter-day Saints, and many of us do not remember them. 

"And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people; 

"For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; 

"They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall." 

Are we seeking our own mind and will? Do we believe as Apostle Taylor said, that we should subject our mind and will to the will of God? Are we breaking the everlasting covenant? In this same revelation the Lord also says: 

"And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

"Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure; 

"Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man." 

"For I, the Lord, cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; 

"Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

"And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received, for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts." 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass way, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same; 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever." 

As Latter-day Saints we are told lo search these commandments, for they are true and faithful. 

My friends, my brethren and my sisters, I leave with you my testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I leave with you my testimony that only by keeping the commandments of God will you be saved. I say unto you, be honest with God. Never make a dollar in the world but you pay your tithing on it. Observe the Word of Wisdom. Keep the commandments of Almighty God, and you will be raved. In bidding you good-bye to go to a foreign land to preach the Gospel, I wish to go with your faith. I desire to be remembered in your homes night and morning. I love the Latter-day Saints. I love to labor for the advancement of the kingdom of God. I know that He lives. I have reached out my hand and plucked the fruit of the Gospel, and I know that the Gospel tree is alive and bears fruit. I delight to labor for the spread of the Gospel, and I thank God for the privilege of going to introduce the Gospel to a nation that has been in darkness. I nope and pray that in the providence of God there is a great labor to be accomplished. I pray in humility that I may go forth with the faith and the prayers of the Saints to accomplish all that God desires I should do. I leave my blessing with the Latter-day Saints, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang; 

Zion stands with hills surrounded. 

Zion, kept by power divine; All her foes shall be confounded, 

Though the world in arms combine. 

Benediction by Elder Jonathan G. Kimball. 
