Afternoon
08 04 1928


ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of religious gatherings this is one of the most thrilling sights in all the world, and the most inspirational. To address this vast audience is indeed a weighty responsibility. I pray therefore for your sympathetic, prayerful help and for the inspiration of the Lord. 

Our children are our most precious possessions; and the proper training of youth is the most important duty and obligation of society, Impressive and earnest have been the admonitions and instructions in this conference to the people properly to educate their children. 

TRUE EDUCATION 

True education does not consist merely in the acquiring of a few facts of science, history, literature or art, but in the development of character. True education awakens a desire to conserve health by keeping the body clean and undefiled. True education trains in selfdenial and self-mastery. True education regulates the temper, subdues passion and makes obedience to social laws and moral order a guiding principle of life. It develops reason and inculcates faith in the living God as the eternal loving Father of all. 

I desire to call attention this afternoon to three groups in society on whom the responsibility rests to give this true training to the youth of the land, and I should like to consider this responsibility in the light of revealed religion. 

We heard this morning from President Nibley a most timely and authoritative declaration regarding the restoration of the Gospel and the Priesthood of God on earth. In the year 1820 the Prophet Joseph Smith received that authority, and ninety-eight years ago last Friday the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was officially organized. Thus there was at least one man who had direct authority to represent God in giving to mankind principles of salvation and peace. We heard this morning that before that day there was no such authority either by apostolic succession or by reformation. Granting now, that Joseph Smith received that authority, that he established the Church for the salvation of the human family, I ask you, can you find a safer guide in the education of your child than through the revealed word of God to his prophet? 

RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS 

To parents is assigned the first responsibility for the training of children. The Lord through the prophet says: 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the Living God, and of baptisim and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." 

Direct responsibility could not be assigned more emphatically and clearly than it is assigned in that paragraph. Parents, there is the word 103  the Lord to us regarding the proper training of children. Education commences at the mother's knee, and every word spoken in the hearing of little children tends towards the formation of character. Let parents always bear this in mind. Victor Hugo says, "There are no bad herbs and there are no bad men — there are only bad cultivators." If we could have parents who are good cultivators in our homes, which are the gardens of the Lord, our civil officers would have little difficulty in maintaining order, and the violations of law would be less frequent. 

There are parents in the world — I hope there are very few in the Church — who say they will leave the educating of their children in religious matters until the children themselves arrive at years of accountability. They will permit their children to choose which Church or which principles of religion the children desire to accept. The Prophet Joseph gives no intimation that any parent has a right thus to leave the religious training of his children until they arrive at the years of accountability. x 

Coleridge once met a man who made that same statement, and Coleridge said, "I took him and showed him my garden, and told him it was my botanical garden." "How so," said he, "it is covered with weeds." "O," I replied, "that is only because it has not yet come to its age of discretion and choice. The weeds you see have taken the liberty to grow and I thought it unfair in me to prejudice the soil toward roses and strawberries." 

The application is clear. It is said that Plato one day, seeing a child do mischief, called immediately and reprimanded the child's father. He, too, recognized the fact that one of the great potent factors in the education of childhood is the parent. "Whatever parent gives his children good instruction and sets them at the same time a bad example, may be considered as bringing them food in one hand and poison in the other." 

RESPONSIBILITY OF PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS 

The second group upon whom the responsibility of training children rests by divine revelation, is the quorum of the priesthood and other helps in government. A few years ago when I was attending conference in the Carbon stake, President Horsley and I discovered a little child that was lost. President Horsley wiped away the little one's tears, and carried her to his home and placed her in the hands of Sister Horsley, through whose gentleness and tenderness the child soon fell asleep. Efforts were made to discover the parents, and at about five o'clock in the afternoon, the distracted mother was found. Her tearstained eyes showed what anguish she had passed through since the little one had wandered from her side. But she was at peace when she found her darling sleeping by the fireside. 

I think this incident illustrates the relation of the quorums to the parent. There are boys and girls wandering from the parental hearthstone. In the world, outside the Church, hundreds and thousands and tens of thousands of them are crouching today behind steel bars. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Even here in our own stakes some are wandering carelessly, aimlessly away from the influence of home standards and home teachings. It is the duty of quorum members to extend the hand of fellowship, the hand of guidance to these young men and young women wandering towards the downward path. Can you find any more potent influence in all the world than the quorums as established in the Church of Christ? Time will not permit me even to define them for you. You all know, and while I am speaking you have in your minds the quorums of Deacons, one thousand or more; you have in mind over nine hundred groups of Teachers, and approximately an equal number of groups of Priests, young men between the ages of seventeen and twenty. Seventy thousand young men thus grouped, whose duty it is to extend the glad hand to those of their companions who have not glimpsed the privilege given to these members of quorums. 

QUORUM POTENCY 

T wonder how many parents ifave stopped to realize how potent these quorums are in the lives of boys! In the first place, quorum membership awakens in the boy the pride of fellowship and membership. Entrance into that group means that the boy has attained to certain standards of excellence of character, and the more distinctive we can make these entrance requirements the greater will be the pride in the young boy's heart. 

Second, the quorum influence arouses or satisfies the call of the boy for the inspiration of the group. Have you heard of the gang spirit ? Have you seen the boys out on the ditch bank gathering in groups in answer to the call of their souls for companionship ? Then can you see the wisdom of God in gratifying this natural inclination by grouping the boys under, an influence that is educative in the highest sense of the term? 

Third, that group throws upon the youth responsibility. Tell a young boy that you trust him, and you have one of the greatest means of guiding him uprightly that can come into your hands. Young boy, I trust you! To be trusted is a greater compliment than to be loved. Boys are few indeed who will not hold inviolate an implicit trust. 

Fourth, grouping in a quorum offers service. The Presiding Bishopric, holding a presidency over these seventy thousand young men, have outlined as they have hitherto done, a plan of service into which these young men are invited, not just on Sunday, but on every day of the week. 

Finally, into that group is introduced faith in God the Father, in his Son Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, and their service and acts are all done under the cognizance and realization that God is approving of their acts. It is sublime. It is divine. Fathers and mothers, let us unite with the priesthood in extending the influence of these groups. 

I have mentioned only the Aaronic Priesthood, but our fathers are grouped in like manner, and we have one hundred and thirty thousand 105  and boys working for the true education, working to train the youth in parenthood and faith in God and in the restored gospel. 1 tell you, this grouping in Priesthood Quorums has the mark of divinity. It is divine. And Joseph Smith, a young man not twenty-five years of age when he gave that revelation, gave it by the inspiration of God for the salvation of the youth of Zion. 

OTHER CHURCH EDUCATIONAL FACTORS 

Now I cannot say anything this afternoon about the other educational factors furnished by the Church for the education of our boys. Our Church schools — O, what they mean in true education! Our seminaries, correlating as they do the gathering of facts in science, literature and art, introducing these high elements, faith, integrity, obedience to law, respect for order, purity of life. Our Religion Classes, the Sunday Schools, the Mutuals, the Primary — I cannot do more than merely mention them, because I want to pass to the third group very seldom mentioned as a means of influencing youth. I find reference to it in the Doctrine and Covenants in these words : 

"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people." 

COMMUNITY INFLUENCE 

You will recognize this third group in the influencing of boys is the community — our civil officers and social functions. It is said the pulpit only teaches to be honest; the market-place trains to over-reaching and fraud; and teaching hasn't a tithe of the efficiency of training, Christ never wrote a tract, but he went about doing good. 

The press dispatches this morning report the results of a survey made recently by W. F. Burton of the Department of Education of the University of Chicago. Many of you no doubt saw it. He made a survey of thousands of young children in the sixth grade in our public schools. That means the boys and girls ranging approximately from ten to twelve years of age. He said the six things they all know most about, in their order of knowledge, are "bootlegging, divorce, alimony, sheriffs, juvenile courts, jail and jury." Now you may say of course they were in Chicago, but the same examination was given to the children of the schools of Salem, the capital of the state of Oregon, where 63% of the people own their own homes. The result was exactly the same. "Next in order," Burton averred, "the children know most about mayors, elections, polling places, ballots, taxes, and insurance; and third, bank deposits, rents, bankrupts, pioneers, and sanitary inspectors." We do not know just how these questions were given to the children. Perhaps they were so worded as to call forth these answers, but I think it is significant that the fundamental things in education are not named — not even mentioned. 

I call attention to this merely to drive home the fact that our comGENERAL CONFERENCE  is a great factor in the teaching of our children. Our officers, public servants, are teachers of the youth and they carry the responsibility of teachers. It is our duty, therefore, as citizens of this great republic, to exercise our right at the ballot box. It is our duty to see that men in both our great parties are chosen who will teach not only by precept, but by example, obedience to law; that these men so elected will appoint men under them who will not scoff at the law against liquor, who will not themselves indulge in bootlegging, or who will not in any way protect those men or women who violate moral laws. 

I said that the greatest obligation upon society is the proper training of youth. The home, our quorums, our officers in the community are three great educational factors, and all three subject to our sentiment, our approval. 

"It matters not what I shall gain By fleeting gold or fame, My hope of joy depends alone On what my boy shall claim. My glory must be told through him, For him I work and plan — Man's greatest duty is to be The father of a man." 

And each one of us may be the father of a man, as Paul spiritually was of Timothy, and Peter of Mark, who as a young man undoubtedly was a witness to Christ's betrayal, and who, if he did not see him resurrected, wrote in after years : 

"Ye seek Jesus who was crucified; he is not here, he is resurrected." 

God help us to get our young boys to feel and to know not only that Christ has risen, but that he has appeared again to men, and restored the gospel of Christ, the power of God through which youth and all mankind may receive salvation and peace. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Senior President of the Firstt Council of Seventy 

My brethren and sisters, in all the conferences of the Church that I have attended, I cannot recall a time when I have felt that we have had a greater spiritual feast than we have had at this conference, because of the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord upon his servants. The spirit of testimony has been very strong, and it appears to me that it has been colored by the spirit of testimony as exemplified in the declaration of the Christ upon one occasion — that occasion when he taught the mysteries of the new birth to Nicodemus. After his explanation about the second birth, and having expressed some surprise that Nicodemus, a teacher in Israel, was not acquainted with these truths, the Savior said : 

"We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen." 

And then he appears to have been under the necessity of saying this rather sorrowful thing: 

"And ye receive not our witness." 107 

I trust that that reflection will find no place in our experience in this conference. 

At another time the Savior struck a more hopeful note connected with the fact that he himself was a witness to the truth. That occurred in his conversation with Pontius Pilate just before he was condemned to crucifixion by that officer. Pilate was seeking justification for letting the Savior go, and when that seemed to be hopeless, he sought for justification for signing the death warrant enacted by the Jewish Sanhedrin against the Christ. Among the charges made against Jesus was that he claimed to be a king; and of course I suppose it occurred to Pilate that if he could attach that claim directly to the Christ he would feel some justification in condemning him to death, as such a claim would be a challenge to the sovereignty of Rome. Hence he brought up that question and said unto Jesus: 

"Art thou a king?" 

The Savior replied : "My kingdom is not of this world." "O, then, thou art a king?" exclaimed Pilate. "Thou sayest I am a king." 

As if he saw the hopelessness of continuing the discussion, "Thou sayest I am a king," so we will let it go at that. Then he turned to a more serious matter and said: 

"To this end was I born, for this purpose came I into the world, to testify of the truth." 

Something more than a kingship; something of higher importance than being a king: I am a witness of the truth. "And they who are of the truth, hear my voice." (St. John 18:33-37.) 

 From which we gather that there is a force and power in truth itself apart from any bolstering up by arguments or reasons a direct power in truth itself that carries conviction of the effect of it to those who are "of the truth." I think that is the spirit that has characterized so splendidly this conference — The Spirit of Truth. 

Among the many important subjects that have been brought to our attention I think there is no item of more importance than the subject that was discussed by President Ivins in tracing the records of the Nephites from the centers of their civilization northward, and the long pilgrimage of the people as they moved northward until they came to the land of Ripliancum, the land of many waters, and the Hill Cumorah. I was deeply interested in what he said, and I believe that his remarks make a very important contribution, not only to this conference, but to the literature of the Church. It will at least be preserved in the minutes of this conference, and will be of permanent record. 

As he closed his remarks the thought that flashed through my mind was this : O, what the world would have lost, if the Book of Mormon had not been brought forth! 

I wish I had the time to consider the things that would have been lost to the world but for the bringing forth of the Nephite scriptures, the American volume of scriptures. I remember in my early days coming in contact with opponents of the Book of Mormon who charged, for instance, that it had no aphorisms of any importance, and that it GENERAL CONFERENCE  in this respect in strong contrast with the Jewish scriptures. 1 want to call, your attention, however, to a few aphorisms that are of great worth, and that enrich the sacred literature of the world. 

For instance, there is that sharp-cut sentence: 

"Wickedness never was happiness." 

I think it would be difficult to find an epigram more important than that, and a truth that the world ought to know. 

Again : "All things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things." 

A beautiful utterance; and a declaration of confidence in the perfect knowledge of God; and builded upon that perfect knowledge — and it can only be builded upon perfect knowledge — perfect wisdom. And that beautiful declaration is followed by this announcement of the great truth, giving us clear vision of the purpose of God with reference to the earth-life of man, the like of which is not found elsewhere, neither in Jewish nor Christian scriptures; nor in the philosophies of men : 

"Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have 

That is the thing that God is working out, and what a lesson of cheer and good will and of hope it is! Here is another: 

"The Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he prepares a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." 

You who are starting to bring to pass the high purposes of God, with reference to this creation of his, what comfort that assurance brings! "God will require nothing at the hands of the children of men save he prepares the way for them to accomplish that thing." 

Again, Moroni, near the close of his record, seems to tremble for the success of his work, and as he reviewed it and became conscious of the weaknesses in it, he was very deeply sorrowful and he wrote in substance — and all these quotations are but in substance: 

"Lord, the Gentiles will mock at our weakness in writing." 

And the answer of the Lord was: 

"Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for all who humble themselves before me, saith the Lord." 

I remember having a very rich bit of experience with that passage in the younger days of my ministry when I was on my first mission. It fell to my lot to engage in a three-day debate with a seasoned man in that line of work. I was but twenty-three and had had no experience. He was fifty-four and had the reputation of having driven all his opponents from the platform. He mocked considerably at the Book of Mormon, and brought up this very question of its lack of incisiveness and clear-cut aphorisms, and challenged me to produce anything that could be comparable with the sharp, clear-cut aphorisms of the Bible scriptures. 

I told him I could think just at the moment of but one, and that was, "Fools mock, but they shall mourn." 

ELDER BR1GHAM H. ROBERTS 109 

I am not very much acquainted with his history after that debate, but after three days' discussion he utterly refused to go on with the debate, when it was really but half through, and notwithstanding he had previously driven every opponent from the platform. I had his promise also that I should have the opportunity of examining his doctrine after closing our debate on the Book of Mormon, but he refused to go on with it, and left the platform with an unfinished job on his hands. By the way, let me say, not by way of boasting, but because of the blessing of the Lord on our labors, immediately following the discussion, we began baptizing, and within two months had raised up a branch in the neighborhood of more than sixty members. The Lord so blessed us on that occasion. 

After calling this gentleman's attention to that passage, "Fools mock, but they shall mourn," he did not ask for any more aphorisms. 

"Fools mock, but they shall mourn!" And then this richer statement follows it: 

"I, the Lord, give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me." 

Have you in your moments of trial or deep sorrow felt the hand of a friend steal quietly into your hand, and by pressure express sympathy and brotherhood to you? I have fortunately had a few friends with whom I have had such experience as that, both men and women, a recollection that is among the precious treasures of my experience. But this passage, "I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all those who humble themselves before me," — in this, it seems to me, that I feel the hand of God slipping gently into my hand, and giving me the pressure of assurance that there will be mercy, that there will be helpfulness, that there will be encouragement from God. He will remember that we are but men and women in the making; and while not yet perfect, yet perhaps perfectable — which is the important thing. In that utterance in the Book of Mormon, I feel the richness of the grace of God, and assurances of success in hungering and thirsting after righteousness, for it shall be given unto us. 

The Book of Mormon is important because of its correction of some errors that have crept into the philosophies and religions of men. You see perhaps the most perfect expression of God's law unto men in the sermon on the mount. That sermon as it stands in Matthew is vulnerable, at least at one point; and that is where the Savior admonishes men without any limitation, apparently, as expressed by Matthew, to take no thought for tomorrow, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, or wherewithal ye shall be clothed; and calls attention to the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin, and yet Solomon in all his glory is not arrayed as one of these. He refers to the very birds of the air, that they are under the care of the Father, and will have his attention, and not one falleth to the ground without his notice. "Are ye not of more worth than many sparrows ?" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Now those who enter into arguments against the doctrines of Christianity, and who try to condemn even this sermon on the mount, say that this doctrine of taking no thought of tomorrow is utterly impracticable in life. That if men generally tried to live as the birds do, and to receive their clothing as the flowers are clothed with beauty, the result would be not civilization but savage life as we know it among the undeveloped races of the children of men. 

In the Book of Mormon account of Christ delivering that sermon on this continent among his people, when coming to that part of his sermon which he repeated here in this land, he turned directly to the Twelve Disciples unto whom he had given authority to preach the gospel and administer the Sacraments thereof, and it was to them, and to them alone, that he addressed that part of his sermon. They were to take no thought of the things of tomorrow, nor the things of the world; for the Father knew beforehand what their needs were. And then he admonishes them to take encouragement from his reference to the birds of the air and the flowers of the field, how they were fed and clothed; and gives them encouragement that the Father would so care for them. From the fact that this part of the sermon was limited to the Twelve Special Disciples on this western hemisphere, it is a reasonable conclusion that the same limitation was fixed in his sermon on the mount when he delivered it in Palestine, as it was recorded by Matthew. 

Civilized man must of necessity take thought of tomorrow, and plan for it, and practice self-denial, that in the future greater things may be accomplished, through the thinking and the sacrificing of today. These things are the very keynote of building up civilization. But out of a community you could call twelve ministers, dedicated to a certain purpose in life, that requires all of their energies and all of their thought, and enjoin upon them self-consecration to a given special task, without injury to the development of civilization; they could take no thought of tomorrow, and trust in the providences of God for their maintenance, without affecting industrial, or economic conditions. 

There is no apparent effort to make a correction of Matthew's account of the Sermon as it appears in the Book of Mormon. Tt relates simply the incident, and from it you see how this point in the sermon on the mount may be clarified. 

So with several of the beatitudes in that sermon. Changes here and there made which give them point, and make them more definite and beautiful. For example, in this one, Matthew says : 

"Blessed are the poor in spirit : for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." 

The Book of Mormon version of that beatitude is : "Yea, blessed are the poor in spirit, who come unto me : for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." 

To be poor in spirit is no doubt a very excellent quality, but it requires more than that to enter the kingdom of heaven: They must come unto God in order to enter the kingdom of God. And so throughout. I can only give you just a brief example of these things. 111 

Since this is Easter day, let me call your attention to one other thing in the testimony of the scriptures of the western continents —  the Book of Mormon — in relation to the resurrection of Christ. What a wonderful testimony that book contains for the thing that is celebrated this day throughout Christendom, namely, the resurrection from the dead of our Lord the Christ! In all the accounts that are given of the reality of that resurrection — and it has been beautifully expressed to our thought during this conference, the absolute reality of it — how well the testimonies of the Christian scriptures and the prophetic parts of the old Bible, too, are sustained by that wonderful appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ to the inhabitants of this western world! After the awful destruction by storm and tempest and earthquake, which very much changed the character of the face of the land, even mountains arising from plains, and mountains shaken to their foundations, covering wicked cities upon whom God had decreed destruction; after the awful three days darkness which seems to have been even more terrible than the storms and earthquakes, and which has become enshrined in the legends of the native people of this American continent; after that dreadful experience of storm and tempest and destruction — then a voice was universally heard in the land proclaiming the mercy and willingness of the Savior to forgive; proclaiming the truth that he was the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and had made his sacrifices for the redemption of men. Following that, some time after the close of the storms, tempests, whirlwinds and earthquakes, came to pass the wonderful appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ, when a few people in the Land Bountiful stood by a temple that happened to have escaped destruction — then, as they wondered upon the changes that had been wrought in the lands about them, and were recovering somewhat from their own errors, they heard a voice, but knew not whence it came nor what was said. They looked about at each other wondering whence it came. The second time they heard it, but there was no definite communication in the sound. The third time they heard it they recognized that something was said, and that something was this, and it thrilled them: 

"Behold my Beloved Son in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him." 

Looking in the direction whence that voice came they saw a man, all glorious, descending in white raiment, and down he came until he stood upon the earth in their presence. Stretching forth his arms — it seems to me it must have been with wonderful majesty — he said unto them : 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. 

"And behold, I am the light and the life of the world : and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning." 

What a message of the Deity to the world; a message and testimony GENERA L CONFERENCE  the Christ; of the fact that he had suffered for the sins of the world, of the fact that he had risen from the dead, and now stood before them clothed with all authority in heaven and in earth, come to establish faith in the hearts of these people who had been tried by their severe experiences, and had survived because they were the worthiest to survive! To them also he granted the privilege of St.' Thomas, to behold his wounds in hands and feet and side. And when they had thus confirmed their faith, on their faces they fell and shouted aloud: "Hosanna. Hosanna to the Most High God!" And so they worshipped the risen Lord. 

Now, tell me in what church or cathedral in the world, in what sacred grove, in what place among the habitations of men, will be found a more glorious Easter vision of the Christ than this? And the world would have lost this' if it had not been for the Book of Mormon coming forth, and there is a hundred more such glorious things that have come to the world in that book to enlighten the children of men, all of which would have been lost had not this American volume of scripture been brought forth. 

My brethren and sisters, we have had a most glorious conference. Will you not permit me to close my remarks according to the desire that is in my heart, and what I would like to say to express my own feelings of gratitude for the things that have been reviewed before us in this conference? Do not think me presumptuous, but if I might follow the promptings of my own heart on this occasion, I should do so in this manner : 

O God, the Eternal Father, in the name of thv dear Son Jesus Christ, we worship thee! We worship thee as the Creator of heaven and of earth, and of the seas, and of the fountains of waters. We worship thee not only as Creator, but also as the World-sustaining Power of the universe. We revere and honor thee as the Intelligenceinspiring Power in the world, also as the Vital Force of the world, and the Sustaining Power of Life. We honor Thee also as the Lovemanifesting Power, as expressed through Jesus Christ our Lord. To us he is God manifested in the flesh — God incarnate. 

We thank thee for that glorious line of patriarchs from Adam to Noah, and from Noah to Melchizedek, to Abraham and Moses and all the prophets in Israel. We thank thee for the service and labors of that majestic man who stood at the head of the Aaronic priesthood in his day and time, John called the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Christ, in the meridian dispensation. We thank thee from full hearts for the Christ himself, and for the sacrifice that he made for us. Also we thank thee, our Father, for the Apostles of that dispensation, and for the honor and integrity in which they discharged their high duties in bearing special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

We thank thee for the great prophet of the New Dispensation, the servant in thy house, Joseph Smith, the Seer of the last days. And also, Father, we thank thee for that flood of knowledge that has come into the world, the testimonies from the Nephite scriptures, as well as those which have come from the Jewish scriptures. And, O Lord, 113  and above all, the most excellent of all, and to whom we are directly indebted for hope of eternal life and redemption from sin and union with Thee through thy Spirit and our baptism into it, that Spirit by which we "may know the truth of all things," even the Holy Ghost. We thank Thee for this. 

And now, O Lord Jesus, if thou couldst but come into the consciousness of our souls this clay, as thou didst come into the vision of the ancient Nephites in the Land of Bountiful, we would join their great song of praise and worship, saying — "Hosanna! Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" And we, like them, would fall down at the feet of Jesus and worship him this Easter day! Amen. 

A duet, "The morning land," was sung by Mrs. Dolores Fernstrom and Miss Jessie Evans. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

"Zion's welfare is my portion, And I feel my bosom swell With a warm, divine emotion, When she prospers, all is well." 

My soul has rejoiced in the spirit of this conference and in the hope that we have in the completion of the Lord's work according to his plan and purpose. I am in full sympathy and accord with all that has been said concerning the marvelous work and a wonder which the Lord has established. My great anxiety is that it shall continue to be a marvelous work and a wonder. I feel constrained to make an appeal to the Latter-day Saints, particularly my brethren who bear rule in stakes, wards and quorums, to see to it that we do preserve all our sacred privileges by complying with those requirements which the Lord has made for the future welfare of Zion. 

A BOOK OF MORMON MESSAGE 

Reference has been made frequently to the Book of Mormon, during this conference, and to the messages it contains. I should like to read from it, to call to your attention a message that comes to us from Nephi (II Nephi, Chapter 28). He saw this day as clearly as his own, and he gives us this warning: 

"And now, behold, my (brethren, 1 have spoken unto you, according as the Spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, I know that they must surely come to pass. 

"The things which shall be written out of the book shall be pf great worth, * * * and especially unto our seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel. 

"For it shall come to pass in that day, [in the day when this book should come forth], that the churches which are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say : I, I am the Lord's; and thus shall every one say that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord — 

"And they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Ghost, which giveth utterance. 

"And they deny the power of God, the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the people : Hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept; for behold there is no God today, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto men; 

"Behold, hearken ye unto my precept; if they shall say there is a miracle wrought by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for this day he is not a God of miracles; he hath done his work. 

"Yea, and there shall be marry which shall say : Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us. 

"And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God. 

"Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this manner, false, and vain, and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark. 

"And the blood of the saints shall cry from the ground against them. 

"Yea, they have all gone out of the way; they have become corrupted. 

"Because of pride, and because of false teachers, and false doctrine, their churches have become corrupted, and their churches are lifted up; because of pride they are puffed up. 

"They rob the poor because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob the poor because of their fine clothing; and they persecute the meek and the poor in heart, because in their pride they are puffed up. 

"They wear stiff necks and high heads; yea, and because of pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and whoredoms, they have all gone astray save it be a few, who are the humble followers of Christ; nevertheless, they are led, that in many instances they do err, because they are taught by the precepts of men." 

DANGERS THAT THREATEN THE WORLD 

I shall not read the remainder of it; I commend it all to you. Here is a message to the Church, a message to the world. Nephi saw most clearly these things which threaten the world, and the dangers that threaten the Church. I see no dark clouds gathering against the Church, but I do see most clearly that which Nephi declared, that in this day Satan would stir up the hearts of men, and he would rage in their hearts against the truth, and he would seek to gain power and control over the kingdoms of this world. 

THE LORD'S PROMISE TO THE CHURCH 

I recognize, my brethren and sisters, that the Church has attained a right to exist. I fear neither kings nor potentates so far as the future destiny of this work is concerned. The only fear and anxiety that I have in my heart is that the Latter-day Saints will not keep the commandments of God. 

I read in the Doctrine and Covenants words of precious promise to this Church on conditions found in the one hundred and third section, wherein the Lord, even in the midst of the trial and suffering of the Church following the days of their sorrow in Missouri, said : 

"But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people 115  realize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them. 

"Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to prevail against mine enemies from this very hour." 

And here are the conditions : 

"And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God. shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it forever and ever. 

"But inasmuch as they keep not my commandments, and hearken not to observe all my words, the kingdoms of the world shall prevail against them, 

"For they were set to be a light unto the world, and to be the saviors of men." 

This precious promise is ours, on condition that we continue as faithful as our fathers and mothers were. We live in the time when men begin to say, It is all right to sin a little, to lie a little, to! begin to pay little heed and attention to those strict requirements of the Lord, to begin to break the Word of Wisdom a little, to begin to neglect the payment of our tithes and offerings, to begin to treat the moral law lightly, and to look upon it as a thing not binding upon us. That is the spirit that is in the world, and the Lord said that influence would actually affect the Church itself — the few who were the only ones in the world acceptable, and yet, in some instances, they were stumbling because of these false doctrines and precepts of men. 

CAN OUR CIVILIZATION ENDURE 

I heard recently, as some of you did, an eminent philosopher deliver an address, in the Assembly Hall, on the question, Can civilization endure? He recited the rise and the fall of empires, and said that all the glory of Babylon had gone the way of the world, as was the case with other civilizations that had arisen. And yet, out of it all, there has come unto our civilization all the blessings and benefits of former civilizations. But he also called attention to the fact, that if the glorious civilizations of the past had not been destroyed and could have gone on building, what might be our status today! He also said, there is, of course, a possibility that, glorious and wonderful as this civilization is, it, too, may perish and go the way of the world. He asked the question, Will the day ever come in the lives of the children of men when a civilization shall be established that will stand forever and will not go into decay as those great civilizations of the past have done ? He hoped that day would come, he believed it would. While listening to his remarks, I saw, more clearly than ever, the hand of God in laying a foundation in fulfilment of that promise made through Daniel, in the interpretation of the dream given to Nebuchadnezzar, that that day would come. He saw all the kingdoms that have risen and have fallen, and foretold their future as accurately as the historian has recorded it since the events have happened; and, with as much accuracy, he foretold the day to come when, after all this period, the God of heaven would set his hand to establish a new order of things GENERAL CONFERENCE  the earth, to build up a kingdom that would stand forever, and that never would fall. 

A KINGDOM THAT WILL NEVER FALL 

Our attention has been called, during this conference, to the establishment of the Lord's work in the founding of these American institutions, and that God inspired the men who wrote the Constitution. We believe that his hand has been over it. I believe myself that it is part of God's great work in the building up and establishment of a kingdom for himself when he will come, for come he will, to reign as King of kings. All the kingdoms of the world shall go on, attempting to solve their problems and utterly failing, until, in desperation, after the days of their sorrow, they will turn to him and elect him to be their King. He will reign as Lord of lords in his Church — this Church, builded and established by him, and which shall go forward and never fail. Wonderful, is it not, to think that we are favored above all other men in the world, privileged to live in an age when we are contributing towards the establishment of that order of things that will never perish. 

This government, its principles and doctrines, will never perish from the earth. Neither will this Church nor the principles and the doctrines that it announces. They are not competitors, they are handmaidens preparing the way for his coming. It is glorious to know that he has risen, and more glorious to know that he will come again and will live and rule and reign with his saints for a thousand years, and peace shall be here. This is the mission and the destiny of the Church of Jesus Christ' of Latter-day Saints. What then is our duty ? My brethren, it is to go to our stakes and wards and rally our forces as watchmen upon the towers of Zion, to see the dangers that threaten, and while they are not disastrous now, being forewarned, forearm ourselves, and induce our brethren and sisters not to be weary in welldoing, but to subscribe their lives to these simple gospel principles, for in abiding by them is all this future glory assured to us. By keeping the commandments of God, we shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world shall become the kingdoms of our God and his Christ. 

SATAN SHALL BE DEFEATED 

My only anxiety is that, when the clay comes, we shall be found with oil in our lamps. I bear witness to you that the devil is raging. He never has had such an experience in all his existence, in seeking to obtain power and authority over the things of this world, as today. He never has been so completely defeated as in the successful establishment of this Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He has sought by every power and means at his command to destroy it, and he has failed. And he will fail in the future. He is gathering his forces for the great conflict and struggle, even Armageddon, when the living righteous and righteous dead shall be arrayed on one side against the living wicked and the wicked dead, in a mighty conflict, to settle the question as to who has the right to rule and reign; and he shall be defeated, no matter how great his forces. 

god's power to be manifested 

I bear witness to you that God is speaking through the elements in the midst of the nations of the earth. He will manifest his power as never before. This Church will have the opportunity to demoinstrate its power and its influence in the world. If only we will adhere to these principles, we shall rise and shine, and no power on earth or in hell shall stop the progress and growth and development of this wo;rk. The power to make it succeed is in our hands. God give us the vision to see clearly our glorious destiny, to recognize the principles by which we may, through adhering to them, reach that destiny, and come off victorious, to rejoice in the day of the triumph of God's work in the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

My brethren and sisters, this conference is drawing to a close. Before we separate I desire to make a few remarks, and as a preface to what I wish to say I will read a few lines from the Book of Mormon. These are the words of Christ our Lord : 

"He that believeth these things which I have spoken, him will I visit with the manifestations of my Spirit, and he shall know and bear record. For because of my Sprit he shall know that these things are true; for it persuadeth men to do good. 

"And whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good is of me; for good cometh of none save it be of me." 

My brethren and sisters, during the sessions of this conference a great variety of topics have been touched upon. The doctrines of the gospel, the moral obligations which are upon us all, to be observers and exemplars of righteousness, the foundation upon which the Church is builded, and the circumstances under which it came into existence in this dispensation have all been referred to by the speakers. 

THE GOSPEL NOT SOMETHING NEW 

The one thing which I wish to impress upon your minds is this : The opening of this gospel dispensation, the restoration of the gospel of Christ in the day in which we live, did not come as an incident connected wholly with our day and time. It is not something new that has come into the world in conflict with other truths that exist in it, but it is a restoration of that which was commenced with the very beginning of the human race, and is intimately connected with that which shall continue unto the end. 

It is true, as has been stated, that the priesthood of God our Father has come to us through the ministry of angels whom he has sent to the earth. It is true that there was no other church, as has GENERAL CONFERENCE  stated, where this authority existed. But that does not mean and I would not have you understand that other men in times past, and other men at present, may not be inspired of God our Father to perform the work which they are doing. The Church has no conflict with men who are thus discharging their mission. 

god's promises to be fulfilled 

The covenants entered into by God our Father with his people appear to have been almost lost, and absolutely so, for the mission of Christ himself at the time of his death appeared to have been a failure. The promises made to the house of Israel had not been fulfilled. They were scattered, their whereabouts unknown to the people at large. And yet the Lord had said that those promises were eternal. That means that they should live forever. After the dispersal of Israel there came a period, centuries of time, in which we have little authentic history. When we emerged from it we found ourselves in a world that was dominated by kingcraft and priestcraft. We found a people uneducated, untaught, untutored, without knowledge of the word of the Lord as contained in Holy Writ, for that was a book which had been sealed to them. 

THE WORK OF THE REFORMERS 

Then there came such men as John Wycliffe. Do you think that God called him ? Yes, just as definitely as he called Joseph Smith, not to perform the same work; but this great personage, amid a time of confusion and ignorance, declared that the word of God should be published to the people, and the church said, "It shall not be published. We have the Pope, and we had better be without the law of God than without him." That is a historical fact. But Wycliffe went on. He did publish a Bible, and he was hounded and persecuted to his death for having done it, and after he died a petition was presented asking that his remains be buried in a dunghill because of this great sin that he had committed. He had actually published the scriptures. Finally, after a rather decent burial, his body was disinterred, burned, and the ashes scattered in the river Swift, and carried by that into the Severn, and thence into the ocean, in order that his work might be obliterated. 

One hundred years later came William Tyndale with the same message, meeting with the same opposition. The church would not permit that the word of God be published. Tyndale said, "I will make every ploughboy in England to understand the scripture better than the Pope himself." Do you think that the Lord called that man? Yes, as definitely as he has ever called a man to do His work. 

Then came Martin Luther, that great soul, who had the courage to stand against priestcraft and kingcraft, and declare that his conscience was a captive to God's word. That was his declaration when he stood before the Diet at Worms. "There I take my stand; I can do no otherwise. So help me God." That was his answer to his accusers. 

Tyndale was strangled by order of the church because he assumed to publish the Word of God. It was at a time when the Duke of Alva went into the Netherlands, authorized by the church to put to death all who were not orthodox, and he himself was the judge of their orthodoxy, who afterwards boasted that he had executed eighteen thousand men, and women were not spared. Any person who had the effrontery or the courage to say that the Eucharist was not actually converted into the body and blood of Christ, when he ate that piece of bread, and drank a swallow of wine, was put to death. 

Those were the conditions which existed. The Lord raised these men up and associations were formed protesting against such abuses. Thank the Lord for them, paving the way for the opening of this gospel dispensation, when righteousness might prevail. 

THE ATTITUDE OF THE CHURCH 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the friend of every man or woman, every association of men or women which is formed that has for its purpose the accomplishment of good. The words of Christ are true : That which is good comes from God, and that which is evil and tends to lead men away from the truth comes from that evil one. 

But when it comes to associations of men and women, whether they be ecclesiastical or whether they be civil, that are bound together either secretly or openly for the accomplishment of a selfish purpose, or for the accomplishment of a purpose that is contrary to the word of the Lord as it is contained in the scriptures, against all such the Church is opposed. 

I thought I would like to make that plain. Thank the Lord for good men and women whether they are in the Church or out of it. Thank the Lord for the efforts which are put forth to incline men to faith in Christ and to bring them to him. But we are irrevocably opposed to any association, whether it be religious, political, or social, which denies these eternal truths, which binds men in the bonds of ignorance, which shackles them as the people of the world were shackled in the middle ages, which slays men because they do not accept their point of view. It is anti-Christ, and not the doctrine of Christ our Lord. Those millions of people in Mexico who are fighting today for personal liberty will no longer be held in bondage, kept in ignorance of the word of God, and denied those privileges of progression which everyone is entitled to. 

This is the attitude of the Church. We do not want to be at enmity with any good man or woman, or with any good institution. But we are against that which leads men and women into evil. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and send us away from here with a renewed determination to establish righteousness, to GENERAL CONFERENCE  our sympathy to everything that leads to the intellectual and spiritual development of mankind. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Before closing this conference, although the time has expired, I desire to say a few more words. I realize that there are people here from all our stakes from Canada to Mexico, and I feel assured in my heart that they will be perfectly willing to stay a few minutes beyond the allotted time. 

GRATITUDE FOR SPIRIT OF THE LORD 

I desire to express my gratitude for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord during our three days of conference, for the splendid music, for the inspirational prayers, expressive of the heartfelt devotion of those who have prayed for us, for the gospel of Jesus Christ, and for the Lord's many blessings unto us. 

TIME INSUFFICIENT TO HEAR ALL AUTHORITIES 

I am truly grateful for the inspiration of the Lord to each and all of those who have spoken. It would have been a source of pleasure to me to have heard from all of the General Authorities of the Church; also from some of the stake presidents and others that I had in mind to call upon; but time forbids. As I have remarked upon several occasions, I think we ought to have at least one more meeting of two hours in addition to the six meetings we now have in our conferences; there are so many that we should like to hear; but, to date, we have been contented with twelve hours of general conference meetings. Twelve hours once in six months is not a very long period for the people to stay together, and yet we notice considerable restlessness in a meeting the moment the two hours are up. But, even at the risk of wearying you, there are a few things more I desire to say. 

A BLESSING FOR AUTHORITIES AND MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH 

I wish to endorse the remarks that have been made at this conference from start to finish. I wish to say to the Latter-day Saints that I believe God is blessing every one of us who is keeping his commandments, beyond even that of which we are worthy. I know he has blessed me beyond all that I could have asked or expected in my ministry, from the day that I was made the President of the Tooele stake of Zion to this moment. And I, as the President of the Church, standing at the head of the Church, pray God our heavenly Father to bless each and every one of the general, stake, ward, auxiliary, temple, school and mission authorities, all over the world, all men and women who are striving honestly and conscientiously to fulfil the duties and the obligations that rest upon them. I pray that all men and all women who hold any place of responsibility, no matter how high or how low, may magnify their callings and preach the gospel by their 121  of righteousness, that they may grow and increase in influence with God, and with those over whom they preside. I promise every soul holding any place of responsibility that the blessings of the Almighty shall be and abide with him if he strive, to the full extent of his ability, to magnify his callings. 

A BLESSING FOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

I pray God to bless his Saints all over the wide world, and I bless them by the authority of the priesthood which I hold. I pray for our country and ask the Lord to bless those who preside in the nation, in the states, in the cities and in the counties. I pray God to inspire the people that they will obey his commands, and elect good men to office; that they will bury their political differences and seek for good men to hold office, and not men who connive with those who are breaking the laws of our country. It is one of the articles of our faith to obey and uphold the laws of the land. May God help us to do it. May .the sweet influences of his Spirit attend every honest-hearted soul the world over. And I pray for their welfare and particularly for the welfare of all who are striving for the spread of the gospel, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and a quartet sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy," led by Professor Evan Stephens who composed the anthem. 

The choir and congregation sang "Doxology." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder J. Fred Corbett, president of the Idaho stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by B. Cecil Gates. Accompaniments and interludes were played on the great organ by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Frank W. Asper and Alexander Schreiner. 

Stenographic notes of the conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 41 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 113 

A Book of Mormon message, 113 — Dangers that threaten the world, 114 — The Lord's promise to the Church, 114 — Can our civilization endure, 115 — A kingdom that will never fall, 116— Satan shall be defeated, 116 — God's power to be manifested, 117. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 16 

Callis, Elder Charles A 40 

Clawson, President Rudger 47 

All are subject to law, 47 — Laws of God and laws of Man, 48 — The purpose of the constitution, 49 — Our attitude towards the constitution, 49 — Prohibition law should be observed, 49 — All kingdoms governed by law, 50 — Blessings predicated upon obedience to law, 50 — The new and everlasting covenant, 50 — Blessings derived from payment of tithes, 51 — Blessings obtained through obeying the Word of Wisdom, 51 — Distinction between destroying angel and angel of death, 51. 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 24 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 41 

General Officers of the Church . . 42 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church 43 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Changes in Stake and Mission officers since last October Conference, 3 — Financial statement, 3 — Statistical and other reports compiled from Church records for the year 1927, 4 — Impressed with hymn, 5 — The Prophet Joseph Smith, 6 — Cites achievements, 7 — The Arizona Temple, 7 — Purchase of Hill Cumorah, 8 — Temple Work, 8 — A wonderful declaration, 9. 

Grant, President Heber J 23 

Concerning telegram about radio service, 23. 

Grant, President Heber J 24 

Introducing Mr. Roy O. Wyland, 24. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Grant, President Heber J 41 

Presidents of Stakes and others excused, 41. 

Grant, President Heber J 41 

Presentation of General Authorities and Officers, 41. 

Grant, President Heber J 91 

Regarding discontinuing meetings in the Assembly Hall, 91. 

Grant, President Heber J 97 

Reference to Parley P. Pratt as a writer of hymns, 97. 

Grant, President Heber J 120 

Gratitude for Spirit of the Lord, 120 — Time insufficient to hear all authorities, 120 — A blessing for authorities and .members of the Church, 120 — A blessing for government officials, 121. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 100 

Ivins, President Anthony W 10 

Of more than ordinary importance, 10 — 'Two sets of plates, 11 — Carefully preserved, 11 — Ammaron to Mormon, 12 — Years of constant war, 12 — In the Hill Cumorah, 13 — The final disposition, 13 — Part of the record sealed, 14— From the Book of Ether, 14 — Awaiting the time, IS — Until the last, IS. 

Ivins, President Anthony W 117 

The gospel not something new, 117 — God's promises to be fulfilled 118 — The work of the Reformers, 118 — The attitude of the Church, 119. 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 74 

Knight, Elder John M 61 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 71 

A tribute by Senator Owen, 71 — Our work in Scouting, 71 — The Church's missionary system, 72 — Fruits of Mutual Improvement work, 73 — Sentiments of great leaders, 73— A clearness of vision, 74. 

McKay, Elder David 102 

True Education, 102 — Responsibility of parents, 102 — Responsibility of priesthood quorums, 103 — Quorum potency, 104— Other Church educational factors, 105 — Community influence, 105. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 97 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F. 37 

Nibley, President Charles W 85 

Many signs of the times, 86 — Through the Spirit of the Lord, 86 — This Church stands alone, 87 — Not founded on men, 88 — The human Peter, 88— The spirit of revelation, 89— What Paul said, 89— Covenants with house of Israel, 90 — The first world war, 90. 125 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 20 

Richards, Elder George F 32 

Practical value of Scouting, 32— God to raise up a man whose name was Joseph, 33 — Evidence of truth of the gospel, 33 — Witnesses to testify, 33 — Testimony of Book of Mormon witnesses, 34 — Testimonies that Joseph Smith was a true prophet, 34 — Prophet's story must be true, 35 — A falling away before a restoration, 35 — Keys of the priesthood restored, 35 — Foreseeing of restoration proof of falling away, 36 — John's vision completely fulfilled, 36 — Not all accomplished at once, 37 — Heber J. Grant a prophet of God, 37. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 29 

A message of joy, 30 — Principles of gospel a stabilizing force, 30 — Provision for improvement and progression, 31 — Material prosperity not condemned, 31 — Joy through sacrifice and service, 31— Our obligation, 32. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 106 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 44 

Second day, Afternoon Meeting 64 

Smith, Elder George Albert 44 

The Mutual Improvement plan, 44 — Other departments of the Church, 46 — Opportunity for development and growth, 46 — A new plan, 47. 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 82 

Desire for greater strength, 82 — The passing of a patriarch, 82 — Honor and recognition due stake patriarchs, 83 — Blessings of eternal character, 83 — Testimony of power in the Church, 84 — Blessing pronounced upon the people, 84. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 64 

Teach as directed by the Spirit, 64 — Faith a necessary qualification. 64 — Members of the Church should be properly trained, 65 — Saving principles, 66 — Fulness of truth promised to faithful, 66 — Seek men of faith and testimony, 66 — The spirit of truth, 67 — How to avoid deception, 67. 

Talmage, Elder James E 91 

Truth not conditioned by human comprehension, 91 — At the tomb — as predicted, 92 — On the way to Emmaus, 92 — Manifestations to the disciples, 93 — In the realm of the dead, 94 — Lucifer's design failed, 94 — Christ's attributes — human and divine, 94 — Actuality of the resurrection, 95 — Man is of eternal nature, 96. 

Taylor, Elder John H 80 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 85 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 101 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 56 

The conference keynote, 56 — A prophecy and its fulfilment, 56 — Marvels and wonders, 57 — Almost as wonderful, 58 — Lincoln and Greeley, 58— Outside and inside auxiliaries, 59 — Israel and the Gentiles, 59 — The wise and prudent, 60 — Only one way, 61. 

Wyland, Mr. Roy O 24 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 52 

Can you answer all of the questions that are put to you about the Church? 

THE OFFICIAL 

History of the Church 

Will answer many of these questions for you. 

IN SIX LARGE VOLUMES 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church. Completing the First Period. "The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per vol $2.50 Postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol 3.50 " 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, per vol 6.00 

The above work is suggested as reference in connection with the study of Church History in all of the activities of the Church. 

For the reader who does not want this exhaustive history, we recommend the one volume book entitled 

Essentials in Church History 

BY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"As the title of the book implies, the vital and essential points of history and doctrine have been selected, and as far as possible arranged in chronological order." 

PRICE, CLOTH BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 

WHENCE THIS GOSPEL WE TEACH? 

Read: 

"Restoration of the Gospel" 

BY OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE 

"This book prepared by Elder Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, dealing with the important subject of the Restoration of the everlasting Gospel, should be read and its contents carefully considered by those who are seeking after truth." Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

PRICE $1.00 POSTPAID 

A TIMELY BOOK by a Competent Writer-in commemoration of the One Hundredth Year since the Angel Moroni delivered the plates of the Book of Mormon to the Prophet Joseph Smith 

the DESERET BOOK COMPANY offers the First Edition of 

An INTRODUCTION 

to the Study of the 

BOOK OF MORMON 

BY J. M. SJODAHL 

This book is something new. Is highly recommended Many unanswerable arguments for the Divinity of the Book of Mormon Many splendid illustrations by courtesy of the National Geographic Yale Expedition to Peru, Etc. INSTRUCTIVE SCIENTIFIC NEW 

Price, Cloth $3.50— Leather $5.50 Over 500 Pages 

ARTICLES OF FAITH 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

A consideration of the principal doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

This book will be helpful to all who desire a clear and concrete exposition of the beliefs and attitudes of the "Mormons." 

PRICE $1.00 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 







