Afternoon
06 04 1928

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There will be held, the first of next week, in San Francisco, the annual convention of the Boy Scouts of America.- I promised myself the pleasure of being there, but circumstances prevent me from going. 

As most of you are aware, the states of Utah and Idaho have taken a very active part in this movement, as a great many of our boys belongto the Boy Scouts of America. 

We are honored today with the presence of Dr. Roy O. Wyland, who is the Director of Education of the National Council of Boy Scouts of America. We will now have the pleasure of hearing Dr. Wyland. 

MR. ROY O. WYLAND 

Director of Education, National Organisation, Boy Scouts of America 

President Grant, my fellow countrymen, and brothers in Christ : As I came upon this platform I breathed a prayer that God would give me words of wisdom that I might speak to you a message which will help to further the splendid work that you have been doing and that you are now doing for the youth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am exceedingly happy to stand upon this platform and to bring you greetings from the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America; and, if possible, to give you in part, a vision of the vitality, of the rapid spread, and of the effectiveness of the work of an organization which is great because other people throughout the world are manifesting the same definite interest, though probably not in so wide a degree, as you are here in Utah and throughout your magnificent Church in the work of this movement as a means of service to their boyhood. 

Behold a modern movement of the knighthood of youth which enrolls in its membership each year more than a quarter of a million boys who never were Scouts before; a movement which, in eighteen years, has enrolled approximately three million boys, and three-quarters of a million men who have given volunteer leadership to make possible a larger service to the youth of the nation; a movement which, in the year 1927, had an enrollment of about four million boys and 186,000 men; a movement which reaches out into the open spaces to serve the boy upon the farm with a Lone-Scout program, which he receives  the mail, through the Lone-Scout Patrols which are carried on in the homes of the farmers (his neighbor boys gather with him around the fireside during the long winter months); a work which reaches unto our colored boys in the South, in a division which has recently been established with the colored youth of the nation! It is a program which reaches into the life and thought and feelings of every class and type of people, of every political and religious party in the United States, and is universal in its scope. 

I do not know whether you can appreciate what four-million membership looks like. T cannot see that many people. The truth of the matter is, I never before in my life looked into the faces of an audience so large as this. This is the largest inspiration that has ever come into my life in facing a group of representative men and women. But imagine, if you will, a group of four million boys and men. If you would gather that great group of boys and men on Long Island and march them, in single file, across Brooklyn Bridge and up Broadway and along the Storm King Highway to Albany and to Buffalo, on to Toledo, Chicago, Omaha, Cheyenne, Salt Lake City and San Francisco, when you had gathered two hundred thousand Scouts at the Golden Gate, at the Palace of the Legion of Honor, with a marching column three thousand miles across this continent, you would still have more than two hundred thousand on Long Island that had not yet crossed Brooklyn Bridge. That is the membership of a movement, a crusade, a modern knighthood of youth that has spread throughout this land in the brief space of eighteen years, which adds to its membership a little more than one hundred thousand each year. 

Scouting is not con finer! to America. In the eighteen years it has been saturating this country. Scouting has reached out to the civilized world, and today we have a membership in the other nations which totals about four millions. Forty-three of our leading civilized nations have national Scout associations. Every four years they send representatives to the international jamboree, where a great concourse of boys (some fifteen to sixteen thousand) meet on the same common field, not a battle field, thank God, but on the field of friendly endeavor, to demonstrate the achievements of Scouting, in the forty-three civilized nations, which forms an international brotherhood, reaching out beyond the points of our mother-land, and gripping the hand of our brother Scouts in our brother-lands around the world. These Scouts of all nations are learning to be brothers, to understand one another, to respect one another, to sympathize with one another, and to look through the eyes of a brother Scout into the problems and lives and sympathies and rights of other Scouts and other nations the world around. 

We believe that we are laying the foundation and furthering a movement of world brotherhood in this splendid, magnificent boy movement which has swept the nations of the world. 

But Scouting is not confined to the forty-three nations. There are Scout troops in some twenty or more other nations, where there has not been sufficient organization, as yet, to establish a national organization, but Scout troops are there organized and are carrying out their method of Scouting in their own way, looking forward to the time when they will be sufficiently strong to organize a national association and to become part of the international fellowship of Scouting. So the sun, in all its course, never ceases to shine upon the uniform of the Roy Scout of the nations of the world, and that is a picture of this movement of Scouting throughout the world. 

We have just produced a new handbook for boys, which went to the press in the first week in November, 1927. We ordered a half million copies as the first part of a million order. The printers were so much surprised at the size of the order that they looked into the records to find if any other order of its size, had ever been given, and they found that it was the largest single order of any book or form that had ever been given to any publisher. We have already sold five hundred thousand copies, and the other day, before he left New York for San Francisco, Mr. West placed an order for two hundred thousand more copies of the new handbook, to satisfy a need that is evident within four months from the time that the book was given to the public. The old handbook went through thirty-seven editions in seventeen years, and three million one hundred thousand copies were circulated. There is only one other book in print that has had as wide a circulation among the people of any civilized land as our handbook, and that is the Christian Bible, the circulation of which is many times more than that of our handbook, but we hold second place. 

I have indicated these high spots in the power and influence and rapid spread of Scouting, only to impress your mind with the vitality of this movement. You have been aware of the vitality of the Church. I have also been aware of the vitality of the Church. I have read several of the books on "Mormonism." I have been impressed with your method of organization. I have been impressed with your rapid spread. I have been more impressed by what I have seen and felt here today than by anything I have ever read or seen of the vitality and power and onward sweep of the great Church of which you are a part. 

I should like you to have a vision of the vitality of the Church and the vitality of Scouting tied up together in one union for the service of the youth of this nation. I should also like you to feel the power that can be carried forward through the combination of religion in the life of adults tied up with the program of vitality in the life of youth, so that the leadership and the power and example of adults can be brought to bear and made effective in the life of youth. 

Scouting vitality may be accounted for on three counts : First, its appeal to the boy because of the great out-of-doors that it brings into his life, the skill, the information, the fun and the fellowship and all that goes into it, and its romance and friendship that makes it appeal to the boy. Scouting vitality is accounted for secondly on the basis of its appeal to men because of the physical benefits and vocational , the clean recreation, the clean reading program, the citizenship training, the character building, the initiative, the courage, the manhood and the recognition that bring into the lives of boys those principles which make reliable citizens. There you have two appeals. But there is a third one, which many people do not see, and that is the appeal which Scouting makes to the institutions which carry on this program as a part of their programs; for you must realize that Scouting does not go out to the world to propagate itself. It is propagated by those who believe in it, and those who believe in it and carry it forward, in a great majority of cases, are those who make up the churches of America. It has been my responsibility and supreme opportunity to be the liaison between the Boy Scout movement and the churches of all states in this land, and I have had a delightful fellowship with men of all religions and all faiths and creeds and have been able to help tie into the program of the various church bodies the activities which Scouting offers in better service to their boyhood. 

We believe that Scouting has succeeded in America. We not only believe but we know it has succeeded in America far beyond its success in any other country; so much so that we can match the entire Scouting population of all the races of the world with our Scouting population, because of the fact that the churches of America have taken Scouting and made it a part of their program in the service to youth. More than sixteen thousand of our twenty-seven thousand Scout troops are in churches. The church furnishes the leadership; it furnishes the places in which to meet; it furnishes supervision; it names the troops; it names the Scoutmasters, and the local church controls the Scout program through its own leadership. They administer the leadership; they sponsor and carry on that program. The Boy Scout movement has started out to carry on a program gathered around a certain ideal, a beautiful conception of an ideal, — a soul; and that soul is expressed in the Scout oath involved, and will make the movement live. 

The churches of America have supported our movement because they feel that the soul of Scouting, as expressed in the Scout oath and law, is thoroughly in line with the objectives of the church. For example, at the north pole of the Scouting compass, we have placed, duty to God; at the point of the rising sun, we have placed, duty to country; at the point of the genial south, we have placed, duty to our fellow-men; and at the point of the setting sun, duty to self. And these are the words of the Scout Oath : 

"Upon my honor I will do my best — 

"1. To do my duty to God and my country, and to obey the Scout Law. "2. To help other people at all times. 

"3. To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." 

Between duty to God and duty to country, a Scout is trustworthy, loyal and helpful. 

Between duty to country and duty to others, a Scout is friendly, courteous and kind. Between duty to others and duty to self, a Scout is obedient, cheerful, and thrifty. 

Between duty to self and duty to God, a Scout is brave, clean and reverent. 

And there you have, swinging around the Scout compass, the sixteen points, beginning with duty to God, and coming back again to duty to God, in the twelve Scout laws. So the ideal of Scouting and the objective and aim of the church are one. And so the church has taken Scouting to its bosom to carry forward its program. 

There are four or five reasons why the church offers the best home to the Boy Scout troops. I should like to name these and further impress upon you the responsibility you have, as leaders of the church, to carry out in the lives of these boys in the church the spiritual program you have for your boys, and supplement the activities program which Scouting offers to them. 

The church is the best home for a Scout troop, first, because it has the moral and spiritual atmosphere in which boys should grow up. As no other institution, it has the soul and spirit life which surrounds the place and which surrounds the boy whose life centers in the church. Then again the church has the man power with the right character, the right spirit, the right vision, who are worthy to be leaders of boys : and that character and that spirit and that vision are more important to the boys than are all the skill and information you can ever get over through the Scout handbook or any other handbook you may find. In the third place, because of the spiritual atmosphere and the right example of men, the church in the community has the confidence of fathers and mothers in the community as no other institution has that confidence; and, because of that, it will have the support of fathers and mothers in a community as no other movement will have. In the fourth place, the church can complete in the lives of these boys a program of religious education which Scouting cannot give. We deal with the great body of the Catholic church and are officially represented in their circles, and our program is carried forward under the supervision of their cardinals, archbishops and bishops. We are represented also in about thirty or forty of the protestant denominations in America, and our program is carried forward by them to their groups. We are also represented in the Jewish groups of America by their committee, and so on. We cannot let the Boy Scout movement pass out anything of a definitely religious program to these groups, but expect these groups to take up our program of activities and carry it alongside, and tie in with it, and bring to bear upon the lives of their own boys, the spiritual message, the spiritual ideals, the spiritual life, the religious life of the church of which the troop is a part. 

But there is another reason why we want our Scouting tied into the church, and that is because of the thought, that no matter how effective a Scouting program may be in the lives of boys, we know it is a temporary program, which may serve the boy in the period of his youth and early adolescence, as he grows to manhood, but it is only  brief period. You know, if you take a man along that period, ever so well, for two or three years, and leave him there without support and without foundation, without anything to help him to carry on, you have not done him any more service than if you started to carry a man across the country, to a town beyond, and lost him in the prairie or in the woods, or marooned him on a desert island. That is not helping a man to attain his destiny. 

But what has the church ? The church has a program that ministers for the boyhood under its mother arm, that carries on through his growing period of life to manhood and maturity and old age and down to the grave. The church has a program that ministers all the way along. Scouting is brief in its period with the boy. If we can tie up Scouting with a boy, we will tie up the boy with his church and with his God, and then this program will carry on in his life, and the church will be there to sustain and bless and support him to the end and out into the life to come. 

One last word and I am through. I am happy to bring you word that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is using the Boy Scout program in a larger way than any other church in existence. I am happy to tell you that there are 846 troops among the Latterday Saints; that you have a larger per capita of Scouts in your membership than any other religious body on record. I am happy also to tell you that, in the State of Utah, you have a larger percentage of Scouts in the boy population than any other state. And I am happy also to tell you that the reason for this is because you have a closer tie-in and community correlation with Scouting in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than in any other church as a church body. You have absolutely correlated and included Scouting with your program for young boys. I am happy to say also that a large part of that success is due to the fact that you have had a leadership in your Church, in the personality of Mr. Oscar A. Kirkham and Mr. Datus E. Hammond and other executives, sponsored by your able President and members of the Council of Twelve, sponsored also by your local bishops, and carried on by your local wards and stakes throughout this country, that has given a volunteer and a loyal leadership and support that is unequalled by any other religious body in America. And I say that because I know, because I study the records of all of them. I close by saying that I pray God that, through our Lord Jesus Christ, the work of Scouting and youth in this Church may be carried on and live forever. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I am sure that we all rejoice in the encouragement and satisfaction which we have just received. Wip could well say to the eminent gentleman who has just addressed us that nothing could be said to give us greater and more lasting satisfaction than that our youth are learning principles of righteous conduct and are being trained in the Gospel of Christ, preparatory for duties as citizens of the country, and for their service to fellowmen, and God. A MESSAGE OF JOY 

1 do not know that I can adequately convey to you a message that is in my heart today. I have felt that we have a duty, a paramount duty to all the world and to the Church to interpret the Gospel of Jesus Christ in a manner which shall appeal; to reveal the joy of it. 

Today is Good Friday, a day which is set apart in Christendom in memory of the crucifixion of the Savior of the world. I have seen several representations of the personality of Christ portrayed on the stage, and more recently portrayed on - the moving picture screen. I cannot remember that in all these representations I have ever seen the Christ made to appear happy. I have seldom if ever seen him appear to smile. All of the representations have brought a message of gloom, sadness and final death. It may be that certain good is accomplished by such representations. I take it that it is desirable that we should remember the sufferings of our Lord and Savior. We are called upon by the Lord himself to commemorate his broken flesh and his spilled blood. His remarkable, incomparable sacrifice should never leave our minds, for it is by and through that sacrifice that he did become our Savior and our Redeemer. Yet at the same time I do not look upon the Savior of the world as a man of gloom, nor do I regard the Gospel he gave to the world as one of despair, or one which is intended to kill the joy in humanity. 

All the natural world bids us have joy. The flowers that bloom, the sweet perfumes that greet our senses, the colors that enliven our environment, are all calculated to bring to us joy, to enliven us with a sense of beauty, richness and fulness of life. 

Christ did not come to take the color out of life, and I attribute the large measure of indifference to his word, indeed the resistance which is set up against it, in no small part to the erroneous interpretation of his cause, of his life and his service under which the world has suffered for centuries of time. 

"Men are that they may have joy." It is as natural to long for joy as it is to live, and it would be a perversion of the fundamental philosophy of things if religion were to be interpreted as an imposition upon life, to take out its joy and its gladness. 

PRINCIPLES OF GOSPEL A STABILIZING FORCE 

I am thinking of the host of young, of these armies of Boy Scouts of whom we' have just learned. I am thinking of their attitude and I am delighted that the Doctor reminded us that the program which the Boy Scouts' organization provides for these young men is of temporary and partial character only. These young men, a million strong, need something to stabilize their lives. They need a force to guide and direct them. They need to realize the richness and the beauty of life, not only during their youth but all through their maturity, and we hold out to the world blessed, beautiful, cheerful life-giving principles of the Gospel of Christ to supply that vital need. It is incumbent  those who teach the youth to interpret the Gospel for them in such terms that they may see its joys, its encouragements. 

PROVISION FOR IMPROVEMENT AND PROGRESSION 

Every man loves to improve. Progression is the very law of life itself. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, as interpreted by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is the embodiment of eternal progression. Improvement is constantly advocated and provision for it is made. Men seek today to improve their temporal condition. It is a day when men have been able to harness the forces of nature, and by the inventions which have been devised more liberally enjoy the resources of nature than ever before. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ is in no sense incompatible with such important improvements. It recognizes the intelligence in man. It seeks through education to develop that intelligence, to expound the principles of life, to investigate and understand the secrets which nature and the universe hold. 

MATERIAL PROSPERITY NOT CONDEMNED 

Material prosperity is not repugnant to the spirit of the Gospel. Indeed it is regarded as being an accomplishment worth while to be able to so accumulate or organize an industry or enterprise as to improve the conditions under which people live. It is selfishness and personal aggrandizement at which the Gospel directs its injunctions. But when one who has the true spirit of the gospel at heart, one who has consecrated himself to the service of God and his fellowmen, has been able to acquire property or to organize materials or forces for the improvement of conditions, he in no sense comes under condemnation. The spirit of consecration, devotion to the cause, to altruistic interests, is of the very genius of the Gospel. 

JOY THROUGH SACRIFICE AND SERVICE 

When Christ said to his disciples that they should take up the cross and follow him, I have never interpreted that to mean that they were to load upon themselves gloom and despair. He said, "I am come that ye may have life, and have it more abundantly." He engaged his disciples to disseminate the glad tidings of great joy which he taught. It is true that he made sacrifice, it is true that his life was filled with many wrongs to him, and that he suffered inexplicably, and yet I cannot but think that in all his sufferings, indeed even in the giving of his life he experienced a joy that transcends the comprehension of the finite mind. He knew of the vitality of the work which he did. He knew he was the Savior of mankind. He knew of the beneficent results that would follow his supreme sacrifice, and that knowledge could not have failed to transport him with a joy that no one can fully appreciate and realize. The joy of service, the joy of spreading his great work, is the only comparable joy that we may have. 

I want the youth of Zion, as well as the youth of all people, to know that to believe in Christ and to live his gospel is to bring the supreme joy and happiness into their lives. There is no other royal road to the happiness of mankind excepting the path which Jesus set. 

OUR OBLIGATION 

And so, my brethren and sisters of the Church, having these wonderful interpretations of the life of Christ and of the purpose of his ministry given to us by the Prophet of the latter days, it becomes incumbent upon us to so live and so teach that the world will long for the gospel of Christ as it longs today for pleasure and the gratification of appetite. 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of them that bring glad tidings of great joy!" These glad tidings are entrusted to us to give to the world, and to give to our youth. I pray God that we may have the vision, the strength, and the love to give them faithfully, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

There has been, this afternoon, a very great and deserving compliment paid to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for its work with the boys of the Church as they have become associated with the Boy Scout movement. 

PRACTICAL VALUE OF SCOUTING 

I believe in Boy Scouting. It has come into my home. The past few days my seventeen-year-old boy has been attending a Scout powwow that has been conducted at the University of Utah. This afternoon, as I was about to leave for meeting, my boy sat at the table working with his papers. I suggested that T should be pleased if he felt like coming to conference with me. He said, "Father, I am working on these merit badges. I do not see how I can very well leave them." And realizing that this was a consummation of what he had been working on during the past three days, I felt to excuse him. This boy has earned and obtained seventy merit badges. He is not satisfied yet. 

One evening as we sat in our home, one of my sons-in-law, who has had much experience in the handling of cattle and horses said he would like to know what my son had to learn in order to obtain a merit badge for horsemanship. So the boy proceeded to tell him, and, when he was through, my son-in-law remarked that he had been with horses and cattle all his life, but that he had just heard things about horsemanship that he had never known before. 

I have thought that what is required to obtain the merit badges presented by the Boy Scout organization, would make a splendid juniorcollege course, and I know that the influence of the organization is wholesome and good. T believe that if our boys were to become good Scouts, they would be better deacons, teachers, and priests and better 

Church members; so I desire to lend my influence to the Scout movement. 

GOD TO RAISE UP A MAN WHOSE NAME WAS JOSEPH 

The beautiful tenor solo that 'was rendered here this afternoon impressed me very much. The prediction made by Joseph who was sold into Egypt, looking down through the vista of time, and seeing that a man of God would be raised up for the accomplishment of a mighty work in the last days, contained a very specific declaration, to the effect that as his own name was Joseph, so should be the name of this individual whom the Lord would raise up, and not only that, but that the name of this individual's father also should be Joseph. The coming forth of Joseph Smith as a prophet of the last dispensation fulfils that prediction beautifully. His coming forth and the visitation of the Father and the Son and the message delivered to the boy, Joseph, in answer to his earnest prayer, were most beautifully presented in that solo this afternoon. 

EVIDENCE OF TRUTH OF THE GOSPEL 

As I was thinking of these things, I thanked the Lord in my heart for the many evidences that he has given to us of the truth of the gospel, as it has been revealed to us through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. And I said to myself, I know that this is God's work, 1 know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and I can prove it to my own entire satisfaction. It does seem to me that what is satisfying to my soul, in the way of evidence, should be satisfying to the souls of other men and women who are honestly seeking for light and truth. 

WITNESSES TO TESTIFY 

It is not unusual that witnesses should be raised up to testify of God and his Son Jesus Christ and of the truth. We read in Acts, first chapter and eighth verse: 

"But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you : and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth." 

With the disciples of the Master, that was one important part of their calling, to be witnesses of the Lord. In John twentieth chapter and thirty-first verse, in speaking of the things which were written and preserved in the New Testament, we read : 

"But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name." 

And so, in this day and time, the Lord has raised up witnesses for him. His prophets are bis living witnesses and the oracles of the Church. After Joseph Smith had received from the angel Moroni the plates from which the Book of Mormon has been translated, and after the translation, the Lord provided witnesses, and he did this that men and women who are seeking for light and truth might be convinced and that those who believe not might be left without excuse. 

TESTIMONY OF BOOK OF MORMON WITNESSES 

You know the nature of the testimony of Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris. They testify that an angel of God came down from heaven and laid before their eyes, that they beheld and saw the plates and the engravings thereon; that they heard a voice from heaven saying that they had been translated by the gift and power of God; and that they were commanded to bear record of that fact, which they did. 

Eight other witnesses, reputable men, men of character, testified that Joseph Smith showed to them the plates, which had the appearance of gold, and as many of the leaves as he had translated they handled with their hands, and they declared that the characters on those plates had the appearance of ancient work and of curious workmanship, and they gave their names to the world as witnesses of these facts. 

In the Book of Ether (Book of Mormon), 5th chapter, 3rd and 4th verses, we have a declaration, that the Lord would raise up these witnesses, in words like this : 

"And unto three shall they [the plates] be shown by the power of God; wherefore they shall know of a surety that these things are true. 

"And in the mouth of three witnesses shall these things be established; and the testimony of three, and this work, in which shall be shown forth the power of God, and also his word, of which the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost bear record — and all this shall stand as a testimony against the world at the last day." 

In one of our modern revelations, as contained in section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith said : 

"Therefore, having so great witnesses, by them shall the world be judged, even as many as shall hereafter come to a knowledge of this work. 

"And those who receive it in faith, and work righteousness, shall receive a crown of eternal life; 

"But those who harden their hearts in unbelief, and reject it, it shall turn to their own condemnation." 

TESTIMONIES THAT JOSEPH SMITH WAS A TRUE PROPHET 

Applying a little reason to these testimonies, and I am sure that the Lord intends that we should, I conclude that these evidences, these testimonies of the three and eight witnesses to the truth of the Book of Mormon, are just as strong testimonies that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God as that the Book of Mormon is true. The Book of Mormon could not be true, having come through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, had he not been a prophet of God. 

We may take the test which our Savior gave by which we might know a true or false prophet. He said: 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

"Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. * * * 

"Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them." 

prophet's STORY MUST BE TRUE 

There can be no question about the Book of Mormon, as it is given us today, with the fulness of the everlasting gospel contained therein, being the fruit of this tree, Joseph Smith, in that it was given to. us, of the Lord, through him. Then, if Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, the story that he tells of the visitation of the Father and the Son to him must be true, and, being true, God the Eternal Father is a glorified, immortal being, having a body of flesh and bones and spirit, and his Son like him. Joseph Smith being a prophet, this visitation being true, the things that were told to the Prophet Joseph by the Son of God must also be true — that there had been a falling away. That did not mean that just a few apostatized from the Church. It has always been that way; in every dispensation there are some that fall away. There had been a general or universal apostasy from the truth. That is the word of our Lord and Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the testimony of these witnesses is a testimony of that fact. 

A FALLING AWAY BEFORE A RESTORATION 

We stand for a restoration of the gospel. But how can there be a restoration of the gospel without there first be a falling away? The scriptures tell us that "known unto God are all things, even the end from the beginning." They also tell us that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation, but that the prophecies came not in olden time, by the will of man, but that holy men of God spoke as they were moved upon by the power of the Holy Ghost. That is the means of communication between the heavens and the earth. 

And again, we are told that the Lord doeth no thing, but he revealeth his secrets to his servants the prophets. And I think we may add to that, no great thing is done, affecting the human family, except it has been revealed to his servants the prophets. If there was to be a universal falling away from the truth, he would have made it known through his prophets. He has done so, and made it very clear. Many scriptural declarations, concerning an apostate condition are to be found in the Old and New Testaments. History tells us that there has been this falling away. 

KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD RESTORED 

The Lord has sent John, the Baptist, who died in the primitive days, holding the Aaronic Priesthood, and the keys of that Priesthood were conferred by him upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, with authority also to confer it upon others who are wortjiy. That was in the spring of 1829. A little later, Peter, James and John, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood in the primitive days, came and visited Joseph and Oliver and conferred the keys of that priesthood upon them. 

If Joseph Smith had not been a prophet of God, these witnesses could not have testified as they did; he being a prophet of God, what he said and what Oliver Cowdery said, in regard to the restoring of the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods upon them, must be true. It happened just about the time that these witnesses bore their testimony, in the spring of 1829. It was on the 15th day of May that John, the Iiaptist, conferred the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood. 

I say these witnesses, the like of which no other religious organization can provide for its comfort and conversion, are witnesses of the truth of the restoration of the everlasting gospel. 

FORESEEING OF RESTORATION PROOF OF FALLING AWAY 

John, the Revelator, as recorded in Revelation, 14th chapter, 6th and 7th verses, when his vision was opened to see the many things that were to transpire before the great and glorious event of the coming of our Lord in the last days, towards which the eyes of all religionists are directed today, said : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Would there have been any occasion for an angel to deliver the everlasting gospel to the nations of the earth if the gospel, recognized of the Lord, and the authority of the Lord to administer the ordinances of the gospel had been here? Reason answers that question for us. There would have been no occasion for it. 

John's vision completely fulfilled 

The visitation of the Angel Moroni fulfilled, at least partly, the vision of John upon Patmos, when he delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, containing the fulness of the everlasting gospel as taught by our Savior to the ancient inhabitants on this continent. If there need be any further administration to make a full and complete fulfilment of what John saw, we find it in the visitation of John, the Baptist, conferring the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood, and the visitation of Peter, James and John, conferring the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood, conferring the power and authority to build up the Church and kingdom of God upon the earth, to establish the Church of Christ, to restore the gospel, and administer the ordinances unto the children of men who are prepared to receive them. 

All these and numerous other evidences come up before us, proving the truth of this work and that Joseph Smith was a divinely inspired man of God, a prophet in very deed. 

NOT ALL ACCOMPLISHED AT ONCE 

And now, carrying the thought just a little further, if I may, all that we see in this mighty work of God, the admiration of the world, because of the beauty and perfection of its organization, the efficiency of its workings — have not been accomplished in the days of Joseph Smith. Only one of these great auxiliary associations of the Church had been organized in his day, but they have been organized since, under the leadership of those who have succeeded to the presidency of this Church. These great auxiliary associations, our Church school system, our seminaries, these stakes of Zion throughout the valleys of the mountains, ninety-nine in number, and a thousand wards and branches, are evidences to me, conclusive and convincing, that those who have succeeded to the Presidency of this Church have been recognized of the Lord. His power has been with them in administration, and those who have been associated with them, and this work has grown and prospered until it has arrived at its present condition. 

HEBER J. GRANT A PROPHET OF GOD 

I know that Heber J. Grant is an inspired man of God, the right man at the head of this work, a prophet, seer and revelator, just as well as I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I uphold and sustain him as such. This people do also. Were it not so, he could not accomplish the work the Lord has for him to accomplish, and that which he is accomplishing with the means that the Lord has given him. So that I know that we are the people of God, that this is the Church of Christ, the power of God unto salvation, and I do know that it will goon to triumph. The truth will, ultimately, prevail throughout this world, and the purposes of our Father in heaven will be consummated, his Son will come to reign over this his kingdom, as King of kings and Lord of lords, forever and ever. 

This is my testimony; I bear it unto you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Commissioner of Education 

My brethren and sisters: This is the first time in my life thai I have been called without previous notice, to this position. T do not know what I can say. I came today wholly in a receptive attitude. Perhaps I can do no better than to give you a confession of my faith. 

I believe that I have been called to the finest and the best educational position in America. I think that for two reasons primarily. One because of the character of the people with whom I have been brought in contact, and the other, because of the nature of the work itself. j i 

Bishop Cannon this morning spoke of the quality of selfishness that was dominant in the lives and conduct of many people. May I say that I have learned that the people with whom I labor are devoid of that quality. Without a single exception every individual with whom I have been brought into contact has looked at our problems from the standpoint of what is best for the whole. I have talked with ambitious college presidents, with ambitious teachers, with ambitious chairmen of boards, with respect to their problems. Without a single exception they have said that what is best for the whole is what we will cheerfully accept. That spirit makes the work extremely pleasant. 

Again may I say that I believe there is no kind of education in the world that is so fine and so elevating and so good and so important as religious education. And I believe that nowhere in the world is there a system of religions education that is equal in its quality, in its thoroughness and in its comprehensiveness to the system of education that is being undertaken in this Church. The time will come, I verily believe, and before very many years, when week-day religious education will be offered to every high school boy and girl, to every college and university boy and girl in this Church. 

The seminary movement is progressing rapidly. It is doing an extremely good work. We have recently received testimonials from all of the school superintendents in the districts where we have either schools or seminaries located, testifying to the value of this work. They have used such expressions as these, when speaking of the nature of that work : 

"Most highly satisfactory." 

"Exerting the highest moral and ethical influence." 

"It is the finest thing that has come to this school." 

You understand of course .that in all of our system of education we are not trying to get into, we are not trying to dominate, we are not trying to influence improperly, we are not trying to interfere in any way with the public school system of education. All that we are asking is that the members of the Church may voluntarily go during school hours into our buildings, and our own property, and receive religious education. And this religious education was given daily last year, as President Grant announced this morning, to more tban 14,000 who were in daily attendance at high schools and colleges. This year more than 15,000 high school and college students arc attending week-day religion classes. 

With respect to my faith in this work may I say that long years ago, before ever I left my home for collegiate training, I received a testimony of the existence of a divine power, who could reveal himself to men. And so in all of my life since that time I have never once doubted the existence of such a power, of a revelator who can give knowledge to an individual, and who can hear and answer prayers. 

In my boyhood days, for seven long years, I prayed daily for certain knowledge, for a certain blessing. Once during that time I was greatly encouraged by attending an evening entertainment in which a group of young people sang, "Keep on asking; God will  by and by." I kept on praying. And finally when the answer came I did not know that shortly I was to leave my home for ten years of college and university work. Hence I did not know the significance at that time of the message that came to me, of how it would stabilize me in my faith in the years immediately before me. One night between the hours of ten and eleven o'clock, after a hard day's work, there came to me a revelation from on high that was most glorious in its nature, that has been from that moment to this an absolute testimony to me of the existence of a higher power, of the existence of a God who will hear and answer the prayers of a humble farmer boy. Further, since that time I have had two critical periods in my life, when I did not know how to turn, and there came to me at each of those times a revelation from on high that directed me, that told me what was to come to pass, and how I should perform. 

And so I care not, my brethren and sisters, what the philosophy of men may be, how they may question the existence of divinity, how they may question the existence and power of a being who will hear and answer prayers, and will direct in the affairs of men. I know of my own self that God lives, that he does reveal himself to men, that he does direct men. And so I have such confidence in God, I have such confidence in this as being his divine work, that I stand ready to welcome investigators, research workers and truth seekers in every field of human thought and human endeavor, feeling assured, independent of what they may say or what their explanations may be. if they find truth in any field of endeavor whatsoever, that truth will be in harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ as we understand it. And so I feel that there is absolutely no reason for us to be afraid that our young people, if they are rightly led and taught in gospel truths, can ever be won away into infidelity by anything that men may teach that is contrary to the truth, because all truth is in harmony with truth. 

In my early boyhood I learned this couplet : 

"Truth is truth wherever found, On heathen or on Christian ground." 

And I believe it thoroughly. 

To me there stands today at the head of this Church in President Heber J. Grant, the personal representative of the Lord Jesus Christ, and there sits surrounding him today men who have been called as special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want to testify to you that I do know of my own self through revelation that has come to me, that these men are what they claim to be, and that this Church is what it claims to be, and that if we are true to our professions; if we are true to ourselves, we shall eventually attain to the goal for which we have started out. 

May the Lord give us strength and help us to do this, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

It is the pure testimony of the Spirit that reaches the hearts of the children of men. As I listened this morning to the President of the Church and the other speakers, I recalled the words which the haughty and wicked king of Babylon addressed to Daniel, the Hebrew prophet. The king said to him : 

"And I have heard of thee, that thou canst make interpretations, and dissolve doubts." (Daniel 5:16.) 

Could a more eloquent tribute be paid to the prophetic office of a man of God than that? Is it not wonderful to dispel darkness and to dissolve doubt ? It is the truth, as the Savior said, that makes us free. 

With all my heart I believe that the gospel is a dissolver of doubt. One of the greatest editors that this country has ever produced lost his boy, five years old, by death. Friends endeavored to console him in this great bereavement. The man of letters said : 

"Now, all that deeply concerns me is the evidence that we shall live hereafter, and especially that we shall live with and know those we loved here, (f T felt sure on the point of identifying and being with our loved ones in the world to come," etc. 

The gospel answers this question. The Apostle Paul said : 

"But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the Gospel." (2 Timothy 1 :10.) 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, the founder of this Church, through the will of God, was given a most comprehensive and inspired definition of truth. 

"And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come." (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 93:24.) 

This choice seer "gazed on the past, the future, too, and opened the heavenly worlds to view." 

This religion of which I am proud, this religion designated by the world as "Mormonism," brings the consolation of divine comfort to the hearts of stricken parents, that their babies laid away in death, their youth who have been called to the other side, shall be restored to them in the resurrection, and that parents shall have the joy of rearing infant children, in the resurrection, to manhood and to womanhood, for "God will finish what he hath begun." 

"Mormonism" dissolves doubt as to the origin of man. We believe in the immortal origin of men and women : that God is the Father of our spirits — that we had a royal ancestry. And the Latter-day Saint, whose path is lighted by the inspiration of the Spirit of God, will never say to the Almighty, as he said some people would say: "Thou formed me not." No, "Mormonism" gives the answer, vouchsafed to us in holy writ and modern and ancient revelation, that the Almighty  the Father of our spirits, that we lived as individuals in spiritual form before we came to this earth. 

Another thing: "Mormonism" dissolves any and every doubt concerning the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Book of Mormon, which is another witness for God, testifies (and that is one of the main purposes for which it was written) that Jesus is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, and the Savior of mankind; that he redeemed us from death, and brought to light life and immortality, through obedience to the gospel. This is the testimony that we bear to the world. Our doubts have been dissolved by the gospel; and, instead of doubt and uncertainty, the light, the testimony of the I loly Ghost, the power that guides into all truth, fills our hearts, and we can say, with Job, "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." 

Thank God for the gospel. Thank God for the Holy Ghost. Thank God for the inspired prophets, seers and revelators who, by their ministry and the word of life, have dissolved all doubts and dispelled the clouds of darkness. 

I bear you my testimony that Jesus Christ is the Son of God; that Joseph Smith was his prophet, and that he, like Daniel, was a di.ssolver of doubts, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have received a number of telegrams and letters from various presidents of stakes and others, explaining the impossibility of their being at this conference. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers, and General Auxiliary Officers, who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Melding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Key L. Pratt. 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester O. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH HOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Joseph F. Merrill Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler 

Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

George C. Smith, Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Clarissa S. Williams, President Jennie B. Knight, First Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

The congregation sang, "O say what is truth." The closing prayer was offered by Elder A. E. Palmer, president of the Lethbridge stake. 


