Morning
07 04 1933

The third session of the Conference was opened promptly at 10 o'clock a. m., by President Heber J. Grant announcing that the congregation would sing the hymn, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

After the singing of this hymn, Elder Byron O. Colton, President of the Roosevelt Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A duet, "The Morning Land," was sung by Miss Rae Miles and C. T. Packard. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

In rilling a Sunday appointment some years ago to speak in the Tabernacle and while talking I incidentally mentioned our life before we came here upon the earth. I do not remember just the expression used, but I was not discoursing particularly upon the subject of man's pre-existence. I perhaps made the statement that we ought to be as faithful and valiant in this life as we were in the life before We came here. At any rate at the conclusion of the meeting, as I walked down the steps from the pulpit I was met by a small group of tourists, one of whom, a well-dressed and intelligent woman of middle age, seemed to be the spokesman for the group. After making a few comments of a complimentary character, this lady made the astounding statement that she was a relative of the former Confederate President of the United States, Jefferson Davis; that her father was a minister of the gospel, and that his father before him was also a minister of the gospel, and that she had been a regular attendant at church services all her life, but never before had she heard taught or suggested that man had a living existence before coming here upon the earth. 

PRE-EXISTENCE NOT UNDERSTOOD 

I think perhaps I was as much surprised at hearing her make this statement as she was in hearing what I had said about pre-existence. 

The principle of man's pre-existence is so well established by the Old and New Testaments, as well as the other standard works of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that it seemed to me almost impossible that men who had studied for the ministry, and who are supposed to interpret the word of the Lord as contained in the Bible, could be misled or be unable to see that principle plainly. I have since made inquiry in my travels and in my association with those who are not of our faith and have found that Christian people generally do not believe in nor do they understand the principle of man's pre-existence. 

One minister with whom I talked at considerable length while riding on a railroad train, at the conclusion of our conversation said that it might be that Jesus Christ had a former existence, but that he could not admit that much of men generally. Inasmuch as this principle of man's preexistence is so fundamental in the plan of the Gospel and is a key to the understanding of many passages of scripture without which they could not be properly understood, I thought I might speak upon this subject this morning. 

A SPIRITUAL CREATION 

I call attention to the very first chapter in Genesis, which gives an account of the creation of the earth and of vegetation upon the earth, of animals and also of man, and which is really a spiritual creation, but which men and women seem not to have understood. In this account we read that God said: "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." It plainly tells us that man was created in the image and likeness of his Maker. And then after the account is given we are told that the Lord rested from his labors on the seventh day. 

It would seem that everything pertaining to the creation had been then completed. But when we read the second chapter of Genesis we find that what is recorded in the first chapter is an account of a spiritual creation. 

"These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, 

"And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew : for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground. 

"But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. 

"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul." 

Notwithstanding an account had been given in the first chapter of the creation of man and of other things, the second chapter of Genesis gives an account of the creation of all those things that had been created spiritually. This would seem to be sufficiently plain that men and women studying it would be able to reach a conclusion that the earth and all things pertaining to it — vegetation, animals and man — had really a spiritual creation. 

In the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, is given an account of the spiritual creation as the Lord revealed it to Moses : 

"And 1 , the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air; * * * 

"All things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word." (Moses 3) 

We have additional information pertaining to this great principle in our standard works that helps to make more plain and easy to be understood this very important principle. 

WAR IN HEAVEN 

In the last book of the New Testament we have an account of the 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 45 

war which took place in heaven, which of course could not have been had there not been people engaged in it. In the twelfth chapter of the Book of Revelation we read as follows : 

"And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 

"And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven. 

"And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world : he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him." 

Speaking of the dragon, we read in the fourth verse : 

"And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth." 

So that we understand without any further revelation that this same Lucifer was the one who rebelled in heaven, and he was cast out and with him one-third of heaven's host. 

In Jude 1 :6 we read : 

"And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day." 

OUR RELATIONSHIP TO GOD 

In Hebrews 12 :9 we have a reference to the relationship we sustain to God : 

"We have had fathers of our flesh which have corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?" 

I wonder how men and women can read such scriptures and not understand pre-existence. 

THE PRE-EXISTENCE OF CHRIST 

We read in the first chapter of John : 

"In the begnining was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 

"The same was in the beginning with God. 

"All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made." 

John here refers to the Son of God, as expressly stated in another verse of that chapter: 

"And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us." 

So that we might read that scripture, "In the beginning was Jesus Christ, and he was with, God, and he was God" — thus showing a plurality of Gods, or in other words, God the Father, and God the Son. "All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made." 

FIRST-BORN AND CREATOR OF HEAVEN AND EARTH 

Even before he was born into this world as a babe in Bethlehem, he must have had an existence and a power, even that of a God, to create the heavens and the earth and all things therein. 

The Apostle Paul in writing to the Colossians makes a similar statement, that all things were created by him, visible and invisible. He makes a further statement that he was the first-born, which expression implies at once that there were others born as well as he of the same kind of birth. It is clear that no reference is made there to his birth in the flesh, for he came in the meridian of time. It was some other birth, and What other but that when he was born of his eternal Father in the spirit as we were born? And thus this principle is established — the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man. How men who do not understand the principle of pre-existence can understand the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man I cannot comprehend. 

LOVE OF GOD AND FELLOW MEN 

We read in the scriptures that the first great commandment is that we shall love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul and with all our mind; and the second is like unto it, we shall love our neighbor as ourselves, remembering that blood is thicker than water, and that things earthly are typical of things heavenly. We know that by reason of the relationship we sustain to God our Heavenly Father and to our fellow men we should love them — love the Lord with all our heart and that sincerely, and love our fellow men and serve them, because they are in very deed our brothers and our sisters. 

ONE INDIVIDUAL FROM BEGINNING TO END 

By an understanding of this principle of pre-existence we understand the evolution of man, if that is a correct expression, or his eternal progress, following in the footsteps of the Savior, the First-born, being born of God in the spirit, having a spiritual existence and then coming here upon the earth to have an earthly existence, passing on through death to another spiritual existence, and then the resurrection, and through faithfulness and obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel go on to eternal life and exaltation. There is just the one individual from beginning to end. The fallacy of the reincarnation of man theory is here made apparent, as also the doctrine of evolution, in which it is taught that man originated with the lower animals, the very lowest type, and came up by degrees. 

We rejoice in the knowledge of the Gospel, that we are of noble ancestry, that we are indeed sons and daughters of God; and understanding this we realize what manner of men we ought to be, which could not be understood but for this knowledge of pre-existence. The origin of man is here set forth as well as his eternal progression. The origin of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is hereby understood as taught in the 1 scriptures. 

BEFORE THE WORLD WAS 

The Prophet Joseph Smith made use of this expression : "At the first organization in heaven we were all present and saw the Savior  and appointed and the plan of salvation made, and we sanctioned it." (Compendium, p. 288) ........ 

His statement is confirmed by scripture as follows : 

Revelations 13:8: "And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world." 

Also I Peter 1:19, 20: "But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish, and without spot : who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world. 

The proper interpretation is of course that in the council of heaven before the world was, Christ our Lord, was chosen to be the Savior of mankind, to come in the meridian of time. He is characterized all through the scriptures as the Lamb of God, the Lamb without blemish. And when God gave Adam a charge to build an altar and offer a sacrifice, it was a type of that sacrifice which was to be made by the Lamb of God. It was to be a lamb, one of the firstlings of the flock and without blemish. How beautifully it represents the Son of God! 

The purpose of his being chosen before the world was is explained in the scripture as follows (I Cor. 15 :21, 22) : 

"For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. 

"For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." THE AUTHOR OF SALVATION 

This shows that the fall was understood as a part of this great plan of the Gospel before the world was, and provision was made to redeem mankind from the fall. 

We read further (Heb. 5 :8, 9) : 

"Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; 

"And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." 

It must have been understood then tha t the atonement which .he was to work out when he should come upon the earth should be the means of redeeming mankind from their sins on condition of obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, as set forth in the third article of our faith : 

"We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." 

THE PLAN OF SALVATION 

This is a part of the Gospel which was instituted in the heavens. We have no account of God instituting any other Gospel, any other plan of salvation, and anything in conflict with that plan as there ordained and taught by Christ our Lord and his disciples will be contrary to the mind and will of God and calculated to lead men away from rather than to the Lord and the plan of salvation itself. Just one Lord, one faith, one baptism — God the Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ his Son, .the Savior of the world. . 'I feel grateful in my soul for this light that has come to us in connection with all the other light and knowledge of the Gospel which we have received. 

GOD AT THE HELM 

I know, brethren and sisters, of the truth of this work. I know that it will endure. For a century men have tried to disprove its truth — intelligent men, learned men — and they have signally failed. They ever will. This work is to go on, it is God's work, he is at the helm and) directing it, and those who are at the head of the Church here on the earth are his vicegerents. At the present time, Heber J. Grant, the President of this Church, as the prophet, seer and revelator and God's mouthpiece to this Church, is directed by the same spirit that has directed his predecessors, and this work has never halted for a moment from its inception until the present time. It never will, it will go on until God's purposes shall have been fully consummated, until our Lord shall come and take possession of this, God's kingdom upon earth, and shall rule as King of kings and Lord of lords. 

May the Lord add his blessing' to this testimony, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

IF WISDOM IS LACKING 

A boy, age fourteen, was troubled in his mind about religion; he was uneasy. At times he was greatly excited. There was tumult everywhere in his neighborhood. In this confusion and distress, although but a lad in years, this wise young man sought the Holy Bible. 

The whole world today is likewise in confusion. Men's hearts are failing them. Their lives are filled with despair. Many are unemployed, multitudes discouraged. How many of these, and perhaps it may be well for me to say, how many of us, during these trying conditions, have gone to this great, this good, this Holy Book in search of something that will point the way? 

The boy opened the Holy Book to the first chapter of James and read : 

"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." 

ASK OF GOD 

Again and again he reflected upon these divine words. He was certain that if any one ever needed wisdom he needed it then. How to act he did not know. He concluded that unless he could get more light, more wisdom, he would never know. At length came the conclusion that he must either remain in darkness or else do as James suggested, ask of God. This young man therefore retired to the woods to make the effort. It was on a clear day early in the spring of 1820 and it was  first attempt to pray vocally. The result, as you all know, was miraculous. 

In the confusion of the world today, no leader or group of leaders seems to have the necessary wisdom, the necessary vision to lead or to point or to find the way out. Ought not all the people, therefore, to turn to the first chapter of James and read, with faith believing, those divine words : 

"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." 

WHO HAS FORGOTTEN GOD? 

Are you praying ? Am I praying? Are the members of the Church as a whole praying? Do all who go upon their knees have in their hearts genuinely the prayerful spirit, the spirit of faith and humility? Are the words they utter a real, a heartfelt prayer, or are they but words thoughtlessly or carelessly spoken? In the language of Lincoln, is it possible that the people of the world, those of our nation, and perhaps some of the members of our own Church, have really forgotten God? 

We, as a nation, people of the United States have certainly been "the recipients of the choicest bounties of heaven; we have been preserved these many years in prosperity; we have grown in numbers, wealth and power as no other nation has ever grown." 

And during this long period of unusual prosperity have we forgotten the gracious hand that has multiplied and enriched and strengthened us? Have we vainly imagined in the deceitfulness of our own hearts, that all of these blessings have been produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own? Have we been intoxicated with unbroken success ? Have we become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace? Are we of America too proud to pray to the God that made us? If these conditions prevail then- truly "it behooves us to humble ourselves before the offended power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and for forgiveness." (Lincoln) 

"protect us by thy might" 

But speaking to you, my fellow churchmen, looking into your faces, let me ask more specifically, have you been upon your knees this morning ? Did you express gratitude last night before you went to rest for the blessings of yesterday ?! Have we Latter-day Saints earnestly and always sought first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness? (Matt. 6:33) 

We are living in a land where we sing, "Protect us by Thy might, great God, our King." Ours is the nation whose motto is, "In God we Trust." Our statesmen and patriots of the past have set us a noble, a worthy example. Washington at V alley Forge went upon his knees and appealed for the help of Divine Providence. It was Lincoln who said, "it behooves us to humble ourselves before the offended power, to confess our national sins and to pray for clemency and forgiveness." In those other dark and trying days, he said, the great trouble with our nation is "we have forgotten God." OUR PRAYERS HEARD 

. "In the beginning of our contest with Great Britain," said Franklin, "when we were sensible to danger, we had daily prayers for divine protection. Our prayers were heard and they were graciously answered. * * * I have lived a long time; but the longer I live the more convincing proof I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men." 

Checking now for a moment on our individual selves, I ask again : 

"Ere you left your room this morning, did you think to pray? In the name of Christ our Savior, did you sue for loving favor, as a shield today? When your heart was filled with anger, did you think to pray? Did you plead for grace, my brother, that you might forgive another who had crossed your way?" 

PARTAKING WORTHILY 

Did you attend your Sacrament meeting' last Sunday ? If so, when you partook of the sacrament, did you do it worthily ? How many times have you partaken of these sacred emblems since our General Conference six months ago? How many times have I partaken of the sacrament, and when I have partaken of it, have I done so worthily, with a repentant, a prayerful spirit? 

PRAYERFUL THOUGHT AND STUDY 

Remember, family prayers simply as a matter of form are not enough. A study of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph convinces me that inspiration, wisdom, revelation and divine guidance come as a result of faith, of fasting and praying and appealing repeatedly to the Lord for knowledge and for blessings. In the Doctrine and Covenants, I have found expressions like the following: 

"The Lord responded to the Prophet's supplication by granting this revelation." (Section 8.) "It is not sufficient for one merely to ask for a divine gift, without prayerful thought and study." (Section 9.) "This revelation was received * * * in answer to Joseph's supplication and inquiry." (Section 11.) "The Prophet inquired of the Lord. * * * This revelation and the next two following were given in answer." (Section 14.) "In response to fervent supplication for greater knowledge * * * the Lord gave this revelation." (Section 18.) Etc., etc. 

One of the commandments given specifically to us in these days says : 

PRAY VOCALLY 

"And again, I command thee that thou shalt pray vocally as well as in thy heart; yea, before the world as well as in secret, in public as well as in private. 

"Pray always, and I will pour out my spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing." (D. and C. 19:28, 38.) 

Have we obeyed this teaching ? Are we today living in accordance with it ? Are you mothers and fathers in your families praying always ? 

The Lord speaking again to us in this our time and dispensation says, "Be diligent in keeping all my commandments, lest judgments come upon you, and your faith fail you, and your enemies triumph over you." (D. and C. 136:42.) "I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth," (D, and C. 88:76) 

CRYING FOR FORGIVENESS 

Have we fasted, have we prayed, have we appealed, have we repented, have we cried unto our Heavenly Father for our shortcomings, our imperfections, our weaknesses to be forgiven ? Have we appealed as the Prophet Joseph appealed ? Are we humble as well as prayerful ? For another commandment says: "Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and shall give thee answer to thy prayers." (D. and C. 112:10) 

Our Lord the Savior said : "Watch, and pray, that ye enter not into temptation." (Matt. 26:41) "Pray without ceasing," the Bible tells us. (Thessalonians 5:17) 

Morning, evening, every day, in faith believing, let us all pray, lest we enter into temptation. Let us seek the Lord while he may be found. Let us call upon him, and let us call earnestly, while he is near. (Isaiah 55 :6) 

CHEER FOR THE FAITHFUL 

To all who are devoutly religious, to those who remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, to those who partake of the sacrament of the Lord's supper regularly and partake of it worthily, to those who go to our places of worship frequently and there in their hearts appeal to Providence for a forgiveness of their sins, -for strength to overcome weaknesses, for vision to see the straight and narrow way and for strength to walk therein, to those who close each day's labors with a prayer of thanks to Divine Providence and to those who begin the labors of the day with an appeal for divine help and light, truly, verily to all such "every day is a fresh beginning, every morn is the world made new." (Susan Coolidge) 

THE PRAYERFUL SPIRIT 

When these prayers of which I have spoken are offered in the family circle, at church, to open a meeting or to close it, and more especially when blessings are asked upon the holy sacrament, upon the bread or upon the water, there should be silence, a real stillness, all eyes ought to be closed, all heads ought to be bowed, all hearts filled with the prayerful spirit. These appeals are not to be made by one individual, they should be the hope, the faith, the united appeal of all who are present. And if in every heart there burns an earnest hope for Providence to hear, and for the united appeal to be answered, then every pair of lips should express the fervent feeling of each and every heart by saying, Amen when the prayer is finished. 

SPEAKERS WITH NO MESSAGE 

There are some who complain that our worshiping assemblies, our sacrament meetings, are dry, that speakers often stand before our audiences "who have no message." Some insist they can learn more by remaining at home and devoting themselves to literature than by attending church, where, they say, certainly at times, uninteresting and unprofitable sermons are preached. AN UNFAILING LESSON 

I believe the doctrine taught in my presence long ago by one of the General Authorities of the Church to the effect that no human lips can preach, no human lips can teach a more important, a more impressive or a more effective lesson than can be learned by those who attend the humblest sacrament meeting and there partake worthily of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 

PRAYERFUL REFLECTION 

Those impressive moments, and particularly those during which the blessings on the sacrament are asked, should be times of deep and sacred and prayerful reflection. Such occasions are opportunities for wrongdoers to come into' close communion with the spirit and power of our Heavenly Father. With eyes closed, with prayerful hearts, with repentant spirit, genuine worshipers examine their own lives, their own conduct, they review their actions during the week past, they think of the unkind words they have spoken, of their unfair dealings, etc. Thus, with a humble, a repentant, a sorrowful spirit, the man of weakness, the wrong doer, in his heart may say: "Father in Heaven, during the past week I have so far forgotten myself as to be unkind to my wife; I spoke sharply to my daughter; I lost my temper and struck my son; I dealt unjustly with my neighbor. Father, I am a sinner, forgive me." 

REPENTANT SPIRIT 

He who thus has the sorrowful, the repentant spirit, he who thus humbly forsakes his wrong-doing and sins no more shall have his sins so thoroughly forgiven that they will not only be completely blotted out of the book of remembrance of our Heavenly Father, but they will be so genuinely forgiven that even the sinner himself will forget. The strong, the satisfying teaching of the scripture, one of the fundamentals of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, applies in such a case, for the scripture says, "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool." (Isaiah 1 :18.) 

ACTUAL LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Those who are actually Latter-day Saints, those who are genuine Christians, those who thus pray and fast, those who remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, those who appeal earnestly for divine guidance as did the Prophet Joseph, and as did our early and distinguished statesmen and patriots, will have faith in the Gospel message delivered by Paul in the following words : "Ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." (Acts 20:35) What the nation needs under our present economic conditions is to have the souls of the citizens of the country touched by the divine spark, the divine testimony which brings into the hearts of men a realization of that great fundamental, that unselfish Christian truth that it is more blessed to give than to receive. The need of the nation and of the world is compliance with the teaching in the , sacred words read by the Prophet in his boyhood : "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." (James 1 :5) 

CONSUMER MUST BE ABLE TO PURCHASE 

The present unsatisfactory financial conditions can only be eliminated by the application of this fundamental religious truth, by the unselfishness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, by getting into the hands of the consumer in some way or other an ample, or at least a reasonable amount of purchasing power. It is not what a nation produces, it is what the nation consumes that brings prosperity. In our mechanical age only approximately half of the laboring people of our nation need to be employed in order to produce all the manufactured and other products the people of the country can reasonably consume. This was demonstrated during the World War when a large percentage of our population was engaged either in the army or in the manufacture of munitions of war. if half of the people working eight hours per day can produce as much as all the people can reasonably consume, and further since prosperity can return only after purchasing power is placed in the hands of consumers, then the man who with average ability applies himself with reasonable effort to profitable employment for four hours a day ought to be given for said service enough purchasing power to enable him to provide for himself and for his family not only the necessities of life, but many of life's comforts and perhaps some of the luxuries of our modern, sanitary, intellectual and religious life. Until all of the consumers in every part of the land are by some method or other provided with a reasonable amount of purchasing power, prosperity under the most desirable conditions cannot return. When this greatly needed, this most happy condition prevails, when the great masses are provided with a reasonable amount of purchasing power, then and not until then will poverty be banished from our beloved nation. 

It is said that machinery is producing so much and with such efficiency that a rayon f actor)- in New Jersey is to be built in which only one man will be employed. Unless consumers are provided with purchasing power there can be no market for the products of this novel, remarkable and in fact desirable institution. Why, with men's hands, should work be done which machinery can perform ? 

WEALTH DESTROYING ITSELF 

It is reported that in the year 1930 one of our great manufacturers received in dividends for himself, for his wife and for his son $44,000,000. How can this automobile king expect to dispose of his product if he and other leading manufacturers are going to collect in dividends and thus hoard and keep out of circulation such tremendous quantities of piled up wealth ?' Dividends, profits, or certainly a large percentage of these, must be put into the hands of the consumer, thus providing him with purchasing power or evidently there can be little or no market for manufactured or other products. When our leading business men learn this fact and live in accordance with the lesson it ought to teach, namely, that all of the cash of the country, the purchasing power of the nation, should be kept circulating, we shall have a prosperity the like of which the world has as yet not known, and we shall then be practising the unselfishness, the perfection of the teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

COMING OF INCREASED PROSPERITY 

If that $44,000,000 and the fabulous dividends and profits other business men have received and hoarded had been divided with the people whose labor helped to make these great fortunes possible, if these great stores of wealth had been divided with members of the extensive sales organizations which reach into every part of our country, if this wealth which is actually the purchasing power of the nation had, by some means or other, been distributed among those who are consumers, then the markets everywhere would not only have remained good, they would have continued all the time to improve, prices would have been maintained, factories would have operated at full capacity and prosperity would have gone on continuously with ever-increasing momentum. All that has been lacking is practising the simple, unselfish principles of the Gospel of the Master. 

UNPRECEDENTED PROSPERITY 

Does it not seem that the great manufacturers, the business men of the land have, by selfishly accumulating, by hoarding, by withdrawing from circulation these great mountains of piled-up wealth, have been following a suicidal policy ? Are they not more or less devoid of that Christian spirit which teaches that we ought to support the weak, that we ought to remember that it is more blessed to give than to receive ? 

Many of our men of wealth are piling up great fortunes that they must give away, that they must distribute, wealth they must divide with others, if they provide consumers with the power to purchase, which power the people must possess before prosperity can return. Distributing thus this accumulated power to buy will with certainty bring our great nation into unprecedented prosperity. 

SOLUTION FOR WORLD'S ILLS 

Do you not see therefore that the solution to the ills of the world is religion, unselfishness? The need of the country is Christianity. We must be unselfish enough to support the weak and to remember to practise the words of the Lord Jesus when he said. Tt is more blessed to give than to receive. 

RELIGION THE SOLUTION 

The cure for our ills, I say again, is religion. The outstanding need of the hour is the unselfishness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Men must learn to love one another. I pray for that day when every man shall know every other man for every man's name will be brother. Under such conditions we shall unitedly support the weak, and all will live in accordance with the words of the Master. Every knee will bow and  tongue confess that jesus is the Christ and all the world will know that if those who lack wisdom will ask of God it shall be given unto them. May this happy day come soon I pray, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

Mrs. Florence Erickson sang a sacred solo, "Hosanna." 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

My brethren and sisters, many years ago, as a young man I went out with a group of men hunting. After the first day's hunt there were many funny experiences told. One of them was this : Two of the hunters were together, two large, fine deer were jumped, and one of the men when he got through had all of his cartridges by the side of him, none having been fired. He had buck fever, ft seems that when I stand in this pulpit I become nervous — I cannot help it — and after it is all over I wonder if my cartridges are not lying on the floor and nothing said. 

I bow my head with gratitude to my Heavenly Father for membership in this Church and for the opportunity I have had of coming here and partaking of the splendid spirit and listening to the words of inspiration as they have fallen from the lips of these divine oracles of our Father in heaven. I thank him for the opportunity that has come to me to serve in his great Church. I thank him for the privilege I have of laboring as a missionary in the Texas Mission, for my association with your sons and daughters and with the Latter-day Saints in the Texas Mission who I say to you have found God. Hundreds of them bear solemn testimony that they have accepted the challenge of Jesus Christ and have determined positively that this is his work. 

As I listen to the testimonies of those missionaries, those fine men who have been clothed with the holy priesthood of Almighty God, and those young sisters who have been divinely appointed to minister among the children of men, I am filled with joy and gratitude to my Heavenly Father. I feel to pay a tribute here today to the youth of Zion. 

When President Grant yesterday morning in that wonderful address of his, speaking with reference to the Word of Wisdom, mentioned the fact that great blessings would come from observing it, I was reminded of an experience that had come to my attention. There was recently baptized into the Church in the Texas Mission a woman of distinction and prominence, a widow. At the time of her husband's death he was president of five banks. She has always been a devout woman in one of the popular churches. She made a trip throughout the West and came to the city of Salt Lake with one of her sons who was a university student. She stopped at one of the tourist camps here, and one of the local missionaries called at the camp and gave her some literature and invited her to come to the Temple Block. Thanks be to the fine missionaries on the Temple Block, they appealed to her, they sold her some literature, and she started reading the Book of Mormon. She said she found it to be rather dry, but she could not get out of her mind the picture of the faces of these ,boys and girls who had been born under the covenant, who had been reared by fathers and mothers who had kept the Word of Wisdom and they who themselves were keepingit. She said : "They are the most beautiful young people I have ever seen. I could not get interested in the book, but as I went on through the West into California, into Los Angeles and other great cities, I began comparing these children with other children." She said to her son: "Surely a religion that can produce such fine young men and women as the Latter-day Saint religion produces must have something of value in it." 

She wrote a letter to President Grant and sent fifteen dollars as a contribution to further the work of Mormonism. President Grant sent me the letter with a request thatT call on her or have one of the missionaries do so. I had the district president call on her, and he spent some time with her and gave her some literature. She studied it scientifically, systematically and prayerfully, and in due time became thoroughly convinced that Mormonism is divine. I say, a fruit of Mormonism as depicted by the best crop in the Church, the boys and girls who are living lives of Latter-day Saints. 

One of the Elders called on this good woman to baptize her. A man came to her home while the missionary was there, seeking charity. She gave hundreds of dollars to charity. She made him a contribution, and then followed him out wanting to see who had brought him to her home. A minister of her church, but not of her city, was in the car. She introduced herself to him and said. "I am going to join the Mormon Church; I am going to be baptized." He said : "Woman, you are crazy. You do not mean it, you cannot mean it." And he told her more than that. He said : "You are going to hell." 

She said to him: "Brother, I am earnest and sincere in this. I have made a serious study of Mormonism. I have been in Salt Lake City and other cities where the Latter-day Saints dwell, and I have found them to be honest, God-fearing people, men and women who are happy in their homes. Heaven is in their homes. I believe that I am doing the proper thing. Will you come in and show me where they are wrong?" 

He started to get out of the car, and she said to him : "There is a young Elder here now ready to baptize me. He is a fine young man, a real Christian boy, and I am sure if you can convince him that Mormonism is what you say it is and that he is going to hell he will go back to his Christian parents." 

The minister immediately became busy and said : "I am sorry, sister, but I cannot go in." He no doubt had met Elders before. 

That experience irritated the woman just a little, so she im entered the house, called her own pastor, to whom she had given hundreds of dollars, and told him what she intended to do. To her surprise this preacher very nearly duplicated the words that the other minister had uttered. She invited him to her house and he was coming until he learned that the missionary was there. 

Thus they let one of their best members go "straight to hell'' without coming to put her on the right track. She is happy in the Church and sends in her tithing every month regularly. She is preaching the Gospel to the bankers, the lawyers, and everyone with whom she comes in contact, and primarily this Gospel was brought to her attention because of the fine happy faces of our youth. 

I am delighted to be engaged in this great work. I am delighted to report that our missionaries are well and happy; that they have the Spirit of the Lord with them. I hope and trust that we will be able to carry on this great work. We are utilizing as far as possible the local people and because of this I find a better feeling everywhere. The Saints are more united than they have ever been before in the history of the mission. Opportunities are greater for presenting the Gospel, and our people in the main are happy. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and to you who have sons and daughters in the Texas Mission I say they are all well. So far as I know they are all enjoying the Spirit of the Lord, and best of all, I have heard each one of them certify in words of soberness that he knows that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God; and they all revere and reverence these men whom we sustain as prophets, seers and revelators, as do I. 

May God bless us all that we may always live and do that which is right, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

1 sincerely hope and pray that I may enjoy the favor of the Lord while I stand before you for a few moments during this session of the Conference. I am greatly impressed when I think of the present condition of the world, when I contemplate the inhabitants of the earth and realize that in these last days the Lord has set his hand to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the children of men. In the establishment of his Church he has chosen men to be witnesses for him. He has restored the priesthood and endowed men with power from on high. He has commissioned them to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature. 

What a gigantic undertaking, when we think that this Gospel of the kingdom must be preached in all the world as a witness before the end shall come, and what a responsibility rests upon this great Church which God has established. Men and women everywhere must be called to repentance and an opportunity must be given unto them to accept the message of life and salvation which God is sending forth through his messengers into all parts of the world. It almost looks like an impossibility, and so far as human effort is concerned it is impossible. Only by the aid of our Heavenly Father, by such instrumentalities as he may bring about, would such an undertaking be possible. 

We live in an age of great invention and discovery. Means are being revealed by which the word of the Lord may be conveyed unto his children in the remotest parts of the earth. The prophets of old have foreseen conditions as they exist today. The prophet Isaiah said upon one occasion : 

"The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant." 

That is a condition that still prevails in the world to a very large extent. The work of the Lord is to overcome this condition for it is his purpose that sin and iniquity shall be banished from the face of the earth and that it shall be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory which is the destiny of this earth upon which we dwell. How 'can this reformation be effected, or what shall be the method of doing it ? The Lord employs and always has employed at least two separate methods. One of them is based upon fear and the other one is based upon love. The Lord has given commandments many, and disobedience to them brings punishment and penalty. In these matters the element of fear is brought to bear, but he has also made wonderful promises unto those who render obedience to the will of the Lord, not so much out of the sense of fear of the consequences, but with the love of God in their hearts and the desire to be in harmony with him. One we may call the lesser law and the other the higher law. In ancient Israel this lesser law was particularly brought in vogue upon the children of Israel. Great commandments were given and punishments were invoked upon those who were disobedient; the wages of sin were death, and great judgments were poured out upon evil doers. 

The children of Israel, during their four hundred years of bondage in the land of Egypt, became so contaminated in Egyptian idolatry that they were unprepared for the higher law and therefore were given the lesser law "as a school master to bring us to Christ." In both the higher and the lesser law, however, obedience to the commandments is required — the difference lies in the impelling motive. If we obey the commandments because of the fear of the dire consequences — the prescribed penalties and punishments — very well, we shall receive our reward. We shall escape the judgments. But if we live above this lesser law rendering obedience to his commandments in our unbounded love for God and our fellowmen, then we also shall escape the judgments, but what is of far greater importance, we shall also receive eternal life or salvation in his celestial kingdom. 

With every dispensation, however, the Lord has employed both methods, and he has sought to win through love those who were willing to hearken unto his will. The introduction of this Gospel in the day and age in which we live was foreseen by the beloved Apostle John upon the 

Isle of Patmos when he saw the angel flying through the midst of heaven having the everlasting Gospel to proclaim unto every nation, kindred, tongue and people, crying with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is come." In this we find the Lord employing in his mercy the element of fear, saying unto the inhabitants of the earth that the hour of his judgment is at hand. Must we despise the element of fear? Not so, it is a great motive — the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It is a good thing, a wholesome thing, to fear the consequences of doing evil. We must not despise it, and yet there is a higher law, a higher motive — that of love. Both are employed by the Lord in every dispensation of his providence. 

Through obedience to the lesser law, the law of carnal commandments, with all of its punishments and penalties, we escape the judgments; through compliance with the higher law, the law of love, the law of grace, we obtain eternal life. 

"For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast." 

Oh, how idle it would be for any man to think that he can earn so great a reward as eternal life in the presence of God, which means the power of endless increase and a never ending dominion that shall flow unto us forever and forever! The Lord knows full well, and we know it, that no human being is capable of earning such a high reward. A great many men in the secular affairs of life obtain various kinds of incomes. We segregate them, we classify them for the purpose of obtaining our income taxes. We refer to the one as "earned incomes," and the other as "excess incomes." No man can earn a million dollars a year, and so our congress and our legislators take cognizance of the fact of what men may earn, and they deal more liberally with such incomes, but on the other they make greater requirements. 

And so it is. No man can earn eternal life, which is God's greatest gift to man. It is a free gift from God. But to whom does he grant that precious gift? Not to those who merely obey his commandments because they fear the consequences 3 Oh, no, but to those that love him. 

"Blessed is the man [or the woman] that endureth temptation: for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life, [of eternal life] which the Lord hath promised to them that love him." (James 1 :12.) 

And again we read : 

"Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him." (I Cor. 2 :9.) 

In ancient Israel both methods were applied, but the Church in its organized condition was charged with the administration of the lesser law and its enforcement by executing its penalties and punishments. In these latter days this lesser law is relegated to our civil authorities. The Church does not undertake the enforcement of penal law any more than by withdrawing fellowship from malefactors. 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned." 

This is the higher law. Civil authorities enforce the lesser law. Is that not also essential ? Most assuredly yes. Is there anyone who would like to see the civil law done away with? Our whole system of jurisprudence is based upon the law of fear, and penalties are prescribed according to the gravity of the offense. Penitentiaries and prisons are built for their punishment, and the hangman's noose and the electric chair are prescribed for those who are guilty of capital offenses. Such is the need of these things and they are all essential for the welfare of mankind. 

The great work of the Lord is to carry the glad tidings to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and to try to bring into the fold of Christ all who are willing to abide by the laws of God. That is the work of saving human souls. What a great undertaking that is! What a tremendous work! How hopeless it would be from any human point of view! How grateful then we ought to be that we have been made participants in this great work, this great Gospel which has within it the power of God unto our salvation. How grateful we ought to be that we have become members of the Church and kingdom of God, that we have part in that divine power and influence that enables us to go on to perfection. 

The Lord has admonished us, "lie ye therefore perfect, as your Father- in heaven is perfect." Those who have embraced the Gospel should endeavor to so live that they may grow in the knowledge of God and good works and that they may become better men and better women day by day. Do we suppose that we are already prepared for the celestial glory? I hope we are all making progress toward that perfection that God will require when we enter into his celestial kingdom. If we are to become members of that kingdom we shall have to sanctify ourselves from all unrighteousness. Isaiah told us that the world was defiled under its inhabitants. This world must become sanctified under its inhabitants. Will all men receive the Gospel by which they can become sanctified? What is a sanctified person? A holy being, one who has been sanctified from all unrighteousness is a saint. The Lord has permitted 11s to be called saints. Are we that? The Gospel provides the means whereby we may become that. Let us abide that law and endeavor from time to time to sanctify our souls from all unrighteousness, for we may rest assured that the destiny of this earth, is to be sanctified from all unrighteousness, therefore it must be under the inhabitants thereof. But all will not accept of that Gospel. Then what is to become the lot of the remainder who will not become sanctified and be prepared for the celestial glory? They shall be utterly destroyed from the face of the earth, the prophet told us. What will become of them in the great hereafter? I shall not attempt to say. But this earth is to be sanctified and receive its paradisaical glory and become a habitation for sanctified beings, a fit place for God and his Son to dwell among us and where we may enjoy their companionship throughout the ages of eternity. 

Then let us love the Lord with all our heart and may his grace be unto you and me, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity to attend this conference and to partake of the spirit of this and all meetings that have preceded it. I rejoice that I am in the enjoyment of health and strength, and that the Latter-day Saints generally are in good health. I really thought last night that I should not be able to attend conference today. I was taken rather suddenly with all the symptoms of influenza and at two o'clock this morning I was in such a condition that I thought it would be impossible to be here today. But I am happy to say that I was able to overcome that condition entirely and am feeling happy and in sound health. 

APPRECIATION OF LOYALTY AND COOPERATION 

I appreciate the privileges that have been extended to me in this Church. My great desire is to promote every interest of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the best of my ability and particularly those matters that are entrusted to my care. I am sure that is the spirit and the feeling of all that are engaged in this work and have the spirit of it. I am happy to sustain those two able and devoted men who have been appointed and sustained at this conference as General Authorities of the Church, as I sustain all of the General Authorities. In like manner I sustain all of the presiding officers of the stakes, the wards, and the missions, and I appreciate the splendid cooperation that we have from the stake presidencies, ward bishoprics and mission presidents with our office, in all of the temporal affairs of the Church. 

NATION-WIDE BROADCASTS OF CHOIR AND ORGAN 

I would like to call your attention also to the splendid service that is being rendered by the tabernacle choir, by the members of the choir, by the director and by the organists. Do you realize the fact that this choir is not only singing with us in our regular meetings in the tabernacle on Sundays and during General Conferences, but that every Sunday morning all the members of the choir meet and give a nation-wide broadcast that is carried over about sixty radio stations throughput the United States as well as by short wave to other countries; that millions of people are listening every Sunday morning to this broadcast; that it is giving wonderful publicity to this city and state and is making the people of this nation better acquainted with the fact that this Church stands for culture and fine music? These members are not only giving that service on Sunday morning but they are also giving voluntary service in the preparation of these songs; and the director and the organists, of course, in like manner are bending every effort toward preparation of the music for these broadcasts; because it requires largely the preparation and presentation of new music from Sunday to Sunday. These broadcasts have become so popular that now the Columbia Broadcasting System, through whose network these programs are being presented, has requested that the choir produce an hour's program every Sunday instead of a half hour as heretofore. 

CHARACTER EDUCATION IN THE HOME 

There are some things that I would like to discuss briefly this morning as time may permit. I was greatly impressed with the wonderful discourse given by President Grant with regard to the Word of Wisdom. My only regret is that so many of the young people to whom this should be presented were engaged in school work at the time it was presented and did not have the opportunity of hearing it. 

I think that there never was a time when there was so much temptation and so many allurements for the young people in the way of developing habits contrary to the spirit and the teaching of the Word of Wisdom as at the present time. I realize the fact that we cannot get away from these allurements and temptations. Advertisements are being presented in the most insidious way to draw people everywhere, young women as well as young men, to do those things which are contrary to the instructions given in the Word of Wisdom. We cannot escape those things. We cannot shelter our young people from seeing and hearing and reading these advertisements. How then can we help them to overcome and enable them to resist temptation?! They are bound to meet it wherever they go. It seems to me that there are no means so potent as that of character education in the homes of the Latterday Saints, whereby parents teach their children the speciousness of the advertisements presented for increased sales of tobacco and of other things that we know are not for our welfare. It seems to me that it is incumbent primarily on the parents, not particularly to preach to children, but to advise and counsel with them and to inquire of them as to their feelings and of the temptations that will come to them, in a kindly parental way, endeavoring to show to them the mistaken and false stater ments made in such advertisements. 

RESISTANCE TO TEMPTATION 

I am sure that if we as parents generally throughout the Church will give the attention needed to correct any wrong impressions on the part of our children, whether they be young or mature, we should be able to help them to form correct conclusions and establish themselves in ability to resist these temptations that will come to them in life. If we will take the time to sit down with them and reason and discuss with them, not with any too great formality, but in kindness and consideration, I am sure it will be helpful to them in overcoming these things that they are bound to meet with in every walk of life in all their contacts and experiences. 

CHURCH RELIEF WORK FOLLOWING EARTHQUAKE 

I would like to call your attention to two or three items that are of rather great interest to me and I believe they are to you. One of them is with regard to the earthquake that recently occurred in California. I would like to read to you a portion of a letter received from a coun in the Bishopric of Long Beach Ward, which was the center of the earthquake and where the greatest damage was done : 

"Immediately after the first shock, which was the only one which caused any loss of life, except another this morning which, I am advised, caused the death of two elderly people who were caught in an apartment, we, together with the Relief Society, began to make a canvass, and up to noon Saturday had only found two of our people injured and none dead. One brother was cut on his arm and one sister with several broken ribs. However, they are getting along fine. 

"Yesterday we had Radio Station KFOX broadcast messages instructing all of our eighty-four Ward teachers in 42 districts to immediately cover their respective districts; many had done so up to late last night and so far no additional reports of sick or injured other than our ordinary calls from week to week. Relief Society President Julia Hawkins this morning advises all calls to them have been taken care of. 

"The church building seems to be but slightly damaged. Several broken windows, some plaster off in the main auditorium and walls slightly cracked and chipped, but seems to be resting well on foundation and not out of line. We are arranging to have the city engineer make inspection today, and of course cannot advise definitely until after that. 

"Many of the other churches in down-town districts are totally destroyed, and a majority of the others have been moved at least a foot off their foundation and will have to be torn down." 

Here is a letter along the same line from President LeGrand Richards : 

"We are very pleased to advise that none of our people was injured and that no property damage has occurred to either our Church buildings or personal property of our members so far as we have been able to ascertain. 

"The Bishop of Alhambra Ward advises that the two inspectors who were sent to inspect their building reported it to be the best constructed brick building in Alhambra. We were in the Hollywood Stake tabernacle when it rocked back and forth like a drunken man but there were no cracks or other damage resulting therefrom." 

DIVINITY OF CHURCH ORGANIZATION 

One of the remarkable things about these reports is that such an organization obtains in the Church whereby the bishopric of a ward, the members of which were scattered throughout a large population, were able to get their ward teachers and their Relief Society teachers to do work immediately in checking up on the members of the ward to see that none was suffering from physical injuries or from other troubles or difficulties. That to me is a very remarkable testimony of the thoroughness and effectiveness of the Church organization, and the fine results that are obtainable through the whole-hearted voluntary cooperation of all those who carry responsibility in the Church. 

INCREASE IN CHURCH ACTIVITY AND GROWTH 

In addition to the figures given yesterday morning relative to the progress of the Church, I would like to call your attention to some other things. There has been an increase in general activity in the wards and stakes during the past year as compared with, the previous year. There is quite a marked increase in the amount of ward teaching done generally throughout all the various wards of the Church. There has been an increase in the attendance at sacrament meetings as compared with 193 1 . There has been an increase in attendance at the weekly priesthood meetings. These are important items. 

The Lord has declared by revelation the sacrament meetings to be of great importance for the teaching and training of the members of the Church in faith and righteousness. The ward teaching is the most effective and potent means of coming in contact with all the members of the Church month by month, of teaching them to live in peace and harmony, to live the Gospel and to be united as families and to overcome weaknesses and shortcomings. 

We have had letters come to our office recently from a number of places, among them from ministers asking about our ward teaching system. They have understood that we were having very great success. It was a new idea to them and they have requested us to give them information upon which our system is based and how it is being carried out. 

CHURCH AND PRIESTHOOD GROWTH 

Of the total number of converts baptized last year, amounting to 7825, as shown in the report presented by President Grant in the opening session of Conference, there was for the first time, I think, a larger number of converts baptized in the various stakes and wards than in the missions. Baptisms of converts in the stakes and wards amounted to 4009 and in the missions to 3816. Another item of interest, I think, is the number of those who have received the priesthood as compared with the previous year. The total increase in the Melchizedek and Aaronic priesthood throughout the Church was 7433, of which there were 2875 members of the Melchizedek priesthood and 4558 members of the Aaronic priesthood. The total membership in the priesthood, that is, the Melchizedek and Aaronic priesthood, at the end of last year, was 171,474. a tremendous army of picked men to battle for righteousness in the Church and in the world for the presentation of the Gospel message to mankind, and the promotion of faith and good works among the members. 

PRIESTHOOD SIGNIFIES ACTIVITY 

I am sure we realize the fact that with the ordination of these young men — I am speaking particularly of the Aaronic priesthood — it is expected that every one who shall be ordained and every one who has been ordained shall be given specific duties to perform week by week; that they shall not only be appointed to perform duties pertaining to their calling and labors in the priesthood but that these appointments shall be followed up and these young men be brought to realize the fact that the giving of responsibility requires the fulfilment of that responsibility. It is the finest means of preparation and training for future accountability. It trains them to magnify their callings, to be willing to fill their appointments and to carry out those things that are expected of them. 

FULFILMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY 

The statement is made by Owen D. Young, one of the great industrialists of the country, that there is too much lack of leadership " American business men and unwillingness to take leadership. He states the reason is they are not ready to accept and fill the responsibilities that follow and are a part of leadership. I think that one of the vital means we have in the Church to produce the finest development in young men is through effective training of all members of the priesthood to accept responsibility and fulfil it, not only in the Church, but in the field of life and the various occupations and civic responsibilities that may come to them. 

EXPENDITURE OF TITHES 

I think you will realize from the statement made of the expenditure of the tithes that the tithes are used entirely for the various purposes which were enumerated yesterday, and that great care is being given by those who have the responsibility of the same — the First Presidency and those who are associated with them — in expending these means as carefully and efficiently as possible, to the end that they may be most effectively distributed. The tithes that are donated by the members of this Church are serving to advance God's purposes in being used for the widest benefit of the Church members as a whole, and, through missionary work, for the benefit of the world. 

The Church is doing a remarkable work in the preaching of the Gospel. The members of the Church are giving of their time and their means extensively without stint for the promotion of the Gospel message among mankind at large. They are engaged in doing work for those who have passed away, through the vicarious service that is being done in the temples. Altogether there is great evidence of unselfishness on the part of Latter-day Saints in what they are doing in a financial way, as well as through their direct efforts for the promotion of the welfare of mankind at large. 

TITHING AND TITHEPAYERS 

Due to the adverse financial conditions, there has been a decrease of tithes paid last year as compared with 1931. There has also been a decrease in the number of tithepayers. This is not so easy to explain: While it is true that many have been out of employment, it would appear that those who were not working and those who suffered losses during the year, could at least have donated to some extent, no matter how small, to be properly recorded. However, it is remarkable how splendidly the Latter-day Saints have demonstrated their faith and devotion to this and other divine principles. And such faith produces blessings. I would like to read to you briefly a statement made by President Hyrum Jensen of the Norwegian Mission that conforms in general to the statements made heretofore by other mission presidents. In this letter, in telling of the very unfavorable economic conditions in Norway, he states : "I feel that the Saints are trying to do their duty in the matter of tithing, but we are feeling the depression more and more as the days go by. It is reported from the different branches of the mission that no full tithepayers have lost their jobs." It is a rather interesting thing to me that , in the midst of distress which exists in that land he can make such a report regarding those who have been faithful in the performance of their duties in the observance of this important principle. 

EFFICIENCY IN CHURCH BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 

With regard to the manner of building construction in California: We expect henceforth, and it has been evident in the building construction of Church edifices there in the past, to do those things that will promote protection of the buildings against earthquakes. In other words, to design and construct the buildings which shall be erected in the future in those localities so that they will be able to withstand earthquake shocks. As you realize, the great danger comes in earthquake sections from the damage to buildings and the falling of materials which causes injury and sometimes death to people. 

Further, the Church is doing everything possible in the building construction that is being undertaken, to exercise the greatest economy and care in the erection of these buildings, designing them to fit the needs of the people and yet not build extravagantly. The result has been that through the work being done largely by contract rather than day work, as had been done previously, avoiding extravagances in buildings, and through saving in costs of materials and labor, very material savings have been effected both to the members of the various wards concerned and to the Church at large. Altogether we find that within the last two years approximately forty percent has been saved in the costs as compared with previous outlay. The extent of the work done has, of course, been much less than it was previously. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the progress of this work. I know and realize as you do that it is growing, and that there is a power within it that is not to be obtained in any other organization. I pray the Lord to bless and help every one of us to give ourselves wholeheartedly to the advancement of the work of God. I desire to dedicate myself to that end and to work with you and all the members of this Church in unity and faith and righteousness to build up this cause; and I pray the Lord to bless us in our efforts, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 


