Afternoon
09 04 1933

The closing session of the Conference convened promptly at 2 o'clock Sunday afternoon, April 9. Again the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, and thousands of people who could not get into the building gathered in the Assembly Hall and upon the Temple Square where they listened to the services by means of large amplifiers as the proceedings were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

Elder Wilford A. Beesley, President of the Salt Lake Stake, offered the invocation. 

Mrs. Ray M. Russell sang a sacred solo, "Who are these arrayed in white?" 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Since our last Conference one of the most beloved, most energetic and most estimable members of the General Authorities of the Church has passed away, a man whose voice has been heard here many many times and one who has filled several missions in Great Britain. Until shortly before his decease he had been presiding over the California Mission of the Church. During his administration several hundred thousands of dollars were expended in the erection of chapels in that mission, and three stakes were organized in what was the California Mission at the time that Brother Joseph W. McMurrin was made its president. He was one of the great preachers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in these last days, a man with a perfect and abiding testimony of the divinity of the work in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged; a man who won the love and respect not only of members of the Church but of all with whom he came in contact, for his sincerity, his honesty and his fearless defense of the work of the Lord. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

We are reassembled at the time and place appointed, and if we have come, as I feel that we have, with the spirit of righteous desire and faith in our hearts, we should receive a continuation of the blessings that have been so marked in the earlier sessions of this conference. 

TIMELINESS 

Time and timeliness are very important in the affairs of men, and no less in the ever unfolding purposes of the Lord our God. He does things in his own due time, and that is always the right time. In the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of this nation, of which we have heard much, he chose the time, after due preparation had been made. I believe that had an attempt been made by men to establish a democracy, such as this, a hundred or fifty or twenty years earlier, it would have been a failure. 

There is a time for seeding and there is a time for harvest. Many of us become impatient and desire to reap the harvests of the fields and the orchards even before the harvests of the snows have been garnered in the storage recesses of these everlasting hills. 

There was a time for the establishment of this Church. It was the Lord's time. Great and numerous events had been leading up to it, and at the appointed time it was established, never again to be thrown down. 

EXAMPLES OF TIMELINESS 

There is a marked timeliness in the advice and counsel and instructions given to the Latter-day Saints from period to period. Many could not understand, or would not understand why, but a few years ago, during the epoch of recognized prosperity, the usual advice and counsel to the people in regard to things temporal was emphasized, perhaps more than ever before. People were told to get out of debt, and to keep out of debt, and not to go into expanding schemes whereby their means would be tied up. They were told of the very conditions that are now upon us. It is true that through all the decades past since the people came to these mountains, advice of this kind had been given; but it was intensified in recent years, and those who had ears to hear listened and acted upon the counsel given. To others it was mere repetition, and they permitted it to pass. 

There was a time when our Elders were preaching among the nations of the earth the doctrine of the gathering, and urging upon the people, the members of the Church in those other countries, to make arrangements to come to Zion as soon as they could. That was when immigration into this country was unrestricted, and the Perpetual Emigration Fund was maintained for the assistance of worthy saints who were otherwise prepared to come to this land. They were told at that time — I heard the Elders of the Church declare it when I was a boy in my native land — that the day would come when it would not be possible for people to come to Zion, and they should take advantage of the opportunities that they then possessed. And so it is with many other developments. 

COUNSEL IN SEASON 

Now, at this conference there has been much emphasis laid upon the necessity of attention to personal health and the conditions that tend to conserve and insure health of body and mind. I can imagine that some who are deaf to the finer sounds of the Gospel, as declared by the Lord's representatives, may well say: "We have heard that before. We have heard too many sermons about the Word of Wisdom." There is significant meaning in the emphasis that has been given to this subject 109  the current conference, and those of you who are receptive — and I trust most of you are — must know that there is a deep significance in the emphasis being laid upon that topic just now. 

Have you not read of the pestilences, including perhaps strange diseases, that are to sweep the earth? They are among the judgments that were foretold for these days. We had a taste of such back in 1918-19, when the great influenza carried, according to the established records, over sixteen millions of people to their graves. Now, all other things being equal, it is the healthy and the strong who are more likely to survive under the assault of disease. 

Latter-day Saints, look to your bodies, look to your health, as you have been again and again advised to do; and if disease and pestilence come let it not take you because of your blamable condition of ill health. 

We have heard of these ills — calamities we call them though they may be blessings to the race in disguise — that are characteristic of these days. They have been predicted, and some people are apt to place responsibility if not blame for all these upon the Lord, and to envision him as a God of vengeance. He is a God of love, and it is necessary that some of these experiences shall come upon mankind, that they may be better prepared for what the Lord' has in store for them by way of blessing. 

FOREKNOWLEDGE NOT A DETERMINING CAUSE 

It is not fair to blame the Lord, even in thought, because he gives us warning of what is to come. It is most irrational and illogical so to do. He, with his omniscience, knows what is to come to individuals and nations, and he gives warnings. Many of us take that warning to be an expression of divine determination to punish and to afflict. Well, others besides the Lord are subjects of ill-directed blame sometimes. I have suffered from it. On one occasion I undertook to warn a merry party of intending picnickers not to set out on their jaunt, because a storm was coming, a violent storm. I had consulted the instruments that told of its coming. But they knew better and they went, and they came back in some fashion. I wish you could have seen them. But the tragical part of it was they blamed it all on me. 

Shall it be that because the storm is predicted we should believe that the foreknowledge so used is a determining cause? You know better. Let us be thankful for the warnings that the Lord has given and is giving, and prepare ourselves against the tempest. 

Oh, Latter-day Saints, we have to bear the conditions that have been foretold, and that are now being realized. Let us do it with faith and resignation, never faltering, knowing that the Lord will bring out all things well, for his word shall not fail, nor shall his purposes be turned aside. 

I am happy to be in harmony with the spirit of this conference, to find myself receptive to the advice that has been given. 

May the Lord's peace and support be with us now, henceforth and forever, I humbly pray, in his name. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am delighted with the privilege of adding my testimony to those which have already been given during this conference, although I should very gladly have surrendered my portion of the time to those who are perhaps more able to instruct you. 

As you know, I represent the Mexican Mission, and as such I bring you greetings from perhaps the largest branch of the house of Lehi, We had a pageant the other night, celebrating the dawn of the day of the sons of Lehi. We are laboring among those very people, and we bring you their greetings. 

The Mexican Mission feels to congratulate itself especially at this time, in that it has two new representatives, we might say, among the presiding authorities of the Church. We feel extremely fortunate in the selection of these two brethren to fill the vacancies that they now occupy, because we know that both of them are friendly to our people and to our mission. We pray that God will bless them, that they may measure up fully and completely to the responsibility that rests upon them. We bear them up, and will support them wholeheartedly and without reserve. 

The Mexican Mission is making some progress. We are not able, however, to report the same advancement that some of the other missions are able to do. Our numbers are few. We have not available the same excellent quality and quantity of part-time missionary service as the other missions are enjoying^ It seems to me that it is through this effort that they are making their best contacts at this time, and we miss that force very, very much. 

We have in our mission some of the best young men and youngwomen in the Church. We wish to assure the fathers and mothers of all of them that they are now well, happy, and working hard; and if there are any others who have sons and daughters that they would like to get a wonderful experience, send them to us. We would like to have them now. It is the work of the Lord. There is no greater work in the world, and your sons and your daughters are interested in its advancement. 

I don't feel that I should stand here and talk a long while this afternoon, but I just want to add my testimony to those that have already been given, to say that we support and uphold the authorities of this Church. We are especially interested in the campaign that seems to have been initiated for the Word of Wisdom, the slogan, if we may call it such, of this conference. 

I can bear the same testimony that has been borne here already two or three times, that the observance of the Word of Wisdom is no detriment in the world. I have spent ten years of my life laboring with people who are not of our faith, almost all of whom are non-observers of the Word of Wisdom, but I found, without exception, that they expected me to observe the Word of Wisdom. They almost demanded it of me, and I was mighty glad to think that it was a habit with me. 111 

I pray that the Lord will bless us; that he will make our shoulders equal to the burdens that we have to bear; that we may carry on this work in honor and in dignity before him; that eventually, in his own proper time, it may fulfil the purpose for which it was established in the earth. With these few words I give way, praying God's blessings upon us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Brethren and sisters : No doubt you have come to this 103rd annual Conference of the Church to hear the word of the Lord as it shall fall from the lips of his servants who shall address you. So far as I am concerned I assure you that I have but a single desire and that is to speak only as my brethren and the Lord shall approve. And so I have earnestly prayed that the Lord will direct me in what I shall say. 

SUCCESS THROUGH DIVINE LEADERSHIP 

This is the Lord's work — not man's. It will prosper only if he leads it. It cannot prosper if directed by the uninspired wisdom of men. This is a fact that we should keep clearly in mind. For it applies not only to the work of the Church in general and as a whole, but also to any part of the work and to individual efforts in the Church. I am, of course, only stating a fact that is well known in the Church, the recognition of which is the beginning of wisdom of the person who would serve acceptably in teaching the word of the Lord. 

AN ANALOGOUS SITUATION 

The current economic conditions still form a major topic of discussion. Many members of the Church look to its leadership to show them "a way out." Is not the situation somewhat analogous to that which prevailed when Jesus lived among the Jews in Palestine? The Jews were looking for a Messiah. But they wanted a savior who should lead them out of political bondage and establish them as an independent nation strong enough to cope successfully in a test of arms with any other nation. Even some of the followers of Jesus hoped and expected that he would develop into such a leader. They were disappointed that he did not do> so and therefore saw their fond hopes blasted when he was lifted upon the cross. 'They failed to see in him the promised Messiah. 

So in this day I am very sure that the Lord through his servants, the Presidency of the Church, has already very clearly pointed a way out from our present difficulties. But it appears that even many members of the Church, and certainly the peoples of the world generally, have f ailed to see the Lord's plan of economic recovery as given in the inspired words of the First Presidency of this Church. In this day we are so accustomed to striking headlines in the announcement of even many unimportant things that we are wholly unprepared to see a way out of GENERAL CONFERENCE  universal gloom that is not announced with the blowing of trumpets or some other equivocal method. 

THROUGH HIS SERVANTS THE PROPHETS 

Yet the Lord has spoken on the subject of the depression through his servants the prophets. I solemnly testify to you that this is the truth. Do you ask when and where ? I readily answer that he spoke through the First Presidency of this Church in their Annual Greetings published in the Christmas edition of the Deseret News December 19th, 1931, and December 17th, 1932. The texts of these two greetings are somewhat similar and might be stated as follows : 

"Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." 

After briefly describing the prevailing conditions the Greetings of last December contain the following words: 

"Looking forward with the gift of prophecy the Prophet Isaiah, more than 2500 years ago said : 'It shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with the master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the giver of usury, so with the taker of usury from him. , " 

And the Greetings go on to say : 

"No one will deny that Isaiah foresaw existing conditions. He tells us in simple language the causes which have led up to this condition, in the following words : 'They have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.' " 

THE REMEDY 

The Greetings then continue: 

"The remedy which will bring relief from the present confused condition" — now listen Latter-day Saints and ye peoples of all the world — "the remedy which will bring relief from the present confused condition is clearly set forth in the words of God our Father, spoken through the Prophet Malachi as follows : 'Return unto me and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts. Bring all the) tithes into the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there will not be room enough to receive it.' " 

And the Greetings of the First Presidency continue: 

"These are not our words, but the words of God our Father, spoken through his chosen prophets." 

HOPE FOR THE FUTURE 

And there are other similar words of God our Father spoken through his chosen prophets, the First Presidency of this Church. They are found in the Christmas Greetings published in December, 1931, and are in part as follows: 

"Notwithstanding the confusion which at present prevails in this world of ours, we have much to be thankful for, and can look confidently forward to a brighter and a happier day." 

These certainly are cheering words. And the beauty in them lies 113  the fact that they are divinely inspired and therefore absolutely true. Hence they are full of hope and comfort. 

FULFILMENT OF REQUIREMENTS NECESSARY 

But in this orderly world of ours nothing takes place without a cause. This is a truth taught by science and is familiar to all students of science. It is a truth that has also been taught to the Latter-day Saints since the early days of the Church. We find it recorded in Section 130 of the Doctrine and Covenants and expressed in the language of the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows : 

"There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

Our God never promises any blessing either in his holy scriptures or through the mouths of his divinely inspired servants except conditionally; that is, to obtain the blessings the necessary requirements must be satisfied. And so we would expect a relief from the present deplorable conditions to be based upon the fulfilment of certain requirements. What then are the requirements that enable us to "look confidently forward to a brighter and happier day ?" Listen, Oh Israel, listen "all ye that are heavy laden." Thus saith the Lord through his servants, the First Presidency : 

"If the people of the world will turn unto God, and acknowledge His Son our Redeemer; if each citizen of our country will put away selfishness, strife and bitterness, * * * the clouds of adversity will roll away, the sun of prosperity will shine again, and peace and plenty will prevail from the rivers to the ends of the earth." 

THE LORD'S PLAN 

Here then we have stated in plain language how we may get out of this world-wide depression. The plan is simple: it is the Lord's plan. Many other plans have been proposed, some of them widely discussed. But none of them will completely succeed. Of this we may be certain for they are the plans of men and not of God, since they do not contain all the elements of God's plan. 

Now while God's plan is simple it may not be easy to execute. It is based upon the two great commandments — Love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength, and thy neighbor as thyself. To keep these commandments we must live the Golden Rule, never an easy thing to do. 

A CALL TO REPENTANCE 

Latter-day Saints, you have come, up to this conference to hear the word of the Lord. I have read it to you as the Lord has given it through his servants, the prophets. And now the question is, Are we ready to accept it ? To do so we must repent. And so the call of the Lord to his people is a call to repentance. To repent of what? Of our "selfishness, strife and bitterness." It is a call not only to me and to you but all the people who inhabit the earth. Peace and prosperity will not return unless we do repent. Let us not forget this fact. Men may plan and scheme GENERAL CONFERENCE  legislate but peace and plenty will never again smile upon all the inhabitants of this goodly land until we keep the commandments of Jesus Christ, the God of this land. Believing this with all my heart I cry repentance wherever I go among the people. It is the theme of all my talks in the congregations of the Saints. 

LAW GOVERNS THE UNIVERSE 

Does the Lord, our Father in Heaven, delight in the suffering and misery of his children, conditions everywhere prevalent in these distressing times? Does any right-minded, kind-hearted earthly parent delight in the punishment of his child? Most certainly not. But our Heavenly Father is not only loving, kind and merciful. He is also just. He is the Creator of the world, of the universe, and of all things that in them are. But this world is an orderly world. Law governs all the phenomena of nature and of every existent thing. If we violate any of these laws, the laws of health for example, we may expect to suffer the consequences. The justice of God requires that we do so. We have a depression and are suffering the consequences because we have violated the laws of right social living. And these are God's laws. God has not become cruel and inflicted us with the bitter troubles from which we are suffering. We have made our own troubles. Let us recognize this truth, turn about and repent. Then the Lord will be delighted with us and we shall come to a happier and a brighter day. But repentance is the condition. 

We must turn "away from our selfishness, strife and bitterness." Why have we not paid our tithes and our fast offerings, as the Lord has commanded us? Is it not because of our selfishness? Can we really believe in the divinity of this work and then withhold our tithes from the store house of the Lord?! Can we expect to enjoy the favors of the Lord if we fail in fulfilling the conditions upon which his favors are based? If we do have such expectations we shall be disappointed, for our God is a law observer, a just God. 

THE SIN OF SELFISHNESS 

Of all our sins the sin of selfishness is one of the most common and one of the greatest. It saturates our entire life — social, business, political, even religious. One of the reasons why most man-made plans of economic recovery would fail miserably, even if attempted, is because they are characterized by selfishness — inordinate selfishness in many cases. Now, no plan, no matter by whom proposed, will succeed if it has this characteristic. God has so spoken. His word will not fail. 

AN OUTSTANDING EXAMPLE 

One of the most outstanding examples of inordinate current day selfishness is the propaganda for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. During recent years millions of dollars have been spent furthering this propaganda. The arch-enemy of this amendment is the Association Against the 18th Amendment, an organization small in numbers, but powerful in influence because of the 115  sums of money it can command. More than fifty millionaires are reported to have membership in it. Many millions of dollars have been spent in its work. Why? Because if beer and other alcoholic beverages can be taxed and large revenues secured from this source, the rich will pay smaller income and corporation taxes. One rich man said the taxes on liquor would save one of his companies alone ten million dollars a year in corporation taxes. And his family have several large corporations. "Yes, let us have beer and repeal the 18th Amendment," cry the rich propagandists. "Why? Because this will shift huge taxes from our shoulders" to the backs of the working people of America, a fact that workers apparently have not yet recognized. 

Yes, I repeat, brazen selfishness is the chief motive back of most repeal propaganda. Against all such I lift my voice. I stand for the 18th Amendment and against its repeal. Would that every member of the Church and every citizen stood with me. Does any one think the Lord will be pleased with us if by any act of ours we allow evil to come nearer to our doors ? 

In closing I again call to repentance and proclaim aloud, "that the coming of a brighter and a happier day" is dependent upon our living the Golden Rule and acknowledging Jesus Christ as our Savior. 

The Lord help us so to do I pray in the name of our Redeemer, Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

Sometime about the middle of March I took note that the governor of this state issued a proclamation to the citizens thereof, appointing a day, the 12th of March, if I remember right, on which the churches of the state were asked to hold special services of a rather patriotic nature, giving voice and prayer to convictions and ideas that would be uplifting, to establish confidence in our nation, and to entreat the favor of God towards it. I think there was quite a general response to that proclamation, as indeed there ought to be to such proclamations, whether by the presidents of our country or the governors of our state, in such matters as thanksgiving days, and if necessary, days of fasting and of seeking any special favors of God. 

It is peculiarly fitting that a people who profess, as an article of their faith: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates; in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law" — to such a people it is highly fitting that heed be given to the announcement made for reverence in our feelings and faith toward God. I visited some stakes in the Church, however, where circumstances, which I suppose were beyond control, did not admit of giving heed to this proclamation of our governor, a man in every way worthy of our confidence, and worthy of our confidence in his sincerity and his faith when making such a proclamation as the one I refer to — and I speak somewhat understanding^, because I have known him from his boyhood, arid know the value and virtue of his life. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I am wondering if just a word might not be spoken here, at this General Conference, that would be fitting and proper, to recall his proclamation and the purpose of it, even though we may have to do so hurriedly. I think, perhaps, that would be as good a contribution as I could make to this conference session. Especially do I believe that because I think that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints occupies a. certain "pride of place" in connection with a knowledge of the terms upon which the prosperity and the redemption of this nation rest. 

I remember to have read in the Book of Mormon certain passages that bear upon this thought. We are told in that precious volume of scripture that when the floods receded from this land it became a very choice land unto the Lord, a land that, through this word of the Lord from the Nephite race, receives its most precious descriptive name. At any rate, this was the decree : "After the waters had receded from off the face of this land, it became a choice land above all other lands, a chosen land of the Lord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men should serve him who dwell upon the face thereof." 

This is recorded in the Book of Ether, which Moroni translated and added to the compilation made by his father. And further it is said — and this information was first imparted unto the Nephites — as I remember it, Brother Ivins quoted part of it — that all those who should come to this land should be brought of the Lord; that it was a choice land in which should be assembled those whom God would lead, by the inspiration of his Spirit, unto this land. This truth was especially made known unto the Jaredites, and stands as follows — that if they kept not the commandments of God they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them : 

"And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon themi. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. * * * 

"Wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. * * * 

"And this cometh" — 

And this, by the way, is the comment of Moroni upon this fact which had been brought vividly before him from the Jaredite record. Now, he makes a very wonderful contribution in this comment: 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done." 

Now, of course, Moroni, in making this comment, had before him the vivid recollection of the destruction of the Jaredites to the last man, and he had before him also the destruction of the Nephites, with the exception of a few who had fled to the land southward. Hence these lessons, so vividly before him, warranted him in sounding this note of warning unto the great Gentile nation that was to occupy this choice land in the last days, the land choice above all other lands. 

"That ye may repent," he continues, "and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done. 

"Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written." 

Then again, there are two great prophecies in the Book of Mormon, and I think after the witness which the Book of Mormon bears to the divinity of the Christ, affirming that he is the Son of God, and after affirming that he is the Savior of the world, and after bearing witness to the truth of the Gospel — then I think that this new American witness for God has its next important item in the fact that it lays down these prophecies concerning the great Gentile nation that should rise and which would scatter the children of Israel upon the face of the land, and yet, afterwards, be touched by the spirit of pity and concern which would lead them to seek the preservation of the inhabitants of the land; that the seed of Joseph, so wonderfully gathered here and developed into a multitude of nations, should not be utterly destroyed, but should be preserved, and that, too, by this great nation that should be such an instrument in scattering them in the earth. The promises of the Lord in respect to these things are very wonderful and make the Book of Mormon one of the most valuable books that has ever been preserved, even as holy scripture. 

This is said in regard to the above nation, which constitutes the first prophecy, namely : 

"Thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is choice above all other lands, * * * thou seest that the Lord will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed, which are among thy brethren." 

So there was this prediction. Now, of course, perhaps the world will not admit that this was a prophecy uttered some six hundred years before the coming of the Christ upon this land; but it must be inevitably conceded that these words are prophetic, because they were uttered in 1830, when the Book of Mormon was published. At that time, of course, the Gentile nation here under the government of the United States numbered but about thirty millions; and now, behold, the great Gentile nation has become so increased in numbers and in power that there are perhaps nearly a hundred and thirty millions that constitute the citizens of the United States. 

As for its power and dominion above all other nations of the earth, it has become somewhat customary to speak of America, but we generally mean the United States of America. Some of the Latin American republics take exception to this assumption of supreme domination in the western world, and demur from such homage being given to the United States. But nevertheless it is a fact which exists, and the dominating political power, the master spirit and dominant power in a political way, is this Anglo-Saxon republic known as the United States of America. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

That nation alone was competent to state the great Monroe Doctrine, to the effect that these continents were closed to the establishment of the political systems of Europe, and they could not attempt to introduce such systems as theirs in this country, without giving offense to the United States of America; and behind the utterance was the necessary force to maintain such a declaration; it was inherent in the great Anglo-Saxon republic of this country. 

The above is one prediction of the rise of a great nation that should be the greatest nation upon the face of this choice land. But that is only part of the prophecy. During the time that Jesus Christ visited this promised land he gave an utterance in regard to this matter that is extremely important. I want to read to you his words, the choicest words that can be spoken in relation to the land, and which join in the music from the inspiration of God, under which these, my brethren, have been speaking to you, in relation to the deliverance from distressing problems and disastrous circumstances into which we have been plunged. The Christ makes this declaration — the resurrected Christ, while ministering among the Nephites : 

"And thus comtnandeth the Father that I should say unto you : At that day when the Gentiles shall sin against my gospel, and shall be lifted up in the pride of their hearts above all nations, and above all the people of the whole earth, and shall be filled"— 

and I ask you to note especially this list of American sins — 

" — shall be filled with all manner of lyings, and of deceits, and of mischiefs, and all manner of hypocrisy, and murders, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, and of secret abominations; and if they shall do all those things, and shall reject the fulness of my gospel, behold, saith the Father, I will bring the fulness of my gospel from among them." 

I think possibly it could be held as true that they did that when the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were expatriated from Illinois and finally from the United States itself, and had to come to this high mountain valley, then the territory of the republic of Mexico. But mark this : 

"And then I will remember my covenant which I have made unto my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring my gospel unto them : 

"And I will show unto thee, O house of Israel, that the Gentiles shall not have power over you; but I will remember my covenant unto you O, house of Israel, and ye shall come unto the knowledge of the fulness of my gospel." 

"But IF" — I wish to emphasize this — "But IF the Gentiles will repent and return unto me, saith the Father, behold they shall be numbered among my people, O house of Israel. 

"And I will not suffer my people, who are of the house of Israel, to go through among them, and tread them down, saith the Father. 

"But IF they will not turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of Israel, that they shall go through among them, and shall tread them down, and they shall be as salt that hath lost its savor." 

There is not time for me to dwell more at large upon these things, but I think I have before you now the word of the Lord sufficiently to cooperate with the declaration that has been made here, that though the great Gentile nation shall commit that long list of very serious and grievous sins, still if they will repent they shall have lot and part with the people of the Lord in building up Zion and accomplishing the purposes of the Lord. That is the great truth that I wish to emphasize in my remarks, and that we may have hope, under these teachings of the Son of God, for the great Gentile nation upon this land. 

I believe that it is our duty and responsibility to sound this note of warning, and point out the way of escape : that if the nation that inhabits this land will hold its place by adhering to the things of God, and by doing his will and honoring the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, the nation can be preserved. The scriptures definitely say so. 

Now, I ask myself of late: How far is the great Gentile nation honoring the God of the land ? Well, there is much in their favor in that respect. I look down the line of that splendid list of men who have been the presidents of the United States, and the most of them may have claim upon faith in Christ, faith in the Christian religion. They may not have been devoted as partisans to this church or to that church, but they have had broad-minded views and have felt the necessity of honoring the God of this land in their faith and in their actions. 

While listening to the inauguration-day proceedings of our present President of the United States, I felt a thrill of happiness go through me when I found him, on his way to pick up President Hoover to go to the inaugural ceremonies, stopping to visit his church, to approach its altar and remember God in prayer. 

I was happy when I heard the proceedings in the House of Representatives, and found that a prayer — and I believe an earnest, Christian prayer — was offered up in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. And I was still happier when I heard the President, in his inaugural address, admonish the people to have faith in God and to trust in him, and pray that the people might be guided by the inspiration of the Lord; and especially when he said, near the close of his remarks, that he prayed that "God would guide him in the days to come." 

Now, all these circumstances are hopeful. There is still faith in this great people that God has raised up upon this land to direct in the civil affairs of men. I think sometimes when I read those great words in the Declaration of Independence, that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, that truly and really the law of the Lord is going forth from Zion as the word of the Lord — even the word of him that is the Word that was in the beginning with God, and that was God, and that was made flesh and dwelt among men, where men could behold his grace and his power, the Lord Jesus Christ — went forth from Jerusalem. 

My brethren and sisters, I think we have reason to hope for our nation. I believe the testimony of President Ivins to be true, that we have a God-established government here, and also under its protecting aegis we have the Church of Jesus Christ established in the fulness of time, for the last time, to bring to pass the purposes of God in the salvation of men. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I see a beautiful unity in these things found in the Book of Mormon and the testimonies to which we have listened during this conference. I think we have the right to lift up the drooping hand, and to speak the word of encouragement to' the people of the United States, and chiefly for this reason, that neither the government of the United States, in its achievements and in its character of great leadership, nor the Church, has yet reached the climax of those things for which they were established. So my faith is that we have a right to expect recovery and renewal of faith with God, and fellowship with him; for we still bow the knee and still proclaim that Jesus is the Christ, the God of this land and of all the earth. And as long as that is our national attitude, I believe that the light of hope is not obliterated. 

I pray God to bless the nation, to bless the Church, and all that pertains to it, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HE.BER J. GRANT 

I feel that we owe a very deep debt of gratitude to Evan Stephens, George Careless, Joseph J. Daynes, Ebenezer Beesley and others who have written beautiful music for us. I am free to confess that when I go out into the country districts and hear sung certain anthems, I wonder why the people do not show preference for the home-made article. I think that Evan Stephens and these other men were inspired of the Lord to write music for us. I do not want to reflect on any of the magnificent things that have been written by others, but I have gone to many a conference where I have listened to anthems when I would rather have heard a good Latter-day Saint hymn sung. 

An anthem, "Grant us Peace," was sung by the Choir. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

My brethren and sisters : As I have sat On the stand here and looked into your faces, the past day or two, I have been built up in spirit and in truth. I realize the fineness and the honesty of the brethren who hold the priesthood of God. 

This is a time of much trial and sorrow. The greatest need today is that human hearts shall find comfort, and I believe you have found comfort in coming up to this holy tabernacle of God, where one hears the word of God. Men need encouragement; they need divine light and understanding. They need to see those "divine truths that come of the Eternal Father in the name of Christ," as a prophet of old once said. And this American prophet further said : 

"If ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." 

Do we believe and understand these divine words? Jesus once said : "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." Do we 121 ? Are we opening our hearts to the truth that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good? Are we learning obedience by the things we suffer? If so, you and I are bending to the will of God, and coming through the strife unto greater faith and unto peace. 

This is a day of sore trial for all the inhabitants of the earth. Nations are tottering and governments are in danger of being overthrown. Hardly a day passes but what we hear of some terrible catastrophe or some awful tribulation that has come to the children of men. "Darkness covers the earth, and gross darkness the people." We are being disciplined; and when we come to know the wisdom of this, we will look upon the whole of life as a means of sanctification. 

One time when Israel was sore tried, her homes destroyed, her children starved, her people driven into the wilderness, one of her prophets wrote : 

"Comfort ye, comfort ye, my people, saith your God. * * * "Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. * * * He shall feed his flock like a shepherd : he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young. * * * 

"But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint;" 

I sincerely believe that these days are bringing us closer and closer to God. We have prayed in our hearts; and we have come up to this conference with joy. Therefore, may we abide in the thought and the words of the psalmist of ancient Israel: "Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle ? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill ?" And the answer was : "He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart." 

My brethren and sisters, we need not fear; we need not be afraid to live, and to look up with ever increasing faith. 

"Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. * * * He shall feed his flock like a shepherd; he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young. * * * But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount with wings as eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint. 

"And so what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly; and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." 

May we become the pure in heart and see God, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I hold in my hand a book entitled, "In Search of Truth," written by the only absentee of the General Authorities of the Church, Elder John A. Widtsoe, of the Council of the Twelve. I had marked enough passages in the book to occupy fully twenty minutes of your time were I to read them, but there are not twenty minutes left unless we eliminate Brother Ballard entirely, and I am willing to divide evenly with him. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I am going to read the last chapter of this book. I think I can do it readily in ten minutes : 

THE WAY TO TRUTH 

The way to truth? O yes, there is such a royal road, and any man may find and follow it. True, it leads straight for the goal and therefore is not attractive to those who like to meander and loiter among pretty fields of pseudo-truth. But those who have trodden the royal way, and their names are legion, bear witness to the surpassing joy of the journey. 

Desire. 

The way to truth may be found by anyone who desires it. But, he must desire it with all his might, mind and strength. A Sunday wish will not suffice. The desire must suffuse and penetrate every waking moment. One's whole being must reach out for truth, a fragment of which must become more precious than the whole scintillating world of untruth. Life itself must seem a small price to pay for the possession of truth. 

Such a desire leads one inevitably to the gateway of truth. The great onesof all ages, prophets, poets, philosophers, and scientists, who have moved the world forward, have been vibrating lovers of truth. They have not found this gem of gems accidentally, but it has been revealed to them as the result of their earnest struggle. They set out with the power of desire in their souls, and victory was assured. To such, truth cannot be denied. It comes to them with a "great wakening light,' 1 ' as servant and friend. Modern science has revealed that wherever the searcher goes truth is found. The prophet Alma has formulated the thought, "He granteth unto men according to their desire." 

Many a mighty but stubborn soul has haunted the moorlands of life because it refused to yield itself to the desire for truth rather than to its own wilfulness. Many a simple but fervent soul, asking for truth above all else, has won the kinship of happy understanding among the restless multitude. Love of truth cannot thrive with an undisciplined will. Therefore the will for truth leads man farther than the possession of powerful physical or intellectual strength. There is no real desire for truth unless the individual is ready to lay by, if needs be, his former conceptions, in favor of the greater truth that he has found. The unbeliever usually comforts himself with the assurance that his analytical powers will lead him to truth, and forgets that the first requisite is a consuming desire to know things as they really are. 

Prayer. 

Truth is unlimited : that is the clarion cry of science and of religion. The search for truth is a process of discovering the unknown, of throwing light into dark places. The searcher interprets the language of life and reads the will of God. And he is able to do so because he is in tune or communion with the truth he seeks. He must believe that it is there; he must seek, as it were, to touch it and to be led by it. Such attempts to be in harmony with truth is prayer. 

Men who search out truth are prayerful. They stand with uncovered heads before the unknown. They know their own insignificance before the eternal fount of knowledge. Certainly, there are some truth-seekers, usually busy in material fields, who do not speak to the Lord directly, but they also stand reverently before the power in all things, which is their conception of God. Prayer, as commonly understood, or its equivalent, is a requisite for those who are to travel the way to truth. _ Manly men who really love truth, are proud to pray to God for help and guidance. They get down on their knees. Prayer and desire go hand in hand. Desire says, Let us go, and prayer answers, Here is the way. Desire is the determination to build the house; prayer is the planning and making ready for it. Desire is the gasoline in the engine, prayer the ignition that permits work to be done. On the way to truth, prayer must be as a constant jubilant cry of the traveler. 123 

To win knowledge of the unseen, to obtain a testimony of truth, one must pray without ceasing. It must be the first and last act of the day. Then we shall be in tune and harmony with the forces about us, and truth will wait upon us and we shall recognize it. The need of prayer grows with the increase of truth. 

Study. 

The third step towards the way to truth is to bend actively every power to the elucidation of truth. The scientist with strong desire for the discovery of truth, and a prayer in his heart that he may be attuned to it, and thereby be able to recognize it, sets out to learn all that is known about the subject, and then he experiments, records and analyzes, until at last the new discovery comes into view. It is often strenuous labor. Amundsen who saw both Poles and traveled the northwest passage, had a burning desire for exploration, and placed himself in full harmony with the spirit of discovery; then he informed himself as few men have done about the history of exploration, ocean currents, magnetic disturbance, meteorology, navigation, shipbuilding, and numerous other things required in his coming labors. It was upon such a preparation that he built his immortal career. Such earnest study is required of all who achieve truth. 

The field of religion offers no exception. To understand religious truth it must be studied. The Gospel of Jesus Christ comprehends all other knowledge. It is the philosophy that explains the whole of man's relationship to the universe. It invites the deepest study and the severest scrutiny. In religion as in science the more a subject is studied, the more perfect is our knowledge of it. Our certainty of the truth of a subject does not necessarily depend upon our extent of knowledge, but comprehensiveness of understanding unquestionably increases as knowledge grows. 

Failure to become acquainted with a subject through careful study has led to many a disaster, especially in the spiritual field. Men who have spent years of study to perfect themselves in a science, and only weeks in the systematic consideration of religion, often set themselves up with splendid indifference to consistency as equally competent in both fields. Religion demands studious attention if it is to be understood. It is well to ask the blatant unbeliever something about the serious study he has given the subject. 

It scarcely needs to be said that each person must find the way to truth for himself. Another man cannot desire for us or pray in our stead, or study in our place. That can be done neither in science nor religion. The help received from another is proportional to our own effort. 

The recognition of this principle is found in the restored church of Christ, in which the priesthood is held by all worthy men, and all members participate in church activities. In the progress towards truth every traveler must walk upon his own feet. Study of the principles of truth is therefore required of all. 

Practice. 

Truth is not fully established until it is put to the test of practice; that is, truth must be obeyed to be fully known. This is an elementary principle of scientific thought, but for some inexplicable reason, in the field of religion it has seemed less important. 

Yet, use gives life to knowledge; it converts theory into certainty; it is the convincing seal of testimony. Practice or obedience is the final step towards the way to truth. 

This is the most difficult requirement made of the truth-seeker. After he has become intellectually convinced of the truth of a principle, he must practice it to establish its final certainty. A smoker who becomes convinced of the divine truth of the Word of Wisdom must forego the use of tobacco; or if convinced of the correctness of the principle of tithing, he must divide with the Lord; that means a battle with carnal desires. But a fulness of knowledge concerning the principles of truth comes only from obedience to them. 

The strength of desire and the sincerity of prayer for truth are here given the GENERAL CONFERENCE  test. Learning the law may be a pleasant pastime, but obedience to law requires yielding of the will, which demands the assistance of flaming desire and intense prayer. When the man of knowledge stops short of practice, his desire for truth is weak. Many of the critics and fault-finders of systems of truth are in just such a condition. They know or fear that a principle is true, but have not the courage to try it out. Thousands of thinking people know that "Mormonism" is true, but they dare not practice its tenets and yield obedience to its requirements. Such people have no right to set themselves up as guides to others; they would better devote themselves to the subjection of their wills to the call of truth. And, by a curious token, study and. practice nourish desire and give direction to prayer, and thus strengthen the will. 

A Testimony. 

The way to truth ? Yes, it may be found easily, but only by paying the eternal price of truth. The way is through the higher logic, the convincing teaching of the spirit of truth by the operations of the mind and the eager outreaching of the spirit of God. 

Whoever would find truth must : 

(1) Desire truth, 

(2) Pray for it, 

(3) Study, and 

(4) Practice it. 

Those who do so will find truth, for it cannot be denied them. They will receive the glorious and priceless possession called a testimony or complete assurance of truth, which becomes the great gift of God to its possessor. 

Is truth worth the effort necessary to secure it? 

Truth is the only enduring possession of man; the only power that lifts man into permanent joy. It is the final justification of life. Human days are valueless if truth is not worth every sacrifice of life. Those who have lived most have lived by truth. So speaks the voice of human experience. 

I have read from the book, "In Search of Truth," because I desire that Elder John A. Widtsoe, the only absentee of the General Authorities of the Church and the President of the European Mission, be represented in our Conference Pamphlet. 

God bless you all, Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to read two short extracts from a revelation of the Lord, given one hundred years ago to the Church. The first is from the eighty-sixth section : 

"Therefore, thus saith the Lord unto you, with whom the priesthood hath continued through the lineage of your fathers — 

"For ye are lawful heirs, according to the flesh, and have been hid from the world with Christ in God — 

"Therefore your life and the priesthood have remained, and must needs remain through you and your lineage until the restoration of all things spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began. 

"Therefore, blessed are ye if ye continue in my goodness, a light unto the Gentiles, and through this priesthood, a savior unto my people Israel. The Lord hath said it." 

The other is from the one hundred fifteenth section, an address of the Lord Jesus Christ to the Church : 125 

"Verily I say unto you all : Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations; 

"And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defence, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth." 

THE HIGHEST PERCENTAGE OF GROWTH 

We were all made glad, a few weeks ago, to learn from President Hoover's Social Welfare Committee, which had been studying the social trends of the United States, that covering a period of some twenty-seven years this Church has made the greatest progress of any church in America, with a growth of 290 per cent. There is not another one that approaches us. We are glad for that, and particularly to know that this is taking place in the age of the world's greatest enlightenment. But we are more interested in the quality of men and women this Church has produced than in the numbers. Numbers have never meant very much in the past, and they may not mean much in the future, but quality is everything. 

A NEW DAY 

We are approaching, in my humble judgment, a new day in the history of the Church. I thought of it some few months ago while going through the Northern States Mission. I had the first opportunity in my life of visiting Kirtland, the first city the Latter-day Saints built. As we went through the wonderful temple where the marvelous manifestations were made to Joseph, in the visit of those holy messengers who delivered to him divine keys of authority, I thought of the things that had occurred in the hundred years that had passed, and saw ever an objective before the Church — the struggle to maintain themselves, to find new homes, the flight across the plains, the battle with the wilderness here, eking out an existence, fighting our common enemies. There was always something before us that seemed to center our attention, worthy of every effort. 

And now we have reached, I say, a new day, in my judgment. Having been through the days of immigration and migration, and of struggle to maintain ourselves, having won at least the right to exist, we have reached the day of demonstration, when indeed, in the language of this revelation, we are to arise and shine and show forth a standard, a pattern to the world, a world that has been humbled. A world that was proud and haughty, finding itself almost independent of God, has been brought to its knees, so to speak. 

OUR TIME OF OPPORTUNITY 

In my own experience in traveling about in various sections of this country, recently I have noticed a disposition to listen as neiver before to any one who has any light, any inspiration or any help. Truly we have reached the time when the wisdom of the wise has perished, and the understanding of the prudent is hid. God designed that this Church should not be ignored, neither set in a corner, but he has shaped and fashioned the destinies of the world until they will be brought to receive his message. He is now looking to the Latter-day Saints to show by their lives, by their conduct, that there is power and strength in the Gospel of Jesus Christ to meet and to solve every problem. 

For the first time in the history of this world, the Gospel of Jesus Christ has an opportunity. I recognize that Christianity had many virtues, many of the teachings of Christ that influenced their lives; but as the Lord himself declared to Joseph Smith a hundred years ago, they had the form of religion but not the power thereof. They were helpless to meet and cope with these conditions. 

The true Gospel of Jesus Christ has never been tested. It is now receiving its opportunity, and a world that is willing to listen, through the very circumstances through which we have passed, will be willing to pay heed and attention as never before, not only to what we say — that is not the important thing, for the most powerful sermons we have ever preached are the sermons of our lives. 

AN ENSIGN TO THE WORLD 

So as we listened to the address of our President, who made an appeal to the Latter-day Saints to live up to these high Gospel standards as contained in the Word of Wisdom, in my heart I said : "Oh, if the youth of the Church could catch the vision the Lord had in giving this revelation, and not merely want to yield obedience to what the President of the Church requires of them in order to be obedient to him, but get a vision of it!" It is the place the Lord has for them. What is that place? To set a pattern, to be an ensign, character builders who will attract the attention of the world if we will only live up to these standards. 

In listening to the address that he made — an appeal f or honesty — I said in my heart: "Oh, that the Latter-day Saints could still adhere to the standards of their fathers, when they made all with whom they came in contact acknowledge that a Mormon's word was as good as his bond!" 

My brethren and sisters, in this time of trouble and strife, when men and women are being swept off their feet and are in many instances taking the law into their own hands, here is an opportunity for Latter-day Saints to show their superior quality in their willingness to honor and obey and sustain the law and let it take its course, and not becomle bolshevik ourselves. Shall we cry and become rebellious ? 

THE COURAGE OF OUR FATHERS 

I thought of it while in Kirtland. What a sacrifice it must have meant to those brethren to leave that wonderful temple, wonderful even today, their homes, their all! But did they quit and cry about it ? No. They went across the country to Independence, started to build again. Driven from Independence, in the central part of Missouri, they started to lay the foundation of another temple over in Nauvoo, where they had accomplished wonders in the building of a city of some twenty thousand people. Twenty thousand people in Nauvoo when Chicago, which this year is celebrating its hundredth anniversary, was a village of 4,620 souls. Yet they had to leave it all. Stripped and peeled, they crossed the great deserts and came into these mountains. Were they quitters? No. Though everything was taken from them, there was 127  them the strength and courage to meet disaster after disaster. They stood like beaten anvils, with their f aith unbroken. 

VIRILITY AND STRENGTH IN THE GOSPEL 

Shall we, their children, show the white feather now? Suppose through our own mistakes we have lost some of our property, some of the advantages, that we thought we had, some of our money, shall we become sour and bitter, and rail against the providences of God? Or shall we, like our fathers, profit by our mistakes and build again, even though we lost it all ? I believe we will rise to the occasion. We are at a time when we are going to demonstrate to the world the virility, the power and the strength that are in the real Gospel of Jesus Christ, to meet and solve all these problems no matter what they are. 

IN SUPPORT OF THE CONSTITUTION 

I believe that it is the destiny of the Latter-day Saints to support the Constitution of the United States. The Prophet Joseph Smith is alleged to have said — and I believe he did say it — that the day would come when the Constitution would hang as by a thread. But he saw that the thread did not break, thank the Lord, and that the Latter-day Saints would become a balance of power, with others, to preserve that Constitution. If there is — and there is one part of the Constitution hanging as by a thread today — where do the Latter-day Saints belong? Their place is to rally to the support of that Constitution, and maintain it and defend it and support it by their lives and by their vote. Let us not disappoint God nor his prophet. Our place is fixed. 

A BETTER DAY 

Now, brethren and sisters, we have been three years getting down into the bottom — if we are at the bottom — of this depression. Have we patience to work on out? Suppose it takes three years longer to get out of it, are you willing to be patient that long ? I believe you are. Though it may take that length of time, if there shall come to us hope and faith and courage we can work out, and we shall. We are in the birth pangs of a glorious day. God's purposes are going forward in the earth. Everything is working towards a better day. There is hope ahead, and especially for the Latter-day Saints. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. Let us carry home with us the spirit of this conference, that we may renew our faith, and with courage dispel pessimism, increase optimism, and look to our glorious opportunity to arise and shine in a practical way, in the payment of our tithes. Yes, I promise you, in the name of the Lord, that if you will do these things that you have been asked to do at this conference — keep the Word of Wisdom, pay your tithes and offerings now, in a time when it will be hard for some of you to pay your tithing — I promise you deliverance, for the secret of succeeding comes from doing the right thing at the right time and in the right way, and God will show you the way. He will never desert you if you do not desert him. 

God help us to be true to him, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I wish to say to the Latter-day Saints at the close of this Conference that I am very happy, as I said at the beginning, to be here, and I have enjoyed it from start to finish, as I am sure all of you have. 

I am grateful to the Lord for the words of congratulation that have come to me from every person that has spoken to me regarding the choice of Brother J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Brother Samuel O. Bennion. They have my unbounded love and confidence, and have earned the distinction that has come to them. 

May God bless us one and all. May his blessings attend every person holding a place of responsibility. May he bless our Choir members, and all who have taken part in preaching, praying, and singing the songs of Zion, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"The Lord now victorious," a sacred anthem, was sung by the Choir. Elder Wayne H. Redd, President of the San Juan Stake, pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing of the Choir and congregation at the Conference meetings. Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Edward P. Kimball and Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 2 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 124 

The highest percentage of growth, 125 — A new day, 125 — Our time of opportunity, 125 — An ensign to the world, 126 — The courage of our fathers, 126 — Virility and strength in the Gospel, 127 — In support of the Constitution, 127 — A better day, 127. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 40 

Bluth, Elder John V 33 

Callis, Elder Charles A 26 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 61 

Appreciation of loyalty and cooperation, 61 — Nation-wide broadcasts of Choir and Organ, 61 — Character education in the home, 62 — Resistance to temptation, 62 — Church relief work following earthquake, 62 — Divinity of Church organization, 63 — Increase in Church activity and growth, 63 — Church and Priesthood growth, 64 — Priesthood signifies activitjr, 64 — Fulfilment of responsibility, 64 — Expenditure of tithes, 65 — Tithing and tithepayers, 65 — Efficiency in Church building construction, 66. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 101 

Pays tribute to Senator Smoot, 102 — Feels responsibility, 102 — No substitute for work, 103 — The world's problem, 103 — God will speak, 103— Still the Good Shepherd, 103— Gives light, 104. 

Clawson, President Rudger 73 

Experiences during the earthquake in Los Angeles, 74 — The 

everlasting, unchangeable Gospel, 74 — The seen and unseen 

worlds, 74 — Activity in the spirit world, 75 — The Church here and 

the Church in heaven, 76 — The work for our ancestors, 76 — Christ 

in the spirit world, 77 — The temple, the connecting link, 77 — :. 

The last sermon of President Woodruff, 78. 

Financial Statement 3 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting '. 22 

General Authorities of trje Church 2 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Officers of the Church 3 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Presentation of General Authorities and Officers, 2. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Grant, President Heber J 6 

Grateful for evidences of friendship and good will, 6 — Would solve the world's problems, 6 — The will of God, 7 — "Evils and designs," 7 — For the use of man, 8 — A marvelous promise, 8 — The words of the martyred patriarch, 9 — The words of Brigham Young, 9 — Benefits proved, 10 — Gives personal testimony, 10 — Not contaminated, 11— Prophecy fulfilled, 11 — Further advice by President Young, 11 — Doctors give evidence, 11 — The words of President Taylor, 12 — President Woodruff quoted, 12 — Ridicule recalled, 12 — From President Snow, 13- — President Smith quoted, 13 — Poet quoted, 14 — A favorite hymn, 14 — From Thomas A. Edison, 15 — Enormous consumption of cigarets, IS —  An impressive lesson, 15 — Effect upon students, 16 — A victim of cigarets, 16 — Judge speaks, 17 — An interesting experiment, 17 — Testimony of an inventor, 17 — Burbank's declaration, 17 — A new , 17. 

Grant, President Heber J 80 

Mission Presidents to speak, 80. 

Qrant, President Heber J 88 

Tabernacle Organ and Choir broadcasts, 88. 

Grant, President Heber J 107 

Tribute to Joseph W. jMcMurrin, 107. 

Grant, President Heber J 120 

Grateful for composers of beautiful music, 120. 

Grant, President Heber J 121 

Reads from John A. Widtsoe's "In Search of Truth," 121— The way to Truth, 122. 

Grant, President Heber J 128 

Gratitude for Conference, 128. 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 85 

Ivins, President Anthony W 94 

Joseph Smith's first vision,94 — A messenger sent from God, 94 — Quotes Prophet Joel, 95 — Receives plates, 95 — Authority restored, 95 — The Church organized, 96 — By divine authority, 96 — Heavenly messengers sent to earth, 96 — Accompanied by light, 97 — Paul's experience, 97 — An angel appears unto John, 98 — Divine communications foretold, 98 — In a flood of light, 99 — In harmony with reason and truth, 99 — Truth unchangeable, 99 — Founder of the Government, 100 — Confusion reigns, 100 — Deliverance will come, 100 — Concerning, the Church, 101. 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 110 

Jones, Elder Miles L 84 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 48 

If wisdom is lacking, 48 — As,k of God, 48 — Who has forgotten 131 

God? 49 — "Protect us by thy might," 49 — Our prayers heard, SO — Partaking worthily, SO — Prayerful thought and study, 50 —  Pray vocally, SO — Crying for forgiveness, SI — Cheer for the faithful, 51 — The prayerful spirit, 51 — Speakers with no message, 51 —  An unfailing lesson, 52 — Prayerful reflection, 52 — Repentant spirit, 52 — Actual Latter-day Saints, 52 — -Consumer must be able to purchase, 53 — Wealth destroying itself, S3 — Coming of increased prosperity, 54 — Unprecedented prosperity', 54 — Solution for world's ills, 54 — Religion the solution, 54. 

McKay, Elder David 89 

Placing an important question, 90 — Changes in public sentiment, 90 — Results of ihonest investigation, 91— Moral and economic benefits, 91 — The fundamental principle in individual government, 92 — A step backward, 92 — In need of .more spirituality, 93 — "They shall not pass," 93 — God's word given authoritatively, 93. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F Ill 

Success through divine leadership, 111 — An analogous situation, 111 — Through his servants the prophets, 112 — The remedy, 112 — Hope for the future, 112 — Fulfilment of requirements necessary, 113 — -The Lord's plan, 113 — A call to repentance, 113 — Law  the universe, 114 — The sin of selfishness, 114 — An outstanding example, 114. 

Moyle, Elder James H 86 

Richards, Elder George F 43 

Pre-existence not understood, 43 — A spiritual creation, 44 — War in heaven, 44 — Our relationship to God, 45 — The pre-existence of Christ, 45 — First-born and Creator of heaven and earth, 45 — Love of God and fellow men, 46 — One individual from beginning to end, 46 — Before the world was, 46 — The Author of salvation, 47 — The plan of salvation, 47 — God at the helm, 48, 

Richards, Eller Stephen L 35 

A magnificent gift, 35 — Men mistrust men, 36 — Modern business methods, 36 — Lack of corporate honor, 37 — The legitimate function of business, 37 — Lack of political honor, 37 — Demoralizing integrity of our citizenship, 38 — Using religion for ulterior purposes, 38 — Effect of unrighteous exercise of spiritual power, 39 — The standards of a religious man, 39 — Charged with an im responsibility, 40. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H. 115 

Romney, Elder George S 105 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr 55 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 43 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 67 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sloan, Elder William R. . Smith, Elder David A. . . . Smith, Elder George Albert 



The influence of the adversary, 67 — Experiences related in the Old Testament, 67 — The work of the Savior, 68 — As related in the Book of Mormon, 68 — In this dispensation, 68 — Houses must be set in order, 69 — Because of vanity and unbelief, 70 — Neglecting our opportunities, 70 — God will not be mocked, 71 — Parents must safeguard their children, 71 — Our responsibility, 72 — Vice and evil must be restrained, 72 — Holding aloft the banner of righteousness, 73 — One in all things, 73. 

A wonderful advantage, 22 — The purpose of mortal life, 22 — The Lord's plan, 23 — Obedience to temporal and physical laws required, 23 — Eternal blessings through clean living, 23 — Sons and daughters of God, 24 — The Lord's desire concerning us, 25 — Duty to safeguard the youth, 25 — Stand in holy places, 26. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 18 

The world's most urgent need, 18 — Salvation for all, 19 — A divine message, 19 — The personality of God, 19 — Not one in person, 20 — Destructive agencies, 20 — Not necessary to violate laws of God, 21 — In accordance with one's professed faith, 21. 

Statistics and other data compiled from the Annual Reports for 

Timeliness, 107 — Examples of timeliness, 108 — Counsel in season, 108 — Foreknowledge not a determining cause, 109.  year 1932 

Talmage, Elder James E Third Day, Morning Meeting . Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 

Welling, Elder Arthur 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 

107 120 

THE FALLING AWAY 

By B. H. ROBERTS 

This new work is a ringing challenge to Christendom and a frank indictment of the multifarious creeds that are an outgrowth of the disintegrated Apostolic Church. It shows most conclusively and brilliantly that all the churches had departed from the true pattern of Christ and lost the authority completely, long before the New Dispensation was ushered in through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. 

Yet the motive of the author is not to tear down, but rather to build up; had there been no "falling away," the claim of the prophet of the New Dispensation would have been an imposture; if there was a "falling away," however, his claim is credible. It was to establish this fact sharply and conclusively that these radio addresses were given All who heard Elder Roberts or who will read these published discourses, will agree that he has accomplished the end in a scholarly and convincing manner. 

Though most of the discourses deal with eras of apostasy and centuries of discord, the ultimate message of the book is one of hope and salvation for the world. The three discourses on the Restoration read like the happy outcome of an otherwise tragic story. You feel at the end that the author has performed a necessary but melancholy task, only that he might invest with true meaning the unique claim of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The Appendix of the new work is an answer to Catholic charges that the author had been unfair in his use of evidence and presentation of historic facts. His reply is given with enough zestful detail to leave the reader without a single doubt. 

Price $1.50 

Sunday Night Talks by Radio 

By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE 

In answer to an insistent demand the 1930 series of L. D. S. Radio Addresses given by Dr. James E. Talmage has now been issued in regular book form under the title of "Sunday Night Talks By Radio." It is printed on a good grade of book paper from type especially set for this edition, and durably bound in beautiful marblex cloth. 

This book will make a beautiful as well as practical and useful addition to the library of any member of the Church. It will be especially valuable to missionaries or prospective missionaries. 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

Send your order now to the 

Deseret Book Company 

"The Home of Good Books" 44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Brigham Young 

By SUSA YOUNG GATES AND LEAH D. WIDTSOE WITH A FOREWORD BY HONORABLE REED SMOOT 

"This book presents the life story Sof a New England cabinetmaker, who, well into his thirties, entered upon a career that made him an empire-builder of the West; the founder tof a hundred cities; the governor of one of the territories of the United States; and one of the outstanding figures of the nineteenth century." 

Thus does Senator Smoot begin his enthusiastic foreword to this notable biography. 

A Special Edition. Beautifully and Substantially Bound in Cloth. 

Price $2.50 

Do Men Believe What Their Church Prescribes? 

By RULON S. HOWELLS 

A comprehensive yet concise study of leading Christian religions and their fundamental subjects, carefully and painstakingly compiled as a guide for all thinking Christians. 

The book contains 164 pages and a large folded chart. The chart contains the views of ten of the outstanding religious denominations on twenty-three of the outstanding fundamentals of the Christian Doctrines. 

The material for this chart was furnished by officers and ministers of the various churches involved, and is therefore authoritative in all of its statements. 

Price $1.50 

Published and Distributed by the 

Deseret Book Company 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







