Afternoon
06 04 1933

The second session of the Conference commenced at 2 o'clock, when President Heber J. Grant announced that the congregation would sing the hymn, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

After singing, prayer was offered by Elder Joseph S. Peery. 

Following the opening prayer a sacred solo, "My Task," was sung by Elder Golden Hansen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I was very greatly pleased this morning in listening to the remarks by our President, and to have our attention called to matters which I consider to be of great importance. 

I think I have stated before from this stand that we are living in perilous times, times when the members of the Church should be thoughtful, diligent, persevering, and determined to keep the commandments of the Lord as they have been made known unto us by revelation. 

A WONDERFUL ADVANTAGE 

We have a wonderful advantage over the world in this, that we have the right and privilege of receiving instruction through inspiration and revelation. For one hundred years the Lord has spoken unto this people, giving us line upon line, precept upon precept, and one example following another, counsel, advice and knowledge in abundance concerning the things pertaining to our salvation and the kingdom of God. 

We have learned through revelation and through the guidance that has come from holy men, both ancient prophets and those of our own day, it is our duty to live in accordance with law which governs us in this life, and which pertains to this life, just as well as to be governed by laws which pertain to the spiritual life, or the life which is to come. Temporal salvation is just as important in its sphere as spiritual salvation is in its sphere. In fact, temporal salvation and spiritual salvation are so closely united that they cannot be separated. There is no dividing line. 

THE PURPOSE OF MORTAL LIFE 

We have been placed here in this world for the purpose of gaining experience, also for the purpose of proving ourselves, whether or not we will be worthy, before the Lord, of a place in his kingdom. It has been made known unto us that even before the foundation of the world  council was held, and there the plan of salvation was made known unto the spirits of men; and the Son of God, even Jesus Christ, who gave instructions upon that occasion — and perhaps there were more occasions than one — stated that he and others would go down and form a world upon which these spirits should dwell, the object being to prove them herewith, to find out whether they would be obedient in all things. There the plan of salvation was discussed, and the promise was made that those who were obedient in that first estate should have a place in this second estate in which we now find ourselves. And they who prove themselves true and faithful to the commandments, the guidance and the instruction which have come from the Lord j n this present estate, should have glory added upon their heads forever. 

THE LORD'S PLAN 

Now, we know that it is the plan and purpose of the Lord to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of all men. No matter whether they believe in him or not, no matter whether they are rebellious, or whether they receive the truth and walk in the light, all who have the privilege of this mortal life are to be redeemed, so we are informed, from death. All mortal souls are to receive the resurrection. All are redeemed from Adam's transgression, as we are pleased to call it, through the mercy of Christ; because we are not responsible for that transgression; we do not have to pay the price. Christ came and paid that price and redeemed us from death, from what is generally spoken of as original sin; but on conditions of our repentance and obedience to Gospel law, for salvation in the kingdom of God comes on no other terms. If we are obedient, if we will keep the commandments that are given, walk in the light of truth, known as the principles of the Gospel, then we are to have added upon our heads exaltation and glory forever. 

OBEDIENCE TO TEMPORAL AND PHYSICAL LAWS REQUIRED 

But in this life we are subject to the vicissitudes of mortal life; we are subject to all the laws which govern in this world. We speak of many of these laws as temporal laws, or physical laws. Nevertheless, it is just as necessary that we be obedient to the temporal and physical laws, or rather, the laws which govern in this mortal life, as it is for us to be obedient to things which we are pleased to call spiritual, and which we look upon as pertaining to that life which is to come after the resurrection from the dead. 

One of the great objects of our existence here, indeed the greatest, is to receive these bodies or tabernacles of flesh, tabernacles for our individual spirits. Then, of course, through obedience our physical tabernacles and our spirits, unitedly known as the soul, receive a fulness of joy; and it is destined that the obedient, the faithful, shall go back into the presence of God, there to become sons and daughters, receiving a fulness of the blessings of the kingdom of God. 

ETERNAL BLESSINGS THROUGH CLEAN LIVING 

If in this life we abuse these tabernacles of flesh, if we treat them with contempt, if we permit them to be filled with all manner of corruption, then we are destroying that physical tabernacle which pertains to the spirit and which, with the spirit united, constitutes the soul, so that we as individuals cannot receive that fulness of joy which is promised to the sanctified. 

I think enough of my body to want to keep it clean. I have been so trained. My comprehension of this Gospel, my study, all that pertains to the Gospel as I have learned it, teaches me that it is my duty to keep this body clean and unspotted from the contamination of this world. Now, we are in the presence of temptation, we are in the presence of grievous sin. It was understood in the beginning, for we were informed before we came here, that we would be confronted with all these earthly conditions, and be subject to temptation; but it does not necessarily follow that because temptation is before us, we have to yield to it. It is the overcoming of the world, the overcoming of sin, that makes us strong, and prepares us for things yet to come. The man who yields to every appetite and every desire of the flesh cannot receive exaltation, because he does not prepare himself for and make himself worthy of it. 

SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF GOD 

This life is a school. It is a most wonderful school, because here we receive that training that will prepare us and qualify us, through obedience to the principles of the Gospel, to become sons and daughters of God, to dwell in his presence, to receive all that the Father has. What a glorious thought this is! Oh, how I rejoice to know that the Lord has made this known unto us, that it is within our power to become like him! 

I think so frequently of the words of John, a.s they are recorded in the third chapter of the first epistle that was written by him, and which I desire to read to you : 

"Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God : therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. 

"Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be : but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is." 

Now, John understood clearly, as did Peter and Paul and the others of the apostles, that through obedience to the Gospel, including all the ordinances and the covenants that they entered into, they were even then the sons of God, because of those covenants and obligations they had taken upon themselves. So John says, speaking unto the Saints — he is not speaking to the world : 

"Now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he [Christ] shall appear, we shall be like him." 

That is we shall see that we are like him, also sons of God as he is a Son of God, with this difference, of course, that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten, one of the Godhead whom we worship. We are his brethren, joint heirs, as Paul has said, with him in that kingdom. That is our privilege. 

THE LORD'S DESIRE CONCERNING US 

John continues: 

"And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he [Christ} is pure." 

We should keep ourselves clean and pure from sin, from anything that tends to destroy the functions of these bodies, these tabernacles. The Lord intends that we should keep them holy, sanctified, cleansed from all iniquity. We cannot do that if we partake of the evils that we find in the world. No man who uses tobacco can keep his body clean. No man can keep his body clean when he puts into it alcoholic beverages. That cannot be done. The Lord has pointed out, in that wonderful revelation to which reference has been made, what we shall eat and what we shall drink, as well as the things that we should not eat and drink. He has warned us and told us what things are not good. We have our agency. Every man has the power within him to act for himself. No man is compelled to do the will of God and enter into the kingdom. He may reject that; but every man is going to answer for his works. He is going to receive a reward according to that which he does in the flesh. 

I say again, my training makes me feel to honor this tabernacle that has been given unto me. When I say Me* what do I mean ? I don't know what life is. I could not give you a proper definition of it. But I know that there is an individuality which I call myself. You each have your individuality. That individuality is composed of spirit and body. The body is the tabernacle of the spirit. Together they shall rise, after the resurrection, to receive that fulness of joy in the kingdom of God, provided they have kept this estate and been true and faithful to all the commandments of God. 

DUTY TO SAFEGUARD THE YOUTH 

I am a firm, believer in this, and that we should throw" out every safeguard to hedge our youth about and protect them from the evils of the world. I do not think it is necessary for them to come in contact with sin. There is temptation enough, there is sin enough, that they will find; and it is my duty, as far as I am able. to do* it, to protect my children and your children. I want them protected. For that reason I am absolutely opposed with all my soul to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. I know what it means. I know what the conditions were before we had prohibition. I think I know what the conditions will be after it is repealed, if that shall come. 

Latter-day Saints, from one end of the earth to the other, especially the good people living in these states of this Rocky Mountain region, we should stand for that which is right, for the truth, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, f or the protection which we are entitled to receive; and therefore we should stand unitedly against these evils that are creeping in among us from the world. The world is full of evil. STAND IN HOLY PLACES 

So I pray. May the Spirit of the Lord guide us, protect us, keep us free from these contaminating influences and evils after which the world seeks. We should not seek for them. It is our duty to stand in holy places, as the Lord has commanded us, and be not moved. I want to say to you that day is not far distant, as I have read here, when the Son of Man shall come in a cloud of glory, to reward men according to their works. He shall come in a day of wickedness, of corruption, to take vengeance upon the ungodly, and to reward the righteous. Therefore, it behooves us, as I say, to stand in holy places and be not moved. May we do it, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

I humbly pray that the Lord will condescend to bless me in the few remarks that I shall make. 

With all of my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the presence and instructions of President Heber J. Grant. We thank the Father for President Grant's recovery from his illness. With all my heart and soul I sustain all of the General Authorities of the Church, and I feel that the will of God has been manifested, to the spiritual benefit of the people, in the selection of these two splendid brethren, J. Reuben Clark and Samuel O. Bennion, for the offices to which they have been appointed and sustained. 

In the old Jewish Talmud there is a story of Elijah and a certain rabbi who went upon a journey and stopped at the house of a poor man whose only possessions were a wife and a cow. The good people made the strangers as comfortable as possible. However, the next morning the cow died. * * * The rabbi was puzzled and asked Elijah to explain. Elijah said : "In regard to the poor man who received us so hospitably, it was decreed that his wife was to die that night, but, in reward for his kindness God took the cow instead of the wife. * * * Say not, therefore, to the Lord, what doest thou, but say in thine heart. Must not the Lord of all the earth do right?" 

I believe, brethren and sisters, that this depression, in the presence of which men stand confused and dazed, may be a blessing in disguise. I believe that in this national and world-wide disaster there is good that is striving for deliverance and triumph. It may be that we shall learn the lessons of adversity and emerge from this cloud better men and women. The horrors of another world war have probably been averted by this depression. God doeth all things for the best. 

There never was a time in the history of the Church when the Latter-day Saints were required to be more valiant in preaching and living the Gospel than they are today. 

An atheist once said that he and his associates hoped to overthrow Christianity by pulling down the family altars of prayer. If our national Congress and state legislatures were to discontinue the age-honored cus of invoking the blessings of God upon their deliberations there are many prayerless parents in the country who would rebuke these legislative bodies, for even people who cling to a form of religion appreciate the value of prayer. In a home without prayer the seeds of infidelity are being sown. But in a home where there is prayer, where the family reverently gathers around the altar of prayer, faith increases, love for God and man mounts high in the human heart. We are learning that  in this great catastrophe, without God we are nothing. 

I believe in the Book of Mormon. It is the word of God. We are warned in this sacred record that the promise of a high destiny for any nation will not save it if a nation forgets God. Proud confidence in their destiny did not save nations in the past from self-destruction. We may boast in our pride and glory of the magnificent mission of our own republic, but unless the love of Jesus Christ is invoked in all of our dealings, unless the spirit of Christ reigns uppermost in our hearts and permeates our actions, these promises for a glorious destiny, so far as we are concerned, will fail, as they have failed with nations in the past. 

Nations cannot survive where the family altar of prayer is thrown down. No people can prosper long materially who do not acknowledge and believe that Jesus Christ is the God of the whole earth. 

Moroni, in the early part of the fifth century, gave this solemn warning to the people living in these days : 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon yiou as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done." (Ether 2:11.) 

In God alone is our hope. "He cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." 

Brethren and sisters, I testify unto you that from the bottom of my heart I know the Gospel is true; I know that Jesus is my Savior, the Christ, the Son of the living God. I also know, by the same power — the gift of the Holy Ghost — that Joseph Smith was a choice prophet, a seer and a revelator, a man whom God raised up to accomplish a mighty work. I have seen the manifestation of God's power upon President Grant. We have seen this power manifested in the ministry of all the prophets of God in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times. 

God bless us with purity of heart and singleness of purpose,, and fortify us by the faith which he has delivered to us through his prophets, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to be with you this afternoon and in conference this morning. It was my good fortune and privilege, years ago, to be a student in a class under our new president. I have known him from that time to the present day, and as one of the Presidency of the Church I sustain him and them with all my heart. Referring to the remarks of President Grant this morning — and I have heard him speak in a similar manner many times, and have gone from meetings and have heard my brethren make light of his advice and his counsel/ — I want to say now, in all sincerity, that I believe the Word of Wisdom was revealed to Joseph Smith, I know God will not be mocked, and if we disregard this advice and make light of it, we shall see the day when we shall pay the price which will fall upon us as a severe rebuke that cannot be disregarded. 

For twenty-five years I have been engaged in hospital work, nearly seven years as superintendent of a hospital. During that time I have had what I think to be an excellent opportunity to put the Word of Wisdom to the test, comparing its teachings with the physical and spiritual conditions of those who are compelled to go into these institutions for treatment. It is a well known fact that poisoned bodies, made so through disobedience to the Word of Wisdom, are weakened and have less resistance against disease. Scientific discoveries being constantly made are added testimonies to the truthfulness of the Word of Wisdom. One instruction given by the government to its soldiers is: "Men should not smoke while on the march. Smokers are more apt to be sick and fall out than non-smokers." It is hard to get individuals to observe this advice. It has been given to the army because scientific discoveries and experience make such advice seem important. 

I desire to call attention to another thought in relation to the Word of Wisdom. We seem timid about referring to the statement of the Lord that "they shall receive health in their navel," and sometimes we are shocked or seem to think it to be immodest. I am at a loss to know why, for the navel is a scar on the body having served its purpose when we came into the world and after birth ceases to function. The Savior's sermons were largely given as parables. The revelations given to Joseph Smith were brief and to the point. The definition of navel as given in the dictionary is "the central point or part of anything; the middle." The Lord could have mentioned the vital organs of the body, which would require the enumeration of each. How much simpler to use the expression given. 

How fully do we grasp the meaning of the promise that we shall have marrow to the bones? We learn that marrow to the bone is as a hub to a wheel where the spokes center; it is the inner meaning and'p ur P ose; the inner substance; the essence; the essential strength. "The so-called spinal marrow or spinal cord is the central axis of the nervous system." The fact that Joseph Smith in his 27th year, with no college education, could make such statements as found in this revelation, which 100 years later are supported by the findings of scientists, at least suggests that we must look for some power other than that discovered through his own knowledge. He took no credit to himself and acknowledged that he was only a humble instrument used by our Heavenly Father  give this warning to his children, to help them preserve their inheritance, the greatest possession of which is these temples, the dwelling place of our spirit, which body and spirit together constitute the soul of man. Have we the right to accuse anyone of beingnarrow minded or selfish when he calls our attention to these things. Is it not really an evidence of his love for us and concern for our welfare ? 

Recently a young man came into the Presiding Bishop's Office to see me. He said: "Brother Smith, I had a dream. In the dream I was told to come to you. I have suffered from stomach trouble. I was given to understand that you could help me, if I should come to you." 

I told him to keep the Word of Wisdom, to stop using coffee, 

etc. 

He looked somewhat startled. I didn't know that he was a user of coffee, but I was impressed to make the statement. 

"Brother Smith," he answered, "I think I can do that." 

Then I talked to him about the Word of Wisdom and asked him to make a test for a week or two and come back. 

Sometimes, it seems to me, we plead with the Lord for blessings when at the time we are doing things which make it difficult for him to give us the blessings for which we plead. To me it is a mockery. Under such conditions we cannot approach him in faith for we are not worthy to enjoy that privilege. 

I wonder if, in these days of depression, we take time to review the history from the beginning of this Church and ponder over the problems of its founders. Our problems are insignificant when compared to theirs. Looking back as we may do today we can see the hand of the Lord in the movements westward. Persecutions and hardships united them and developed in them faith in God, tolerance and love for their fellows. Little did they dream in the beginning that they were destined to move on and on until they should establish headquarters in the "top of the mountains." Their enemies forced them to do so and the hardships which followed developed God-fearing men and women of sterling worth. The Spirit of the Lord was upon them and traveled before them. They were not afraid and did not permit themselves to become discouraged. Their battle cry was : 

Come, come ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wend your way; 

Tho' hard to you this journey may appear, 

Grace shall be as your day. * * * 

Why should we think to earn a great reward, 

If we now shun the fight? 

Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, 

Our God will never us forsake. 

They were our fathers and our mothers. Do we forget that they were the chosen of the Lord to prepare the way for those who should follow? It was their mission to fulfil the prophecy of Isaiah 2 :2-3 : "And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

"And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths : for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

The Prophet Ezekiel gave us a picture which should encourage 

us : 

"Thus saith the Lord God; I will also take of the highest branch of the high cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the top of his young twigs a tender one, and will plant it upon an high mountain and eminent : 

"In the mountain of the height of Israel will 1 plant it : and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar : and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the shadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell. 

"And all the trees of the field shall know that I the Lord have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish : I fhe Lord have spoken and have done it." (Ezekiel 17:22-24.) 

And I repeat, "the Lord has spoken and has done it." 

We are of that stock. Have we forgotten their suffering? Are we willing to take upon us the burden? Do we quit when trials come upon us? Or are we willing, as they were willing, to face the wilderness, full of faith, determined that we shall do our part, in order that we may receive and enjoy the blessings of the Lord? That is our mission, but how well are we taking our part? 

During the last four years we have increased the activity of our young men to a point where the low point of activity at the close of 1932 is almost on a level with the high point four years ago. And yet in many places we are lagging. There is much we can do which is left undone. While we are looking after our young men who hold the Aaronic priesthood, what of their brothers and their fathers who have gone beyond the age in which the}' are expected to serve in the Aaronic priesthood? It seems that we are leaving them too much alone and are doing very little for them. 

Now is the time, it seems to me, in which men who hold the priesthood should have faith. They should feel that service in this church is required of all; if we hope to develop spiritually, now is the time in which we should take advantage of the leisure time we have, through unemployment or other causes, and give not only our substance but our faith and our love to those who are careless and indifferent, those who are drifting away and to whom the Gospel must be preached again. 

Now, I realize that I am not expected to speak long. Let me picture a little incident to you, if I can< — one of the many I have seen. Let me take you back some years. We enter a little home, two rooms. We find three little girls, ragged and dirty, and with bare feet; a mother poorly clothed; no comforts in the home; and in the corner the husband and father in a drunken stupor, an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ, a man 'who had been ordained  the priesthood and sealed in the house of the Lord to his wife for time and all eternity. Bad company caused him to forget his covenants. Liquor took away from him his reason, from his children their food and clothing, and from his wife and children the comforts of home. Then visit with me in that home, not three months later but next week, and the next week, and every week for nearly a year; and little by little partake of his joy as he finds someone to help him overcome his weakness; then, finally, as he is persuaded to kneel in prayer, feels the spirit which comes, for God is with vis when we sincerely pray. We feel the added joy when finally we hear him admit that he hasn't the power over that damnable influence which had caused his disgrace and almost ruined his home. He pleads for someone to call on his employer and get his check on pay-day, pay his bills, make his purchases. And later we see him enter the quorum meeting, with the understanding that he will not be called upon to take part until he signifies willingness to do sq. After a while we hear him say : "I believe I can now take part," and we note the concern that comes when in his first attempt he apparently makes a miserable failure. But prayer, love and kindness have touched his soul, the Spirit of God is upon him, for realizing he has made a failure he turns to say : ''I am not satisfied. I want to try again." We realize that he has won. He continues to grow in faith and becomes active, and master of himself again. 

I had not seen this man for nearly thirty years when, one evening while attending a meeting in the ward in which he lived recently, at the close of the service an elderly gentleman with white hair, round face, bright, flashing eyes, reached out his hand and I took hold of it, hardly recognizing him. He placed his free arm around 'me and said: "Brother Smith, I love you." 

It seems to me that there are but few things in life that could bring greater joy than to have such an experience. It helps us to understand this statement revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" 

Brethren, sisters; this is our work. We cannot save those who are indifferent and careless by preaching to them. We must go into their homes. We must bow with them before the Lord, and plead with him for their welfare. We must, in the spirit of love, help them to see the need of obedience and service, for without serving we cannot develop and keep alive the spirit which God has promised to those who have entered the waters of baptism and keep his commandments. To me, the greatest privilege in life is the opportunity to serve in authority of the priesthood. What would become of me if it were not for you, my brethren, and the encouragement you give. I find we are all very much alike, and need to help each other. We should go out on the highway and the byway, so- to speak, and find those who are careless and indifferent, and labor with them, not by one visit, but day by day, in a spirit of love and friendship. Men will not listen if we criticize, for criticism seems to bring forth a vigorous defense. But love and prayer, offered in the spirit of humility, will touch the heart and mellow the soul and eventually bring joy and happiness and eternal salvation. It is within our power.  It is our right. God has given us that mission. May he grant that we shall not fail, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

I have but one desire in my heart at this moment; — that I may find favor with my Heavenly Father and be enabled to discharge this duty acceptably before him, and for your and my blessing. 

The Saints residing in the Western States Mission, like you at home, are beset with the problems of how to live and meet the present conditions of life. Many of them are unemployed and are living almost alone on hope. Many of them are employed. Those who live in the country regions, following agricultural pursuits, are reasonably comfortable and happy. . The rest of them are hoping for relief from present conditions, but they are enjoying their worship, and I believe our meetings have never been better attended than they are at the present time. We try to find comfort in the thought that has been expressed here today, that all things are for our good. 

As a matter of fact, my brethren and sisters, I think if we will ask ourselves the question : What is a blessing? that we will get some comfort out of the answer. I remember that once, while I was teaching a class of boys in the Forest Dale Ward, the question was asked. I asked them this question in return: Of all of Jacob's sons which was the most blessed? And the answer came back very promptly — Joseph. Yet Joseph was a slave in a foreign land. He was incarcerated in a dark prison. He was without friends or kinsfolk, while his brethren were at home enjoying the blessings of the land. They had plenty to eat and to spare. They had their houses and their farms, their lands and their possessions. But Joseph was in favor with God. His spirit was in tune with the Holy Ghost. He had the companionship of that marvelous influence, and he was by far the most blessed. 

The Lord tells us in the thirty-ninth, section of the Doctrine and Covenants that his commandments are spiritual; that he never has  a temporal commandment to any one, riot even to Adam, our father. Therefore I conclude that if we can live so that we can be in harmony with our Heavenly Father, no matter what we may be called to pass through, or how difficult our trials may seem to be, we are a blessed people. If the Latter-day Saints measure themselves by that yard-stick, we have, I trust, little to complain about and much to give us joy and satisfaction. 

I rejoice that it has been my privilege to be associated with the men and women of this Church, both at home and in the mission field, and that they have influenced my life. In enjoying their companionship I have been brought into a nearer communion with my Heavenly Father. I rejoice that the Spirit of the Lord strives with me, that the Lord is patient and kind to me, that he seems to overlook my weaknesses and to bless me in time of need, and I esteem that a great blessing. So I count my blessings, I rejoice and am happy. I have many things to rejoice for. 

I am deeply grateful for the experience that I am having and have had in my life. I am grateful for the confidence of the Saints with whom I associate and labor, and of my brethren and sisters in the ministry in that mission. I am grateful for the confidence and love of my brethren who preside over me, and for every blessing that I enjoy. Brethren and sisters, let us count our blessings, and let us esteem them at their true value, and if we do we are a happy people. That we may do that is my most humble prayer, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

I bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters, from the Saints and the missionaries in the Canadian Mission. We have a small force, but they are diligent and faithful. They love their work; they are glad to be engaged in the service of the Lord and to give of the talents he has given them, unto the blessing and the benefit of the people among whom they labor. The fathers and mothers of those sons and daughters need not worry over their children. They are doing a good work. They are measuring up to the labors and responsibilities assigned unto them. 

I deem it a wonderful privilege for the presidents of the missions in the United States, Canada and Mexico, to be permitted to come and enjoy these conferences every six months, a privilege that because of distance is denied to the presidents of other missions. We here receive joy, happiness, strength and vitality in the continuation of our work, and we can to some extent imbue our brethren and sisters in the mission field with that same spirit. I rejoice in it. 

I have been happy to listen to the things said here this morning and this afternoon upon the Word of Wisdom, the necessity of keeping our bodies clean, they being the temples of God. We should not abuse them; we should have sound bodies for the development of the spirits t-hat are within them, for their growth and development. Some say that our weaknesses are such we cannot refrain from yielding to these things. That reminds me of a brother in New Brunswick who does not hesitate to say, when any one says he cannot quit tobacco, that it is simply because he does not want to. "I was," he said, "the most inveterate user of tobacco. I cannot conceive how anybody could be more' so than I was. I smelled it; I smoked it; I chewed it; I even ate it. Not a moment of the time, except at meal times, did I deem I could do without it. I heard of the Gospel preached by the Latter-day Saints, of their Word of Wisdom. It caused me to wonder. I asked a physician to test my blood. He took a portion of it, and sent it to an institute where there was an eminent surgeon who analyzed it. When he got the analysis or report back the question was asked : 'How long since this man died ?' " The chemist did not think it possible that any one so saturated with tobacco as that blood test showed him to be could possibly live. When he accepted the Gospel he quit, and he has for many years since that time been without its use, and he declares it has given him no discomfort to leave it alone. He had the will to quit it. The very query as to his death brought that determination to him. For that reason he feels that all that is necessary is the desire to quit. But when our longings for it are greater than our desire to serve God, then of course it is difficult. 

It would seem to me that the very words of our Heavenly Father in the revelation read to us this morning, and spoken upon this afternoon, leave us in a peculiar position if we cannot live up to them. The counsel therein given is "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints who are or can be called saints." When we cannot observe the Word of Wisdom we are placed in this position : Either we are weaker than "the weakest of all saints," or else we are deliberately sinning. "To him that knoweth to do good," says James, "and doeth it not, to him it is sin." And our Father declares : "I the Lord, cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." If we can get to understand that, I do not see how it is possible for any one with any faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ to belittle the statements made relative to this wonderful revelation, given unto us for our temporal salvation. 

I would like to say a word bearing upon this and some other things, relative to our folks at home. I cannot help but appreciate the wonderful sacrifice that fathers, mothers, sisters and brothers, even young children, indicate they are willing to make, in order to keep the father, the husband, the brother, the son, in the mission field the full time. I marvel a$, the efforts they make, the things they endure, and the sacrifices they make in order to accomplish it. When the shortage of missionaries brings the. request : "Can we keep your son, your daughter, two or three or four months longer?" how they strive to comply with it, how they dislike to say that they cannot. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, you can preach the Gospel at home by the lives that you lead more fully than they can by word of mouth. You are sacrificing these things for them, why not get your money's worth out of it ? This is what I tell our missionaries : "You know what your people are doing for you. Give them their money's worth, by the loyalty, the faithfulness, the devotion that you give unto the work of the Lord." So also at home : Get your money's worth. Why vitiate their  and nullify it by such conduct at home that people, noticing the way you act, complain that you do not live what you preach ? 

We love your boys, we love your daughters, who are out in the field — neat, tidy, dignified, soft-spoken, living lives of Christians. Then we find that sometimes you do not live at home that which they preach. Let us preach by our lives that which God has given unto us, that we may bear testimony unto the world that the Gospel can really become the power of God unto our salvation, if we will abide by its precepts. Then we will grow in grace. Love for God's word will be in our hearts. Love and devotion for his work will constantly be with us. We will serve him. We will win our own reward and our own salvation. 

I rejoice in the work in which we are engaged. My wife and I have never been happier than we are at this moment. We finished a mission tour of three thousand miles just before I came here to conference. We have joy in our labors, and thank God for the privilege of serving. We ask his blessing upon all his people, those who are engaged in his work, that the work may prosper throughout the world and grow to be, as it were, an ensign unto the nations, to look up to, an example Jo be followed, that they might be saved temporally and spiritually, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

"O ye mountains high" was sung by the congregation. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

A MAGNIFICENT GIFT 

A few weeks ago in company with President Grant, I had the privilege of inspecting a very beautiful building. The architecture was superb, a rare combination of elegance and utility. In the portal were handsome columns of Venetian marble and massive doors of real bronze. The main corridor boasted portraits of the old masters in art and science done in Italian mosaic. The building housed a great library with commodious reading rooms and studies for the accommodation of students. It was said to have cost more than a million dollars. It was the gift of a rich man. 

When I saw inscribed on a plaque the name of the man who gave it, rather strange thoughts and feelings came to me which I have pondered a good deal since. The name of the donor is connected with one of the most notorious scandals of our country in recent years. I do not attempt to pass judgment on him. My knowledge of the facts is not sufficient for that, but I do know that some of his associates served prison terms for participation in the transactions that are reputed to have brought fabulous wealth to this man. . 

Here are some of the thoughts that passed through my mind as I contemplated the magnificent gift of an American multi-millionaire to an institution of the people. Can a man with money in this great country of ours buy immunity for wrong-doing? Does the public have indulgences for sale, if the price is sufficiently large ? Are we concerned with how a man gets his money or merely with how much he has ? Just what are the standards of integrity and honesty prevalent among us today? These and related questions have occupied my attention considerably. I propose them as a basis for some remarks here today. 

MEN MISTRUST MEN 

The President of the United States in a recent utterance said in substance that the greatest thing we have to fear is fear itself. I think he is right. What gives rise to fear and apprehension? The answer is simple, I believe. Lack of confidence. And why lack of confidence? Again the answer is simple. Men mistrust men. I do not believe that people generally have lost faith in our fundamental institutions. The Constitution of the nation is a sacred and revered document to the overwhelming majority of Americans. We take immeasurable pride in the concepts of liberty, equity and justice which it breathes and protects. While there have arisen outspoken opponents of the capitalistic system under which we administer our economic order, yet there is certainly no such wide-spread and organized public opinion against it as to seriously endanger its continuance. People are desirous that it should be regulated but not abandoned. 

Ignorance, of course, is a real source of fear but I am convinced that with increased facilities for the dissemination of knowledge this factor is being perceptibly diminished. 

So I am forced to the conclusion that in the final analysis the one chief item which has basically contributed to our present deplorable state and continues to retard recovery is distrust in the dependability, integrity and honesty of men. After all constitutions, laws and institutions are but vehicles for the expression of character in the men and women of any state or society. Incorporeal rights may be important but their administrators are infinitely more tangible. We may argue about principle, but it is a man who takes our money or puts us in jail. It becomes important to bring out into the open some of the causes and conditions which have contributed to a state of public distrust and, regrettable as it may seem, a dearth of common honesty. 

MODERN BUSINESS METHODS 

In this connection I feel sure that the methods of modern business have played a very conspicuous part. In many jurisdictions where horse-racing, dog-racing, lotteries and slot machines have been penalized by law, business gambling has been among the most respectable of all vocations. We have experienced the wildest orgy of speculation the world has ever known and we are now discovering, according to reports following investigations, that the public has been fleeced by misrepresentation and deceit of enough money to pay the national debt twice over. Misrepresentation is the usual concomitant of gambling and I think of all get-rich-quick schemes. The principle of honesty seems to be inherent in sound labor, but it is ordinarily conspicuous by its absence in the manipulations that bring returns without work. 

Now the most serious aspect of this period of speculation is probably not the loss of the huge sums of money involved. I believe it to be rather a demoralization of hundreds of thousands of citizens of our own and other countries. They have seen millionaires made and unmade overnight. Those who have profited in many instances have concluded that good work and honesty do not pay, that is, not nearly so generously as manipulation. Those who have lost are frequently embittered and resolve on equally unworthy schemes of recoupment and reprisal against the system from which they have suffered. Mutual confidence has received a great set-back because common honesty has been depreciated. 

LACK OF CORPORATE HONOR 

It is a strange thing that many men will do in corporate or group capacity what they would not dare to do individually. Corporations and syndicates are born for the promotion of enterprises and schemes to which men contribute their money and their names when individually these same men would not sell the same schemes to friends and neighbors. There are sound indications that the group consciousness has been dulled. This too is demoralizing to individual standards of honesty. Until we become as scrupulous for corporate honor as for individual honor, business as a whole will continue under a moral cloud. 

THE LEGITIMATE FUNCTION OF BUSINESS 

I am not sure but that there prevails pretty generally a serious misconception with reference to the legitimate function of business. So much emphasis has been laid upon competition, that many have reached the conclusion that only the strongest can survive and that it is proper to do anything to survive. Until business shall come to be regarded as the beneficent agent for the conversion of human energy and the elements of the universe into things of necessity, convenience and beauty, with equitable recognition of all factors involved, it will ever be a fertile source of deceit and misrepresentation. What a pity it should be so. The very foundation upon which the substantial businesses of the world have been built is good character. Honor and dependability are the bases of credit the world over, and credit is the life-blood of business. 

LACK OF POLITICAL HONOR 

Much as I hesitate to reflect upon our government, I cannot refrain from calling attention to governmental practises which I am sure have contributed to the decline of private and public honor. The old saying that all is fair in love and war seems to be painfully applicable to politics as well. Since no campaign is in progress at the present time, one can speak without great hazard of being accused of partisan motives. False representations of persons and parties, innuendoes and half truths designed to besmirch character, and promises given with no intention of fulfilment, are all so common in our political procedure that our inclination is to suspect rather than to believe, and we seldom take a candidate, party or promise at face value. Sectionalism, trading for advantage and pork barrel legislation have degraded our politics to such an extent that real statesmanship is indeed at a premium. With hundreds of thousands of persons in the nation directly or indirectly feeding at the public crib, utilizing every available means at their disposal, either fair or foul which may escape the penalties of the law, for the retention of their positions, and with other hundreds of thousands seeking to displace them, npt imbued in the main with any motives other than to put themselves in lucrative positions; will any one contend that such conditions have not tended to reduce materially the standards of public and private integrity throughout the country? 

So long as public patronage continues to be the major item in public service, it cannot be otherwise. So long as we tolerate a system of political ethics which permits a man to brazenly announce his own candidacy and more brazenly still appeal and contrive for public support to win for himself an office as if it were a personal perquisite, so long as men call themselves instead of awaiting the call of country, we can scarcely hope for better days in the cause of common political honor. 

DEMORALIZING INTEGRITY OF OUR CITIZENSHIP 

I am driven to the conclusion, much as I should like to avoid it and the reflection which it entails, that the great institution of politics which in its true essence is the science of civil government has harbored so much of personal and group selfishness, so much of craftiness, chicanery, misrepresentation and vilification to gain the ends of self-seekers, that it must be counted as one of the large contributing factors in the demoralization of the integrity of our citizenship. You know and I know that many of the country's best and most capable men positively decline participation in political affairs for reasons which I have mentioned. It is a great pity. We all suffer because of it. I wish we might rectify such conditions. I believe that there is a serious-minded disposition on the part of great numbers of our citizens to do so. The times are fortuitous for a change. God grant that it may come speedily. 

In saying the things I have said it is not my purpose to cast reflection upon all of our public servants. There are many notable exceptions to the general Observations I have made, but they are exceptions unfortunately. They are not the rule in American politics today. 

USING RELIGION FOR ULTERIOR PURPOSES 

And now I propose to discuss briefly the influence of religion on the questions I have propounded for your consideration. It may seem almost sacrilegious to mention it in the same breath with business and politics as a possible contributor to some of our moral maladies, but I must tell you frankly that I honestly believe it has its place in that category. Not that religion itself is censurable, but false and insincere professors of religion have dealt blows to the cause of moral honesty that are even more disastrous than those arising out of business or politics, and this for the reason that religion reaches deeper into the moral fiber of man than the other items which deal chiefly with temporalities. There is no deceit like religious hypocrisy. There is no crook coni-. parable to the pious crook. I hesitate to use these extreme terms but I cannot conceal my contempt for the man who imposes on his fellows under a church cloak — whose life is a spiritual lie. I hope there are not many such in the world. I think they are relatively few but there have been altogether too many who have used religion for ulterior purposes. In so doing they have done infinitely more than merely to bring injury to themselves and the victims of their deceit. They have served as perhaps nothing else has done to destroy faith and confidence in religion itself and in the virtues which it supports. 

I am one who believes that revealed religion is the real mother of all true morality. Certainly for mankind in general, religious conviction is the firmest prop of his goodness. To destroy the prop is to endanger the collapse of the whole moral and ethical structure which rests upon it. I believe that throughout all time the greatest enemies of religion have been found within and not out of the churches. One man professing religious allegiance and devotion but living a lie can do more to tear down faith and loyalty and plant the seeds of distrust and deceit than many good men can repair with arduous labors. 

EFFECT OF UNRIGHTEOUS EXERCISE OF SPIRITUAL POWER 

I hope I shall not give offense if I venture some applications of this principle. The man who uses the influence and prestige of his ecclesiastical office for the furtherance of personal and selfish interests, injures the cause of religion and sows the seeds of dishonesty. Spiritual power is the most sacred power entrusted to man. It is given for holy purposes. If it is exercised "in any degree of unrighteousness," "amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man." Not only is his priestly action vitiated but he has done irreparable injury to the cause of religion itself. Thousands of honest people not able to distinguish between the hypocrisy of men and the cause itself have turned a deaf ear to the appeal of truth. Stories and plays built around the theme of the pretending, insincere worshiper have been a deterrent to faith in men for ages past. Such circumstances seem hard on religion, but are the conclusions not justified? Who should be held to a higher degree of accountability than the one who professes to have received absolute knowledge of God's truth. 

THE STANDARDS OF A RELIGIOUS MAN 

It is the truth that makes men free, free from ignorance, free to choose the right. It is the truth — the knowledge of things as they were, as they are and as they will be which gives to men vision, understanding and wisdom. It is reasonable that more should be expected of those who have the truth. Can a man who has testimony of the truth lie a little, steal a little, or malign his neighbor with impunity? Who sets the standard for a religious man ? Is it the community in which he lives, the customs which have become prevalent? No. His standards are set in the revelations of God. Through his faith he hears the commandments of the Lord declared from Sinai resounding down through the ages : "Thou shalt not steal." "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." He knows that these injunctions are unequivocal and eternal. He knows that they are the foundation of virtue and he knows that they are essential to the eternal welfare of the race. Of course, more is expected of the religious man. 

CHARGED WITH AN IMPORTANT RESPONSIBILITY 

Fellow members of the Church, I may overestimate our position in the world, our opportunities and responsibilities, but I declare it as my solemn conviction that no other organization is charged so definitely with the responsibility of sustaining the true and eternal standards of virtue in the world as is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We know that these standards are imperiled today but I confidently believe that if it can be demonstrated that three-quarters of a million people scattered through the nations of the earth, giving allegiance to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, can live honest, dependable lives, resisting all untoward temptations and influences, that demonstration will serve to convince the teeming millions of the earth that they can do likewise. 

We can make that demonstration in one way only. By being what we profess to be^— disciples of the Christ. How it hurts me, how it injures our cause to see a man, a member of the Church, steal from an employer, default in public office, obtain money by false pretenses, cheat in business, repudiate an honest obligation, lie and deceive for political or other gain. Why, the work of a hundred missionaries can scarcely make amends for the criticism and shame thrown on the people of the Church by one bishop who violates his trust in public office. The loss of money is insignificant compared with the loss of honor. We can and we will recoup our financial misfortunes but it will be most difficult for us to regain our enviable reputation for fair and honorable dealing if we ever lose it. I pray God we never will. 

I think if I were permitted to offer one prayer only for my brothers and sisters it would be this : O God, keep us honest under the pressure these hard times have laid upon us. Let us be true to all men and to Thee. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Central States Mission 

I pray that I may be led to say that which the Lord would have me say on this occasion for our good. There is an excellent spirit among the Latter-day Saints and I do appreciate the opportunity I have had for a goodly number of years of coming home to attend the conferences of the Church and to partake of that spirit. 

I believe with all my heart, my brethren and sisters, that the mission of this Church is to carry the Gospel of salvation to the children of men, for their benefit, not only here but in the eternities  come; this is a responsibility laid upon our shoulders by our eternal Father. 

I believe, too, that we learned this Gospel plan before we came into the world; that we participated in the great program that the Lord arranged for the benefit of his children when they should come upon the earth. And men endowed with the spirit which responds to that plan are yet scattered among the nations of the earth, waiting for the Gospel to reach them. 

It has been my responsibility for a number of years to play my part in the preaching of the Gospel, and I have taken a great deal of pleasure in it. I have no question whatever in my mind as to the divinity of the great calling of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. I am positive that he received that which he said he did from our Father in Heaven, and that our eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared unto him in this dispensation and revealed unto him the true order of worship. This has been made known through the Prophet to thousands of men and women from that time until now. The evidences of it I see continually in the history of this Church, a history that must attract the attention of the children of men who are honest. Men and women who are seeking for the better things in life are being led to the great door of opportunity, by investigating the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

We have a hundred years of history which must stand out as an assurance to all honorable men that no body of people could operate or live as long as this Church has done and make the progress that it has made in the world if it were not divinely guided and inspired. Its doctrines have never been successfully assailed. 

I love the children of men. I believe that I owe it to men everywhere to do all that I can to lead them back into the path of duty. I know they kept their first estate, else they would not be here. And I know that the future life of all men rests largely upon their work here in mortality. This period of time allotted to us is a temporary existence, one where we can prove ourselves unto the Lord and unto our fellow men; where we can take advantage of that which the Lord has revealed. It is a marvelous thing to be able to live in this world, to have the experience of being tabernacled in a body of flesh and bones, taking upon oneself the responsibility of life, the making of a world in a temporal way, accomplishing this through the power of our eternal Father. 

There is nothing in all of his creation greater than the sons and daughters of God. The youth of our country are most appealing. In my travels among the children of men I am greatly impressed by the boys and the girls with whom I come in contact. When I attend to my prayers morning and night I pray for the youth of Zion. I pray that they may turn unto the Lord. I pray that wise men may be raised up to lead them along paths that are safe, that they may be able to enjoy the great opportunities that are theirs. 

It is a glorious privilege to know that God lives; to be able to testify of him without fear. 1 never saw Joseph Smith or his brother Hyrum with mortal eyes, or any of those who laid the foundations of Zion. I never knew Brigham Young, only as I have read of him, but I know that he and those before him labored under the direction of God the Father, and that they established his work in the earth; and that those who followed them, from then until now, have had that same power and influence and authority. 

There can be no failure at all on the part of the Lord's work, if men and women will do their part. I have faith and confidence in the people of this Church and in the priesthood. I am sure that they are men of God, and that he is training them for the great events that are to take place in the further establishment of his work. I am not at all worried over the success of this Church. I know that if we will do our part, if we will be true to him in the calling whereunto we have been called, our eternal Father can accomplish his purposes much faster than otherwise. 

I hope, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to live up to the requirements that have been made of me and the appointment that I have received this day. I can do it if I do my part, and if the brethren and sisters of the Church will do that which I hope they will, sustain me as they do all others who are in positions of trust, either in the wards or stakes of Zion, or in the leadership of this Church. May we all stand for God our eternal Father and those whom he has selected to represent him here in the earth. 

I hope the congregation that was here this morning will read and re-read the address that was made by President Heber J. Grant; and that men and women in all parts of the world will read it. People who are not honest in their hearts will not be swerved by it, but those who are sincere will be touched and led to believe in that great doctrine that was taught here today by a prophet of the living God. It will bring to their souls evidence that God lives and that he speaks through the mouths of his servants and gives unto them the evidence that they may find him if they so desire. 

A There are millions of men and women in this world who are intelligent and morally good, if they can only be reached. We pray that the doctrines of this Church may go to the honest in heart through the mouths of those who are appointed to preach it, and through the living of it by those who have received it as the truth. To this end I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O say what is truth?" Elder William J. Henderson, President of the Panguitch Stake, pronounced the benediction. 


