Afternoon
07 04 1933

Conference continued in the Tabernacle at 2 o'clock. 
Conference continued in the Tabernacle at 2 o'clock. 

Music for this session was provided by the "Singing Mothers," Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett, Director. They sang as an opening number the hymn, "Come, thou glorious day of promise." 

Elder Joseph E. Cardon, President of the Cache Stake, offered the invocation. 

The "Singing Mothers" then sang the hymn, "O My Father." 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I trust that the few moments I occupy this afternoon I may have an interest in your faith and prayers, that the Lord will bless me to say the things he would have you hear. I have nothing particular on my mind, that I would like to speak about, other than to call attention, if I may, to the marvelous blessings that our Heavenly Father has bestowed upon the children of men in the day and age in which we live. 

THE INFLUENCE OF THE ADVERSARY 

This earth was prepared for us, created for the habitation of the children of men, and from the time that our first parents were placed upon it, down to the present, the Creator of heaven and earth, our Heavenly Father, has continued to entreat his sons and daughters to so live that they might be worthy to dwell with him eternally. But when we scan the history of mankind we realize that the other influence that is potent in the earth, that of the adversary of all righteousness, has been able to deceive many of the children of our Heavenly Father, and has prevented them from obtaining the blessings that the Lord desired them to enjoy. 

EXPERIENCES RELATED IN THE OLD TESTAMENT 

We read in the Old Testament that in the days of Noah that prophet taught the people for a hundred and twenty years to be righteous, and they failed to take advantage of their opportunities. The result was that after they had been sufficiently warned they suffered the punishment that had been impending for refusing to obey the counsel of the Lord imparted by a prophet. 

Then we remember how later, when the children of Israel were led into the wilderness by Moses, although they were surrounded by the arms of love of our Heavenly Father, so to speak — he fed them manna from heaven; the rock of Horeb was cleft in order that they might have living water; he gave unto them that sure witness of a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night; they were led by a prophet of the Lord — and yet there were large numbers of them, even under that influence, who absolutely refused to observe the teachings of our Heavenly Father, failed to take advantage of his wise counsels, and the result was they did not have the opportunity of even seeing the promised land. 

THE WORK OF THE SAVIOR 

Then we have the case of the Savior. He came and gave to the children of men the Gospel in its purity. He came to prepare the way for all mankind to be resurrected and exalted, not only those who were then living, but those who had died; that they might be raised from the dead, and an opportunity be offered to them to find a place in the celestial kingdom. Read the history of Israel at the time of the Savior, and see how few there were, comparatively, that really understood, that were able to measure up and be prepared to receive the marvelous heritage that our Heavenly Father has promised. 

AS RELATED IN THE BOOK OF MORMON 

Then we have the experiences of Jared and his colony, and of Lehi and his descendants, who crossed the mighty ocean, and came to the western hemisphere, led by prophets. Many of them obeyed the wise counsels of the men the Lord raised up to lead them, but a greater number were led astray by Satan and forfeited their heritage. 

It seems that all the time, notwithstanding the Lord has been tender and thoughtful of his children, the adversary has had such an influence over them the majority of them have been turned aside from the choice place, from the opportunity of attaining the celestial kingdom, and they will find their places in the terrestrial kingdom or the telestial kingdom; and nobody to blame but themselves. 

Is it not remarkable, when we think about it, that that has been the experience of the people during various periods of the world's history. I have only mentioned some of the notable instances, but since the peopling of the earth the adversary of righteousness has been able, by means of sophistry, by veiled suggestions and delusions, by appealing to the selfishness of men, to lead from the path of rectitude and right the majority of mankind. 

IN THIS DISPENSATION 

Remembering the record of the past let us consider the present. In our day our Heavenly Father has restored the Gospel again. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave his life, as did his brother Hyrum, to testify that the Lord had spoken; and the Church was organized under his direction, and divine authority was conferred. From that time until now the prophets and servants of the Lord have been teaching the, people righteousness. And yet today we find history repeating itself, and there are many of our brothers and sisters who have their names upon the records of the Church who, unless they repent of their sins, will find themselves cut off, as the Lord has said, from the opportunity of enjoying the celestial kingdom when this earth becomes that kingdom. 

In order that we may be properly taught the Lord set apart the Sabbath, on which day he has advised his people to attend divine service, to partake of the sacrament and receive instructions. We meet together in quarterly conference in all the stakes; we meet together in general conference twice a year; and we unite our hearts, our voices and our faith to the end that we may have our spiritual strength renewed and that we may have joy in contemplating what the Lord has said to us. We are surrounded by the temptations of the world, so that if we are not on our guard we are influenced by them, and if we are not careful we may step aside from the pathway that the Lord has pointed out. If we do that, then we have no promise of exaltation. 

HOUSES MUST BE SET IN ORDER 

Every human being, not only those in the ranks but the leaders of ancient Israel and the leaders of modern-day Israel — even the Prophet Joseph Smith himself and his associates — were admonished by our Heavenly Father, and attention was called to the fact that it was necessary for them to set their houses in order; they were warned that unless they did that, unless their families gave heed to the teachings of the Gospel, they would lose their opportunity. That brings it right close to home, does it not — right into our own day ? Let us read a portion of Section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light. 

"And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation. 

"For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; 

"And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. 

"The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple. "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth. "Light and truth forsake that evil one. 

"Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God. 

"And that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the tradition of their fathers. 

"But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth. 

"But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation; 

"You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction. 

"And now a commandment I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house. 

"Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house. 

"Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith, Tun., or in other words, I will call you friends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me — 

"I called you servants for the world's sake, and ye are their servants for my sake — "And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun. — You have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord; 

"Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place. 

"What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place." (Sec. 93:31-49.) 

Isn't it unfortunate that men who received marvelous manifestations from the Lord, who knew the truth, were not able to resist the temptations of the adversary, and many of the blessings that they might have enjoyed were lost to them ? We today are subject to the same influences but we should profit by the experiences of the past. 

BECAUSE OF VANITY AND UNBELIEF 

In order to avoid misquoting I desire to read a portion of one of the sections of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the Lord, speaking to the Church in that early day, called attention to some things. He said this: 

"And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin. * * * 

"And your minds in times past have been darkened because of unbelief, and because you have treated lightly the things you have received." (Sec. 84:49, 54.) 

Let me read that again, speaking to those early-day members of the Church : 

"And your minds in times past have been darkened because of unbelief, and because you have treated lightly the things you have received — " 

That explains why we do not always understand. That explains why we fall into transgression — because of unbelief and because we have treated lightly the things we have received. 

"Which vanity and unbelief have brought the whole church under condemnation. 

"And this condemnation resteth upon the children of Zion, even all." (Ibid. 55-56.) 

NEGLECTING OUR OPPORTUNITIES 

When we think of the date of that revelation, September 22, 1832, how early it was, we realize that the Church had hardly been organized before the Lord began to call the attention of his children to the fact that they were losing their opportunities. 

And then he said further: 

"And as I said unto mine apostles, even so I say unto you, for you are mine apostles, even God's high priests; ye are they whom my Father hath given me; ye are my friends; 

"Therefore, as I said unto mine apostles I say unto you again, that every soul who believeth on your words, and is baptized by water for the remission of sins, shall, receive the Holy Ghost. 

"And these signs shall follow them that believe," and so forth. (Ibid. 63-65.) 

I call attention to the fact that the Gospel was restored a little over a hundred years ago, and hundreds of thousands of people have participated in it. All this time the adversary has been seeking to thwart the  of the Lord and to take from the children of men the opportunity that is theirs. 

Let us examine ourselves. We are living in a marvelous time. The conveniences and opportunities in the world were never so plentiful as today. Never such an opportunity to enjoy the comforts and blessings of our Heavenly Father as now. Yet the world has transgressed the laws of God. They have violated his commandments. I am speaking particularly now of the Ten Commandments. I will not take time to repeat them. You know what they are. But they are being ignored by a very large portion of our Father's children. They are being ignored by some of those whose names are upon the records of this Church, and the result will be that the opportunity to find, a place in the celestial kingdom will be taken from them, unless they repent of their sins and turn unto our Heavenly Father. Righteousness has never been popular with the masses. The popular thing is often the wrong thing. That a thing is popular is frequently justification for the Latter-day Saints to avoid it. 

GOD WILL NOT BE MOCKED 

We are living in a period of time when upheavals in the world are daily, almost momentary. Marvelous things are occurring. The map of the world is changing. The order of government is being modified. In our own nation we are almost helpless before the problems that confront us, notwithstanding we are probably the wealthiest and most powerful nation in all the world. What is our difficulty, brethren and sisters ? It is that men refuse to hear what the Lord has said. They refuse to pay attention to his wise counsel. They absolutely neglect to give credence to the things that he teaches us, and he will not be mocked. He gives us the advice and the counsel that we need, but he will not compel us. But if we refuse we lose our opportunity, and it passes away from us, in many cases to return again no more forever. 

PARENTS MUST SAFEGUARD THEIR CHILDREN 

This is a marvelous organization with which we are identified, these great groups — the organizations of the priesthood and the auxiliary groups in the stakes and wards and mission fields — in which there are faithful servants of the Lord, both men and women, seeking to improve the condition of the world; and I realize how they are resisted many times by those who ought to hold up their hands, and objection is made to the teachings that are given because they are not popular, notwithstanding they are the Lord's teachings. 

We may just as well confront the fact that unless we, as parents in Zion, safeguard our children by teaching them, and by surrounding them by the arms of our love, unless we safeguard them by every possible means, the adversary will break down the barriers that are raised by the organizations that protect them, and those that we love more than we love our own lives will be drawn away from the truth; they will lose their faith; they will fall into transgression; and then we, the parents in Zion, will have occasion for sorrow, not only now but throughout the ages of eternity. Brethren and sisters, these are perilous times. These are the days that the Lord has spoken of. I turn again to the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants and read from a revelation given in 1831 : 

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion." 

We have been warned, brethren and sisters, not once but many times. There will be no excuse for us if we fail to do our part. As one of those whom the Lord has asked to teach, I plead with you to set your houses in order. Don't take too many things for granted. Don't be led into the follies and foibles of the world. Safeguard your families in every possible way. Unite them under the influence of prayer. I thought this morning when one of the speakers said : "Did you pray last night? Did you pray this morning?" what a power prayer is to keep us in the pathway to eternal life and lead us into the celestial kingdom! 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

Nobody else can perform the part that God has assigned to us as parents. We have assumed an obligation when we have been the means of bringing children into the world. We can't place that responsibility upon any organization. It is ours. We can gain their assistance, and it is marvelous the assistance that is rendered by these great groups in the Church; but first and foremost the obligation is upon you and upon me to not only advise and counsel but to train, by setting an example, by spending sufficient time with our loved ones, these boys and girls, that they may not be led into by and forbidden paths. 

VICE AND EVIL MUST BE RESTRAINED 

Only a few days ago a man, a member of the Church, who was in my office, said : 

"As I sat in my own home a few evenings ago I was horrified to hear the things that my own children and those who were visiting in my home were saying." He said : "One of the young ladies, only a girl, said to the others : 'I am going to learn how to drink this new beer, when it conies in. They say it isn't just the same as the near beer that we have been having; it doesn't taste the same. 1 am going to learn to drink it, because it will be popular. Everybody will want to know how to do that.' " 

What does that mean? It means that if we let down the least bit in the effort that we have put forth to hold up the standard that God has created for us, we are responsible to him. I want to say that every voter in this Church, every legislator in this Church, every civil officer in this Church, is not only bound by the laws of the land in which we live, to sustain constitutional law, but we are bound by the moral law and by the advice and counsel that our Heavenly Father has given, to do everything possible to restrain vice and evil in the communities in which we live. If we fail to do that we can blame nobody but ourselves for the evil results. 

HOLDING ALOFT THE BANNER OF RIGHTEOUSNESS 

I pray that during the continuation of this great conference we may have joy and satisfaction in the things that are said, as we have had in the meetings that have passed. I pray that we may go hence, when the work of the conference has finished, feeling renewed in our power to serve God; that we may go to our abiding places determined to be worthy to be called sons and daughters of the living God; that we may not say, because a thing is popular, that we will cast our lot with this group or that. But standing upon holy ground, because of the righteousness of our lives, may we hold aloft the banner that the Lord has given us to hold, bidding all men join us in the works of righteousness, preparing this earth to be the celestial kingdom, preparing those who dwell upon it even now to be worthy to be members of it; that when the time comes for us to go hence, those with whom we associate may be truly able to say that because of the righteousness of our lives we have influenced them to be better men and better women. 

ONE IN ALL THINGS 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. I know that this is his Church, led by his chosen servants, and his divine authority is deposited with it. I know it as I know that I live. With that knowledge in my soul I pray that weak and frail though I am I may continue to keep the faith, that I may continue to be worthy of your confidence, that we may live together in the bonds of love and unity and faith and devotion, keeping in mind this statement that has come to us from on high: ''Unless ye are one ye are not mine." 

Let us be one in all good things, helping and sustaining that which is righteous, encouraging that which will make for better citizens of the kingdom of heaven, as well as citizens of the land in which we live, that when the light shall go out of our eyes and we finish our work we may look back upon lives that have been consecrated to the blessing of mankind, and receive at the hands of the Master of heaven and earth that glorious welcome home : 

Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful in a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. 

I humbly pray for this for all, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters : The thought of facing this great audience here, and the further thought of facing that greater audience who are on the air, is almost sufficient to sweep one off of his feet. From where you are sitting it looks like a very simple matter, but from where I am standing it appears quite difficult, and I must needs rely upon the Lord for his assistance in these important moments. 

I have no prepared discourse this afternoon. It is true that I have had some reflections pass through my mind, and I am trusting the Lord to help me give expression to them. 

EXPERIENCES DURING THE EARTHQUAKE IN LOS ANGELES 

I will say here, before I proceed further, a word in relation to the great earthquake at Los Angeles, in California. I was talking with a good brother yesterday, who said to me that he with three of his children was on the street at the time, and they were about to enter a store in order to make some purchases. But the Spirit of the Lord whispered to him and said : "Do not go in there. Go home." This good brother, perhaps not being entirely certain that it was the Spirit of the Lord, made another effort to enter the building, and turned his car toward the sidewalk curb. Some unusual power straightened his car out parallel with the street and said: "Do not go in there. Go home." lie gave heed to this voice of warning, .and started for his home, lie hadn't gone far before the earthquake came, and some twenty-three people lost their lives in the vicinity of that spot where he endeavored to enter the store. Due to this warning his life and the lives of his children were saved. He also said to me that the Latter-day Saint woman who lost her life had a similar warning, but she failed somehow to give heed to it. 

THE EVERLASTING, UNCHANGEABLE GOSPEL 

The brethren who speak from this stand very often cross one another's tracks. This is not to be wondered at when we remember that we have been preaching the everlasting, unchangeable (iospel for one hundred years. If we shall go on for another hundred years — and if we do not go on for another hundred years and more, our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren will go on — they will still be preaching the everlasting, unchangeable Gospel. Nevertheless, there is sufficient variety in the preaching of the Gospel, from a personal standpoint, such as the angle at which the Gospel is approached, the manner of speaking, and other influences and qualifications, to make these sermons interesting and instructive, if only they are prompted by the Spirit of the Lord. That is the important thing. 

THE SEEN AND UNSEEN WORLDS 

I am led to make this remark, that things on earth are typical of things in heaven. As Latter-day Saints, and the world at large also, we are deeply interested in and connected with both of two worlds, one seen and the other unseen. The unseen world is much larger and greater and much more important than the world that is seen, the world in which we live. The world in which we live is greatly magnified by the fact that we can behold it with our mortal eyes. The unseen world suffers in that respect, because we do not see it with the mortal eye. Somebody may ask : "Can it be seen ?" Yes, oh yes, indeed, it can be . "But how shall we see it?" We must look at it through our spiritual eye, or in other words, the eye of faith. There is no doubt but what it exists, that greater world, and that it is very substantial. The Prophet Joseph Smith has said this concerning it : "There is no such thing as immaterial matter, for all spirit is matter but it is more fine and pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes. We cannot see it, but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter." 

Now, this spiritual world is thought to be, by some people, something very intangible, because they do not see it with the mortal eye, and cannot feel it or handle it. But as I have already stated, it is very substantial in its character. It is to that unseen world that we go when we pass from this life. Now, the thing I wish to say is this : When our loved ones sicken and die they are carefully laid away in their graves. We mourn for those who die, and we say of them that they have gone to their rest in the paradise of God, there to await the resurrection of the just, and that they will come forth, in the first resurrection. All that is very true. 

ACTIVITY IN THE SPIRIT WORLD 

But what does this rest consist of ? I rather think it means that they will rest from their worldly anxieties, from pain suffered in this life, from sickness and disease. All those things will pass away. Freed from the anxieties and troubles of mortality I apprehend that they will be very active. I know some people who have claimed that they saw Joseph Smith, the Prophet, in vision or in dreams, but in all such instances he appeared to be exceedingly busy, busier than ever he was in life, in order, apparently, that he might accomplish some important work he had in hand. He seemed to be in a great hurry. I think very likely that is the case with others who die. Whatever activity there is with us in this life,' it is due to the spirit, or life, within us — not to the body. It is the spirit that gives action, and the spirit, when it leaves the body, undoubtedly is very much alive. 

Another thing I wish to emphasize for a few moments, because it points to the thing I would like to lay before you is this : Sometimes people ask the question (speaking of the activity referred to, of the spirit, when it goes. into the spirit world), "How is that directed? What does that activity consist of ? What do the dead do ?" That is a query that often comes into the mind. It comes into my mind, and no doubt into yours. We wonder what our loved ones are doing over there on the other side. If I should make answer I would say that in my opinion they are doing over there just exactly what we are doing here. Somebody says : "Well, how can you explain that thought, Brother Clawson ?" I explain it upon this basis : In heaven there is the Church of the Firstborn. It has been referred to already in this conference. You will find it in the scriptures. It is referred to in Paul's epistle to Hebrews, and is called the Church of the First-born. The First-born in heaven is Jesus Christ; consequently the Church of the First-born in heaven is the Church of Jesus Christ. THE CHURCH HERE AND THE CHURCH IN HEAVEN 

And then we have the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth, and I should say that as between these, two churches there is virtually no difference, except this, that in the one case the church is upon the earth, and in the other case the church is in the spirit world, or in heaven. The work that we are expected to do here, I am sure we will be expected to do over there, and we will have the means to do it. They who have gone before us, who bear the priesthood, have taken the means with them which represents divine authority. We lose nothing by dying, except the body which must go back to the earth that gave it. The body belongs to the earth. It is formed of dust, and will return to dust. But the spirit came from God, and when it leaves the body it will return to God who gave it. That is good scripture. 

Now, a man who is an apostle here will be an apostle there. A man who is a high priest here, or a seventy, or an elder, or a patriarch, when he dies, will still be in possession of the office he held on earth. The high priest, for instance, will pass into the high priests' quorum there, the seventy into the seventies' quorum, and the elder into the elders' quorum, and so on. It is all one church. All that divides these two great church divisions is the veil, and the principles of the Gospel that govern here in the Church of Christ will surely govern there in the Church of Christ. So the men holding various offices in the priesthood in this life will pass into their proper quorums in the life to come. No doubt it will all be done in perfect order. There will be no confusion, and the good work will go on. 

THE WORK FOR OUR ANCESTORS 

Somebody asks : "How will it go on ?" The answer is : There are many, very many spirits there, men and women who have lived upon the earth, who came into their bodies, laid down their bodies again, and went into the spirit world, who never heard the Gospel. We often allude to them as our ancestors. There isn't a man in this congregation but who has a line of ancestors, and there isn't a woman in this congregation but who has her line of ancestors, and we can't get away from them. A man can't get away from his father or his mother. We all know that to be true. They have a claim upon us as our parents and we have a claim upon them as their children. This is also true of our ancestors. 

Now, there are many of our ancestors who had no opportunity at all in life of hearing the Gospel. That opportunity must come to them. How can it come to them ? Only in one way, and that is by the preaching of the Gospel, and the Gospel will be preached to them, I am sure, by the apostles and prophets, high priests, seventies and elders who have lived and died and gone into the spirit world. The work to be done there is vastly greater than that which is done upon the earth by the Saints of God. There are millions and millions upon millions who have lived and died since the Savior was upon the earth, down to the present time. The work must be done for them. That obligation, brethren and sisters, is resting upon the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are looking to us for it. 

"For this cause was the Gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." 

Yes, live by the principles of God in the spirit, and be judged by the ordinances of the Gospel performed for them in the flesh. How beautiful that is! 

The Savior stands for us. He has given his life's blood, that precious blood, that we might be saved. So we must stand for our ancestors. We must do for them the work that they cannot do for themselves. I call your attention to this fact, that that particular work is perhaps the most benevolent, the most charitable work in all the world, because they find themselves in a position where they cannot move. Their progress is stopped. The Savior said — you will remember the language, it is very clear, very emphatic — 

"Except a man" — and a man means every man, all men — "Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." 

That edict reaches into eternity. It is not surprising at all that when Elijah came and turned the key, the fathers behind the veil would be interested in their children on this side of the veil, and those fathers are looking to us to do the work for them, and we are under obligation to do the work. 

CHRIST IN THE SPIRIT WORLD 

You will remember, brethren and sisters, the injunction of the Savior, when he advised his followers to lay up treasures in heaven. What greater treasures can you lay up in heaven than by bringing salvation through the Gospel to some of those immortal souls of God, his children. It is said of Christ: 

"He hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the spirit : 

"By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; 

"Which sometime were disobedient, when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water." 

So it seems that Christ was not idle while his body rested in the grave for three days, prior to his resurrection. He was preaching the Gospel. He preached it here. He preached it there. Is not that an example to us ? We preach the Gospel here. Think you not that we will also be called upon to preach the Gospel there? I rather like the thought. It is beautiful. Christ sets the example in more ways than one. He gave us the law of the Gospel. He gave us the law of baptism, and he emphasized and magnified the law, by submitting to it himself. He said : "Follow me." In following him he expects us, of course, to do the works that he did. 

THE TEMPLE, THE CONNECTING LINK 

And so we have two great churches, one in heaven, the other upon the earth. They are moving along parallel lines, and the temple of God, it appears to me, is the connecting link that connects the heavens with the earth, because it is through the temple that we will be able to reach our dead, and not otherwise. To pray for the dead may not be of any real assistance to them. To actually help them we must do a work for them. 

The following piece of information, I am sure, will be very interesting to you, and will also be instructive. Something over six millions of endowments have been administered in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints up to December, 1932. Something over eight millions of baptisms for the dead have been solemnized in the Church of Jesus- Christ of Latter-day Saints up to December 31st; 1932. Many thousands of sealings of wives to husbands, and of children to parents, have taken place. 

I think we may reasonably expect that the great majority of these who have had the work done for them will accept it, and if that be the case, brethren and sisters, you will see at a glance that the Church of the First-born in heaven is much greater and stronger, and the membership there is much more numerous than it is in the Church of Jesus Christ, or the First-bom, here upon the earth. 

When I saw these figures I was very much impressed with them. 

THE LAST SERMON OF PRESIDENT WOODRUFF 

Perhaps I will just have time, possibly, to allude to the last sermon of President Wilford Woodruff. It was delivered in this Tabernacle, April 10, 1898. He bore a very powerful and impressive testimony. He said : 

"At the close of this conference I have a desire to bear my testimony before you upon a few principles. I have rejoiced very much during this conference in listening to the testimonies of the apostles and elders who have spoken. It has brought to my remembrance a little of my history. 

"In April of 1838, while in the town of Kirtland, in walking across the street, I met two men who held the apostleship. They said to me : 'Brother Woodruff, we have something that we want you to join us in.' Said I, 'What is it?' 'We want another prophet to lead us.' 'Whom do you want?' 'We want Oliver Cowdery. Joseph Smith has apostatized.' After listening to them, I said : 'Unless you repent of your sins, you will be damned and go to hell, and you will go through the fulness of eternal damnation, and all your hopes in this life will pass before you like the frost before the rising sun. You are false. Joseph Smith holds the keys of the kingdom of God on earth, and will hold them until the coming of the Son of Man, whether in this world or in the world to come.' I am happy to say that these men did repent pretty soon, turned to the Church, and died in it. 

"I feel thankful today that Joseph F. Smith is with us as a son of Hyrum Smith. He bears a true and faithful testimony of his father. I would to God that Joseph Smith had a son in the flesh who would do as Joseph F. Smith does here — bear testimony to the truth of his father. The Prophet Joseph Smith has no son that stands in the midst of the Church of God and bears record of his father. He never has had, possibly never will have. 

"I will give you a testimony here that will show you where I stand with regard to this matter. Joseph Smith never ordained his son Joseph, never blessed him, never set him apart to lead this Church and kingdom on the face of the earth. When he or any other man says he did, they state that which is false before high heaven. 

"The last speech that Joseph Smith ever made to the quorum of the apostles was in a building in Nauvoo, and it was such a speech as I never heard from  man before or since. He was clothed upon with the spirit and power of God. His face was clear as amber; the room was filled as with consuming fire. He stood three hours upon his feet. Said he : 'You Apostles of the Lamb of God have been chosen to carry out the purposes of the Lord on the earth. Now. I have received, as the Prophet, Seer and Revelator, standing at the head of this dispensation, every key, every ordinance, every principle and every priesthood that belongs to the last dispensation and fulness of times. And I have sealed all these things upon your heads. Now, you Apostles, if you do not rise up and bear off this kingdom, as I have given it to you, you will be damned.' 

"I am the only witness left on earth that can bear record of this, and [ am thankful that I have lived to see the day in which I stand. I am thankful to see the sons of these prophets and apostles holding the Holy Priesthood in our day and generation. I do not believe the day will ever come — it is too late in the day, in my opinion — when any elder in this Church will be called to stand before any two of the apostles with us today and give unto them the declaration that I gave unto the two apostles I have referred to. I do not think any of the apostles will occupy that position. I have faith to believe that these men will bear the apostleship, will hold it, and live their religion. They have been called and ordained of God for this purpose. I do not think that one of them will apostatize. I believe that they will be with you and with this Church while they stand in the flesh, true and faithful to God." 

There is another clause here which I wish to read. It has some bearing on what I have said. 

"Brother Cannon" — meaning George Q. Cannon — "has been laying before you something with regard to the nation in which we live, and what has been said concerning it. I am going to bear my testimony to this assembly, if I never do it again in my life, that the men who laid the foundation of this American government, and signed the Declaration of Independence, were the best spirits the God of Heaven could find on the face of the earth. They were choice spirits, not wicked men. General Washington and all the men that labored for that purpose were inspired of the Lord. Another thing I am going to say here, because I have a right to say it, every one of those men that signed the Declaration of Independence, with General Washington, called upon me, as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the temple at St. George, two consecutive nights, and demanded at my hands that I should go forth and attend to the ordinances of the House of God for them. Men are here, I believe, that know of this, Brother J. D. T. McAllister, David H. Cannon and James S. Bleak. Brother McAllister baptized me for all those men, and then I told these brethren that it was their duty to go into the temple and labor until they had got endowments for all of them. They did it. Would those spirits have called upon me as an elder of Israel, to perform that work, if they had not been noble spirits before God? They would not. I bear this testimony because it is true. The Spirit of God bore record to myself and the brethren while we were laboring in that way. 

"What has been said with regard to this nation and to our position is coming" to pass, and all the powers of earth and hell will not stay the hand of Almighty God in the fulfilment of the great prophecies that have 'come to pass to prepare the way for the coming of the Son of Man. 

".You who have gathered here are my witnesses of this. I feel as though the day has come when every elder and every Latter-day Saint ought to stop and consider the position he is in, and the covenants he has entered into. Is there anything on the face of the earth that will pay you to depart from the oracles of God and from the Gospel of Christ ? Is there anything that will pay you to lose the principles of salvation, to lose a part in the first resurrection, with the privilege of standing in the morning of the resurrection clothed with glory, immortality and eternal life, at the head of your father's house? No, there is nothing. I feel sorry many times when I see men who have the priesthood almost forget that they have any interest in the work of God. 

"I feel thankful to God that I have lived as long as I have, and to see as much as I have in fulfilment of the words of the Prophet of God. His days were few. The lives of great men have been strange. The idea of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, only laboring three years and a half in the ministry, then he was put to death. His apostles too were put to death, excepting John the Revelator, and they would have killed him if they could have done so. He lived because God wanted him to live. 

"We live in the last dispensation, and in the midst of the great work that all the patriarchs and prophets since God made the world have spoken of. Afflictions and tribulations await the world. The destroying" angels have got their sharp sickles in their hands, and are going to reap down the earth. Everything that has been spoken by the prophets under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost will come to pass in the generation in which we live. Do not forget it. 

"I thank God we are as well as we are; that we have as many as we have who are united together in the Priesthood. Let us try to live our religion, do our duty_. and magnify our callings while we are here. The eyes of all heaven are over us. The eyes of the world are over us. The eyes of the angels are over us. The Lord has looked upon us and upon the house of Israel to be saviors of the nations. We are here to fulfill these principles. 

"I pray God my Heavenly Father that as elders of Israel and as Latter-day Saints we may prize these principles, and that we may do our duty what time we spend here in the flesh. These apostles and all the quorums of the Priesthood have a great work upon them, to redeem their dead. Do not neglect it. You will have sorrow if you do, and any man who neglects the redemption of his dead, who has power to officiate for them here will have sorrow. When you go to the other side of the veil, if you have entered into these temples and redeemed your progenitors by the ordinances of the House of God, you will hold the keys of their redemption from eternity to eternity. Do not neglect this!" 

God bless you brethren and sisters is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Two young boys, Ronald and Royal Buttars, sang a duet, "What is a home without love?" after which the "Singing Mothers" sang the anthem, "I waited for the Lord." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am almost sorry that we did not decide to hold this conference four days. For some reason or other we do not seem to be able to get quite through in three days. I suppose we have too many speakers and too many ideas. We would like to hear from some of our Mission Presidents. I dislike very much to limit their time, but I suppose we will have to do so. We would like them to bear their testimonies and make a few remarks. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am very proud and happy to be a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which I believe to be the greatest agency ever known to man for character education and for spiritual, moral and physical development. 

I am happy to be here, to give brief report of the mission in which I have the honor to serve, and to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this great latter-day work. 

In the North Central States Mission we have forty regular mis, all well and busy and happy in their work, and the Lord is magnifying' them therein. Were there time I could tell you something good about every one of them. We have sixty special missionaries giving all the way from one or two hours a day to 1 nearly full time in missionary service, and the Lord is blessing their efforts. We have twenty-six hundred members, and though in our wheat-growing prairie states and provinces we feel the pinch of these hard times, our people are faithful and are to the best of their ability living the Gospel as they understand it. 

We have a great many friends, I am glad to say, and their number is increasing. Officers of the law; educators, and the traveling public particularly, have a growing friendliness for the Church and its people. We never meet a man or woman who has been here, and has visited this block, but has a kindly word for Utah and the people of the Church. 

Since the Word of Wisdom has been so forcefully emphasized at this conference, you may be interested to know that not many weeks ago an officer of the city of Minneapolis, the greatest city within our borders, having heard something about the Word of Wisdom, asked for more information concerning it, explaining that he was to appear before the men's club of his church. He was supplied liberally with charts and graphs and statistics, such as were assembled during the great Word of Wisdom exhibit a few years ago; and he later reported having used them in his church with creditable effect. 

But, my brethren and sisters, while friends multiply, real converts to the divinity of this great Latter-day work are few. "We believe in God the eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ." So do many other good people; but not in the same literal sense in which we do. 

Not many days ago, over in the city of Great Falls, where President Sloan's responsibilities leave off and mine begin, a sister told me of a conversation in which a friendly non-member of the Church complained : "You Mormon people seem to think and act as if you thought Jesus Christ himself might have come to the earth to organize your church." "Well," replied the good sister, "what would you say if I should tell you that is exactly what he did do ?" 

The difference is significant. Plenty of honest and honorable men affirm a faith correctly described, it seems to me, as "A form of Godliness without the power [or reality] thereof." Others declare with one of old, "Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, * * * and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe." Real faith in a living, personal Savior is all too rare. 

I have not felt the nail-prints in his hands and feet, but I believe as I believe that I live that he lives as truly and as really as when he walked in Galilee; and I am comforted by his kindly assurance to the doubter of old : Blessed art thou Thomas, because thou hast believed having seen; but blessed are they who believe not having seen — or words <-o that effect. 

We know that he lives for our prophets have seen him. He did come to earth and re-establish his church among men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is in truth, his church. His priesthood is here, and under the ministration of authorized servants, it works to the benefit and blessing of mankind. May it continue to grow, and may the honest in heart of all the earth receive a testimony of its truth and be made partakers of its blessings, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

Several years ago we had 150 missionaries in the Northwestern States. Our numbers have been reduced until there are only 36 today. Because of the great shortage, and I believe through the inspiration of George F. Richards, new light came when we were advised to draft into service local people in our mission. Acting upon this suggestion we now have 293 special missionaries. I wish I could tell you just one-tenth of the many testimonies we have received from these brethren and sisters through the blessings of the Lord. We have mothers with families of two, three, and four children, spending part of their time in this wonderful work along with their husbands. Many of them have reported to me that they have never known such happiness in their homes before. Not only spiritual but financial blessings attend them in their work. 

We have tried in our mission to take the counsel given by President Grant and President Ivins. We have made desperate efforts to rid ourselves of obligations, and I am sure that it has been pretty .well accomplished. Ninety-five per cent of all the contributions made in our mission have come from non-tithe payers, and the tithe-payers are self sustaining. We have counseled our people to provide supplies for their families, and in the homes of almost all our branch presidents and our leading men you will find provisions enough to last them almost another year. One of our branches has sufficient flour, wheat, sugar and groceries to last every member of the branch for one year from now. This spring, as part of them were living in the city and others on ranches, one of our brethren with a large ranch turned over to the people in the city sufficient ground for. them to raise all the garden truck they need, and already gardens are being planted which will provide every family with enough for the coming year. We feel that the Lord is blessing us. Our organizations have never been in a better or more healthy condition, our meeting houses and places of worship are crowded to their capacity, inadequate in some instances to accommodate the people who attend our Sunday Schools and the Auxiliary work. We are happy for this. I could tell you so many things- about our activities in the mission but the time will not permit. 

I wonder if you know, here in Salt Lake, what was accomplished by a kind deed one day years ago. A sister, not a member of our- Church, was stricken with a serious malady. Her doctor gave her no hopes and said she had only six months to live and that would be conditional that she would move somewhere into the . He recommended Salt Lake City. She had never been among the "Mormons" in her life and came here with considerable misgivings^ and unacquainted with the people. She shipped her furniture here and rented a little home in the eastern part of the city. The drayman took the furniture out to the home one afternoon and she busied herself as best she could adjusting the little cottage as her future home. In the evening she heard a rap at the kitchen door and as she opened the door there stood a lady with a tray in her hand, covered with a nice white napkin. "I am your neighbor," she said in introducing herself; "I saw you move in this afternoon, I knew you would not be able to cook today and so I have prepared an evening meal and have brought you a nice warm dinner. Although we are strangers will you accept of our hospitality?" "Oh yes," she said, "And how thankful I am to you for this act of kindness." 

The next day they became a little better acquainted, and so as time went on their friendship grew. The children in the neighborhood made friends with her and were so kind and did many little acts of kindness for her. Her health was restored and a year or two later she returned to her home in the Northwest. 

One day she called me up from the hotel and asked for an audience with me. A few moments later she came to my office, where she related the above story. Among other things she said, "President Sloan, the peculiar thing of it all was that this woman was a 'Mormon' and her neighbor and her children were 'Mormons,' and because of their kindness to me I have always felt from then until now that I was obligated to your Church, and I feel that I must do something in. a monetary way to show my sincere gratitude to the 'Mormon' people who did so much for me." She handed me a check for one thousand dollars and asked that I accept it as a contribution, as a slight token of her appreciation. 

I am sure that the sister who furnished that meal never expected any remuneration. I am sure she considered it a mere passing incident, as any good mother would do. I am wondering if she is still alive and if she is hearing my voice today. It is far better to give than to receive. 

I would like to bear witness in behalf of our wonderful Choir and tell Brother Lund and his associates in this great work what they are doing for the Northwestern States Mission. The hearts of tens of thousands of people are gladdened by the strains of the glorious old organ and our wonderful Choir, famous the world over. You are doing a missionary work for us far greater, in many instances, than our missionaries can do. 

God bless you my brothers and sisters and these men who represent God. I pray that we may take their counsel. May we not only sing "We thank thee, O God for a Prophet," but let us take the word of God's holy prophets, his counsel, and reduce it to our every day practice in life, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

President C'lawson has just expressed the feelings that come to me in standing before you this afternoon. My experience has taught me this, brethren and sisters, that when we are called to take an active part in the work of the Lord he will always make us equal to the occasion, provided we put our hearts and souls into the work. 

I am very pleased to bring to you greetings from the missionaries laboring in the East Central States Mission. We have a splendid group of young men and young ladies laboring in that mission who are active in the service of the Lord. I am also pleased to meet with many of those who have returned from the mission, some of whom are here in the congregation this afternoon. 

We have the spirit of love and unity in our midst, both with the Saints and missionaries. I am very pleased to state that many are coming into the Church, and many others are interested in our teachings and have signified their intention of becoming one with us in the near future. Through the testimony and the teachings of these humble lady missionaries and Elders who are laboring in their midst many are giving serious consideration to their spiritual welfare and as to what the future holds for them. 

I was very pleased to hear the address given by President Grant yesterday morning, in regard to the observance of the Word of Wisdom. Just a short time ago, while holding conference in one of our branches or districts, a young man just blooming into manhood came up to me, and I noticed that his countenance was much brighter than usual; his complexion was clear, his eyes sparkled, and he said to me : "President, I wanted to tell you that for the past six months I have observed the Word of Wisdom. I have quit the use of tobacco." 

I said to him: "My boy, I am glad to hear that. Now," I said, "how do you feel physically? Don't you feel much better?" 

"Yes, I do." 

Then I said, "Don't you feel much better spiritually? Don't you feel now as though you would like to receive the priesthood, and become active in the work?" 

"Yes, I feel that I would." 

Then I said : "There is another phase of this question," and I asked him how much tobacco he had been in the habit of using. 

"Oh," he said, "I wasn't a very heavy user. A package of cigarets lasted me a whole day." 

I said: "What did they cost you?" 

"Only fifteen cents." 

"Well," I said, "three hundred days at fifteen cents would be fortyfive dollars, and sixty days at fifteen cents would be nine dollars — or a total of fifty-four dollars. The other five days at fifteen cents would be seventy-five cents. Making a total of $54.75 a year. Now," I said, "my boy, if someone would come to you at the end of the year and hand you $54.75, what could you do with that?" 

He replied : "I have never figured it in that way." He then went on to enumerate what he could purchase with that amount of money. 

I wonder, my brethren and sisters, if there are many of us here at home who are spending money for candy and other things of that kind, that we could put to better use and especially during these trying times ? 

I am very pleased to state that the health of the Saints, with few exceptions, as well as that of the missionaries, is very good throughout the Mission. We are coming in contact with men and women of influence and of standing in the communities. They are giving consideration to our teachings, and I can see a bright and a glorious prospect for the work of the Lord, in that part of the land. 

I rejoice in a testimony of the divinity of this work. I am thankful to the Lord that I have been called to labor in various capacities from time to time, both at home and abroad, because I have realized many blessings that come to those who serve the Lord. 

God bless you. May his peace ever abide with you, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

President of the California Mission 

I am delighted with the opportunity of at least bearing my testimony before this great audience. Since I addressed you last a great many things have happened. I do not wish, to speak of calamities. I wish to speak of blessings. 

I am exceedingly happy and my heart rejoices, for I realize that in the calling in which I am now engaged I am actually about my Father's business; that I am a soul that has been called, by prophecy and by the laying on of hands, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof, the most blessed work, the most soul-satisfying work in the world. What a glorious privilege to move about, directed by the Spirit of God, feeling his presence, knowing that he goes before you, that he is upon your right hand and upon your left, preparing the way, that you might present for him the everlasting Gospel to the honest in heart; to be placed in a position where you think no evil, where selfishness is done away, where pride is laid aside, where love holds sway, where unity is perfect. What a blessed condition to be in, surrounded with youngmen and young women who constitute the missionary force, the very elect of the Lord, clean in mind and clean in body, true to the faith; to feel their friendship, their supporting love and confidence, brings a joy unspeakable. 

They may have come into the mission field perhaps crude, perhaps with little experience, but they have worked, they have studied, they have prayed, they have practiced righteousness; and then they go forth, in the vigor of their young manhood and womanhood, to conquer, and their spirit is a contagious spirit. It is heavenly in its influence. I love them. The Saints love them, truly respect them. The purity of their lives is appealing, and they win their way into the confidence of all men and all women that are pure of heart. I say they are young. The Lord has used, the young. I think that Orson Pratt was only nineteen years of age when the Lord gave a special revelation, and said : 

"Blessed are you because you have believed; 

"And more blessed are you because you are called of me to preach my Gospel; "To lift up your voice as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud, and 

cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming." 

This is our great mission. This is the work we rejoice in. This is the work we are united in, and the Lord abides with us in performing this great mission under his command. 

The past year has been a glorious year for the Saints of the California Mission. Our numbers have increased to a greater degree than they have increased in any of the recent years that have passed. The faithfulness of the Saints was never more manifest. Their unity was never more perfect. Their devotion to the cause fills them with joy and satisfaction. Could you enter into our branch meetings and listen to the testimonies of these faithful Saints, your heart would thrill because of the spirit that is there present. 

I don't know that an earthquake is an activity that pertains to church duty, but at least it is an activity. I tell you, if you want to have a peculiar sensation an earthquake will give it to you; you can make no appeal for help to any human source, you sense your dependence upon a higher power, you think instantly of the predicted calamities. My heart is a believing heart, thank God, for I have read his holy word; I have read of the calamities and of the testimonies which are to follow the testimonies of the Elders, but I have never longed for the time to come when calamities should be the testimony. Oh, I felt to pray for a stay of the day, that the Lord should multiply the messengers of salvation, that he should intensify the results of their labors, that whenever the day must come when peace is taken from the earth, and when Satan shall rule amongst his own. the Lord shall rule gloriously among his Saints, and their number shall be multitudinous. Oh, may he spare the people and give us the opportunity to labor with them. 

It seems to me that there are thousands and millions of honest and true and undefiled. May we reach them, until they shall say in their hearts : "Men and brethren, what shall we do ?" And may those bearing the priesthood be able to answer, in the voice of God : "Repent and be baptized for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost," and receiving it, may they walk in its light and be saved. 

That is my prayer, that is my labor, and I testify that it is glorious, that it is of God, that it is the true way of salvation in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

I am pleased to report that the Eastern States Mission is in a good, healthy condition. At all events, the work is favorably progressing. Health prevails among the missionaries, and we never had a group more  or devoted, uniformly, than we have at the present time. Although our numbers have been reduced to less than one-third of what they were at the time I was called to preside over that mission, our converts baptized last year were over fifty per cent more than the preceding year, which was a somewhat normal year. 

The tithing paid in the Eastern States Mission is a demonstration to me of the fact that the Lord is blessing the honest tithe-payer. Notwithstanding the chaotic conditions, financially, that prevail, the tithing in the mission last year exceeded that of any other year in the history of the mission, excepting 1930 and 1931. A very substantial portion of that tithing is paid by western members who have moved into the East, some of whom, and especially young men, were non-tithe-payers at home. Notwithstanding their isolation and associations, which would seem to cause them to further depart from the faith, they are more devoted. This shows something of the strength and vitality that there is in Mormonism, as it is called, where it has been taught and practiced in the home. 

I believe that the same is true with reference to the Word of Wisdom. I am grateful to the Lord that I inherited, I might say, a knowledge of the divinity of the Word of Wisdom, and was trained in the home of Latter-day Saints to obey it. I believe, as firmly as I believe anything, if I do not know it, that I am enjoying the fruits, in a substantial way, of a life's effort to obey the Word of Wisdom, and sot testify to the world. When I tell people of the fact, that so many, as I know, of our young people went through the World War without acquiring the habit of using tobacco, and I am able to say, with great pleasure and satisfaction, that such was the case with my own sons, it arouses astonishment in the minds of thinking men and increases respect for Mormonism. 

This is a marvelous work and a wonder, and has a remarkable hold upon the young and the old. In the Eastern states there are more large cities than anywhere else in the country, and in the work of this Tabernacle Choir and Organ there is, in my opinion, the greatest missionary that we have. I have marveled, of late, when the newspapers in some of these cities reported, as a matter of news, the names of our brethren who would preside at the console of this great organ, on the following Sunday. They also give the name of the leader of the Choir, and the details of the program to be rendered over the radio. Their names are becoming familiar household names among many of the lovers of music throughout the nation. These broadcasts are softening the hearts of the people. 

It had not occurred to me until coming to this conference that it might be significant that the pioneering of the work of preaching the Gospel over the radio in our mission originated on the Susquehanna River, not far from where the holy priesthood was restored in this dispensation, that is, in the city of Wilkesbarre, on the north line of Pennsylvania and near the southern line of New York. Since starting there we have preached the Gospel every week over the same radio now for the past two years and eight months. The locality in which we have had the greatest radio success seems to be that which surrounds the Hill Cumorah and the sacred grove — Wilkesbarre on the northeast, Jamestown, New York, on the northwest, Buffalo and Syracuse on the north. When I informed one of the officers of the Columbia BroadcastingSystem, last week, that within the last two years and eight months we had broadcast eight hundred and eighty-eight programs over the air, by very young untrained amateurs, boys and girls of from nineteen to twentytwo or twenty-three years of age, without any previous preparation or special education, he said that there was nothing comparable with it. I asked him if he wouldn't write me a letter to that effect, and I received one yesterday confirming that statement. He said that there had been some extended programs by great preachers, like Dr. Fosdick of New York, but that there was nothing comparable with this work that is being carried on by the Church in the Eastern States Mission. 

Now, let me beg of those who do have the resources, to help missionaries in need. If you could only hear the pathetic appeals and prayers that are being offered by some of our young missionaries who want to remain and fulfil their missions but are compelled to go home for lack of funds your hearts would be touched. My time is past, but let me again appeal to you. If individuals or families alone are not able to support a missionary in the field, especially after he has been there long enough to become really useful, cannot two or three families join together and help each other keep missionaries in the field r I do beg and pray that the missionaries who are there, whom we have trained and fitted for this work, may be able to continue and complete their mission. Many people are ready to listen to the Gospel, as they have not been heretofore. They are humbled and ready for it. 

May God bless this great work, I pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I consider it one of the greatest compliments that cotdd possibly be paid to our organ and choir recitals that the Columbia Broadcasting System — nation-wide — should request us to lengthen our Sunday programs from a half hour to an hour. It is said that the testing of a thing is what counts. The doubling of the program is a splendid testimony of its value, and we all feel grateful to the choir and organists. It is no small task for them to prepare and rehearse their numbers and then come here and spend a full hour every Sunday morning playing and singing to the people of the world. 

I endorse all the good things that have been said about the leader of the choir, our organists and the members of the choir themselves. 

All those who wish to hear the choir and organ broadcast Sunday morning should be quietly seated in this building by half past nine. 

The "Singing Mothers" rendered the anthem, "The Heavens are Telling." 

Benediction by Elder Colen H. Sweeten. President of the Curlew Stake. 


