13
Afternoon
04 04 1904
Elder Elias 

be despised, to be despitefully used, and to be evilly and falsely spoken of. That has been the common lot of the people of God in all ages. If we are thought to be unpatriotic, we have but to turn back to the first few centuries after the time of Christ to behold a people who were persecuted by reason of their alleged lack of patriotism, and by reason of the accusation that they indulged in treasonable practices. It is reasonable I take it, that the churches of the world should have little sympathy with this church. We have come forward with a message that this is the Church of God, and that by other professing Christian churches the ordinances have been broken, and they have strayed from the true path. Naturally this arouses within them a feeling of indignation, and for my part I have something of sympathy for tnose not of our faith in their opposition to this Church, but nothing of sympathy with their desires to trample upon right and justice and constitutional principles in their treatment of us. I believe with all my heart that this is the Church of God. I desire to be a humble and obedient member of that Church. I desire to fill the position to which I have been appointed — unworthily I believe — under the influence and power of the Spirit of God. It is my desire to be useful among this people, according to the capacity which the Almighty has given me, and to that end I pray for the faith of the Latter-day Saints, particularly within my own Stake. I pray God that He may bless this people, that they may appreciate their responsibilities and their duties. Our professions are high, and our conduct should be equally high. It is not sufficient that we should be contented with knowing that we have the truth; we should not stop short of living according to the principles of truth that we have received. We may look among the Christian churches of today and we will find many noble examples of Christian fortitude and sacrifice, which we might very well emulate as Latter-day Saints. Again I pray that God will bless this people, that they may arise to the fulness of their 

S. KIMBALL. 47 

privileges and their duties, and I pray this in the name of Jesus. Amen.
