20
Afternoon
06 04 1904
President John R. Winder. 

Jo-' ph and H\rum Men Tim 

President Lund has expressed my feelings exactly in regard to this resolution. I am proud to have the opportunity of voting for it. 

There is one more item of business that I want to lay before the Conference, in which I think we are all greatly interested, and I have no doubt you will sustain the proposition when you hear it. It is almost sixty years now since the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and until this day no building or monu has been erected to their memory. This matter has been talked over many times, and several propositions have been made. At one time it was suggested that a building be erected on the old Deseret News corner, which should be called a memorial building. At least one other suggestion has been made, that a monument or a memorial building should be erected on the southeast corner of this block. No definite place, as yet, has been fixed for it. But I have been impressed that the time has come when some steps should be taken with regard to this matter. I would like to see a building, or monuments, or statues, erected in honor of these martyrs that would be something for our children to look at in years to come. Opposite the southeast corner of this block we have erected a monument to President Brigham Young, and I would like to see something erected to these martyrs that would be an object lesson to our children and our children's children throughout all generations, and also to the thousands of people who visit us, that they too may have something of this kind to look at. Therefore, I am strongly in favor of doing something to perpetuate the memory of the Prophet and Patriarch, and with this in view I have prepared a resolution, which I will read to you: 

"Whereas nearly sixty years have passed since the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and no public building or monu has been erected to their memory; 

"Therefore, Be it Resolved by this General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, That a suitable building or monument be erected to their memory; that the Trustee-in-Trust appoint a committee to prepare plans for the same, which shall be submitted to him, and when approved he will authorize the committee to proceed with the work and will furnish the necessary means from such funds as may be available for that purpose, and that a book be opened at the Presiding Bishop's Office to receive voluntary subscriptions from any who wish to donate." 

After reading the resolution, President Winder moved its adoption. 

It was seconded by President Francis M. Lyman and a number of others, and was adopted by the conference without a dissenting vote. 

President Smith named as the committee President John R. Winder, chairman; President Francis M. Lyman, Bishop Wm. B. Preston and Bishop George Romney, and they were unanimously sustained by the conference. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

Benediction by Elder John Nicholson. The conference then adjourned for six months. 

The stenographic work in taking an account of the proceedings was done by Arthur Winter. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, Clerk of Conference. Its Semi-Annual Conference, Held in the Tabernacle, Sunday Evening. October 3. 1904. 

The general semi-annual conference of the Sunday Schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Sunday, April 3, 1904, at 7 o'clock p. 

General Superintendent Joseph F. Smith presided. 

There were present of the general authorities: Presidents Joseph F. Smith and Anthon H. Lund; Elders Francis M. Lyman, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith of the Quorum of the Apostles; Patriarch John Smith; a majority of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board. The Tabernacle was crowded with an enthusiastic audience of Sunday School workers and Saints. 

The congregation, under the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens, sang "If There's Sunshine in your Heart." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Abraham O. Woodruff. 

The song, "Peace, be Still" was then sung by the Granite Stake adult class, under the direction of Prof. Evan Stephens. 

Secretary Geo. D. Pyper called the roll of stakes which showed a representation from every stake of Zion and three missions. 

The secretary presented the officers of the Deseret Sunday School Union, who were sustained as follows: General superintendent, Joseph F. Smith; first assistant general superintendent, George Reynolds; second assistant general superintendent, Joseph M. Tanner. Members of the board: Elders Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. 

Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder, Jas. E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace Cummings, Abraham O. Woodruff. General secretary, George D. Pyper; treasurer, George Reynolds; business manager and assistant general secretary, William A. Morton; editor Juvenile Instructor, Joseph F. Smith; assistant editors, George Reynolds and Joseph M. Tanner; business manager, George D. Pyper. 

Miss Margaret Summerhays, Noel Pratt and Wood Pratt of Granite Stake then sang the trio, "O Restless Sea." 

Elder William D. Owen of the Deseret Sunday School Union board then read an editorial from the Juvenile Instructor of Jan. 1, 1904, on the subject of ''Harmony between presiding authorities in the Priesthood and in anxiliary organizations." 

The choir sang, "Rouse, O ye Mortals." 

JOSEPH W. SUMMERHAYS. I am requested to make a few remarks and a short report on the features of our Sunday School work for 1904, viz., district Sunday School conventions. 

We have already held three of these district conventions, one in Salt Lake City, comprising Tooele, Salt Lake, Davis, Granite and Jordan stakes; one in Weber, comprising Weber, Summit, Morgan and Box Elder stakes; and another in Provo, taking in the Utah, Alpine, Nebo, Wasatch and Juab stakes. And in all of these conventions we have had a most glorious time. 

In behalf of the Sunday School Board, we can say that every one of them was a grand success. 

The work in these conventions is altogether different to what is done in our Stake conferences. In the conventions, after the general opening exercises, we take up department work, dividing the convention into some eight departments. We will take, for instance, the theological department. We get the department workers and teachers and all interested in the theological departments of the various schools, together; and there we read and discuss papers on different topics. And we have found that great good has resulted from these conventions, one of the greatest advantages being that every one attending has gone away from them to their respective homes with a greater determination to do their duty as Sunday School people. 

Now it is proposed that we hold like conventions throughout all the Stakes. We intend to district the Stakes into suitable convention districts, and during this summer, and perhaps early fall, we will visit each one of the districts and hold a convention. When I say "we," I mean the general board of the Sunday School Union. 

That we may be better able to district the various stakes, we will hold a meeting in the Barratt hall .next Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock, where we hope to meet with the superintendents of each stake, together with their assistants; and if the stake superintendents and their assistants are not present at this conference, from any of the stakes, we would like some representative. We understand that some of the stakes of Zion are represented here tonight by their secretaries and other persons, and we would like the meeting next Tuesday afternoon to have a representation from each stake, so that we can make the districting as complete as possible. We are sure, my brethren, that much good will result if you will attend and help us. 

I think this fairly represents the situation, and it is not necessary to en upon it. May God bless us and help us to do His will, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
