4
Afternoon
03 04 1904
Elder Brigham H. Roberts. 

Christ a revelation of God to man— Pre-existence and immortality of man. 

Very much to my surprise I have been called upon to address this splendid congregation. In my own heart I could wish that the task had been assigned to another; for I do not believe that any man can stand before a congregation of this kind without feeling his own unworthiness and his own limitations, which make him sense the truth that he is not sufficient for the task. So I feel on this occasion that if I can bring my own heart and soul into attune with the Infinite, and can receive the help that comes from the possession of the Spirit of the Lord, then, my brethren and sisters, something of profit, something uplifting in its nature, something that tends to strengthen faith and to increase knowledge, may be brought forth. 

As the brethren who have preceded me this day, so I will exalt the Lord  your presence. When I think of man, of his weaknesses and limitations. I truly feel the need of turning- to our Father and bringing Him forth, together with the Lord Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit, as the center of our faith and the circumference of our hope. This morning the President an"! Brother Lund brought forth a beautiful theme suggested by this day, commonly accepted as the anniversary of the Resurrection of the Lord. While it is common to deal with a great variety of subjects in these general conferences — and indeed the necessities of the people require the consideration of a variety of subjects — I think it is well and in harmony with the whole atmosphere of our work, and of this day, to devote thought to the Lord Jesus Christ; to speak of Him and honor Him in our hearts, and be put in remembrance of Him and the great atonement He has wrought out for the children of men. Believing this subject to be worthy of our consideration, it has occurred to me that I could not do better than to read to you some items from His history, as told in that beautiful simple manner in which it is contained in the Scriptures. I read to you from' the Gospel of Matthew: 

"In the end of the Sabbath, as it began to daw n toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the supulchre (in which the Lord had lain). 

"And behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. 

"His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow: 

"And for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men." 

These keepers, you will perhaps remember, were appointed to watch the sepulchre at the suggestion of the Jewish Priests, lest the disciples of Jesus should come by night and steal away the body of the Lord, and then report that he had risen from the dead; for they remembered that it had been part of .one of his discourses that though he should be crucified he would arise from the dead on the third day. Recalling , the Sanhedrin inspired the appointment of certain men to watch the sepulchre, lest his body should be stolen. 

"And the angel answered and said unto the women, Pear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. 

"He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. 

"And go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. 

"And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word. 

"And as they went to tell his disciples behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshiped him. 

"Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethern that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. 

"Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all things that were done. 

"And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, 

"Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept." 

It must have been indeed a large reward that these hypocrites and liars gave to the soldiers, for a Roman soldier to go to sleep at his post on duty was a capital offense. But mark this: 

"And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you. 

"So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. 

"Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 

"And when they saw him, they worshiped him: but some doubted. 

"And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." 

"Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 

"Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto, the end of the world. Amen.
