5
Overflow
03 04 1904
Elder Nephi L. Pratt. 

(President of Northwestern States Mision.) 

I arise to speak to this congregation in fear and trembling. I hope, while we are together this afternoon, that we will be blessed with the Holy Spirit in great abundance, that we may be comforted, and have our faith strengthened, and be instructed as the Lord would  us, that when we leave this meeting, at its conclusion, we may feel we have been fed with the bread of life. 

I do not know of a time when, in the beginning of a conference, I have felt happier or more satisfied in my soul than this morning, in listening to the inspired discourses of the brethren. My heart was made to rejoice exceedingly. I felt that to be with the Lord, to feel His power resting upon us, even for one or two hours, as it did in the meeting in the tabernacle this morning, was better than a life-time spent in gratifying ambition, or having the pleasures that the world can give. 

I could not help thinking of the situation of the wicked, those in the world who are without the light and knowledge of the truth. I thought also of the authority and power that rests upon the servants of God, by which this people are led and instructed from time to time. My heart glorifies God that we are so blessed, in the midst of a world of people filled with unbelief, and I wondered why we have been selected out of all the world, and that there are so few of us, fortunate ones chosen to perform the particular work of the Lord in the earth. When President Lund was speaking this morning, he directed our minds to tne glorious future in which we hope to obtain life everlasting. I thought, as I looked over the congregation and saw the white-headed men that are among us, how youth is slipping away from me, and from thousands who, a few yeas ago, had brown or black hair, bright eyes and straight bodies. I looked upon these people today and thought of how mankind, in our present state, in a world of sorrow, sin and death, is subjected to the ordeal of gradually losing brightness of eye, straightness of form, elasticity of step, the dignified carriage of youth or middle age, and becomes old and decrepit; and I thought, where is there an individual among men, in any nation or country, who would not give the crown of a king, if it were his to give, to possess the eternal life and power that was described in this morning's discourse, by our brother who spoke up the resurrection of the dead, to have the vigor and power to eternally live and be all that a man is in this world when he is at his best. That would surely be a boon to be sougrit for. If there were a fountain anywhere in this world from which men could drink and have restored to them the faculties of youth, or of middle age, and nave eternal life, kings would give up their thrones for such a boon; the rich would cast their riches down as nothing, and give all in exchange for life everlasting, even on a world like this. Millions of people would drag themselves across a continent, on their hands and knees, to drink at such a fountain. All mankind would seek it with diligence; it would be the one aim of their lives, as they increased in years, to get to where they might drink at the fountain of eternal life. "Mormonism" tells us about the fountain of eternal life. "Mormonism," if lived here, will improve the powers we have on this earth, and will give us a life that is many fold better, a life of eternal companionship with those with whom we have joyfully associated in this world. Think of Joseph Smith the Prophet being resurrected from the grave, and President Young, and Heber C. Kimball, and other mighty men we have become acquainted with. "Where could we find greater or better associations than with these Saints? Where could we obtain better companionship in this life than that which God has given us in our association with the Saints? God has given to us vitality and power in our organized capacity, that is the wonder and admiration of the world; our destiny will be envied by intelligent people. 

In the Northwestern States mission, our meetinghouses are being filled, where, a short time ago, all the advertising we could do would not bring together "a baker's dozen." In o lr street meetings we almost block up the traffic sometimes in some of the larger cities. The work of God is growing, out there where we are. Thousands of people hear the Gospel now who pre did not pay any attention to it. There seems to be a spirit resting upon the people that causes anxiety in some, and in others curiosity, to hear us. They hear the Gospel preached and feel the spirit of inspiration, and many, like sheep when they lick salt, want to come again, and the work is growing. The newspaper men, formerly, would not print or publish anything about us that we furnished them, but would go to our enemies, like those who went to the enemies of Jesus Christ in ancient times, and obtain garbled stories about us; now they come to us for information. They seem now to prefer to get information direct from us about "Mormonism" and the Gospel; and, strange as it may appear, they publish the truth about us, and publish interviews as they are given, not distorting and changing the facts as they used to do. It is no sign we are apostatizing, because they speak well of us; we know we are not because we enjoy the Spirit, and aie being fought hard by the ministers. Whenever we have a good degree of success we always have a river of slander coming, like a stream of filth, from the mouths of sectarian ministers and preachers. Well, we don't care; it does not hurt us. 

Brethren and sisters, we feel like going on in the work of God; my whole heart is in it. If we left it where co i Id we go? We will stay with it, God being our helper, and be faithful to it, and do good to our fellow-men, no matter what they do to us. We will carry the Gospel to the various nations of the earth, and build up Zion at home. If we do this, and live righteous lives, the Lord will never forsake us. The day will come when the angel of God will sound his trump, when our bodies will be released from decrepitude, when old age will be thrown aside like a garment, and eternal life, eternal felicity, and eternal association with the Lord and with our loved ones will be o irs. That we mav have the blessings of God to be and abide with us forever is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
