6
Overflow
03 04 1904
Elder Asahel 

as to the final outcome of this work. They have received testimony upon testimony to the effect that God is at the helm; they know that the efforts of those who understand us not will be in vain, as in times past. It is the consciousness of the rectitude of our intentions that buoys us up under all these things, and in the face of all the trials and persecutions that, as a people, we are now and have been in times gone by called upon to pass through. 

As Latter-day Saints, we take a peculiar view of life. We look upon our present existence as a season of trial, a probation, in which we are gaining experience', and learning those lessons that will enable us to advance and increase in knowledge and power in th<: presence of God, and that will entitle us to be numbered among His jewels, when He shall come to gather them unto Himself. "We 'regard our condition here as similar to being away from home. We have left our Father and Mother in heaven, become self-exiled from the associations of our primeval existence, and have come down here on earth in obedience to the will of God, for a wise purpose He has in view. We do not look upon life as a pleasure ground, as a holiday, we look upon it as a school, in which we are engaged learning lessons that will fit and quailfy us for the presence of our Father in heaven, when we go hence. We do not believe we have any time to fritter away and waste, or to spend in the pursuit of pleasure, or following delusive fantasms and things that lead from the grand purpose of existence on the earth; we believe that our time and talents and all that we have and are, ought to be dedicated to the service of the Lord, and that we should try, to the best of our ability, to carry out His purposes concerning us, here on earth. It matters not what people say of us, if we have a conscience void of offense towards God and man. If we know we are persecuted for righteousness sake, it matters not, we can rejoice that we are thus privileged. I do not believe it proves 

H. WOODRUFF. 23 

that a people are wicked or corrupt because they are made to suffer. I believe the people of the world will yet find out there is such a thing as suffering for righteousness sake. I believe the Savior spoke the truth when He said: "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad; for great is your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." It matters not that our accusers, those who find fault with our religious belief and principles, are the fashionable, the educated and cultured of the world; Jesus Christ was accused by such. He was brought to judgment by law, and His accusers were the high and grand among men, Scribes and Pharisees, who offered long prayers in public places, to be heard of men, who were careful in the observance of outward forms and ceremonies, "righteous" men! men who were in such condition that they could not cast the first stone at the woman taken in adultery.but who were grieved in spirit because Jesus went about "uttering blasphemy" by saying he was the Son of God. Those were the influences, the kind of witnesses, and testimony that were brought to' bear against Jesus of Nazareth, which brought about His conviction, and death of ignominy upon the cross. The lawyers of today tell us that His death was a judicial murder; so we see, my brethren and sisters, it is possible for the law to be wrong. It is sometimes possible for a few people to be in the right and the rest of mankind in the wrong. It is possible for people to have to submit to an erroneous human law. 

The Saints of God are required to prove themselves, by retaining the testimony of Jesus Christ in the face of persecutions and affliction. We have been charged with being an immoral people. We frequently meet this in our labors in the missionary field; but if intelligent individuals will consider the history of this people they will And a refutation of the charge in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. Surely those were not immoral people who put their wives and children into covered wagons crossed fifteen hundred miles of unexplored country, exposed to dangers and hardships incident to the settling of a new and wild country, and to savage beasts and savage human beings! It is not the practice of immoral people to pursue the arduous avocations and exhibit the self-sacrificing characteristics orur people have. We know it is not the sin and wickedness of the world that our maligners are fighting. It is the Church and kingdom of God that is being assailed, and that, too, in a land of liberty, in the land of Washington, the land of Jefferson, the land of patriots, who fought, bled and died that they might hand down to us, their descendants in many instances, the priceless boon of religious liberty. We resent in our feelings this condition; the inconsistency of the position of many people of the world. We claim the right to enjoy religious liberty, and adhere to the declaration of the patriots that this land should, as intended, be a land where all might worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, as long as they do not infringe upon the rights or liberties of their fellowmen. I am at the defiance of the world to prove that the Latter-day Saints have ever infringed upon the rights of others. They have been persecuted and trodden upon for their religion's sake, but they are willing that other people shall enjoy their convictions in this regard. We will try to treat all mankind as brothers and sisters. We will treat them as fellow-citizens until they prove themselves unworthy. But we do not propose to shake hands with the devil, so to speak, to show how liberal and generous we are. We have nothing to do with him nor his ways, for he fell and was cast out, with other rebellious spirits, and he became the devil. He and his host of unembodied spirits, if they could have had their way, would have compelled men to follow their course, and do as they directed, but that was not according to the plan of our Father in heaven. He designed that we should all enjoy religious lib, and be free moral agents unto ourselves; and it is because we insist upon this principle, and this rule, that we have, in a measure, become obnoxious in the jsight of our fellow-men. The devil is not dead, by any means, nor his hosts, but he is "continually going up and down in the earth seeking whom he may devour," as the Scriptures say, putting it into the hearts of one class to persecute another class of people, and trying to draw men from virtue to vice and to bring them down to death. It is necessary for us to be true to our covenants, and to teach the world what "Mormonism" really is, that it is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored to the earth in the day and time in which we live. 

We have every reason, my brethren and sisters, to feel encouraged in the work in which we are engaged. The word of our Father in heaven has been declared that this Church, which is the embryo of the kingdom that* will come and govern during the millennium, shall not be overthrown or given to another people. We do not need to look forward with such uncertainty as the early Saints, who were taught by the Apostles that an apostasy would take place. It is different in our time, for we have the assurance, through the prophets of God, that this work shall not be overthrown, whether we, as individuals, fall or not, the work of God will continue. Now, I pray that the blessings of the Lord will continue with us during the meetings of our conference and that we may go away much refreshed and strengthened. May God add His blessing; I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
