7
Overflow
03 04 1904
Elder Joseph E. Robinson, 

(President of California mission.) For the few moments I shall stand before you, my brethren and sisters, I sincerely desire your prayers of faith, for one of the hardest things in my experience has been to speak to the Saints of God. I am not afraid of the people of the world, because we have a message to bear to them. We can tell them of the revealed Gospel, that God has set 

His hand to reclaim His chosen people from the four corners of the earth, that His kingdom has been set up in these the last days, never more to be thrown down or given to another people. We can tell them of the gifts, of the officers and of the ordinances of the Church. We can tell them that God has again revealed Himself to men in the flesh, and that He has sent His angels with messages of great joy for the salvation of the souls of men. This is new and strange to them, but to the Saints of God, who have grown familiar with these teachings, it seems that it is like "carrying coal to Newcastle" for me to speak to you upon these things. I know that the Gospel is true. I feel in every fibre of my being that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was His prophet, and was the agent in the hands of God in establishing His work in the last days, never more to be thrown down or given to another people, although we may fall individually, as my brother has said. 

I rejoice in mingling with my brothers and sisters. There is nothing dearer to the heart of the missionary, it seems to me, than to come to Zion and commune with the Saints, and hear the testimonies and receive the instructions of those who are called to preside, those men who are the living oracles of God upon the earth. My heart was lifted up in praise, and my courage was strengthened in the testimonies borne this morning by the First Presidency of this Church, in the message of peace and good will unto all men, which should characterize the efforts of every Latter-day Saint, and particularly the missionary. Like Isaiah of old I felt to say: 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice- with the voice together shall thev sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion. 

We live in that day and age, my brothers and sisters. The Lord has  His children from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south, even every one that is called by His name, and has brought them and established them, as foreseen of old, in the tops of the mountains, where the house of God has been erected, that the fulfillment of the promise made of old, that the hearts of the children should be turned to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children, might be realized; that this Gospel should come in its fulness, and that a full fruition of all the promises of the ancient prophets might be realized in this generation and link the dead past with the present, reach out into the future and make the children of God one in the knowledge of the Gcspel, enjoying its fruits and realizing its promises. 

These men who have been called to preside are the oracles that keep us in the straight and narrow way. If it were not for them it wo dd not be long before we would be in the same condition as the people of the world: we would forget the plan of salvation; we wo'dd change the ordinances and transgress the law; we would be left in darkness; we would be leaders of the blind. When men tell us that the Scriptures are complete and contain all that is necessary for salvation, I would ask: Why, then, do men in this d;iy — men who profess to be scribes and scholars, who have been tutored in the seminaries of the land to be teachers of the word of God to the people— why do they differ as to the rendit'on of those Scriptures? Why will some tell us that belief alone in the Lord Jesus Christ is su;ticient to save us, and others just as well educated, just as well housed as to their places of worship, just as pop ilar among the people and with a following iMst as large, wiK say it is necessary that men should be baptized? Then, again those who agree upon the necessity of baptism differ as to how it should be performed, whether it should be by sprinkling, by pouring or by immersion, and others will say: We we'come you into our faith and will administer this ordinance in any form you desire it. If the canon of Scriptures is full, and it is not necessary to have other teachings along this line, to make things plain nor to have living oracles, why this disparity in the teachings of the scribes and scholars, and those who, like the Jewish scholars of old, have been instructed in colleges of learning, and yet differ as to these things? Who will tell us definitely from the Scrip tures, and settle the controversy, as to who can perform marriages and how i! should be done? For whatever the Lord God doeth, we are told, is forever. Who among the Christian ministers will dare to perform a marriage for time and all eternity? and yet God gave, by the hands of His prophets, wives unto His servants, and it was forever. Tell us who should partake of the sacrament, whether it should be the Priest alone, the close communicant, or all the people. Tell us upon what day we should worship; should it be upon the Sabbath of the Jew (Saturday), or Sunday, the day of the Lord, as observed by the Christian churches? Tell us, if the canon of scripture is full, who has the authority to minister in the rites of baptism, of which we have been speaking, whether it should be the Deacon, or the Priest, or the Elder. It is not necessary, regarding these ordinances and rituals of the Gospel, that God should reveal the way, and make it clear to His people how these things should be done? These men in the world, who would teach us, have the Bible, and many of them have studied it closely, and are converted largely to its teachings, and yet there is all this diversity of opinion regarding these things. 

Recently I was at the Stanford University, and upon the bulletin board there I read a proposition like this, which was to be debated upon: "Resolved that a new religion, for all men and for all time, should be established for the human race." Down in the city of Los Angeles I observed a new structure going up, bearing the name of "The Church of the New Christian Re." I thought to myself that the people of the earth, those outside of our own Church, feel the necessity of living oracles, else why debate this question? else why establish a church called the new Christian religion? If the principles that were set forth by Christ and His Apostles were maintained in their purity, and completeness, there would be no need to establish such a church, nor to debate such a question; for the . Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. It does not deal with the past alone, nor with the uncertain future, but with the living issues of today. Within it is that agency that will uplift and save humanity in every land and clime, if they will but heed its teachings. There is nothing that the heart of man can conceive of, that is desirable and good, that is not included in the Gospel. There has been no system of ethics evolved that parallels the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, as contained in the fulness of the Gospel. Despite the scattered truths that were revealed by Christ, and the great men of the earth since His days, those who have spent years in writing ethical truths have never been able to eclipse the old pagan fathers of Greece, who knew not the Lord Jesus Christ, nor His teachings, and they have never evolved a better scheme for the evolution of mankind, to bring them to a plane of perfection. It takes the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to do this thing; but the people of God are in the minority, as they have ever been since the earth was organized, apparently, for no sooner did Adam and Eve commence to beget sons and daughters than there were those who strove against the righteous and the righteousness of the law. Although Goa had instructed Adam not only in His word and in the plan of life and salvation, as we can see from the scriptures, but also in the art of agriculture, how to prune and dress the vine, how to clothe their own bodies, and how to live, yet, notwithstanding this, Adam's sons re against the truth, and one of them put to death righteous Abel. Even in the time of Noah, despite the fact that there were many great men, such as Jared, Laraech, Cainan, Methuselah and Enoch, who heard the testimony of father Adam— and one of them, Enoch, had walked with God for 320 yearsyet the majority of the people in that day turned a deaf ear to the word of God. Noah labored with them upwards of 120 years to convert them to the testimony of their fathers. Many of them, doubtless, had a knowledge of the Lord, and knew that He had appeared and talked with men, and yet how few received his testimony. Well, after this time, we find that even Abraham had to flee from his father's household, and from the idols his father worshiped, and go into a strangs land and among a strange people to receive the Priesthood of the fathers— which, by right, belonged to him— that he, too, might worship the Lord God, according to the dictates of his conscience, free and untrammeled from the superstitions and unjust laws of his father's household. It was not the majority even, that believed after the miraculous manifestations of the Lord in Egypt. Although He brought His people from that land and overturned, one by one, the gods of the Egyptians, what a short time it was after Moses was removed from them that they forgot God, and returned to the worship of the Egyptian god, Ammon, symbolized by the calf made by Aaron and his brother, and, as a result, the wrath of God prevented all, save two, from going in to the promised land. Take the history of the prophets later: They were subjected to insults and injuries, and many of them were put to death by the people who said we have no need of prophets, we have Moses for our prophet and have no need of thee. This history was repeated in the days of the Savior who called the people to account because they embellished the sepulchers of the prophets, but stoned to death the living prophets. It was the Savior who said to the people of His own country who were offended at him: "A prophet  not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house." He was put to death, and His Apostles, save one, were all put to death because of the testimony they bore,, and that, too, largely by those who were looked upon as the wise of the earth, students and scholars of the law. In this day and generation, while history has repeated itself, by us being in the minority and our prophet and his brother and many of the Saints being put to death for the testimony of Jesus, the promise is made unto us that in this day the Gospel will continue, as you heard by the mouth of the Prophet of God this morning, until every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, when there shall be none to hurt or make afraid in all God's holy mountain. I say, may God hasten the day, and may He help us so to live, my brethren and sisters, that people abroad may sense the fact that our desires are to uplift humanity, that "Mormonism" has revealed unto us that plan, that system, that scheme that will save mankind, being the truth which makes men free. 

I remember one of my experiences upon a railroad train, in speaking to a well traveled lady, a scholar, too, upon some of the ethics of the day. She had been reading from Browning's "Rabbi Ben Ezra," or "The Story of Life," on the opportunities of men. She dwelt largely upon its beauties and the possibilities which it held out to men to become Godlike. Without telling her who I was, I elaborated upon and explained to her the belief of the Latterday Saints regarding the opportunities and talents that God has endowed us with, telling her that inherent within us are the attributes of Deity, and that we only lack the time and opportunity to develop these things to become like the Father. As I dwelt upon this subject at some length, she became greatly enthused, and, having learned my name, she said: "O, Mr. Robinson, I think a man who entertains such philosophy as you do must be able to reach out into the infinite, and clasp hands with the Creator, and be lifted away from the things of this mundane sphere; that there is nothing mean or low that a man who has such grand ideals could stoop to do." She talked in this way and looked at me rather curiously, and at last I asked her if she would not like to know what school of philosophy I belonged to. She said she would, and I told her that I was an Elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly called "Mormons." She exclaimed, "O, horror! horror! I would not have sat there if I had known that." After a while, when she had to get off the train, having considerable baggage, I proffered my assistance, and she accepted it, but I told her that before I would help her off I would like to ask her a question or two. "Why is it that when I told you of the philosophy of the evolution of man along the lines of right, and all that is good and legitimate, that you praised it as the grandest philosophy you ever heard of, and said it was soul-satisfying and elevating, and that it lifted men above the mundane things of this sphere, and then when I told you that this was the philosophy of the 'Mormon' people you turned away from me in disgust and derision." "Well," she said, "Mr. Robinson, it is such a horrid name; why can't you call yourselves something else?" I rejoice in the name we bear, my brethren and sisters, that of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Have you ever thought of the fact that, out of the hundreds of churches and isms in the world, ours is the only one that bears the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that even nineteen hundred years after the Savior's time upon the earth? Of all the churches I have heard of, and we have a great many in California, the one that came the nearest to that name was an independent church on Broadway, in Los Angeles, called "the independent Church of Christ" — not the Church of Jesus Christ. 

I rejoice in the Gospel and in the opportunities that it holds out to us, and in the assurance it gives me that we shall live, as spoken of by Brother 

Pratt this afternoon, and be clothed upon with eternal youth and everlasting life, associate with our loved ones, and answer the full end of our creation; that all of the grand ideals, all of the hopes and ambitions that are God-like in this life shall be met with a full complement, and be realized to the fullest extent in the life to come, and we shall rule and reign forever with Jesus Christ, our Lord. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and help us to realize these things, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
