8
Overflow
03 04 1904
Elder J. Golden Kimball. 

I am ready to confess that I am keyed up to a pretty high tension, and the only thing I am afraid of is that I will say just what I think, which would be unwise, no doubt. 

I feel a good deal, or at least I imagine I do, like a man does when held up by a burglar and he is looking into the muzzle of a six-shooter. I would quietly and willingly hold my hands up, but during the time would think very profoundly of what I would do if given my liberty. We are in a similar position today, but all the men in the United States cannot prevent a man from thinking. There are not Apostles enough in the Church to prevent us from thinking, and they are not disposed to do so; but some people fancy because we have the Presidency and Apostles of the Church they will do the thinking for us. There are men and women so mentahy lazy that they hardly think for themselves. To think calls for effort, which makes some men tired and wearies their souls. Now, brethren and sisters, we are surrounded with, such conditions that it requires not only thought, but the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Latter-day Saints, you must think for vourselves. No man or woman can remain in this Church on borrowed light. I am a strong believer in the following statement made by my father in the House of the Lord in 1856 

"We think we are secure in the chambers of the everlasting hills, but the time will come when we will be so mixed up that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy to the people of God. Then, brethren, look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time, and many will fall; for I say unto you there is a test, a test, a TEST coming, and who will be able to stand?" 

I think we are able to decide thpse matters for ourselves, through the grace and favor of the Lord. We ought to know where we stand. There are a multitude of thoughts springing up into the minds of the people regarding our present condition, and as for myself, I believe if we, as Latter-day Saints, those of us who have a testimony, will testify that Jesus is the Christ and Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, it will bring us all the trouble we can stand. At least, that has been my experience. Our special mission and calling is to see to it that all peoples and nations hear the glad tidings of great joy. Personally, I have no feelings against the Gentiles and those who are not of our faith, and I can say it honestly, thanking the Lord that T am broad minded enough to carry the olive branch in my hand and preach the Gospel of peace to the nations of the earth; but when it comes to apostates and our own people lifting up their voices against us, I tell you there is not influence enough to restrain me from rebuking them. I am not willing to fold my hands and stand silently by and hear apostates abuse our leaders and people. Why? Because they know better. They have been taught, nurtured and warmed at our hearths, and they know they falsify the truth. I will say to the Latter-day Saints, I have no use for a traitor, unless he will speedily repent of that great sin. I do not believe the Lord will give to a traitor salvation, unless he repents. The people of these United States have no use for a traitor. The Masons have no earthly use for them, neither have the Methodists, Baptists, or any other Christian people, and I join them in the cry against traitors and those that love and make lies. 

I will now read to you a few words from the sayings of the Prophet of the Lord, at a meeting held in Nauvoo, Illinois, July 2nd, 1839, with the Twelve Apostles and some of the Seventies who were about to go on their missions to EuroDe. 

"O ye Twelve!" said Joseph, "and all Saints! Profit by this important key— that in all your trials, troubles, temptations, afflictions, bonds, imprisonments, and death, see to it, that you do not betray heaven; that you do not betray Jesus Christ; that you do not betray the brethren; that you do not betray the revelations of God, whether in the Bible, Book of Mormon, or Doctrine & Covenants, or any other that ever was or ever will be given and revealed unto man in this world, or that which is to come. Yea, in all your kicking and floundering, see to it that ye do not this thing, lest innocent blood be found on your skirts, and you go down to hell. All other sins are not to be compared to sinning against the Holy Ghost, and proving a traitor to thy brethren." 

I pray God to bless you, my brothers and sisters. I wish there was more time for us to speak to the people. I say to you, as a servant of the Lord and as a watchman upon the towers, it is high time that we were looking up. I tell you, if there is anything on earth that we need in the Church, in this day in which we live, it is not money or temporal power, it is a spiritual uplifting, and it must take place in Zion, or else there will be a falling away. 

Now, brothers and sisters, in your comments and conversations and in expressing your views, see to it that you do not express yourselves thoughtlessly before the rising generation; don't pass your opinion too quickly.and by doing so cause the young people to fall away from the Church, for they have not received the testimonies that you have. You have a great mission to perform at home. See to it that you do not "lift up the heel against the Lord's annointed," crying out that they have transgressed, for the Lord says, "those who cry transgression, do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves." 

May the Lord bless, direct and pros per this people, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
