9
Overflow
03 04 1904
Elder Joseph W. Mcmurrin. 

I have very greatly rejoiced my brethern and sisters, in listening to the good words that have been spoken to us by our brethern this afternoon; I also rejoiced in listening to the testimonies and counsel that were imparted to us by the Presidency of the Church in the opening session of our conference. I have no doubt but what there was a feeling of joy and satisfaction in the hearts of all the Saints who were assembled together, in listening to the words that were spoken by President Smith and by his associates in the Presidency. We ought to be able, through the training we have received in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, to know the voice of the good shepherd and to follow him, and not be carried away by strange voices or by strange doctrines, by the ideas that are presented to us, from time to time, by those who are not of us. I think we must all have felt that we were listening to the voice of the good shepherd, that the inspiration of the Almighty actuated the brethren who stand at the head of the Church in the counsels that they imparted to us in our morning's session of the conference. We have within our own souls the understanding and knowledge that we are engaged in the work of our Father, a work that has been revealed from the heavens for the salvation of the human race, a work that has been spoken of by the mouths of all the holy prophets since  beginning of time, a work that was engaged in by the Redeemer of men when He dwelt for a little season in the flesh. 

Every man who bears a testimony, understandingly and truthfully, of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, knows that the knowledge he is in possession of has come to him by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, that it has been given by the revelations of the Father, and that he is not dependent upon man for a continuation of that knowledge. We depend, my brethren and sisters, upon the continuation of a knowledge of the Gospel, that we are in possession of, through keeping the commandments of God. Through keeping these commandments we can also depend upon the fulfilment of the promises made pertaining to the future. If we are to have a realization of the glorious things spoken of today it will be through attending to the duties and responsibilities that rest upon us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We must live in the present and attend to our duties as they are made known to us, if we are to have the approval of our Father in Heaven, and if we desire to make our calling and election sure. God has pointed out the way whereby we can make our calling and election sure. 

Those who are not of us seem to think, sometimes, that it is a dreadful doctrine to teach that we should honor the Priesthood, as spoken of by some of the brethren today, that we should be careful not to lift up our voices in criticism of the authority of God, and that there is danger in pursuing a course of this character. It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that we ought easily to understand that, if God Almighty has spoken from the heavens, and has clothed men with His authority, and commanded them to magnify that authority in the midst of the peoples of the earth, He will expect the peoples of the earth to recognize and honor that authority, and especially require this of His Saints, who have a knowledge of the truth. That is a part of the responsibility that has come to us through the Gospel. While we do not believe we should worship men, or that there is anything in the Gospel that requires any man or woman to give undue or improper reverence 1 to any man, we do believe the Gospel requires that every soul shall recognize the authority God has established, and that they shall follow that authority. That has always been the case in every age of the world. Whenever God has had His authority upon the earth he has demanded this of the people; and He has abundantly blessed those who have hearkened to His counsel, and who have been true to His representatives. 

My brethren and sisters, let us take warning from the words that have been spoken. We should remember that the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is and always has been. "Peace on earth and good will to man," as stated by one of the First Presidency this morning. It is the mission of this great peoplenot the few men who are abroad in the world preaching the Gospel, nor just the few men who compose the Council of the Twelve, nor any other organization of the Priesthood alone — it is the mission of the entire people that their lives, their conversations and example shall declare to all the world we love peace. We have received the message of truth, and it is our mission to bear record to the divine will of our Father in heaven and preach the Gospel, that men may be saved. Our Father revealed in the very beginning of this work, as men became anxious to know the will of God concerning themselves, that the most important thing men could do was to cry repentance to the people, to teach the doctrines of the Gospel, and that if they labored through their entire lives and saved but one soul, great should be their reward and their joy in the kingdom of our Father. We need to save souls at home; we need to be doing things, to be laboring diligently, that our skirts may be clear, and that we may be justified. It is written in the revelations that we are not to wait to be commanded in all things. Sometimes we appear to think that the Bishop, or some other authority, should  labor for us, and that we are not to do anything unless we are instructed or appointed to do it. God has said: It is given to man, by his own agency, to seek to bring to pass much righeousness, of his own volition and of his own will, without commandment from any source; and he that waiteth to be commanded in all things is a slothful and an unwise steward. 

Now, we need to be doing the things that have been suggested to us today, and the things that will be suggested in the counsels that may be imparted to us in other meetings. By doing so we shall be firmly established in the everlasting Gospel, and no experiences can ever come to us then that will wrest us from the foundation upon which we stand, if we stand upon the foundation of obedience to the things of God we will always see the light and rejoice therein. There will be no fear in our hearts; for the Spirit of the Lord will be with us, and the Spirit of the Lord casteth out all fear. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may power be given unto us to be true and faithful to our covenants, and to each other, and to our Father in heaven, is my prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
