Afternoon
03 04 1904


PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Causes of the unity of the Saints— Necessity for continuous faithfulness to God— An admonition to the people. 

It is about three years since I stood before so large a congregation. During that time I have been abroad, and have always felt that we were greatly favored when we could meet from one hundred to six hundred people. I greatly desire your sympathy, your faith and prayers, and the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord. If the Lord speaks through me, I am sure I shall be edified in speaking and you will be in listening. I greatly enjoyed the measure of the Spirit given to our brethren this morning, and the word of the Lord that we listened to through them. I feel disposed to read to you a few words uttered by the Savior on the occasion of His first visit to the people of Nephi. They are to be found in the eleventh chapter of III Nephi, in the Book of Mormon: 

"And the Lord commanded him (Nephi) that he should arise. And he arose and stood before them. "And the Lord said unto him, I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven. 

"And again the Lord called others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize. And he said unto them, On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no disputations among you. 

"Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words, and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them; behold, ye shall go> down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them. 

"And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say, calling them by name, saying, 

"Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. 

"And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water. 

"And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name, for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one. 

"Ana according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize. And there shall be no  disputations among you, as there hath hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you concerning the points of my doctrine, as there hath hitherto been; 

"For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another. 

"Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be dene away. 

"Behoid; verily, verily, I say unto you, I will declare unto you my doctrine. 

"And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me, and I bear record that the Father commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me; 

"And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God. 

"And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be damned. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, that  is my doctrine, and I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me believeth in the Father also, and unto him will the Father bear record of me; for He will visit him with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. 

"And thus will the Father bear record of me, and the Holy Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are one." 

It is a great mystery to the people of the world how the Latter-day Saints hold so unitedly together as a people, why there is such a fraternal, binding feeling existing between them. Quite generally they look upon it as the result of compulsory power, exercised by the leaders of the Church. How incorrect this idea is! What holds this people together so solidly, and what makes them willing to labor for the salvation of the children of men, at the sacrifice of their own worldly affairs and interest, is answered in the text I have just read to you. These words were uttered on the occasion of the visit of the Savior to the Nephites. The Savior's ministry i n the flesh commenced when the Father announced: "This is my beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased." That was the introduction of the Son, by the Father, to the people in Judea. That also was the Introduction by the Father to the Nephites, in the land Bountiful, after the Savior had been crucified, resurrected, and had ascended to the Father. With this, as in Judea, He introduced the Gospel among the Nephites. We find also that, in our own day, the Father has deigned to speak again, and introduce His Son, Jesus, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Savior, as in Judea, and in the land Bountiful, so in our own beloved country, started the work of the Lord, and taught His doctrines to the Prophet Joseph, to Oliver Cowdery, and to others, giving them authority to preach the Gospel, to baptize repentant sinnerg and to install them as members of His Church. Having done this, the Father bearing record of the Son and the Son bearing record of the Father, He announced the sacred truths of the Gospel, and declared it is eternal life to know 

God and Jesus Christ whom He hath sent; and that it is necessary to receive the Holy Ghost, who is given to all who repent of their sins and are baptized for the remission of them. This is the course that has been taken in the introduction' of the Gospel, as recorded in the Jewish and Nephite scriptures, and in the scriptures of the present day. The form of baptism, the words to be used, the declaration of faith and repentance necessary, are the same in all the scriptures. All the doctrines laid down by the Savior for the salvation of the children of men are indispensable; no man in this or any generation can ever enter into and inherit the kingdom of God, except he believes and obeys these doctrines. They who receive and conform to these principles, receive the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, through their faith, repentance, obedience, integrity, and devotion to 1 the work of God while they live in the flesh. The Holy Ghost inspires every faithful heart. It is His power that brings you here today; it is His inspiration that prompted you to leave your homes, to travel hundreds of miles to the headquarters of the Church, for the purpose of worshiping the Lord and listening to the counsels of His servants. The Lord has spoken to us today by the inspiration of His Spirit. Ho has been present with us by His Spirit Every Latter-day Saint has been moved upon by that same Spirit, and record has been borne in our hearts that we have listened to the word and the will of the Lord. That is the power, the secret power, that binds our hearts together and makes them respond as one, no matter where we may be. "We may be thousands of miles apart, yet we are in unison, because bound together and inspired by the one Spirit. It is the same Spirit which binds the Father and the Son and makes them one. As the Father and the Son are one, so are we one. This is accomplished through our faith, repenting of our sins, cleansing our hearts, and living lives of purity before Him. We may make a good start, but if we fail to continue in our  works and in our devotion to the Lord, that Spirit will diminish within us, and as His influence grows less within us, we are inclined to divide one against the other and receive the spirit of the world. Then it is that every man is for himself, following the imaginations of his own heart instead of being guided by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. I would like us to understand and realize this. Every Latterday Saint is an important factor in this great Latter-day work. In a sense, the Lord counts upon you, my brother, my sister, mv neighbor, my friend. He depends upon you, He needs you in His work, He needs your service, your faith, your attention; He needs you to stay at home and He needs you to go abroad; He needs you to hold official positions, and He needs you to labor without official positions; He needs your services every day, under the inspiration of the Holy . Ghost. Not that His work depends upon you, but only for your salvation, He needs our righteous services that we may be saved; He needs my services that I may be saved and redeemed; He needs my devotion and faithfulness every day of my life. My life will not be too long, neither will yours, and the nearer we come to the end, the shorter will appear to us the time the Lord has allowed us to live on the earth. We may regret hereafter that we have not made better use of the years that have been allowed us, for at most they are not many. A hundred years is not a very lengthy period, and few of us, if any, will live to that age. As we get into the sixties, seventies, and eighties, the time begins to seem remarkably short to us. We may then wish we had worked harder, had been more faithful, and devoted more hours and minutes to the service of the Lord. We realize the fact — which is as true as that we are here today — that every man is rewarded according to the extent and quality of his life's work; just as men are rewarded by earthly employers according to the diligence, devotion, faithfulness, wisdom and judgment they exercise in the labors they perform. The Lord requires of us the choicest efforts we can make — intellectual, physical, moral and spiritual, all that we can accomplish. He desires that we shall be amply rewarded, and the supply of reward and blessing for the children of men is not limited. There is an abundance for every man, woman and child that ever was or ever will be upon the earth. After they have received all they earn through their faithfulness, there will be a boundless store of blessings left. As eternity continues and can never grow less,so the blessings and favor of the Lord are not wasted or diminished by the appropriation of them; hence we need not fear they will become exhausted. Space, matter, truth and righteousness are illimitable and the blessings and favor of the Lord are also limitless. We are confined to the little world we live upon today — a few thousand miles around it — and that is the limit we can traverse in worldly affairs; but it is not the limit of the universe. The numberless worlds like this, and the inexhaustible materials of which they are made, are incomprehensible to our minds. Men are limitless also in number. The few hundred millions who dwell upon this earth today are but as "a drop in the bucket" compared with the posterity of our Father who dwells in heaven. One reason we are here is that we may have posterity, that we may multiply and replenish the earth, and increase in numbers. 'We are here that we may increase also in righteousness, and in all things that are essential to salvation. We are here to lay the foundation for these purposes, and we have not time to waste, we cannot spare one moment; every hour needs to be utilized, and most precious they will appear to ua when we come near to the end. When a man who has neglected his duties feels that there are only a few years, or a few weeks, more time allotted to him, how he does want to live; how he wishes he had gone to the temple; how he wishes he had performed a mission abroad, or more missions; how he wishes he had been devoted all his life to the work of the Lord. Perhaps he has  taste of the joy of having done a little; has worked a few years — forty or fifty — but wishes he had done more. He hag spent, possibly, too much of his time endeavoring to gather means. He may not have gathered much, because men are not numerous ' who gather a great deal of means; as a rule, we have but little. We may not have been sufficiently devoted to the things of God, to the interests of Zion, to spreading the doctrines of the Lord, and to using an influence with our neighbors and friends at home and abroad, to bring them to repentance and salvation. 

Let me exhort you, my brethren and sisters, who are here today in many thousands, oh! be determined from this time to serve the Lord more diligently the rest of your lives. I want to do it myself. Let us all serve the Lord better; let us be more faithful and devoted, let us be more consistent and wise, let us do our duty faithfully and well as Latter-day Saints, as citizens of the cities, counties and states of our nation. Let us see how much we can do that may assist men to be blessed and redeemed, that they may be warned and brought up out of their 1 fallen state into a condition of righteousness, with the favor and blessing of God upon their heads. Let us live so that we may enjoy the knowledge,inspiration, and light that was so beautifully portrayed to the Nephites, as I have read to you. The same doctrines and principles have been laid just as plainly before us, in the restoration of the Gospel to this people, as they were to the Nephites and to ancient Israel. There has been the same carefulness and consideration from our heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, and the same manifestation of powers, gifts and graces unto- this people as was extended to Israel in Judea, and unto the Nephites. The Lord has been merciful and kind unto us in this dispensation, and has set His hand for the last time; in other words, has planted His work for the last time upon this earth, and it will remain unto the end. This work will yet be tolerated by the peoples  the world. We will remain among them; we will he friendly and seek to do good to them; we will labor for their salvation, as we have ever done, and still better as we learn how to work more wisely. 

It is delightful to meet with such a body of Latter-day Saints. The Spirit which comes upon every man who repents and is baptized for the Remission of his sins, is with this people. We enjoy it every day, possibly not as much as we ought to, but we do possess it nevertheless. We have, it in our meetings, in our wards, in our organizations, and in the councils of the Priesthood. We are thus inspired of the Lord, and made one. We enjoy that Sprit until it becomes almost common with us. We do not always realize what a large measure of the Spirit of the Lord is in our homes with our families, enabling us to live for years together without contention. Under its influence a man may live a long lifetime without quarreling with his neighbors. Although the Lord has provided Church courts to adjust difflcul-ties, and officials to correct iniquity in members of the Church, every Latterday Saint should see to it that he enjoys a measure of inspiration sufficient to take care of himself, to direct and control his own life, to bring out all the good that is in him, and prevent him doing anything that is wrong, or that would make trouble with his neighbor; always living by the rule of right and peace that brings happiness to humanity. Everyone of us should endeavor to act that way. I should walk among the children of men so that no exceptions need be taken to my course of life. I ought to be so modest, reserved, and circumspect in every movement of my life, and in my ministry, that no man or woman will feel offended at me, otherwise I have need to repent and reform. You, my brethren and sisters, should walk in like manner. Let us all so order our lives that we may be able to approach our heavenly Father. When there is sickness in our families, or when we are  to administer to the sick among our neighbors, we should always be prepared with influence and power from the Lord to bestow blessings, impart counsel, or exhort the people, and possibly reprove sometimes, helping all in the path that leads to eternal life. By observance of the laws of the Lord we are led in the straight and narrow way, and the Holy Spirit alone can keep us there. We have power to so live that the Spirit of the Lord may dwell with us. We cannot be Latter-day Saints without the Spirit of the Lord; and should not try to live without it. Do not try to speak without the Spirit of the Lord; do not try to build up the kingdom of God without the direction of His Spirit. If we endeavor to do these things by our own wisdom we will be sure to go astray and make mistakes. It is the office and calling of the Spirit of the Lord to dwell with you always; to be in your homes with your families; in your neighborhoods, and in your business affairs, on the Sabbath day and throughout the week, and every day in the year, if you do right. 

The Spirit of the Lord should dwell richly in our hearts, for the redeemed are the temples of that Spirit. We are sent here that the Spirit of God may domicile in our hearts. That was a part of the design in our coming. Without it, joy cannot be obtained, and the object of our being will not be realized. By the inspiration of that Spirit, when President Smith and his brethren stand up here and speak to us, we know that the Lord is with them; we feel it in our bones, and in every fiber of our being, that God is with the President and speaks through him. Our hearts are touched, and the Spirit of God bears record in our souls that he is a man of God. He has done the will of the Lord, and we recognize the spirit and power by which he speaks. That is your privilege, my brethren and sisters, as well as it is mine. You have recognized unquestionably that the Spirit of God has inspired the words spoken. Thus the Lord has spoken, the word of the Lord, the mind of the Lord, and the purposes of the Lord have been announced through his servants to whom we have listened. 

The Lord is with this people. He has not forsaken them because the Prophet Joseph was slain. He has not forsaken this work because the Prophet's successors have passed away. He will not forsake this work, though those who preside now may die; and those who lead Israel today will no doubt pass away in due time when their work is accomplished. But this work will go on and endure; it will increase, as it has done; it will spread over the borders into the states and territories that surronud us, and our neighbors will love us and bless us, and will seek after us. They will appreciate the people who belong to this Church; for they are a good people, as a rule. They love righteousness, they are honest, upright and virtuous; they are ready and willing to do what God requires; they are His servants and handmaidens, and are not easily shaken in their faith, thank the Lord! Never mind what occurs; never mind what my weaknesses are, nor what anybody's weaknesses are; do> not trouble about any mistakes that may be made. Remember that the Lord makes no mistakes. Men make mistakes, but God never does. He knows what is right and proper. He knows what should be done, and how and when it should be done; and He leads His Church and people gently along, and will' lead them unto salvation. 

This is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, after I have been away from you three years. Oh! how I have rejoiced when I have heard and read of the prosperity of Zion, and felt the spirit of Zion. With all the changes that have been made, I have been able to recognize that the Lord is here. It makes no difference what changes may come, the Lord never changes. He is here, and you are His sons and daughters. He has inspired you, and He would inspire you many times' more if you would put yourselves in condition to receive more of His Spirit. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. It is hard for me to talk so loud and to such a large congregation, and I shall have to cease; I pray the Lord to bless Icrael and the leaders of Israel. I pray the Lord to stay with us by His Spirit and never forsake us; for in Him we have strength and power, wisdom and judgment, and He will control and guide us. He will bless these men who are called to stand at the head of stakes; He will bless our sisters who stand at the head of associations; He will pour out His Spirit on them,; He will remember the mothers who take care of the households, and who train their children in the way of life and salvation; and He will bless all. the families of the Saints. God will be with us and sustain us. I thank Him for the measure of His Spirit that we enjoy today in this splendid T£l)".rnacle. God bless Israel forever, in the name of Jesus Christ. .A mm. 

The choir then sang, "Who Are These Arrayed in White," the duet part being rendered by Mrs. Bessie Browning and William Phillips. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

Christ a revelation of God to man— Pre-existence and immortality of man. 

Very much to my surprise I have been called upon to address this splendid congregation. In my own heart I could wish that the task had been assigned to another; for I do not believe that any man can stand before a congregation of this kind without feeling his own unworthiness and his own limitations, which make him sense the truth that he is not sufficient for the task. So I feel on this occasion that if I can bring my own heart and soul into attune with the Infinite, and can receive the help that comes from the possession of the Spirit of the Lord, then, my brethren and sisters, something of profit, something uplifting in its nature, something that tends to strengthen faith and to increase knowledge, may be brought forth. 

As the brethren who have preceded me this day, so I will exalt the Lord  your presence. When I think of man, of his weaknesses and limitations. I truly feel the need of turning- to our Father and bringing Him forth, together with the Lord Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit, as the center of our faith and the circumference of our hope. This morning the President an"! Brother Lund brought forth a beautiful theme suggested by this day, commonly accepted as the anniversary of the Resurrection of the Lord. While it is common to deal with a great variety of subjects in these general conferences — and indeed the necessities of the people require the consideration of a variety of subjects — I think it is well and in harmony with the whole atmosphere of our work, and of this day, to devote thought to the Lord Jesus Christ; to speak of Him and honor Him in our hearts, and be put in remembrance of Him and the great atonement He has wrought out for the children of men. Believing this subject to be worthy of our consideration, it has occurred to me that I could not do better than to read to you some items from His history, as told in that beautiful simple manner in which it is contained in the Scriptures. I read to you from' the Gospel of Matthew: 

"In the end of the Sabbath, as it began to daw n toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the supulchre (in which the Lord had lain). 

"And behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. 

"His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow: 

"And for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men." 

These keepers, you will perhaps remember, were appointed to watch the sepulchre at the suggestion of the Jewish Priests, lest the disciples of Jesus should come by night and steal away the body of the Lord, and then report that he had risen from the dead; for they remembered that it had been part of .one of his discourses that though he should be crucified he would arise from the dead on the third day. Recalling , the Sanhedrin inspired the appointment of certain men to watch the sepulchre, lest his body should be stolen. 

"And the angel answered and said unto the women, Pear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. 

"He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. 

"And go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. 

"And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word. 

"And as they went to tell his disciples behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshiped him. 

"Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethern that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. 

"Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all things that were done. 

"And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, 

"Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept." 

It must have been indeed a large reward that these hypocrites and liars gave to the soldiers, for a Roman soldier to go to sleep at his post on duty was a capital offense. But mark this: 

"And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you. 

"So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. 

"Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 

"And when they saw him, they worshiped him: but some doubted. 

"And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." 

"Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 

"Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto, the end of the world. Amen." 

I think that is a beautiful chapter worthy of all acceptation. Every effort for effect, all the tricks and cunning- of so-called skillful writing-, are absent, and the truth is stated in that form which best becomes her— in simplicity and modesty. I read this chapter that we may enter into its spirit, and have it recall to our minds the great truths relating to this part of the life of our Savior and Redeemer. 

I rejoiced this afternoon in the reading by President Lyman from the words of the Third Nephi, wherein the advent of the Savior into this western world is proclaimed, and where so explicitly and plainly the great truths and ordinances of salvation are set forth. And as he read I recalled the fact that audiences in this city have been listening recently to criticisms of the book in the Book of Mormon known as "Third Nephi," and the question has been discussed whether or not it is entitled to be considered a "fifth gospel." You know we have the history of Messiah's birth, life and ministry in four books in the Jewish scriptures, and this III Nephi gives an account of his ministry on this hemisphere; and as I say, the question has been discussed as to whether it is to be considered a "fifth gospel." By the way, partly in objection, it has been stated that it contains no new truth; that it is unlike the gospels in the Jewish Scriptures in this, that w r hile Mark adds something to what Matthew has said, and Luke adds something to what Mark has said, and the gospel according to St. John is generally considered the supplementary gospel by way of pre-eminence, because it adds so much that the others have omitted; but it is claimed that the Third Book of Nephi or the "fifth gospel," adds nothing to Christian knowledge concerning salvation. They are very much mistaken. The passage which Elder Lyman read here this afternoon would put to silence several very great controversies throughout Christendom if men would but accept that "fifth gospel." This remark, however, is merely by the way. 

I come back to the anniversary that  celebrate on this day — the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. I am glad that there are so many millions this day rejoicing in this one great truth of the Christian religion — the fact of the resurrection of the dead; the hope of immortality, which it teaches to mankind. The various sects of Christendom may be in error in relation to many things, and in error concerning some matters pertaining to this fact of the resurrection; but I rejoice that through all the apostasy from the true religion of Jesus Christ this one part of the Gospel remains in % the minds and hearts of so many people, and is with them a hope and an inspiration to higher and to better living. When the Church as an organization ceased to exist; when, as we may say, that glorious sun set behind the horizon of man's vision, it did leave, at least, some lights in the sky that reflected some portions of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The dispensation of the gospel, which we call the dispensation of the meridian of time, because that dispensation was given about midway between the commencement of the work of the Lord in this world by the creation of Adam, and the final winding up scene which shall complete the salvation of men and the redemption of the world — I say that that dispensation of the Gospel, occurring midway between these two great events, was glorious in many respects. It was glorious in this for one thing— it brought forth a full and complete revelation of God through the person and character of the Lord Jesus Christ. For, in addition to the work of redemption that He wrought out for mankind, Jesus Christ stood forth as the revealed Deity, aSt God manifested in the flesh, the revelation of God to man; so that henceforth all the mists that befog philosophy, all the errors of science falsely so called, all the mystery that Paganism had interwover with this theme, might stand remove from the vision of man, and hencefort God should be known not only as to th fact of His being, but also as to tht kind of being He is. It was the design  the Lord that man henceforth should see divinity — God revealed through the person and character of Jesus Christ. And that truth remains in the earth; it is a standard by which we may measure the teachings of any who shall come proclaiming Deity. Does he measure up, and is He identical with Jesus of Nazareth, the revelation of God to man? If not, then we know that teacher who so fails is in error; for as Jesus Christ is in His resurrected immortal body of flesh and bone — as Jesus Christ is in His mental, moral and spiritual nature, so God is. 

Now, that truth came forth in its fullness in the dispensation ot the meridian of time, and also this splendid truth which is having such an influence in the hearts of men — the resurrection of the dead. The great truth that man must live, and live eternally; that he is and will be, in his resurrected personage, an indestructible being. Running parallel with that great truth is this other truth, that he must school himself to live in harmony with truth as God reveals it. The sooner he learns that lesson the sooner will 'he be in the way of perpetual and eternal happiness. He must conform to law, for it is universal and infinite. It is everywhere operating. Man cannot escape it. Observance of the law will bring him happiness and peace, and he will find himself in harmony with all the infinities through obedience to( law. 

These are some of the splendid truths of our common Christian heritage, and I am very happy that there are so many millions who participate with us, in part at least, in a knowledge of these great things. 

During the remarks of our President this morning I was reflecting upon the subject of the resurrection of the Savior, and of the many congregations that would assemble to do Him honor this day, and I thought, what is it that we have to offer the world that they <to not now possess? For, in their misconception of this latter-day work, men ave narrowed it down until they miss *he really fundamental truths upon which the Church of Christ m these last days is based, and fail to grasp  genius of this great work, just as it has been explained to us by Elder Lyman, that they misconceive the bond that unites us, the force that impels us to united action and makes us, by way of pre-eminence the united people. And this thought came to my mind in connection with the resurrection, namely, that we have such a fullness of the truth, that we believe not only in the immortality of man after his resurrection, but we believe in the absolute immortality of the intelligence that is within him. That is to say, we believe in an immortality that has no beginning, just as we believe in an immortality that has no end. Any thing short of this is not immortality. John begins his Gospel with a very beautiful preface, which I will read to you. I think, by the way, that he wrote it because when he composed his gospel pagan ideas had begun to creep into the Church. The philosophy of Plato, which was the rage in that day. had taken possession of the minds of the people. Plato, by the way, ry\d seized upon some great truths, and among others he had grasped, at least in part, the meaning of man's immortality, the pre-existence and the indestructibility of man's spirit. So I think, with this in mind, and in order to state the truth exactly to the followers of Jesus, John started this beautiful preface of his Gospel by saying: 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Wor ' was God. 

"The same was in the beginning with God. 

"All things were made by Him; and without Him was not any thing made that was made. 

"In Him was life; and the life was the light of men." 

Later on he said: 

"And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father) full of grace and truth." 

This last verse identifies Jesus Christ with "the Word." "The Word" that was with God, that was God, arid that was. made flesh, was the Lord Jesus Christ. This statement of John's in the preface of his gospel, has reference of course to the pre-existent spirit of Jesus and to the estate in which He lived, moved, and had a tangible being with the Father; and so like the Father's spirit that we may say He was of the same substance with the Father. In the Christian world, belief in the eternity of the Lord Jesus Christ is a doctrine quite generally accepted. But "Mormonism" has a word to speak in this connection for all the children of men. For while the pre-existence of the spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ is a great truth, there is a still greater truth to proclaim, and that greater truth is part of the message that "Mormonism" has to deliver to the world. 

In a revelation given in 1833 to the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord Jesus says: 

"And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the first-born;" 

Now mark you: 

"Ye" [meaning the Elders whom He addressed] — "ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is spirit, even the spirit of truth," . . . 

"Man was al?o in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be. 

"All truth is independent in that pphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also, otherwise there is no existence. 

"Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man, because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light. 

"And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation. 

"For man is spirit. " 

Man is not so much lime, phosphate, and other gross materials, but man is spirit; and was, like Jesus, in the beginning with the Father. Intelligences are begotten spirits, and they partake of the nature of him who begets them. Paul pays: "We have had Fathers of cur flesh which corrected us and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits and lfve?" There is this difference, I think, between a  thing and a begotten personage: A created thing may not partake of the nature of him who creates it; as for instance, the vessel, constructed and put forth into the sea under the cunning hands of the shipwright, does not partake of the nature of its creator; but if the shipwright shall beget a son, he imparts to him of his own nature, and the offspring in a general way is like him who begets it. So when we speak of God creating man we ought to make this distinction. God begets intelligences, spirits, and these s'pirits, male and female, partake of the nature of God. Intelligence itself is uncreated, self-existent; and these spirits begotten in the world where God dwells are afterwards begotten men and women here in the flesh, to follow still further in the footsteps of their Father. 

This is the great truth which I referred to a moment since that Mormonism has to offer to the world. It is a principle that was unknown tO' men in our generation until it was revealed through God's chosen servant in these last days, the Prophet Joseph Smith. We carry this message in our right hand to the world. We not only tell men of the immortality that shall be after the resurrection, but we tell them of the immortality that existed before their earth-life began. The mists that shroud the origin of man and that perplex the philosophers are pushed away, and behold! we look into a beginningless past, as we look forward into an endless future. Beginnings can only be of a local nature, and this beginning spoken of here when Jesus was "in the beginning with the Father," and when your spirits and mine were "in the beginning with the Father," has reference only to things pertaining to this mortal life of ours, and this earth upon which we live, and does not refer to duration apart from these local events about which we talk; and concerning which, in order to be understood, we have to speak of in terms that are sometimes in themselves paradoxical. As Brother Lyman taught us this afternoon, duration itself is beginningless and endless, just as matter is exhaustless, and cannot be created and cannot be annihilated. It can only be changed in form to meet the purposes of God as He designs the development and growth of His universe. 

We take then this truth to the world, the truth of the eternal existence of man's intelligence. And what will be the moral effect of the announcement of such a doctrine? A spiritual awakening. We had not known, neither had our fathers known, until it pleased God to reveal it, whence man's origin; but now we begin to recognize man's importance in the world. We begin to realize that his intelligence, the spirit, exists upon tne self same principle upon which God exists. We speak of God as a self-existent being", and the doctrine is true. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that man also was a self-existent being, of the same nature as his Father. I say the moral effect of that truth in the world will yet beget a spiritual uplifting the like of which has not been known in the ages that are past. 

I was pleased to hear the hopeful notes in the words of our Brother Lyman, whom we are as glad to see among us as he is to see us, and it is with warm hearts and welcome hands that we hail his return. After being faithful, sturdy, and true as he has been while abroad, he now returns to us, and we bid him a hearty welcome in this general conference. Let me be your mouthpiece in saying to him, Welcome, Brother Lyman! I say I am pleased to see the hopeful note in his words concerning the acceptance of this people and their doctrines by the world. Many tens of thousands will yet receive these truths, perhaps not directly from your hands nor from mine; but already, as leaven in measures of meal are these principles working, and light is bursting upon the intelligence of the children of men, and they will yet lay hold of these great fundamental truths of ours; either directly or indirectly, and so shall this work push its way among the nations of the earth, until our Father's children (for all the inhabitants of the earth are His children as well as we are) shall lay hold 

 these truths, and ultimately be brought to an acceptance of a fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I love Mormonism. I love it because it is true — because it is the fullness of truth. And then I rejoice in its bigness, in its grandeur. I love its spirit of liberality, as manifested here in the words of the brethren at this conference. I love it because its roots run down deep into the great things of God, and it is as a tree well planted, that the winds which beat upon it shall only help by driving its roots deeper into the soil, spreading further to right and left, establishing itself as a tree of God's planting, under whose friendly branches there is room for all who will come unto it; and whose very leaves are sufficient for the healing of the nations. 

Mormonism has a word of hope for scattered Israel; it has a word of hope for the poor, wandering Lamanite, the fallen son of noble sires, the degenerate remnant of a once magificent people. The Gentiles, in their pride, look upon him and despise him. They see his footsteps hastening towards what they regard as utter extinction. But we arrest their sneers by proclaiming the word of God that there is hope even for this apparently helpless race, and Laman shall yet be remembered by the Lord; He is under covenant to do it. The fathers of old prayed in behalf of their posterity, and God heard and promised, and the children shall yet be blessed. 

We have a word of hope also for Judah, the outcast, the one people against whom every man's hand has been raised, and who have been persecuted in ages past and now by those who pretend to be followers of Jesus Christ, who Himself was of this same Jewish race. Does it not seem strange that those who have taken upon them the name of Christ should be the most bitter persecutors of His race! But we have a word of hope for Judah. We are authorized of God to say to our Jewish brethren, that Jerusalem shall be redeemed; that your people shall yet plant their feet in the land of promise; that God will guard your state, and at the last, in a splendid display of power and glory, will redeem you frOm the nations that now oppress you. 

"We have a word of warning - to the Gentile races upon this promised land of the western world. Honor the God of this land, says our Book of Mormon. If ye honor Him not, but steel your hearts against Him, however great our love may be for you, the warning word of God is, that if you honor not the God of this land, who is Jesus Christ, you may read your fate in the calamities that have overtaken the former nations, who in pride and worldly glory once occupied this land from north to south as you do. But we will not be doubtful of you, but hopeful, that you will honor the God of the land — Jesus Christ. We will proclaim peace, and the peaceable things of God's kingdom. We invite and exhort all men to accept these principles of divine truth, so burdened with knowledge and with hope-giving life, and so precious in ministering unto man's honor and glory. The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Singing by the choir "The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth." 

Benediction by Elder Charles W. Penrose. 


