Morning
06 04 1904




ELDER CHRISTIAN N. LUND, (President of North Sanpete Stake). 

My Brethren and Sisters: I must say that this call came to me this morning very unexpectedly, and I very much desire that the few moments I shall occupy I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord and be assisted by your faith and prayers. It is the first time in my life that I have stood before so large a congregation. I have been very much gratified during this conference to listen to the many excellent remarks that have been made by our brethren who have addressed us. I have been edified and built up in my faith, and I have felt to thank the Lord with all my heart that I have been permitted to be numbered with this people. I heard some of the brethren say that they felt hon. Any man may well feel honored to be identified with this marvelous work that the Lord has instituted in the earth in these days. When I entered this building this morning l was thinking that this is the seventy-fourth anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth in the latter days. Seventy-four years ago today the Lord inspired His great prophet, who was then but a youth, to organize His church upon the earth for the last time. He had previously been given the promise, when the angel conferred upon him the Aaronic priesthood, that that priesthood should not be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi should offer an offering unto the Lord in righteousness. That promise has been given to no other dispensation and to no other people, but it was given to this dispensation, indicating that the work which God established through the Prophet should remain; that it was not to be given to another people, and it was not to be taken away again, as had been the case in farmer dispensations. That promise has no doubt comforted the hearts of the Latter-day Saints in hours of affliction, when the clouds of darkness  obscured the heavens. It is a source of comfort to us today, as it has been ever since the work was introduced. When we look back over this period of time we can praise the name of the Lord and say that so far He hath verified that promises This Church ha s grown from that day to the present, in numbers, in strength, in power, in righteousness, and in all that tends to make us mighty in the earth. 

When the Savior was asked in His day to tell what should be the signs of His coming and of the end of the world, He told a number of things that should transpire before that time. One of these signs was that the Gospel of the kingdom should be preached to all the world for a witness, and then should the end come. This seems to me the great mission of the Church in this dispensation, to send the Gospel to all nations for a witness before the end shall come. When our Elders go into the various nations of the earth they do not expect to convert all the people, but they go to warn all people, to preach the Gospel for a witness to all nations where they have the privilege of going, that all men may be without an excuse before the Lord in the day of judgment. 

I feel honored to have the privilege of being a member of this Church. I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father that He called me from the land that gave me birth; that He sent his servant, our great Apostle of the North, as we used to call him— Brother Erastus Snow — who came to our country to turn the keys of the Gospel to the thousands and tens of thousands of the blood of Israel in those lands. I feel grateful that in my boyhood this message of the Gospel came to me, and that God touched my heart, enlightened my mind and inspired my soul to understand the truth. I felt at once that it was from the Lord, and I have felt so from that time to the present. I have tried to give to this work my best thoughts, my best efforts; and I trust that this shall be my aim in the future. 

A little over three years ago the Sanpete Stake of Zion was divided in two, and I was called upon to preside over the North Sanpete Stake, which comprises the north portion of Sanpete county. I want to say here, by way of report of that stake, that we have in that stake a good people; a people who are desirous of serving the Lord and who are trying to keep His commandments and to roll forward this great work. They are endeavoring to pay their tithes and their offerings unto the Lord, and to live so that they may enjoy His Holy Spirit. We have eleven wards in our stake, some very small and some large. They are presided over by some of our best men. Since coming to conference we have been notified of the death of one of our most worthy men — Bishop James A. Allred — who has presided over Spring City ward for the last 23 years. A better man, a better presiding officer, I do not think we have or have had in our stake. He was 84 or 85 years of age, but until within a few months he seemed to be strong, energetic and capable of taking charge of everything pertaining to his ward, and he had its affairs in his hands just as though he were a young man. We regret very much to lose his services, but we feel that he has performed a most glorious mission. He has been an example that will be a strength to that ward and to that stake for years to come. So I may say about our Bishops generally. They are men of God. Our High Council, and our brethren who have charge of the various organizations,, are likewise men of God, and are trying to perform their duty to the very best of their ability. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I realize that the time of this conference is very precious, and it would not be proper for me, nor do I feel inclined, to occupy more of it, but I am glad to bear this testimony to you this morning. I know as well as I know my own existence that this is the work of God. The Lord has revealed this to me through His holy Spirit. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that he held the keys of this dispensation, and that God revealed Himself to him, in connection with His Son, Jesus Christ. I know that the men who have succeeded him in the presidency of this Church have been men of God and prophets of the Lord. I bear the same testimony concerning President Joseph F. Smith, who now stands at the head of this great work upon the earth. I sustain him as a prophet of the Lord. I sustain his counselors, and the Apostles also, as men of God. I pray for them continually, and ask God to bless and strengthen them to carry the grave responsibilities and burdens which are laid upon their shoulders to the honor and glory of God and the blessing and benefit of His people. May God bless us all, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MOSES W. TAYLOR, (President of Summit Stake). 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that what I say may be inspired from on high. I am very much pleased with the remarks that were made by President C. N. Lund. I was very glad to hear him say, "I pray for the authorities of the Church, and I sustain them." There is something wonderful in the thought that we pray, and then that we practice what we pray. I would like to see every Latter-day Saint practice what they pray. "When one of my counselors was selected and the authorities asked him what he thought about it, he said, "I can live my religion, but I fear I cannot preach it." The Apostles said to him, "You are the man we want. We want somebody that can live their religion and not preach so much." And I think it would be a good thing to go a little further and say, "We can practice what we pray." I have heard of some Latter-day Saints praying to the Lord to sustain the prophet, seer, and revelator who stands at the head of the Church, and then go out on the street corners finding fault with some recent instructions or counsels given by the President. I  like that class of people, if I had anything to do with tnem, to say, "I will practice what I pray." 

As far as the Summit Stake of Zion is concerned, we live on the tops of the mountains, and when anyDOdy asks us how we are getting along we always say we are still on top. I can testify that we have some excellent Saints in Summit County. We have some good Bishops, some good High Councilors, some good Superintendents of Sunday Schools, of Religion Classes, of Primary Associations, and of Mutual Improvement Associations. They are very active and energetic. Our home missionaries are also active, and it does not matter how muddy the roads are, or how far they have to travel, they almost invariably fulfil their appointments. l«on»etimes one may excuse himself on account of having a sore foot, or something of that kind, but as a rule when any of them have a sore foot they wrap a rag around it and go anyhow. That's the kind of people we have in Summit Stake of Zion. I sometimes think that we have a few out there whose labor consists principally in standing around, after they have pi'ayed to sustain the authorities of the Church, and "knocking" those same authorities. But there are very few of this kind; I generally say we have just about six. "We have not the richest piece of land on the face of the earthy. and we sometimes have frost on the Fourth of July; but when our potatoes are frozen, it seems like the Lord blesses them and they begin to come up again, so that before the close of the year we have some good potatoes. Occasionally they may be small, but they are the kind that falls down like flour when they are cooked, and are good to eat. Everything out there is good. Our lettuce is crisp and good, and all else that we have we think is good. We have coal mines, gold mines, silver mines, and everything of that kind. "While we sometimes think we are the poorest people on the face of the earth, yet we know that out of Summit county comes most of the riches of the state. Nearly all the rich  of Utah have made their fortunes in Summit county, but they always move away when they get rich. Brother Clawson remarks, "then you must have the poor with you always." That is a true saying-; but our poor, as a rule, are the independent poor. I have been in- some of the wards where, after the Bishops have collected the fast offerings, they have asked me if they couldn't use them for the benefit of the ward; "because," they said, "we are all poor in this ward." That is about the way some of them talk; yet when I ask how many mortgages they have in their town, the reply is, "Oh, we have no mortgages, but we are all poor." Well, when a man is in a condition where he doesn't owe anything', we consider him well off; and we try to teach the people to show the best side. My father. President John Taylor, believed in that idea. I remember a number of years ago Baron Rothschild, supposed to be the richest man in the world, came to Utah. He had known my father in France when he was on a mission, and father desired to entertain him while he was here. He had an old carriage, and he had two black horses, and about a dozen boys, so he made a combination. He got the boys out, and we washed the harness, we blacked it with black oil, rubbed and greased the old carriage to make it look nice, and then on the morning of Rothschild's arrival father came out with a great big black cloak that he used to put on in Prance. There were the horses, there was the carriage, all polished up and looking fine, and Rothschild didn't know but father was a millionaire. I say that the Latter-day Saints ought to put the best side out. I remember once going up on the street after I had returned from my mission. My mother, in common with the rest of the family, having passed through a great deal of trial and hard times, had got into the habit of saving — in fact, she hardly knew how to do anything else. I had received an official appointment in Salt Lake Citv and the first thing I did was to buy me a new suit of clothes. 

With these clothes on, I was on the street, and father's carriage drove along and he had my mother in with him. He invited me into the carriage, and the 'first thing my mother said upon seeing my new suit was, "You extravagant boy. You'll go to ruin, sure. You're always buying something like that." I can remember my father's remark. He said, "Pshaw, pshaw, let the boy dress in accordance with his position." .And so I thought. It's a good idea to put the best side out. 

I was very glad to see in the paper the other day big headlines which read, "Clean out your back yards." On one occasion, in the Summit Stake of Zion, one of the Apostles was going around with us, and we went to a house to select a Bishop. When we put up our team, we had to climb over so much manure to get to the barn that the Apostle said, and I said, too, "That man will never do for a Bishop." So brethren, clean out your back yards. Make everything clean and respectable, so that the Lord and His angels would be glad to come and dwell with you. Even a common man like the president of a stake does not want to dwell with you if your houses are unclean. Keep the best side out, and if you do, the Lord will bless you and increase you in many ways. May the Lord bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS E. BASSETT. (President of Fremont Stake.) 

I feel honored, my brethren and sisters, to be permitted to bear my testimony in connection with my brethren. I rejoice that I am counted worthy to be numbered among the Latter-day Saints. I desire to thank my Heavenly Father for His protecting care and kindness toward me in casting my lot among this people, so that my stubborn nature has been more or less brought into subjection to His will through my associations with His people. My experience leads me to believe that mankind naturally are prone to do evil, and that it requires constant association with good people and proper influences to keep us in touch with the Spirit of God. I bear my testimony to you this morning' that in all the associations I have had with the Latterday Saints— which has been from my early boyhood — I have never yet been taught anything but what would make me a better man than I otherwise would be. There is nothing in Mormonism that will make of us undesirable citizens of any nation. I have been taught from my earliest boyhood as you no doubt all have, to obey and honor the laws of the land; in fact, it is said in one of the revelations of the Almighty that if we will keep the laws of God we will have no need to break the laws of the land. I desire to testify to all under the sound of my voice that the Latter-day Saints are a patriotic people, an industrious people, a people who have made the desert wastes blossom as the rose. They have proved to be a desirable community wheresoever their lots have been cast. It is really astounding to see the benefits that the country has derived from the location of the Latter-day Saints in the section where I am called to labor. Twentyone years ago, when we went in to that country, I remember that from Pocatello northward for hundreds of miles scarcely anything could be found but sagebrush, sandy wastes, cactus, and desert plains. There was very little that was pleasing to the eye. But through the establishment of the Latter-day Saints in that locality, you can find in that country today a continuous stretch of productive fields and gardens from Pocatello almost into the Yellowstone National park. At that time there were perhaps not more than two hundred Latterday Saints located in that country. Today we have in the neighborhood of twenty thousand, and the workmanship of their hands can be seen on every side. Towns and villages have sprung up, and the history made by our people in that locality is such that the State of Idaho is proud to acknowledge us as citizens. When our brethren have been honored with positions in the representative halls of that State they have been treated with the great courtesy, and have been looked upon as men of honor, clean and honest in all their conduct. "We have done a noble work in that part of the country. I am proud to say we have erected a very fine school building, acknowledged by the Governor and other representative men of the State as perhaps the finest school building in the State. It has been built by the Latter-day Saints, and that in small contributions. This stands today as a monument to the credit of our people, and it should stand forever as an evidence that we are an education-loving people. The claim made by some who are not of us that "Mormonism" thrives best where ignorance prevails to the greatest extent, is untrue. Our people have shown by their efforts that they love education, and they believe in the motto, "Intelligence is the glory of God." We are using every endeavor to bring up the young and rising generation in a way that will be pleasing to our heavenly Father, and that will make them good citizens of whatever land they live in. 

I indorse most heartily the testimonies that have been given by our brethren during this Conference. In the Fremont Stake of Zion we uphold the authorities of the Church, not only with our faith and prayers, but with our actions. I have in my home the pictures of the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve Apostles, and I point out each one of them to my children as being a man of God. I am sure that not only from Utah and the States on the South, but from the State of Idaho also, will come a host of people who will uphold the Presidency of this Church, who esteem Joseph Smith as a prophet, and those who have succeeded him as his lawful and legal successors. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be associated with you. I bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the latter-day work. If we will be good Latter-day Saints, we will be good American citizens, because the Gospel requires nothing of us but what will make of us better men, and better citizens of any nation where our lots may be cast. May God bless you and inspire us all to remain firm  true to the covenants we have made with Him, and above all things to be united together in the bonds of love and union, having the Spirit of God dwelling in our hearts, that we may in very deed be the children of God. I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JESSE N. SMITH. (President of Snowflake Stake.) 

I feel greatly honored, brethren and sisters, to come before you for a few moments. The Saints in our part of the world are few in number, but they are very good and faithful people. We have, I think I may say, lived down to a great extent the prejudice tnat existed among our outside brethren and sisters. The people of Arizona generally are a good people. They are not religious, however, as the world regards religion; still they are large hearted, liberal, and willing that others shall enjoy the rights of conscience. Our wards are fully organized. We have six small wards in our stake. In that part of the country there are not many facilities in any one place for the settlement and sustenance of the people. We have made some advancement educationally. We have good schools. Our academy is in a good situation and doing good work. We rejoice in the prosperity of the cause. Although far away from you, we endeavor to keep pace with the progress of events. We have a lively interest in all that pertains to the upbuilding of the kingdom of God. I suppose I may say that we are not very well off for this world's goods, and when our brethren are so fortunate as to get a little ahead in that direction, they generally move to more favored localities. This is all right, so far as I know. We bid them God speed when they go to other places, and hope for their prosperity. I esteem it a great happiness that I have received faith in this work. I have never supposed that I was naturally much inclined to be religious, but it was my good fortune to have God-fearing parents who started me in this line. I think it was owing to my parentage, my kindred, and my surroundings that 

I became religious. I have the very highest regard for religion, and for religious people. I have made this subject the study of my life, and the more I have investigated the Gospel as it has been restored to us, the more satisfying it has been to me. Very early in childhood I heard the voice of that great man, Joseph Smith, and although I was young his words penetrated my heart. I believed them, I have believed them ever since, I shall always believe them. I can express my thankfulness for these happy and blessed surroundings which have caused these earnest reflections. I have not only investigated the faith that was delivered to me by my parents, but I have investigated all faiths, so far as I hav e had opportunity. I respect all religious people, but I do not respect hypocritical people. I respect every sincere person who has faith in God. I could never persecute any one for the matter of conscience. I regard the unbeliever as the most unfortunate of men. In my reflections, it has seemed to me that even idolatry is more to be preferred than infidelity. I believe that the natural man is prone to seek his Creator; I believe that is a natural and a proper impulse, and those who disregard these higher promptings, are the unnatural and the abnormal. This is the result of my reflections. I believe in the interposition of Divine Providence in the affairs of men. I believe that He guides the destinies of peoples and of individuals, I therefor^ am encouraged to seek Him in prayer.. I- offer Him my acknowledgements. 1 do so, not only as a matter of duty, but as a matter of the highest privilegeI have endeavored in all my life to be exemplary. It is a consolation that I have that no human being, I trust, is worse for my example. Brethren and sisters I rejoice very much in this great cause. I know that it is of God. I feel it will go on to success, to prosperity, and to triumph, and that the nations of the earth will yet bless the name of Joseph Smith, and also hold in high estimation the Saints of latter days. May the Lord add His blessings to all our labors, and may we be faithful in all things. Amen. Sister Olea Shipp then sang, "The Bright Beyond." 

ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Men In all dispensations have rejected revelations from God — Responsibility o£ c '''ducting the work of the Father rests upon the Saints as a whole — Sublime position taken by the Prophet Joseph. 

My brethren and sisters, I esteem it a privilege and an honor to be called upon to occupy this position, and while I do so, I trust I may be inspired of our Heavenly Father, that the words I utter may be words of instruction and edification to all of us. I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference, and have been edified by the remarks of the brethren who have been called upon to address us. It is an ftispiratic to one who loves this latter-day work to look into the faces of a large congregation such as this. It inspires him with additional love of the work that our. Father in heaven has given to the earth in the day and age in which we live. When we realize that this is but a representation of the people who are members of the Church, that we come htre semi-annually to receive instruction, and that the words of life and salvation which flow from the servants of God here ,arei disseminated throughout the world, and are also communicated to the children of the Latterday Saints by the newspapers and those who come to conference, we can comprehend to some extent the farreaching influence of these gatherings. 

We are considered by the world a peculiar people. By the unbeliever, the members of the Church of Christ in all ages of the world have been considered a peculiar people. When the Lord has spoken through His servants, there have been at different periods of time people in the earth who have said, "I do not believe in revelation." This age is no exception to the rule. The thousands, aye, the milliens, of our Father's children who live in the earth are but repeating the history of the past when they deny that God has revealed again His will to the children of men, and say that they have no need of any further reve. To demonstrate this we may refer to the experiences of the people in the days of Noah. Noah was a prophet of the living God, inspired with a desire to save the souls of the children of men. He had no disposition to destroy those who lived around him, but, receiving a commandment from our Father in heaven, he warned the people to repent of their evil ways, and declared that unless they did repent, destruction would follow and our Heavenly Father would visit them with His displeasure. What was the result? They said to Noah, "What right have you to instruct us? Who are you that you come and speak to us in the name of the Lord? You are only a man like other men." And-they rejected his testimony, not because it was untrue, but because they would not believe it, not possessing the spirit which he possessed. Then the Lord told him to build an ark, and to gather therein those who believed his message, and then He would visit His displeasure upon the inhabitants of the earth. It was not because Noah had said these things that the deluge came; it was because Almighty God had spoken through him to the people. When our Father in heaven speaks to the world, no matter how feeble or weak the servant may be who carries the message, that word will be vindicated, even if it involves the destruction of many souls. You no doubt remember the experience of Jonah when he was called to warn the people of Nineveh. Our Father in heaven commanded him to go and call them to repentance. He tried to avoid this responsibility, and it resulted in his being thrown into the ocean. But the same power that had called him to this mission preserved his life, and rebuked him. for avoiding what was his plain duty. Then he went and warned the people of Nineveh, and they repented in sackcloth and ashes. You will remember the Lord promised that if they did not repent they would be punished; but they did repent, and He removed from them the curse that otherwise would have been visited upon them for the violation — of what? 

Not because they failed to listen to Jonah as a man, but because they failed to. heed Jonah, the prophet of God. And when they did listen to the voice of the Lord through that inspired man, they received a blessing- instead of a cursing. 

When our Savior in humility came upon earth, the people said, "Who are you, that you should claim to be th^ Son of God? We know your father; he is Joseph, the carpenter. We know your mother; she is Mary. We have Moses and Abraham for our prophets, and we have no need of a man like you to come and speak to us in the name of the Lord." He went among them and ministered to the sick, healed the afflicted, unstopped the ears of the deaf, restored the blind to sight, cleansed the leper by His magic touch, raised the dead to life. Then they said He performed these wondrous works by the power of Beelzebub. Yet He was indeed the Son of God. He labored among them in love and kindness; but they cast His name out as evil. They even cast reproach upon the city from which He came, and said, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" But He was the Son of God, and He did have the right to speak in the name of the Father. The truths He brought to the earth came from the Father; and though they nailed Him to the cross, though they placed upon His head the plaited crown of thorns, and put the mock scepter in His hands, though they spilled His blood with the cruel spear, yet the word that He delivered to them was the word of the Lord, and He was indeed the Son of God. 

The same, feeling that was entertained, to some extent, against the Savior has continued in the earth People who do not understand the things of God because they have not the Spirit of God, reviled and cast them out as evil, when in fact the evil is in themselves. But the promises made by the Savior to His Apostles when He said, "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gosoel unto every creature. He that believeth and is bap shall be saved," have been verified upon the children of men, when they have complied with that requirement under the ministration of authorized servants of God. In the wisdom of our Father, He revealed in the olden times that the Gospel would be taken away. He revealed in the time of Daniel, by means of a dream, that in the days of certain kings He would set up His kingdom, and that it would not be taken away or given to another people. He revealed to John, upon the Isle of Patmos, that an angel would fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel t<5 preach to men that dwell upon the earth. Other prophets also prophesied concerning the day in which we live. In fulfillment of these predictions, our Heavenly Father, in the century that is just passed, chose and commissioned Joseph Smith, as He had done other prophets, to go forth among the people and speak in the name of the Lord. Through this humble instrument, the Gospel was restored to the earth again and he preached the same doctrines that our Savior taught while He was upon the earth. Under the Lord s direction, he organized the Church of Christ, with apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc., as the Church should be organized, to continue thus until all should come to a unity of the faith. He ministered unto the people, he healed the sick; he loved the souls of the children of men. But as had been the case with prophets whom the Lord had raised up before it seemed necessary in this case that the testimony of His servant should be. sealed with his life's blood. No more pathetic page will be found in the history of the world than that upon which is inscribed the last sayings of our beloved Prophet Joseph Smith. He knew that his time was near at hand; he realized that his life's mission had been fulfilled. He had given the keys for the gifts and blessings of God unto the people, and" the Father had continued to bless him; finally he realized that his labor was about done. You remember when he was first raised up how the people of this country said, "We have no need of you. You are Joseph, the son of Joseph, and we know where you come from. You are not a strong- and mighty man, and you do not come from an influential family. We have no need of new revelation. We have the Bible, and that is all that is necessary for the salvation of the children of men." Joseph Smith performed his mission; and when the time came that he was face to face with death, he said, "I am going- like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer morning. I have a conscience void of offence toward God and toward all men. If they take my life, I shall die an innocent man, and my blood shall cry from the ground for venegeance, and it shall yet be said of me, 'He was murdered in cold blood.' " He was not afraid to stand before the pleasing bar of our Father in heaven and answer for the deeds done in the body. He was not afraid to meet the charge that had been made against him, that he was decieving the people and dealing unjustly with them. He was not afraid of the result of his life's mission, and of the final triumph of the work which he knew was of divine origin, and for which he gave his life. Yet the people of the world, as before, judge this work by the spirit of man. They do not have the Spirit of God, which would enable them to understand that it came from our Father in heaven. 

Now, my brethern and sisters, the commission that came to Joseph Smith, the boy prophet, has been given to you. "Go, preach the Gospel in the nations of the earth." The same authority that he had has been conferred upon your sons, and they will be required by our Father in heaven to minister in the ordinances of the Gospel. The responsibility that came to Joseph Smith has not been lost by his departure, it has fallen upon other shoulders. Our Father in heaven has raised up from time to time those who have had the authority to speak in His name, to administer in the ordinances of the Gospel, and to bless the children of men. 

They have shared that honor with you and with your children. The responsibility for the conduct of this work does not devolve alone upon President Joseph F. Smith, nor upon his counselors, nor upon the quorum of the Apostles; but it devolves also upon every man and woman who has been baptized by the servants of God and become a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Every man who has received the Priesthood must set hia house in order, and so conduct his life that men, seeing his good works, may glorify our Father which is in heaven. We cannot shift the responsibility if we would; our Father has placed it upon our shoulders, and we must round them up and help to carry it off triumphant. When I look at large congregations of the Saints, such as we beheld last Sunday, this building filled to overflowing, the Assembly Hall and adjoining grounds also filled with multitudes of people, many of them sons and daughters of the sturdy pioneers who in early days came into this western country, or went into foreign nations of the earth and preached the Gospel, I cannot help but rejoice. Grateful should we be, my brethren and sisters, that our hearts have been attuned to the Gospel's harmony. Grateful should we be that our Father in heaven has given us a testimony of the divinity of this work; and it should be our life's labor to so conduct ourselves that we will not bring reproach upon it. Those who are beginning to pass the meridian of life, those gray-haired men and women who sit before me today, who have borne the burden in the heat of the day, who came into this country when it was a howling wilderness, have received from our Heavenly Father a testimony that burns in their hearts, and they know, as they know that they live, that the Gospel is true. And this same blessing has been given to their children when those children have sought it. Our Father in heaven has promised all His children that they will know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or of man, if they will have 

faith anrl nnmnlv witVi tVi^ nrrHtion^oo 

Now, to those who are younger in this congregation let me say: Not very many years hence your fathers and mothers will go back to receive the reward of their faithful labors.' I plead with you, boys and girls of Israel, to honor the names that you bear; love and revere the parents God has given you, and so conduct your lives that day by day you will give them joy in their declining years. If you will do this the same firm testimony that has been given to them will be bestowed upon you, and your sons and daughters in due time will be found numbered with the Saints of God, valiant for the cause of truth, and the dissemination of the Gospel in the nations of the earth. We need not fear the wrath of the adversary. "We need not fear when men speak ill of us, when they cast out our names as evil, when they revile us and speak of us falsely; but we need to fear when the power of the adversary is arrayed against us if we have done that which is wrong. Our Father in heaven expects us to live up to the requirements of the Gospel; to fear Him and keep His commandments. 

Now, as to our friends who are not of our faith, we should follow the admonition: pray for those who persecute you, and despitefully use you. Remember that you have a testimony of this work, which they have not. Some day, when we all present ourselves, as we expect to do, before the bar of God to answer for the deeds done in the body, then will our brothers and sisters of the world, who now think we are deluded and mistaken, find that our lives have been spent for the salvation of their souls, that our ministry has had in it only love and kindness for our fellow men, and that we would have given unto them a blessing had they been willing to receive it. Let us love the Gospel of Jesus Christ; let us comply with the requirements our Father has made of us; and then when we meet those who do not understand us, there will emanate from us a spirit that will testify to them we are sincere in the work in which we are engaged. Tour  and girls are scattered among the nations of the earth preaching this gospel; there is no confusion with them; they understand it as you understand it. It is the same Gospel wherever it is taught, and it is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I bear you my testimony today that it is the power of God unto salvation, unto every one that will believe and obey. May we so conduct our lives that our Father in heaven will preserve us from the attacks of those who misunderstand us; and that our brothers and sisters of the world may be constrained to acknowledge we are a good people, because we do good to our fellow men. May we so conduct our lives that the children our Father shall bless us with may, by reason of the righteous teachings and the good example we give unto them,, rise up and call us blessed. When the time shall come that we shall all be called to present ourselves before our Father in heaven to give an account for our actions here, may it be said of us that the world was better for our having lived in it, that we never harmed one of our Father's creatures, that we sustained the hands of His servants, that we understood the spirit of revelation, and that we listened to it as it came from God to His servants. My prayer is that our lives may reflect the purity of the Gospel, that our homes may be the abode of the Spirit of our Father in heaven, that our every action may be scanned in vain for any evil, and that when men shall look over our lives, they may be led to say we are consistent followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene. In the end, when our labors are complete.may we receive from our Father, who reigns supreme in the heavens, that welcome plaudit, 'Well done, good and faithful servant, you have been faithful in a few things, and I will make you ruler over many. Enter into the joy of your Lord," is my prayer for Israel, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The choir sang: 

"Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Saints unto the promised land." 

