Afternoon
05 04 1929


The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. The meeting commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and announced that the congregation would join in singing the hymn, "Do what is Right." 

After the singing, the opening prayer was offered by President Joseph M. Holt of the West Jordan Stake. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "High on the Mountain Top." 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, I was very much edified at the morning meeting. The instructions given and the testimonies borne were thorough and spirited. It was an extremely enjoyable meeting. I trust that the Spirit of the Lord will be with us this afternoon to inspire what may be; said and to give the congregation an understanding concerning matters pertaining to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

WITNESSES WHO TESTIFY CONCERNING GOD'S WORK 

I am quoting now from Second Corinthians, 13th chapter, 1st verse : "In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established." 

We understand very well that in the courts of the land, when cases are brought forward and a verdict is to be rendered, if the matter can be established by two or three witnesses who speak under oath, it is regarded as a very strong case. And so it is in relation to matters pertaining to the Church and Kingdom of God. If those things that are claimed are sustained by two or three or more witnesses it becomes a strong case indeed. 

In respect to the things which God puts forth regarding his work, he usually leaves the world without excuse by furnishing an abundance of evidence in the matter of witnesses. That is peculiarly the case in respect to the Gospel of Jesusi Christ. We have very strong witnesses concerning the' great work in which we are engaged, in the standard works of the Church. There is the Holy Bible, King James' translation, one of the standard works of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The truths set forth in the Bible are greatly reinforced and strengthened by the testimony of the Book of Mormon, of which we have heard at this conference. Much information was given to us in the discourse delivered by President Ivins respecting the Book of Mormon. -And then we have the further witness of the truth in our Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and still again in the Pearl of Great Price. These four records constitute the standard works of the Church. 

THE BIBLE AS A WITNESS 

We know very well the value of the Bible which has come down to us through the ages, and which is widely distributed throughout the world today. In nearly every room of the standard hotels of the country, in the large cities, there is a Bible for the consultation and study of the guests of the hotel. We find the Bible in the homes of hundreds and thousands of people.;It is a wonderful record. It is a religious history of the people of God upon the eastern continent. It is the history of the children of Israel, who it seems have not been held in the highest repute by many Christian people during the last eighteen hundred years; and yet the world is indebted to the 'Jews, or the children of Israel, for this precious record. In this record they are called the people of God. Therein you will find an account of the holy prophets of old, how that they spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and made many precious predictions. 

In the Bible you will also find rather a full account of the life and works of the Savior and his Apostles, and there you read of the great atonement that was wrought out for the children of men. We do> not always stop to consider that the Christ came to earth through the lineage of the children of Israel, but so it was. His Apostles were of that lineage, and in fact we believe as Latter-day Saints that we are of the same lineage. We realize as a Church that we are greatly indebted to the Jewish race for much information respecting the plan of redemption. We ought not to forget that. It appears to me that we should be kept in remembrance of it, and that we ought to feel an interest, and probably we do, in the Jewish people, because we believe that the time is not far distant when they will accept the Gospel, will acknowledge the divine birth of the Savior, and consequently will not be looking for another Messiah. This has been predicted by the prophets of old. 

THE BOOK OF MORMON 

Now, as to the Book of Mormon, the second witness mentioned. It is a wonderful book and it has come to us in a most remarkable way. The story reads almost like a romance and yet we know and testify that it is absolutely true. The Book of Mormon is a history of the ancient inhabitants of America, of whom the Lamanites, or the American Indians, are descendants. They have dwindled in unbelief and in many respects have become degraded. They have fallen from the high place they once occupied in the civilization of ancient America. 

The title page of the Book of Mormon gives some idea of the character of the Book. It follows : 

"The Book of Mormon, an account written by the hand of Mormon upon Plates taken from the Plates of Nephi. 

"Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites— Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile— Written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation— Written and sealed up, and hid up unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed— r o come forth by the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereofSealed dv the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile— The interpretation thereof by the gift of God 

"An abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a record of the people of Jared, who were scattered at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to heaven — Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever — And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations — And now, if there are faults they are the mistakes of men; wherefore, condemn not the things of God, that ye. may be found spotless at the judgment-seat of Christ." 

The history of the people of Nephi began about six hundred years before Christ and ended four hundred and twenty years after Christ, covering a period of about one thousand years. It is a remarkable history and was hidden up by commandment of God, hidden in the earth to come forth at a later time. It has come forth. An angel came down from on high and appeared to a young man by the name of Joseph Smith and delivered to him this record which was taken out of the earth. 

ANCIENT PREDICTIONS FULFILLED 

The circumstance is referred to in the Bible, strange as it may seem. The Prophet Isaiah speaks of the matter and he alludes to it in an interesting way. If you will consult the twenty-ninth chapter of Isaiah you will find words to this effect : 

"Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye year to year; let them kill sacrifices. 

"Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be heaviness and sorrow: and it shall be unto me as Ariel. 

"And I will camp against thee round about, and will lay siege against thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee. 

"And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of the ground, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voice shall be, as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground, and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust." 

Now that is remarkable language, the speaking of something that shall come out of the ground, a voice, a message from the dead. It fits exactly the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, although the prophecy was uttered centuries before the book was revealed to the world. 

The Lord speaks of the condition of the world at the time the book was destined to come forth. He says : 

"Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

So Isaiah predicts that by reason of these whisperings that come out of the ground, the Lord will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder in that day. Well, fortunately, the Latter-day Saints by the will of God have come into possession of this wonderful record, the Book of Mormon, and there is much evidence that goes with the record to show that it is a true work of God, and was translated by his marvelous power. There were four witnesses who saw the angel and who handled the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated by divine power, and there were eight witnesses who did not see the angel, but they did see the plates arud handled them and testified of the matter in a most solemn way. The testimonies of the eleven witnesses are published in the fore part of the Book. 

So far as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is concerned we have more real testimonies of the truth of the Book of Mormon than we have of the Bible, yet we accept the Bible as the word of God and we believe in it. 

THE THIRD WITNESS 

The third witness, which is known as the Book of Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, contains numerous revelations of God given to his people through Joseph Smith the Prophet, for truly he was a prophet of God, and these revelations bear the stamp of divine approval upon them. There is a spirit and a power that go with this book that is very impressive indeed, and to many people very convincing. It is a testimony to the world that the Latterday Saints do believe in the principle of revelation and that we cannot very well see how the Church of God can be established upon the earth and how his purposes can be accomplished unless he speaks to his people. It is his Church. It is called by his name, called the Church of Jesus Christ, and it would seem highly important that he being the President of the Church should speak to his people, otherwise they would be left without proper direction. We must look to him for wisdom and understanding and inspiration. I testify to the world that the Book of Doctrine and Covenants throws very much light indeed upon the plan of salvation. 

THE PEAR]. OF GREAT PRICE 

The Pearl of Great Price, the fourth witness, like the other three sacred witnesses corresponds with them exactly in its teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

There is no variation except that it gives one a little fuller and clearer understanding of those teachings. The title page and contents read as follows: "The Pearl of Great Price, A Selection From the Revelations, Translations, and Narrations of Joseph Smith, First Prophet, Seer and Revelator to the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints." 

Contents : The Book of Moses— 8 chapters. The Bock of Abraham —5 chapters. Writings of Joseph Smith. The Articles of Faith., 

WITNESSES WHOSE TESTIMONIES AGREE 

M state without hesitation that these four testimonies agree perfectly in respect to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the plan of redemption  he instituted for the salvation of men. There is a difference of course in the history of the people who were responsible for these wonderful records, but no difference whatever in the plan of salvation therein set forth. For instance, the Holy Bible teaches with clearness, we think, that the first principles of the Gospel are faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. These constitute the fundamental principles of the Gospel. 

The Book of Mormon certifies to the fact and agrees perfectly with the Bible in this matter, as do the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. The organization of the Church as instituted by the Savior himself and which was composed in the main of apostles, prophets, evangelists, high priests, seventies, elders, bishops, priests, teachers and deacons, which constituted the Melchizedek priesthood and the Aaronic priesthood, is emphasized. This organization is strongly emphasized in the Bible as it is in the Book of Mormon, and as it is set forth also in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. 

So we have these four witnesses that agree perfectly in respect to this matter, and, so far as we know, and so far as our history has gone and our experience, the testimony of the Three Witnesses as well as that of the Eight Witnesses has not been overthrown. The world will be judged by the evidence set forth in these precious records. 

INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONY 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, and rejoice in the knowledge, that I do know that this is the Church of 'Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, that Christ was the Savior of the world, that he suffered by atonement for the sins of the world, and that we must look to him, and as Latter-day Saints we do look to him, for salvation through our good works and by our faith. 

I testify to you that I do know, as I know that I am standing here and speaking, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, that he accomplished a mighty work, that he is better known and better understood by his people today than he was in the days when he lived upon the earth. I think we know him better than most anyone else, and we are just as close to him as any people ever were when he lived upon the earth. This is the Church and Kingdom of God seen by Daniel of old that was to be set up and should never be thrown down or given to other people, but must go on until the will of the Lord is accomplished and the world is saved by repentance and by faith. This is my testimony and I humbly bear it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I am very grateful to our Heavenly Father for membership in his Church. I am thankful for the privilege! I have had of attending the sessions of this conference thus far, and for the inspiration that has been felt as a result of the instruction we have received. 

I fully sense the responsibility that attaches to one who occupies this position, and desire that the Lord will bless me, that I may be directed to say such things as will be profitable to us here upon this occasion. 

PERILOUS TIMES 

We are living in perilous times. The scriptures are being fulfilled, and as it appears to me this is the particular time when, if it were possible, the very elect would be deceived. It is remarkable how easy it is for those who desire to advance their financial interests in the world to find a reason for setting aside the plain teachings of the Lord with reference to our lives. And it is strange to me how many people fall into the habit of listening to those who say things that are contrary to the revealed will of our Heavenly Father. 

This is a great institution with many organizations that are calculated to bless and benefit mankind. I fear that as members of the Church we depend too much upon the auxiliary organizations, and upon the advice and counsel of those outside our own households. We have already heard of many of the blessings that the Lord has given to us in the sacred records that have been kept until our day, and that contain the advice and counsel of an all-wise Father. It seems strange that so many of our people, with the opportunities offered, lack familiarity with the contents of these sacred records. 

CONSERVATION ADVISED 

We live in a rapid age; there is new development constantly. The Lord has warned us that there are certain requirements that are made of us, and that if we fail to take advantage of his advice and counsel, these other things that seem so important will be but a source of sorrow and regret to us. This people have been advised to conserve their energies and their means. We have been taught by those whom the Lord has raised up to instruct us that we should live within our income, that we should not follow the fashions of the world and expend as rapidly and even more rapidly than we can earn the money that comes into our hands, to take care of ourselves and our families. 

_ I fear that the Latter-day Saints, in many cases, are blinded by their own vanity, by their desire to be what the world is; and we have been told in such plain language by our Fleavenly Father that we cannot live as the world lives and enjoy his Spirit. 

CONSISTENCY IN OUR LIVES 

We read in the Old Testament scripture and in the New Testament, we read in the Book of Mormon and in the Doctrine and Covenants, the advice and counsel of our Heavenly Father through his servants 'that direct us to be consistent in our lives, not to be selfish, not to desire those things that belong to somebody else, to take care of our bodies, to have our houses in order, to exemplify in our lives those virtues that  enrich us here and prepare us for eternal life in the Celestial kingdom. And if any of us fail it will not be because we have not been well taught. 

THE THINGS OF THE WORLD 

As I go out through the country and see the improvements that are made, as I look at the fine conveyances that our people are using, I observe the tendency to follow after the world in so many ways. I fear that if we are not careful we will be tempted beyond our power to resist and we will lose the gifts the Lord desires to bestow upon us. In his wisdom he has warned us that some things commonly used by the world are not good for us. 

EVILS THAT AFFLICT MANKIND 

For instance, we read in Section eighty-nine of the Doctrine and Covenants that in our day certain evils and designs would exist in the hearts of conspiring men; and as I see the increase in the use of tobacco among the people of the world, and realize its baneful effects upon the human family, I am concerned for our youth. If as members of the Church we fail to listen to the advice and counsel of our Heavenly Father we will not gain but we will lose our blessings. If as the head of a household I fail to influence the lives of my family to avoid the evils that afflict mankind; if by reason of my own carelessness or my indifference I fail to inspire in my children faith in God, surely I must know that sooner or later I may repent in sorrow. 

The harmful use of stimulants and narcotics among the Latter-day Saints ought not to prevail. These habits should not be customary with us as they are in the world, for we have been better taught. 

We ought not to be among those who violate the Sabbath day, because the Lord has told us plainly what we should do in order to properly honor his holy day. 

We ought not to be among those who neglect their prayers and fail to seek the Lord for his advice and counsel, for he has told us that if wej will come to him he will hear us and bless us; and if we in our families neglect our prayers the loss will be ours. 

DIVINE INSTRUCTION 

I do not feel like criticising people in the world, because of conduct that is prejudicial to good health and good morals, as much as I feel like criticising the members of this Church when we fail. We have been divinely instructed. Not only do we have the advice that has been given to the world through the Old and New Testament, but that has been supplemented in our day by teachings contained in other sacred records and by the inspired counsels of men that we have sustained as prophets, seers and revelators. With these things confronting us surely the members of this Church should ever be on the alert, we should think seriously of our privileges and our opportunities, and we should not be willing to do what others do because it is popular. 

DUTIES OF PARENTS 

It is the duty of fathers and mothers to call their families together and instruct them. It is our duty to bow before the Lord in prayer in our homes. It is our duty to ask the blessing upon the food that we partake of and to thank Him who gives us all these things. It is our duty to be honest with our neighbor, not incur obligations thoughtlessly that we may not be able to meet. We should teach our children that honesty even in minor things is important if they are to obtain a place in the Celestial kingdom. 

We should stress the necessity of morality among the rising generation. It is not safe for us to leave to our public schools and to other institutions outside of our homes the training of our boys and girls with reference to a proper conduct in life. If we do not teach them the sacredness of these bodies of ours, if we do not inspire in them a desire to build character that' is beyond reproach, if we fail to impress upon them the danger that confronts them in their contact with the evils that afflict mankind, we will not be justified by saying that we did not realize how serious it was. God has warned us that we should teach our children to pray and to walk uprightly before him. He has given us schoolmasters after his own heart who have been instructing us from year to year in the things that we should do. If. our children grow up in idleness we know that that is displeasing to the Lord. If those of our households neglect to hold in reverence the things of God, we must know that sooner or later sorrow will come into their lives; and if it comes into the lives of our children then we, too, must join them in sorrow and remorse. 

INTEGRITY AND INDUSTRY IMPORTANT 

I feel very much concerned, when I think of the temptations that are everywhere present. The very fact that so much wealth has been made available to many people gives the youth in some instances the feeling that because their parents are well-to-do, honest toil is not necessary or desirable; and yet I am satisfied that no people have ever lived upon the earth who have failed to earn their livelihood by integrity and industry, but have gone to decay. 

I wish there were some way of inculcating into the minds of our boys and girls a greater feeling of appreciation for the advice and counsel of our Heavenly Father, and a desire to benefit by it. 

HARMFUL LITERATURE 

When we think of the large amount of information that is disseminated in our magazines and books, easilv accessible to our boys and girls, much of which is harmful to those who read it, how important it is for us who have had years of experience to safeguard and direct  by pointing out the dangers that confront them if they accept as desirable the vagaries and philosophies of men and women who do not believe in God. 

THE SAFE COURSE 

I am thinking of the time when ancient Israel went astray. They worshiped false gods They listened to that which was popular, but false, and then destruction overtook them. We are in just as much danger, my brethren and sisters, as any people who have ever lived upon the earth, unless we listen to our Heavenly Father. His is the only voice, and the teachings of those whom he directs are the only teachings that we are safe in following. We know that the adversary is alert. If he can, betray the rising generation, if he can lay pitfalls for their feet and ensnare them in evil his desire has been realized and their downfall is accomplished. 

TEACHING IN THE HOME 

It is important that in our home and by our own firesides we take more pains to teach our sons and our daughters those truths which the Lord has made plain to us are necessary for eternal salvation. What a wonderful privilege it Is to live in an age such as this! No such opportunities were ever afforded the human family before. But with these opportunities and blessings there also comes temptation. It is everywhere present. We must not take too much for granted, but be alert. We must feel the importance of our duty as fathers and mothers and safeguard the future happiness of our youth. 

I am grateful for the great Primary organization in this Church, for the Sabbath Schools, and the Mutual Improvement Associations. I am grateful for the Relief Society, and for our great Church school system. All of these things are making a contribution for the salvation of mankind. I am mindful of the advantage of missionary experiences that come to so many of our young men and women. All these things are calculated to draw us nearer to our Heavenly Father. But I feel like calling to the attention of the fathers and mothers of Israel today the fact that all these splendid helps are not sufficient. It is your duty and mine to see to it that in our own homes and at our own firesides the important lessons of life are taught to these children, not leaving them to the kindness of our brethren and sisters — and there is great kindness manifested by them. We must not depend upon them entirely. It is our duty — I should say it is out privilege as well as our duty to take sufficient time to surround our children with safeguards and to so love them and earn their love that they will be glad to listen to our advice and counsel. But if as a man holding the priesthood of the living God I so far forget myself as to violate the Sabbath day, can I say to my son that he shall not do that ? If I violate the Word of Wisdom by using tea and coffee in my home, what influence have I with my boy or my girl when I say to them, you shall not use tobacco? These difficulties that afflict us do not) come all at once. They are insidious and they creep into our midst a little at a time, until after a while they become dominant in our thinking. 

EVILS AND DESIGNS IN HEARTS OF CONSPIRING MEN 

When I realize the harmfulness of the cigarette, and how great the effort that is being made to make its use universal by every means of advertising, I realize what our Father meant when he warned us to be on our guard. 

Permit me to read what the Lord has said with reference to this matter. This revelation was given February 27th, 1833 : 

"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. — " 

In that very chapter the Lord mentions the use of strong drinks. He tells us of the baneful influence of tobacco. He warns us against the very things that today are being championed by men who stand in high places, as being desirable to the children of men. Are we as a people to listen to these men who are misled by the adversary? Or shall we take for granted that what they say is true, when in the face of it, the Creator of the heavens and the earth, he who loves us and desires our salvation, has plainly told us that these things are not good for us ? 

JOY AND BLESSINGS THROUGH RIGHTEOUS LIVES 

I hope and pray that as members of the Church Ave will be more diligent in the future than we have been in the past; that we will be more earnest than we have ever been in safe-guarding the youth against all manner of evil. If any of us in the past have ignored the kind and loving advice of our Heavenly Father with reference to these things that so many think are not important, let us repent of our sins, and ask forgiveness for our weakness. Then let us turn to him and obey his wise counsels; thereby enriching our lives and earning the right to the companionship of his Holy Spirit. We will then radiate an influence in the world for the blessing of all those with whom we come in contact. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you good men and women who preside in the; various departments of this great Church, you who give so much of your time for the blessing of mankind, that your physical and spiritual strength may be renewed unto you; that the joy that was expressed by one of our faithful brethren this morning when he referred to his mission experience, may fill your souls; and that we may all feel the sacred nearness of our Heavenly Father by reason of our righteous lives. 

our father's work This is our Father's work. He gave it to the world for the salva of the human family. He has counseled and advised us in loving tenderness, and now let us be wise, let us be consistent. Let us put our own houses in order; and then by the power that will come to us as a result of our faithfulness and devotion, let us carry the message of life and salvation unto the children of men with greater power, with greater strength, with greater determination than we have ever done before, to the honor and glory of God and the blessing of his children, to our own salvation and the salvation of those we love, 1 pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Nature's Adoration," was sung by Charles O. Peterson. 

ELDER NOAH S. POND 

President of the Northern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, this is a blessed privilege and I am very happy to have this opportunity of briefly reporting the Northern States mission of the Church. 

It is a pleasure indeed to advise you that there is not a single case of sickness or illness among the brethren and sisters laboring in that mission. During the past six months the flu and kindred diseases and complications have raged almost rampant. These diseases have claimed their victims by the hundreds, and deaths have ensued in many cases. Our missionaries have not wholly escaped these illnesses, but through the providences of our kind Heavenly Father, through administration and faith, we have had no serious results; and each one, so far as I am advised, is in the enjoyment of full and perfect health and strength. 

We have had some wonderful manifestations of the power of God's priesthood. One of cur aged brethren, a short-term missionary, who was not able to endure the rigors of the hard winter, was attacked by flu and double pneumonia. We got him placed comfortably in a hospital under good doctor's and nurses' care in the city of Milwaukee. The first and second days his condition was reported very favorable. On a Wednesday noon the mission office received a telephone message from the doctor in! charge, advising me to come to Milwaukee at once, that this brother could not live the day out; and he advised mej to communicate with his family and let them know how serious his condition was, or they would receive the word of his death before they knew of his illness. A son of this good brother was also a short-term missionary in one of our other states, and I communicated immediately with him, asking that he advise his folks at home in jldaho, and then hasten himself to his father's bedside, to which place I also would speed. 

When we came there in the afternoon the old gentleman could scarcely breathe, but his unbounded faith, united with the faith of his associates, prevailed. He was administered to two or three times in the afternoon and evening. We stayed with him until a late hour at night, and at midnight his son arrived. When the doctor came in the morning he could scarcely credit the improvement in the old gentleman's condition; and after he had given a thorough diagnosis of the case, examined him thoroughly and prescribed what he thought was necessary to be dona and was ready to go, I told the doctor I would like to talk with him. 

We went out into another room and in a fifteen or twenty minute interview I told him who we were, why we were, and our purposes as missionaries in the nations of the earth. J told him how our elders and our sisters traveled among the nations of the earth preaching the Gospel, and I asked him if we could depend upon him giving our brother his best services. He was very much impressed, and he assured me that he would not only give the best possible attention, but that he would be considerate in presenting the bill for his services, and that in the future whenever we had occasion to trust to his care any of our elders or missionaries that we might be certain they would be given the best of service. 

It was a pleasure to deliver this kind of message to Dr. Gambling, one of the leading physicians and practitioners in the city of Milwaukee and in one of its fine hospitals. I also had; the opportunity of delivering the same message to the superintendent of the hospital. 

This brother who the doctor said; could not live the day out continued to regain his strength until a period of two weeks time had elapsed, when we met him as he was transferring from one train to another in the city of Chicago, homeward bound. Through the grace and providence of our Heavenly Father his life was spared. 

A very fine Latter-day Saint doctor, a former missionary in the Northern States, later a student and graduate, and now a practitioner of medicine and surgery in one of our great cities, recently married. He came to our office one afternoon and asked me if we would give his wife a mother's blessing preceding her confinement, and we were very pleased to assure him that we would do that. A few days afterwards he called me, very much alarmed and concerned, and said that 

very untoward evidences were manifest in the condition of his wife 

high blood pressure, temperature, body filling with dropsy and a number of things that presaged a terrible condition. He asked if we could give his wife that mother's blessing that day. In the evening Sister Pond accompanied me to his home, which was five or six miles distant from the office. He told us of the terrible condition his wife was in. He had had experience, and he said he had seen a number of his own household die under confinement cases such as was imminent with his wife, and that he and another very eminent doctor did not propose to take any chances with regard to the life of his wife, that that night they were going to perform a Caesarian operation and take the baby dead or alive, but save the life of his wife. When we gave her a blessing we promised her that her delivery should be natural and normal and that she would have the blessing and privilege of nursing her baby. He drove us to our home, and when he returned matters  moving rapidly. Labor had set in and he hurriedly secured the ambulance and took his wife to the hospital. Arriving there he was very much perturbed about not locating the other doctor. He could not get him on the telephone; so he took his car and rushed to his home and office in an endeavor to secure him. An hour and a half or two hours intervened, and when he came back after a futile search for the other doctor, his wife had been delivered of a beautiful bahy and everything was natural and normal. The dropsy, the high blood pressure, and the other untoward evidences had disappeared. The baby was premature and was placed in an incubator. It is thriving beautifully. 

This is a typical case. Our missionaries have had wonderful experiences. One of our short-term brethren visited and was kindly received by the governor of one of our great States, who invited him to come to the Capitol and later to visit his home. A few weeks ago one of our sister missionaries was kindly received and invited into a home, and when she was properly seated the lady of the home said : 

"My husband is a grandson of Colonel Geddes, who as a member of the State militia drove the Mormon people out of Illinois. We have heard all about the anti-Mormon side of this history. I am so happy to meet you this afternoon. I want you to take off your things, sit down in my house, and tell me the truth from the Mormon standpoint." 

This sister later had the opportunity of meeting this woman's husband, and they are now interested prospective investigators of the truth of the restored Gospel, and this divine Church. 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to know that our kind Heavenly Father never drew a geographical line of distinction with reference to his children. On the contrary, the scripture and the Gospel teach us that 

"God hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation." 

Paul taught the Athenians and the Romans that there was no difference between the Jew and the Greek, for the same God was Father over all, and would give his blessings to all those who would obey him and seek him. Paul continued by saying: 

"How then shail they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher? 

"And how shall they preach except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!" 

Paul further declared, as did also Isaiah, that not all the world would receive the Gospel, but that it should be preached to them and they should have an opportunity of hearing it. As I observed, I am happy to know that our Father never drew a geographic line; he has never expressed love for one of his children simply because he was born in Great Britain, and hated one because he was born in Germany; or loved one because he was born in the United States, and disliked one because he was born in Australia. But wherever our Father's children have obeyed him and sought him he has recognized them and given them the blessings of the Gospel. 

I can testify to you that this Gospel is being preached to the nations of the earth in advance of the coming of our Lord and Savior. I have seen the fulfilment of that passage of scripture which says that he would take them one of a city and two of a family, and give them pastors after his own mind. In my youth I used to think that was wrong, or a misinterpretation of the scriptures, but I have seen it manifest where one single individual in a city or town or hamlet, and where two of a family, have accepted the Gospel. We glide from one State into another, as from Utah to Idaho, from Iowa to Illinois, from Illinois to Indiana, from Michigan and Wisconsin in the United States into Canada. Men and nations make the geographic line of distinction by an ocean, a sea, a river, a lake, a mountain range. But our Father draws no line of geography in the salvation of his children. 

I am happy to report the excellent work of your sons and daughters, your brothers and sisters, elders and lady missionaries of the Northern States. I humbly pray for our Father's choicest blessings upon his .servants, the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve, and all the presiding quorums of the priesthood, you my brethren and sisters in the wards and stakes of Zion. You fathers and mothers, we are solicitous of co-operation with you in the fine working operations of your sons and daughters as missionaries. 

I pray for our Father's blessings upon all his children in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I certainly feel my weakness in standing before you this afternoon. 

It has been only about two and one-half months since the East Central States mission was organized, and it has meant a great deal of hard Work to get the organization completed and to get things in running order. But I am very pleased to state that with the wonderful help we have received from Elder Stephen L. Richards, President Charles A. Callis, President Henry H. Rolapp, and others, we have been able to gather the necessary information from time to time, so that we have been able to organize the mission so that it is now in a very good condition. 

jit took considerable time to decide just where to locate, and then to obtain headquarters. The East Central States mission comprises the following states which were taken from the Southern States mission : Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and North Carolina. It also includes the state of West Virginia, which formerly belonged to the Eastern 

States mission. Our headquarters are located in Louisville, Kentucky. 

Your sons and your daughters who are laboring in that mission are all interested in their work. They are united and working together for the advancement of the cause in all parts of the mission, jl am very pleased to report that at the present time we haven't an elder or lady missionary that is sick or afflicted in any way; they are all able to take care of their work and go about their duties, for which we are very thankful. During the past winter there have been many cases of influenza among our lahoring force, as well as among the Saints; there has also been an epidemic of small-pox and one of diphtheria in that part of the world. But we have had very few fatalities among our people, for which we are very thankful. Today they are practically all enjoying health and strength and are enjoying their labors. 

We have been blessed with a number of short-term missionaries — men of mature years, those who have had experience in the bishopric, in the stake presidency, as high councilors, and in other capacities— who have come into our midst; and they have been able to help the younger elders and lady missionaries. They have been able to lead into the waters of baptism people whom the younger missionaries have not been able to persuade to go that far. 

Two weeks ago last Sunday we held a conference at New Martinsville, West Virginia. We had three very good meetings, well attended. A few days following that conference eleven honest souls entered the waters of baptism. 

A week ago last Sunday we held a conference at Madisonville, Kentucky, in a part of the country that heretofore has been somewhat hostile, so to speak, to our people. The authorities of that city gave us the use of the court house, free of charge, and we had an attendance of 148 at the afternoon session, without counting the children. Of that number I should say that about one-third were representative citizens of that community who did not belong to the Church; and with but one exception they seemed to be well satisfied with that which they heard. During the course of my remarks that afternoon I referred to the love that the Lord has for his children, that instead of there being just a single dividing line so that certain ones would go either to eternal damnation and others to eternal exaltation and glory, every man, woman, and child would be judged according to his works here upon the earth, and would receive a reward such as they might merit. One gentleman took exception to that remark. He said, "According to your version no one goes to hell, or there fs no hell.'' I told him that we were not preaching hell-fire and damnation, but that we were preaching salvation for the human family. After talking a few minutes I think I fairly well satisfied the gentleman that the views which the Latter-day Saints give to the world are logical and in accordance with the doctrines which the Lord has set forth here upon the earth. 

Not long ago a professor in one of the schools in one of the states of our mission brought up the question as to the belief of the Mormon people. At the close of his remarks a little girl in the class, who, by the way, is a member of the Church, raised her hand and wanted to correct him as to a certain statement that he had made; and she did correct his statement. He turned to her and said, "I would like to see you a few minutes after the close of the school." The young lady remained after school, and they conversed for some time in regard to Mormon teachings. Finally he said, "I have come to the conclusion that if I am going to learn anything about the Mormons I must go. to a Mormon." He wanted some literature, and literature pertaining to the Gospel has been furnished him from time to time. Since my coming here, just a day or two ago, I received a letter from this gentleman in which he asked that some one be sent to his school to attend certain exercises that are to be held within the next week or ten days, and there present the views and teachings of our people to his class and also to another class or two that want to unite with his. I lost no time in answering that letter and directing the president of the district in which that school is located to go personally or to see that some elder is sent there to fill that appointment, and set forth to those students the things that the Latter-day Saints believe and teach. 

'I find that in our meetings in various places many people will talk with us and listen to that which we have to say. While it is a time when there is a great deal of indifference in the world, yet the seed is being planted from time to time, and some day it will spring forth and bear fruit. As was said by Paul, "God giveth the increase." So it is in the world today. I find in my conversations with people that when I ask them if they are satisfied within themselves with that which they have, almost without exception they say that they are not, that there is something lacking. They have the desire to worship God in some way, or in some form, but there is something lacking within their souls, and that is the message that we have for them. 

Some of you who are corresponding with your sons and daughters from time to time, can, in your letters, to them, give them a word or two that will mean a great deal to them. I recall now a letter that was shown to me by one of the young ladies just before Christmas time, that she received from her mother in Downey, Idaho. II hope that mother is in the congregation today. In the letter she said, calling her daughter by name, "We would be glad if you could be with us during the Christmas festivities, but we would rather that you be where you are," expressing just what the mother felt. While she would have liked to have her daughter with her, yet she would rather that she be in the nations of the earth performing the work she was called to do, and carrying the message of salvation to those who sit in darkness. 

I rejoice in the knowledge that I have of this work. I know as I know that I live that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was the humble instrument in the hands of the Almighty of again establishing his work here upon the earth; and that work will go forth until eventually it covers the entire earth. 

'I pray that God will bless us all, that we may have the spirit of  work from time to time, and be able to magnify our callings in a way that will be pleasing in his sight, so that when we come to the end of mortal life we may receive the plaudit, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant : thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." May this be our happy lot, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

President of the North Central States Mission 

The missionaries of the Church are perhaps putting forth more effort today than ever before in our history in the distribution of the Book of Mormon, about which so much has been said during this conference. Not long ago we received through the mail a little booklet written by a reverend gentleman who had acted as a missionary in this state. He said that on every page of the Book of Mormon was written "Fraud, Fraud, Fraud." He said Joseph Smith was so unlearned and ignorant that he misspelled the same word three times on one page. I thought as I read that tract : You should not only put Fraud upon every page of the Book of Mormon, but you should turn back into the Old Testament itself and write Fraud upon its pages; for Isaiah, as has been quoted here today, in declaring prophetically, six hundred years before Christ, the person who was to produce this book, said that that person would say he could not translate it because he was not learned. Our friend would have the Prophet Joseph Smith deny that prophetic statement which was uttered concerning him hundreds of years before his birth. 

He said, "No matter how the Mormons dress this work up, you can always see the cloven foot sticking out." I thought : I wish I could talk with that man a little while and open the pages of this book, and read some things to him. And these words came to my mind : There is a passage in this book that says, speaking of the American continent, that it is a choice land, choice above all other lands. Whether that statement was made by that young Nephite prophet before he had ever seen this continent, while en route from the old world, or whether it was made by Joseph Smith when he published this book in 1830, it has been fulfilled. It has a prophetic fulfilment even in our day, for this nation of ours has really come to be a great nation; it is today a land choice above all other lands. When this book was published to the world in 1830, there were a few scant miles of railroad on the American continent. Today, after an hundred years, what do we find? Fifty per cent of the mileage of railroads of the world is in the United States. Seventy-five per cent of the telephone and telegraph lines of the world are in the United States. Ninety per cent of the automobiles of the world are in the United States. Would Joseph Smith have dared to say in 1830, when he published this record, that these conditions would prevail, when so much depended upon their fulfilment so far as his future was concerned? 

Again, twenty-nine years after this book was published the first oil well in the United States was driven in Pennsylvania. Today we have over three hundred thousand oil prodtfcing wells in the United States. During the year 1927 we produced 109,000,000 barrels of oil — sixty-six per cent of all the oil of the world. Did Joseph Smith know in 1830 that we would be producing sixty-six per cent of the oil of the world? Or did Nephi know it when ha said, away back before he landed here, that this would be the condition? Surely this is a great and mighty nation. 

This book further says : 

"And I will fortify this land against all other nations. 

"And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God." 

Let the nations of the world beware, for that nation that fights against Zion shall perish. 

We are a great nation in many ways. Politically we are a great nation. President Hoover, in his speech in New Jersey last September, said : "The great American ideal is the equal opportunity of its citizens." Nowhere else under the shining sun today is there opportunity equal to that which has been guaranteed and worked out for this nation. We recently voted for two men for the highest honor within the gift of the American people — one of them an orphaned newsboy, the other one an orphaned blacksmith's son — and one of them is today seated in the United States presidential chair. He said in his inaugural speech : "If I am to succeed as the President of the United States, I must do it under the authority and power of God." 

"There shall be no kings upon this, land," says this book. Who would have dared to say that in 1830, when the Book of Mormon was published? Who knew that the nations of the old world would not overrun this nation and set up a kingdom? People may say that "we can dress up that book but the cloven foot sticks out," but I am prepared to say, from the depth of my soul that you may picture all the cloven feet you want to but the points of eternal truth will stick out; and the youth of this people will discover, with their brethren and sisters who have gone forth and preached the Gospel, that this work is the work of God. 

I bear witness today that the Lord knew what he was speaking about when he said that the words of this book should be carried to the learned, and they would say : I cannot translate it for it is sealed; and it would be carried back to the unlearned who would say : I cannot, for I am not learned. And then God would say : "Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me. * * * Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder : for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

I leave my witness with you, and wish that I could leave it with the world, that God our Father has restored to the earth the fulness of the Gospel of Jesus, in this sacred record; for it says on the fly-leaf that it has been brought forth for the convincing of the Jew and the Gentile that Jesus is the Christ. I testify to you today that the Book of Mormon is bearing witness in the hearts of the children of men as faithfully today as the record of the Jews has done in the past, that Jesus is the Christ; and I leave this witness with you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 


