Morning
07 04 1929

Conference reconvened Sunday morning-, April 7th, 1929, at 10 o'clock a. m., President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

All the seats in the great Tabernacle were taken, and the aisles of the building were crowded with people who stood during the services. Many who were unable to get inside the Tabernacle listened to the services as they were broadcast by radio in the Assembly Hall on the Tabernacle grounds. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

President Cliffored E. Young of the Alpine Stake offered the opening prayer. 

The choir sang the anthem, "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

My dear brethren and sisters, I approach this task in fear and trembling. That is not a pleasantry or a figure of speech; it is an actual fact. I need your sympathy and faith, and the sustaining influence that it gives. 

THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH 

We have had a great deal of excellent instruction during our conference. The Spirit of the Lord has accompanied the teachings of the elders, from the President of the Church throughout the whole list of speakers. I have noticed that there has run through their teachings this distinctive thought, that it is only by the Spirit of the Lord that the Church can be built up. I would like to read from the Doctrine and Covenants a few words in respect to that idea. In a revelation found in Section 50, commencing at the 17th verse: 

"Verily I say unto you, he that is ordained of me and sent forth to preach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he preach it hy the Spirit of truth or some other way? 

"And if it be by some other way it is not of God. 

"And again, he that receiveth the word of truth, doth he receive it by the Spirit of truth or some other way? 

"If it be some other way it is not of God. 

"Therefore, why is 1 it that ye cannot understand and know, that he that receiveth the word by the Spirit of truth receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth? 

"Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together. 

"And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

"That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter until the perfect day." The Lord here makes it plain that, in bringing converts into the Church, the teacher must have 1 the Spirit of the Comforter, the Spirit of truth, the light of truth. And the one that receives that testimony must also partake of that same Spirit. Both then, are edified; both are enlightened by the power of the Spirit of the Lord, the one that teaches and the one that receives. 

THE SPIRIT OF EVIL 

Science has pretty nearly banished a belief in the devil from among thinking people. Irreligious people of the world tell us "that was good enough to frighten children with, a hundred years ago or five hundred year ago; but there is no such power or influence in the world, at all." But they will not tell us, and it cannot be said, that evil does not exist. The origin of evil has been discussed by thinkers of the world for many hundreds of years; but evil is still here, the spirit of evil that which tempts us and leads us away from righteousness. That is here, whether it be of the devil or not; call it devil or satan, or just a general influence extant all over the world. The spirit of good is here, too; the spirit of righteousness is here; it is existant over the entire earth, and I suppose in the universe everywhere. 

CONTENDING INFLUENCES 

So these two contending influences are here. St. Paul said : "When I would do good, evil is present with me." Have you not found it so? You elders, and you sisters also, in governing in your homes — yOu brethren in governing in your wards and stakes and missions, have you not found the spirit of evil extant, the spirit of Satan that fights against God ? He is not yet conquered; he will be in time. We are told in the revelation of St. John that when we pass on to an exalted state there will be no death, no sorrow, no evil, because Satan will not have power to tempt the saints of God any more but that day has not come yet. That evil one is still wrestling with us. You find it every day. A man goes to the bishop to settle his tithing. He figures it up himself; he settles it in his own mind. Have you ever felt the temptation, something running through your mind like this : "Now, I gave so and so at such and such a time; ought I not to take that out of my tithing?" If you receive a call to go on a mission, have you note felt : "Well now, I have been on a mission; I have been working in the ward, I don't feel that I can go on a mission now?" So, all through the activities of life and the activities of the Church, that tempter abides more or less with us, except as we banish him by the power of the living God, the power of truth by which we receive the truth, that Spirit which I have read to you, that Spirit which leads to life, which makes me say, or you say, if we listen to it : "Why, of course, I will pay my full tithing. Of course I will go on a mission if you brethren want me. That is first all the time." 

IF ONLY TO DECEIVE 

In Los Angeles a week or two ago I counted* in a newspaper advertisement, thirteen different churches where there were meetings of spiritualists; people who believe that we are operated upon, in our affairs, by these spiritualistic influences. We are told that they do have some kind of communication with these unseen agencies very often. There have been such manifestations for many years in the world, and many notable people who believe in them. One of the most distinguished of these, a great scientist, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, lectured on the subject from this stand. We heard what he had to say, but he brought forth nothing new. I don't know of a single new principle distinctive or of value, I don't know of any truth that makes for the upbuilding and strengthening and the betterment of mankind that has come from that source. And yet those spirits or those influences may sometimes tell us truths, if only to deceive us. Carlyle said of Shakespeare that his intellect was the greatest that this world has yet been blessed with, in any human being : and Shakespeare makes Banquo say regarding these spirits, the witches that appeared to Macbeth: "But 'tis strange and oftentimes to win us to our harm the instruments of darkness tell us truths," — let me repeat that by way of emphasis — "the instruments of darkness tell us truths, — win us with honest trifles to betray us in deepest consequence." 

In another scene of the same great play we are told that Macbeth listened to the voice of the evil one through these same witches who led him on and on toward his ruin, until he saw how he was being deceived, and then he uttered these words : "I pull in resolution and begin to doubt the equivocation of the fiend who lies like truth." 

GRACE BEING ADDED TO GRACE 

Not so with the Spirit of the Lord, the Spirit of righteousness, the Spirit of this work of which I have read. It leads us the other way. We receive the truth, and more than the truth as reasoned out by man. We receive the light and truth of the Holy Spirit, of the Comforter, which leads to God. Yet have we not at times had some experience with these influences that are trying to draw us away from the Lord, influences of such a character that they are lying like truth? Against them we are constantly warned and must be constantly on guard. They will deceive the very elect, if it is possible, if we listen to them. But if we listen to the other power, then our salvation is sure and certain. We become, as I have read to you, more and more in that spirit which leads to God, grace being added to grace. In another section, on the same subject, are these words: 

"I give unto you these things that you may understand and know how to worship, that you may come unto the Father, in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness." 

"For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace." 

INTELLIGENCE LIGHT AND TRUTH 

Then can we say truly : "I have received of that witness and testimony, that I know this is the work of God;" and partake of that same spirit which is spoken of a little further on in the same revelation : "The glory of God is intelligence" — not merely intelligence as we understand intelligence — but "in other words, light and truth." What kind of light and truth? What kind of intelligence? Is it the intelligence which men acquire and which we perhaps think is comprised in book learning, or the intelligence which the natural man is capable of acquiring? No, not at all. The glory of God is that intelligence which comprises light and truth. What does this light and truth do for us ? "Light and truth forsake that evil one." That is the kind of intelligence; that is the kind of light and truth that is meant — that which forsakes evil and cleaves to good. And so the wayfaring man, the unlettered man, may receive that Spirit of light and intelligence which pertains to the glory of God, and be filled with it. Obeying all the commandments of God he is more intelligent than those even though they may be learned, who do not partake of that Spirit. A man with that intelligence can be taken on and on until he receives a fulness of glory, and he becomes like unto God. 

IN NO OTHER WAY 

Now, I want to say, in closing, that the presidency of this Church, the Twelve Apostles, the Seventies, the leading brethren in the stakes and wards and missions, can build up this Church only by the Spirit about which I have read to you. In no other way can it be built up; assuredly not by the spirit of man. Churches may be established. Lodges may be organized, many organizations formed for the help and benefit of man — and many of them do much good too, and are praiseworthy; but they have not this distinctive feature that this Church has, which was revealed in the beginning and is emphasized, iterated and reiterated all through the revelations, namely, that without that Spirit of light and truth, that Spirt of the Lord, that Spirit of the Comforter, that power of the Holy Ghost, his Church cannot be built up. If it be attempted by any other way than the Lord speaks of here in the passages which I have read, then it is not of God. So, my brethren and isisters, let us take it to heart; all of us who labor for Zion must know and understand that we must keep that influence and that power which comes from God in our hearts, the light of his Spirit burning in our souls. It is illustrated in what Brother Harris said last night in the priesthood meeting, and what we have often heard, respecting what President Young told Brother Karl G. Maeser when he sent him to take charge of the Brigham Young Academy at Provo. President Young said: "Brother Maeser, I don't want you to try to teach even the multiplication table without the Spirit and influence of the power of God." 

You brethren, you sisters — sisters of the Relief Society, those at the head 1 of it, and the sisters of the Primary, and the Young Ladies — you brethren in all the quorums of priesthood, let us get this into our hearts, minds and souls, that we are charged with the responsi to oversee some portion of the work of the Lord. Get this into our hearts, that by the Spirit of the living God, and only by that power and Spirit, can this work grow and prosper and be established. That power and Spirit does not come from the wisdom of man. It pertains to the glory of God, which is intelligence, the kind of intelligence which forsaketh that evil one. May we keep that, my brethren and sisters, in our minds firmly; get it rooted in our hearts and souls; and then work in humility, in faith, and he will increase our power, by which means, as I have read to you, we will be helped to go from grace to grace until we become filled with that Spirit to the fulness of power and glory, filled with the Spirit of power which forsakes that evil one to walk in the light of God's countenance, to his glory and honor. By that influence and power, and by none other, will this work prosper and his kingdom come. 

The Lord bless us all, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

It is a cause of rejoicing to me, my brethren and sisters, to be privileged to meet with you in this grand conference. The instructions that have been given and the spirit and power that have been manifest have been a source of great joy and satisfaction to me. 

I am, very grateful for the fellowship of my brethren of the First Presidency and the other General Authorities, and of "these brethren who preside in the stakes and wards, and of all the members of this Church. I rejoice in the faith and devotion of the Latter-day Saints, and the spirit of love and kindliness which characterizes their lives and actions. 

VITAL STATISTICS KNOWN ABROAD 

In President Grant's opening discourse he cited some vital statistics of the Latter-day Saints. In listening to them I was reminded of the fact that these statistics, which are collected by the Church, are recognized abroad. For instance, President Grant called attention to the fact that our birth rate is about 30 per thousand, and our death rate about 7.5 per thousand. I think that during the past year it was 7.8 per thousand. For the last three or four years previously the ratio has been about four births per death. 

Recently, Dr. Max Haenle of the University of Erlangen, Germany, who had been visiting in the United States for some time, called upon us and told us that a number of the prominent sociologists of Germany were interested in these figures and could hardly believe that among the Latter-day Saints, or among any people, there could be such a high ratio of births to deaths. Because, ordinarily, where people have a high birth rate they also have a high death rate. 

EXTENT OF CHARITY ASSISTANCE 

President Grant also referred in his discourse to the work that is being done by the Latter-day Saints in the way of charity and the distribution of funds for the welfare of those in need. I should like this morning" for a few moments to discuss some phases of this work that is being carried on by the Church. 

The Lord Jesus Christ, while he was upon the earth, stressed the importance of helping those who are in need. In these latter days, through the revelations of the Lord, it has been made plain to us that the poor should be looked after; and that we should give of our means to help them. There should be manifest on our part proper consideration and interest in the welfare of others. 

FASTING AND FAST DONATIONS 

In this connection I would like to call your attention to the importance of a principle that I believe we are neglecting. That is the principle of fasting and the giving of fast donations. The reports of the Church as a whole last year indicate that the average per capita fast offering was twenty-two cents per year. This is based on the total membership. Actually about one-eighth of the members paid fast donations, and the average amount for those who donated was $1.70 per capita for the year. I am inclined to think that many of us are failing to observe the principle of fasting. Fasting in moderation is a sound health principle. It is also a principle that promotes faith and spirituality. It is a powerful means, in connection with prayer, for the gaining of desired blessings. The Lord Jesus Christ emphasized this fact. Also, in the revelations given to us in these days, he has declared that fasting and prayer will bring results that otherwise may not be obtained. If every one of us were to fast and were to give the equivalent in value of our fast one day per month it would provide sufficient means in the Church to take care of all those who are in need. I believe that if this same principle were observed throughout the United States there would be ample funds to provide for all the charity requirements of the nation. I am sure that when we fast our liearts are more open to consider those who are in need. I commend, therefore, to the Latter-day Saints and to the presidents of stakes -and bishoprics of wards the importance of stressing the observance of the fast day and of directing the thoughts and minds of the people towards those things that are for the mutual welfare and blessing of the Church as a whole. 

THE CHURCH AND SOCIAL WELFARE 

The Latter-day Saints are recognized by the people of the world as being greatly interested in the welfare of those who are in need. We are giving, I believe, in porportion to our membership, more attention and greater service to those who are in need of help than any other community in all the world. 

I am reminded of a statement that was made by a rather prominent official who came here some time ago, — a representative of one of the prominent national welfare organizations. He made some investigations in this city and state, and after his return east he wrote a letter of which the following is an extract : 

'The Church is certainly doing a great deal for its people and I would like to say to you some things that I have said ever since my return to New York— I believe that your Church group as a whole has the most socialized outlook on welfare matters of any group with which I have come in contact." 

RESPONSIBILITY FOR THOSE IN NEED 

As the Lord has given this responsibility to the Church of looking . after those who are in need, we recognize the importance of it. Yet the primary responsibility for the welfare and care of those in need is not upon the Church. You remember the Apostle Paul said upon one occasion : 

"But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel." 

Net only the moral responsibility rests upon those who are related to the family proper, to take care of those who are in need, but in this state at least, the legal responsibility rests upon them to take care of their relations. I can hardly conceive of parents, who have the means, expecting the Church or the state to take care of their children who may be in need. Nor can I see how children who have means can feel that the Church or the state should be responsible for the care of their parents if they are in need. In this connection let me state that statistics show that, generally speaking, those Latter-day Saints who observe the principle of tithing are less dependent in their old age than are those who are not faithful in the observance of this commandment. Next to the relatives, the state law recognizes that the counties are responsible for the care of the poor. 

DANGERS OF INDISCRIMINATE GIVING 

The Church, while it has no legal responsibility, does undertake to supervise and to help to see that no one suffers. That is the spirit of this work. It is important that in our charity work we should learn how to act in such a way as to promote the greatest welfare of those who are in need, and at the same time to avoid that indiscriminate giving which tends to cause dependence rather than promote independence. The spirit of the Gospel and the policy of the Church have always been to try to help people to help themselves, to endeavor to place them in a position where they can be relieved of dependence and of difficulty and secure conditions which will promote progress and prosperity. 

FAMILY THE BASIC UNIT 

The family is the basic unit of society and of the Church. We should all strive to maintain happy normal families to the end that there may be perfect unity, happiness and peace, and that the religious influence and the spirit of the Gospel, may prevail in all these homes. 

CARE OF ORPHANS AND DEPENDENT CHILDREN 

Among other things the care of the orphan is upon us as well as upon the state. Of course the responsibility rests primarily upon public institutions. We recognize the fact, however, that it is better that orphan children should be placed in foster homes than in institutions. In general it is found that a home is far better for a child than any institution can be. And so, with the approval of the First Presidency and in a modest way, we are inaugurating the policy of endeavoring to take care of orphan boys. We are also seeking to find foster homes for negiected children who cannot be properly taken care of in their own homes. This is being done in co-operation with the Relief Society. We have the Lund Home for boys and are undertaking now to make that more of a clearing house for boys than an institution where they will be kept continuously for long periods. We are trying to place them in suitable homes with kind and loving foster parents, members of the Church, who will seek to train them in righteousness and have an influence over them in the home that they cannot obtain elsewhere. In like manner we are planning to help orphan girls, or those who are dependent or neglected, to place them in other suitable homes if they cannot be taken care of in their own homes. 

REQUIREMENTS FOR NORMAL FAMILY LIFE 

Students of social welfare recognize five essential factors to a normal, happy family life. These factors are, first, health; second, employment; third, education; fourth, recreation; and fifth, spiritual welfare. The causes of po\erty may be various unfavorable conditions such as sickness, unemployment, infirmity, improvidence, injury or mental or physical deficiency. Now we are concerned in the Church with seeing to it that so far as possible all those who are in need are aided to gain permanent relief. Not that they should be given financial help only, but have other careful attention. An investigation should be made in kindliness, in sympathy and wisdom, and under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, as expressed by President Nibley this morning, to determine what their needs may be. If they are suffering from ill health we should provide suitable medical or nursing care and see also that they receive the healing ordinances of the Gospel. If they are lacking employment we should try to obtain suitable employment for them through the co-operative supervision of the Bishopric and the Relief Society, tfn case of improvidence, if people are spending more than they earn, of course that spells ruin, — it means failure. It is important that they should be taught how to budget their accounts. As President Nibley has sometimes said, they must spend less than they earn. Otherwise they cannot expect to make progress and gain success. If they are lacking in education we should plan ways and means for them to gain education. Also it is very desirable that proper recreation shall be provided the membership that they shall be trained in spiritual things and become established in the truth of the Gospel. 

VOCATIONAL TRAINING 

With regard to the matter of employment, it seems to me that the training of our young people generally in vocational education, — in the  of trades and professions —is of vital importance. We find that many of - those who seek employment are without any specialized training, and yet this is an age of specialization. Increasing specialization is being required in all of the various vocations and professions. It is a wonderful thing for our young people to be trained and developed in those lines of activity whereby they may be able to gain a useful, successful livelihood, and make steady progress in the affairs of life. 

PROVIDING OF EMPLOYMENT 

Responsibility rests upon the various agencies to endeavor to secure and provide employment for those in need. In times of slack private industrial undertakings and enterprises, it is the responsibility of the cities and counties and states, to provide public work for those who are in need in order to avoid having to give help without return. Otherwise, people become dependent and do not develop the responsibility that they should carry. The dole system in England is evidence of the kind of policy that is wrong in principle. On the other hand, if provision can be made for more extensive public work in slack times by the public corporations, a great deal can be done to help men to help themselves and to make them feel that independence which everyone ought to have. 

BISHOPRICS, RELIEF SOCIETY, AND SOCIAL SERVICE 

Now, with regard to the matter of investigation of those in need: We feei that it is very desirable that the bishoprics throughout the Church call upon the Relief Societies to assist them by rendering that service for which they are preparing under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society. Every case of need should be investigated carefully, tactfully and sympathetically. Following the investigation the bishopric and Relief Society can determine what is needed to relieve the conditions, thereupon the form of relief needed should be provided. It should be kept in mind that while the Church agencies are doing all of this work, any financial help should first be sought from those who are responsible therefor. 

We are desirous that in all of the wards throughout the Church the officers of the Relief Society who are being trained in the essentials of social welfare work, in common sense and good judgment, shall, in kindliness, endeavor to help those who are in need to solve their problems, in order that they may become more useful and successful members of the Church and of society. I am sure that every one of us realizes the importance of striving to so prepare ourselves, and to so qualify for the labors of ltfe, that we may be able not only to be free of any help from the Church, but that, on the contrary, we may be able to be of service to the Church in a spiritual way, and also to help in a financial way to advance the purposes which the Lord has in view ill the formation of this great work. It requires not only labor, it requires also means. If every one of us can qualify' and be placed in such position that we can help rather than be helped we shall feel much happier. Wei shall rejoice, the Lord will blesa us, and we will go forward as united, happy families. I desire to suggest therefore, that if the bishoprics of wards will place greater responsibility upon the Relief Society, under their direction, they will be relieved of much detail. At the same time the Relief Society can function in one of the great objectives for which this organization has been formed. 

DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIES 

In order to provide more employment we need more industries. We should all seek in cur various communities to develop those industries that shall be for the welfare of the people and for our own progress and prosperity. So far as possible no raw material should be shipped out from our midst. We should take the available raw materials and put them in finished state for consumptive use. If we will do these things we will be prospered and blessed, and greater headway will be made, and greater satisfaction prevail in the various communities of the Church. 

Our ideal in all these efforts should be generally to secure happy, prosperous, religious homes. That the Lord may help and bless us to sense our responsibility, that we may endeavor to act wisely in all these things, and partake of the spirit and power of the Gospel, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, "An Angel from on high," was sung by Cyril Martin and Ida Hepworth, the choir joining with them in singing the chorus. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

As I have anticipated the discharging of this great responsibility my mind has continually dwelt upon the value of true religion and of right thinking as the important factor in a truly religious life. 

I was pleased to hear President Grant in his all too brief address at the opening of this conference stress the necessity of religion in life. I am in perfect accord with all he said and with the entire proceedings of this Conference. 

TRUE RELIGION 

I believe that the most important need of the world today is true religion. 

True religion has three manifestations; first, the thought, the feeling, the mental and spiritual attitude of the individual toward his God; second, worship; and third, [service to one's fellows. Evidently a man may conform to the outward forms of worship yet not be religious. But a man must be religious if he direct his thoughts and his words towards God and let his worship and acts among his fellows follow in accordance therewith. 

WRONG THINKING 

Charles Foster Kent in his Life of Jesus, speaks of "The Fatal Crime of Wrong Thinking;" and approximately two thousand years  one of the greatest leaders and one of the ablest and wisest of men said : "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." No one emphasizes this truth more strongly than did Jesus. "With him," says Kent, "the deadly sins were not neglect of the ritual, nor even crime punishable by the laws of all civilized nations, but wrong ideas, motives and feelings. He decried the fatal effect of hatred and jealousy in the mind of the individual more vehemently than he did the act that hate and jealousy prompt." 

Let me cite two instances. On one occasion Jesus said regarding the evil effect of harboring anger: 

"Ye have heard that it was said by them of old Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment; 

"But I say unto you, That he who is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." 

Thus the Savior emphasized the fatal effect of wrong thinking. He knew that if the mind could be directed rightly, if the evil thought and tendency could be resisted, as President Nibley mentioned this morning, the evil act would be minimized. Jesus does not lessen the seriousness of these acts, or say that we should not punish them, but he emphasizes the greater need of keeping the thoughts clean, the mind pure. An evil tree will bring forth evil fruit; a good tree will bring forth good fruit. Keep the tree pure, the thoughts pure, and the fruit will be pure and the life pure. 

Again, he decried the evil of cherishing anger. 

"If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee; 

"Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother." 

Note how that is worded : 

"If thou rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee" — not only if thou hast ought against thy brother. 

A double meaning in that. A man at the altar who would truly keep his life in harmony with the fundamental principle of religion should go to his brother who might be harboring ill will against him, and before rendering the act of worship, seek understanding and reconciliation. In similar phrases the Savior emphasizes time and time again the necessity of thinking right and the evil of wrong thinking. This is the case in his admonition not to condemn one another : "Judge not (or condemn not) that ye be not condemned." 

Nov/, brethren and sisters, these illustrations will suffice to emphasize the point I have in mind, that in true religion, the fundamental thing isi to keep our thoughts right towards our God and towards our fellow men. 

UNSTABLE OPINIONS 

Now what are the sinful influences around us that tend to divert young people's minds, from this right channel? We are living in an age GENERAL CONFERENCE , measured by the standards of the Gospel, is full of unstable opinions; and into that world of shifting uncertainty our young people are thrown. Think for a moment how their thoughts are diverted from our standards as they read some of the articles in current magazines. 

From a leading magazine of the last month, I have culled, just at random, this in relation to religion : 

Academic scholars who are shaping the thoughts of youth are declaring that one religious faith is just as good or just as useless, according to the professor's particular viewpoint, as another. "Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism, Christianity, all spring from the same source, and in the ultimate analysis mean the same thing." 

That is one of the things which I call unstable, and which threaten young people with an influence that will throw them into the fatal crime of wrong thinking. In customs, and fashions, what was considered bad taste yesterday, has become quite acceptable today. 

In regard to the ideals of success and the standards that lead to success, I quote this surprising statement : 

"Success is not the result of hard work, clean living and personal integrity. The vulgar, proud and haughty, not the meek, inherit the earth." 

Young men and young women read those things, and their minds are diverted from the channel of right thinking and right living. Unstable opinions, shifting uncertainties! 

SINFUL INFLUENCES 

Again the wholesomeness of our ancestral home-life is questioned. That thought too is leading our young people to think in a. wrong direction. . 

Modesty, "that diamond setting to female beauty/' is in some circles considered prudish, puritanic; and the influence is leading astray some of our girls who are susceptible to the influence of society. 

Ride along the highway, see the obnoxious and sometimes obscene advertisements, how they flaunt themselves in the face of every traveler; and even obnoxious advertisements steal into our homes over the radio. 

Now, the important question with us today is, what are we doing to counteract this tendency towards fatal wrong thinking? I am going to name onlv three common phases of our Church which I think are fundamental toward right thinking and right living. 

A SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY TOWARD OTHERS 

I should like to name first the duty that rests upon every parent and upon every teacher within this Church to arouse within the mind of the child a sense of responsibility toward other individuals and towards society. The sacredness of personality is a fundamental teaching of Jesus Christ. One great writer in this age, Harry Emerson Fosdick, is right when he says, "Christ thought of personality as the central fact in the universe and used it as a medium of interpretation of all other parts." In the thought he approaches the more sublime teaching of the Lord given through the Prophet Joseph : 101 

"This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

In this truth is found a fundamental principle of true religion, and it touches the very heart of the government of society and the peace of the home. Let the child in the home realize that there are certain things which he cannot do to gratify his own appetite, if in doing so he brings sorrow or inconvenience to other members of the household. A sense of duty to others should be a governing factor in' his actions. Let me illustrate: In the paper the other morning was an account of a tragedy of a sixty-five year old mother who ended her life after a struggle of years to keep her boy from the clutches of the law. She did save him until just the other day. The law could not touch him, and she spent her fortune and her life and even scrubbed floors of offices to gratify that boy's selfishness and indulgence. Well, he passed many years without coming in contact with the law, but the crime of wrong thinking was his years ago when he thought that that mother should sacrifice herself to gratify his own indulgence. 

O, youth of the land, think of the responsibility of keeping your name unsullied! Think of bringing comfort and happiness to the mother who bore you! There is the fundamental thought that will lead you towards God and worship in true religion. He is a recreant indeed who, to gratify his appetite or his passions, will bring a stain upon the honored name he bears or sorrow to the heart of his mother. If a man come from such a home, with such right thoughts as respecting the rights of other persons and of society, he will not go far wrong in his acts toward his fellowmen. 

PRAYER 

I wish to name as the second principle a little simple thing which even in the naming this morning will indicate to you perhaps how many have wandered from it, the simple principles of prayer. There are men in our midst who say that prayer is not efficacious. Unfortunately some of our young people believe such fallacious remarks. Prayer is a fundamental principle of religion, the Christian religion particularly, and prayer is a force for good. A praying man is a growing man. He is a powerful man, as we have heard throughout this conference already. Christ said : 

"When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." 

It is said of a superior officer in the great war, that when he was a youth his mind had been so diverted from the truth that he thought prayer was a presumption. One day he found himself engaged in a conflict in which earth and heaven seemed to mix. He felt his senses reel, and in the midst of the conflict he found himself crying from his heart: "O God, let me not lose my head, for my men's sake!" He wrote afterwards : "That prayer was answered, and the D. S. O. which GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I now wear is the result of God's answering that prayer. I sometimes think I should deposit it in some church, but when I look at that bit of ribbon it reminds me of my prayer." 

We are not in a great conflict of nations as were that soldier and his comrades; we are not seeking the life-blood of each other, but I tell you every day that we start out on our daily work and mingle with our fellows we enter into conflict, and it is the appropriate thing for every young man in the world to say in secret, to think and feel in his heart, "O, let me not lose my head this day as I meet temptation, as I am tempted to misjudge my fellows. Keep me from trespassing upon the rights of others." 

REVERENCE 

A third principle that contributes to right religious attitude is reverence — reverence for the Sabbath day and all things sacred. Reverence directs thought toward God. Without it there is no religion. Let us not make Sunday a holiday. It is a holy day, and on that day we should go to the house of worship and seek our God. If we seek him on the Sabbath day, get into his presence on that day, we shall find it less difficult to be in his presence the following days of the week. There should be more reverence for the house of worship. I am offended when I see in Sunday School, or perhaps in Mutual, members leave the service after having rendered a musical number. Undoubtedly, they go to some other place to render the same service. Even that is not sufficient justification for the mark of seeming irreverence in leaving a worshiping assembly. Better secure somebody who can stay throughout the service, for the assembly in a dedicated chapel is in the presence of God. All are supposed to have come to meet him and worship him, and there should be present that spirit of order and reverence which will direct the worshipers' thoughts in the right channel. 

God help us to serve him with our minds, might and strength. With kind consideration for all mankind and particularly for those who have given us honored names and pure lives; with prayer and reverence in our hearts, may we seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, that all other things may be given to us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I confess I am taken somewhat by surprise in being called upon to occupy this position, for, as I saw the time of the General Conference rapidly slipping away and contemplated the great number of those yet, presumably, to be heard from, I thought surely I can quietly retain my seat without fear of being called upon to face this vast congregation; but now that I am called I sincerely hope that I may enjoy the favor of the Lord while I stand before you. 103 

President Grant emphasized in his opening address the importance of religion and quoted from some eminent authorities an opinion that religion is the true basis of all morality. I heartily concur in that opinion. I do not believe that there is any morality independent of religion. The present policy of the Church, as announced by President Grant, in withdrawing from secular education, must not be construed by the people as a withdrawal from the great cause of education; but it does seem like an unnecessary duplication of work for the Church to undertake to do, in an adequate way, what is already being so well done by our public schools. 

The greatest work of the Almighty is to educate his children. This Church itself is a great institution of learning and is charged with the responsibility of educating the world, and, in this connection, with particular reference to our secular education, our public schools are rendering to us and to our Church in common with our fellow citizens of other religious views and their churches, a splendid service in the accomplishment of this divine purpose, namely, the education of mankind. 

That education, from our point of view, is primarily the work of the Church is fully borne out by these illuminating aphorisms found in our own modern scriptures and the writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith : "The glory of God is intelligence." "No man can be saved in ignorance," and "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge." From which we may assume that the great work of the Master is one of education. From the very beginning it has been so. Our first parents were led to partake of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, a very important part of our education. Was that a calamity to the world or to them? No! On the contrary it was a wonderful blessing. Cast out of the Garden of iEden where all was peace and tranquility, for its governing law had been violated; but admitted into this world of struggle and strife — this school of experience where we are still partaking of the fruit of that tree. Blessed are we if, with the knowledge thus obtained, we choose the good and reject the evil. 

Education then is manifold. It has to do with everything pertaining to the growth and development of mankind. It is secular but also spiritual, mental and physical; moral and religious education go hand in hand — the training of the heart and of the hand — all are included in the curriculum of "God's Great School." 

In our quest for knowledge it is strange, but interesting, to observe its reaction upon the human mind as manifested in the varying attitudes of mankind towards God and religion. Some have become atheists — some agnostics, some believers. Atheists who deny the existence of God, who say there is no God, how foolish! How can one look out into this natural world where everything bears the impress of divinity and continue to maintain such an attitude? Is such a condition of mind due to superior knowledge? Is it not more likely due to the lack of it? GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"A little learning is a dangerous thing. Drink deep or taste not the Pierian spring." 

What benefit comes from such an attitude? Does it produce happiness ? Or promote morality ? Or in any way benefit mankind ? Certainly not! It sets God aside and thus removes the very basic principle of al true morality. It having no reverence leads to profanity and defiance,- thence rebellion against God and ence leads to profanity and defiance, thence' rebellion against God and his counsels and disregard of one's fellow man, for the love of God and the love off man are inseparable. What is the basis of such morality as may be found among atheists? Not the fear of God for they say " there is none. What then ? Let me answer that question : It is the fear of Man. Society imposes penalties upon evil doers. Jails and penitentiaries are built for them. So if they desire to mingle in society and avoid the penalties they must maintain a certain degree of morality and decency; but those whose morality is built upon this foundation say to themselves : "If the law does not forbid (and there are many evils which the law does not forbid) or if we can only gratify our evil desires without being found out, then we may carry on, without compunction, to our hearts content." What a miserable basis upon which to build the moral life — the fear of man! How foolish! "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." But when a man fears' God and has an abiding' faith in him, he knows that his all-seeing eye will penetrate into the deepest recesses of the heart — he knows that God will find him out. Then we may well say: "Be not afraid of the face of man but fear God and keep his commandments." 

The apparent conflict, and let me say it is only apparent, between religion and science, arises from two definite causes. An imperfect knowledge of science on the one hand and an imperfect knowledge "of religion on the other. True science is knowledge classified and must be true, hence it is a part of true religion which embraces and accepts all truth. How I rejoice in the wonderful development of science and invention, and I hope I may ever have an open mind ready to receive all knowledge let it come from whence it will, for it has but one source; it comes from God who is the fountain of all truth. 

Revelation is truth made known whether that truth be religious or secular. Every invention or discovery, in fact all our understanding comes from God, for "there is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." It does not detract from the glory due to the inventor to say that God uses him as an instrument in his hands in bringing truth to light. God sends us his prophets to teach us in the way of life; he also sends us scientists, inventors and discoverers. They too are servants of God and have a part in the great work of educating mankind. 

T am not an atheist and deny that knowledge leads to atheism, nor am I an agnostic who holds that nothing can be known beyond material phenomena, who regards faith as a positive weakness, mistaking it for 105 , thus pulling down the blinds and shutting out from his soul the light of faith while he gropes around in darkness and despair No, I am neither one nor the other. God forbid! I thank the Lord that I have a believing heart and see his hand in all that lies about me. Whether I look out into the starry heavens or watch the budding of the trees and the unfolding- of their leaves or whether in my secret chamber where no human eye can see me, I am holding converse with my Maker; I feel and sense his presence in every fibre of my being, and my heart is filled with joy and gladness for the testimony he has given me of the truth of his glorious Gospel as restored to earth in all its primitive purity in these last days, through Joseph Smith the Prophet. 

I think sometimes that J am perhaps a philosopher. But do not let that be taken to mean that I am professing great learning, for such is not the case. Hut if we may say that to be a philosopher means what its classic origin indicates — a lover of wisdom, then am I indeed a philosopher, for I love wisdom; no matter how much I may lack or be wanting in wisdom, yet nevertheless I love it and I want more wisdom. There is no wisdom in denying God or in shutting out the light of faith or in closing one's heart against the whispering of the Holy Spirit. It is rebellion against the Creator of heaven and earth. "The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord,"' and we are living in the day spoken of by John the Revelator wherein he says : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Here then is wisdom. O ye inhabitants of the earth, hearken to the words of the prophets. Open your ears and your hearts to that means of knowledge and understanding which God has given unto us through his great teacher, the Holy Spirit, that is striving with all the children of men to bring them back to God, after we shall obtain the education that he has provided for us in this earth-life which we are now living. May God help us to learn our lessons well and to prepare ourselves for that which he has in store for us if we will only accept it; for great is the knowledge, the learning, the education — even the knowledge of the things of God whom to know i$ life eternal — if we will only be wise in our searching after truth. 

"Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 

"But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. 

"For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God."' 

May we then receive our diplomas through our diligence and faith in this great school, even the "crown of life which the Lord hath promised to them that love him." Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California Mission 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that this is a very wonderful privilege that has come to me, and as has already been said by a previous speaker, a tremendous responsibility. I sincerely trust that the Lord's good Spirit, that influence that has been manifested through the proceedings of this conference thus far, may be with me in the few moments that I occupy. 

My thoughts naturally dwell upon matters pertaining to missionary work, as my responsibility is in the mission field. I have had a rather unusual and remarkable experience, I feel, while laboring in California. My appointment to that field of labor took place just a little prior to a period of depression in a business way in the states of Utah and Idaho and in other sections, while in California there was a'great degree of business activity. Great building's were being erected, thousands of homes were being built, and new divisions in the great city were being opened up. Men who were out of employment were attracted from many other states and came to California hunting for work. In the days that I have in mind they were quite generally successful in finding employment, and in turn they communicated with their friends and relatives. The result has been a great influx of Latter-day Saints into the state of California. 

When I took up my missionary work we had on the records of the California mission about four thousand souls. At the present time we have over ten thousand souls, and there has been taken from the mission some twelve or fifteen thousand members who are in the three stakes that have been organized in California. So our responsibility and our labors to a considerable degree have been to look after these Latterday Saints who have come there in such large numbers, and it has been necessary to organize fifty, sixty, or seventy branches of the Church. Of course thirty or possibly more of those organizations are now in the stakes that have been established in Los Angeles and San Francisco. But there are people still coming to California. Many of them are disappointed when they arrive, for the reason that opportunities for employment are not as they have been in times gone by : and there are a good many idle men who are anxious to work but who cannot find employment. 

This great influx of people has made it necessary to do a large amount of building, and building operations have been made possible by the generous attitude of the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I suppose that some of the people do not know that from the funds of the Church liberal contributions are made for the erection of chapel buildings, not only in the stakes of Zion but throughout the missions of the world. We have usually received from the First Presidency from the general funds of the Church at least fifty per cent of the cost of the chapel buildings that have been erected in the 107 

California mission, and this fifty per cent, speaking roughly, is sufficient to buy the material that goes into the buildings. The result has been that many buildings have been erected, probably thirty chapels, representing a value of six or seven hundred thousand dollars. Nine of those buildings were commenced during the past year and will be occupied, all of them, during the present year. 

The people have operated to a considerable extent in the same manner that this sort of thing was done in pioneer days. Aside from the assistance to which I have referred, the people who make tip the branches have given of their skill, (and many of them are mechanics), and they have labored faithfully to build these buildings; sometimes going after the regular day's work was over and working four or five hours, away into the night, that they might have places in which to worship the Lord our God. 

We have had wonderful assistance from the missionaries who have been sent to us. I have looked into the faces of stake presidents — Brother Chipman, formerly president of the Alpine stake, Thomas Clark Callister of the Millard stake, President Wayne H. Redd; of the San Juan stake, — they have all been in California. President Miles L. Jones, who has now been called to preside over one of the missions in America, and other men, some of them members of stake presidencies, have been with us in California. One of these men said to me yesterday, when I invited him to come again to California : "O, Brother Joseph, I could never again have such a joyful time as I had while I was with you in California." But I am sure he could have just as joyful a time again. 

I have been wondering, as J have looked into the faces of these splendid men who are here in this congregation, how these stake presidents came to receive these missionary appointments? My understanding is that they offered their services in response to the call made by the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I understand that there has been a suggestion made by the Presidency that short-term missionaries may in some cases come from the ranks of stake presidents, from the ranks of bishops, and from high councils in the various stakes of Zion. I am sure that these men whom I have named and other men whom I could name, have accomplished a marvelous work in the California mission. I very much doubt if they realize how great has been their ministry and how wonderful their influence. Some of these men when they got into this labor became tremendously interested, so much so that when the usual period of a short-term mission of six months had passed by they did not want to return home and they doubled the period. We have had short-term missionaries who have actually suggested, when it was necessary for them to* return, that they be not released. They had the spirit of this work upon them, they felt its importance, and in some instances we have left their names upon theNrecord, and they have come back and have again taken up the work of preaching the Gospel, all at their own expense. Surely God's work is great and marvelous. 

We find occasionally new evidences coming to our attention to GENERAL CONFERENCE  ns in the work of God. I would like to read an item that has had a remarkable bearing upon my own feelings in regard to the wonder of the work of the latter days. This clipping is from the Los Angeles Examiner, I think of July, 1927. It says: 

"Dr. Robert A. Millikan, head of the California Institute of Technology, at Pasadena, yesterday made some startling statements, showing that the question of the existence and traits of these cosmic rays may be considered as scientifically determined, together with the fact that about one-tenth of the energy in the heat and light given forth by our sun and stars is returned from space by these rays. This was of such a striking nature, it opened such perspectives to the imagination and vision of the astronomical and physical features of the universe that the reporter persuaded Dr. Millikan himself to write just his thought, and the doctor wrote: 'It is a legitimate speculation, that since we now have evidence that the sun and stars are actually radiating away their masses in the form of heat and light, somewhere in the universe the reverse of that process is going on, and light and heat are condensing back again into ordinary matter, new stars thus being in the process of forming as old ones disappear.' 

"Coming from the one whom many learned men consider the foremost physicist of the world, these statements carry immense weight and portend future research endeavors of a phase new to science and new to all the world." 

And then, listen, my brethren and sisters, to this quotation from the Pearl of Great Price, the Book of Moses, as given in vision and translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith: 

"And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and then thy servant will be content. 

"And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. 

"And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words." 

The great scientist, or the commentator on his words, declared that the forming of new planets as suggested was new to science and new to all the world; and yet the great prophet of the latter times, not a scientist, made declaration through this vision that the very doctrine that is dawning upon the minds of men was revealed by the Lord God of heaven. Praise to his name! 

I hope that we will take the admonitions that have been given, and that our testimonies will hold us secure in the work of God, no matter what information may be presented that may be difficult for us to explain. May God help us to. be true to our testimonies and to his cause for ever and ever, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
