11
Morning
07 10 1922
Richard R. Lyman 
252
60-64

None

None

I earnestly desire, my brethren and sisters, that the rich inspiration of our heavenly Father may continue with us during the remaining portion of this meeting, as it has done during the first part of the meeting, and during the sessions that were held yesterday. 

Like Brother John A. Widtsoe, I have been and am intensely interested in education. I should like to talk to you about our religion class work, our seminary work, and our Church School system, but time will not permit. 

REMEMBER THE CHURCH EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS 

We have in Provo, the Brigham Young University. If I had the time I could tell you many good things about that splendid institution. I should like to have you keep this great school in your remembrance. Many of you have a good deal of property. Those who are comparatively rich sometimes wonder what to do with their holdings. I say to you, if you would have your name reverently remembered by the generations of Saints that are to come, you can do nothing better with funds the Lord has given to you than to make an endowment of some sort to this splendid Church university. 

We have directors of other Church schools here, and they remind me that there are other Church educational institutions. I suggest that you remember all of these when you are disposing of and distributing that which the Lord has given you of worldly goods. 

Y. M. M. I. A. LIFE MEMBERSHIPS 

Not only am I interested in the educational work of the Church, but, as one of the general superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, I am also intensely interested in that great organization. There has been established for young men no institution better than the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. Many have received training in this organization, who perhaps would like to make a slight contribution for its assistance. Some of you may probably not know that we have life memberships in this organization. I appeal to you who have been blessed by attending Mutual Improvement Associations, to join the organization as life members. The charge for such membership is $5. Those who make this contribution give it to an endowment fund. The interest only on this endowment will be expended. This means that those who make this contribution will be helping this splendid organization for all time to come. 

OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

Now, this matter of obedience to law: The Lord has revealed to the Latter-day Saints that he, himself, raised up wise men who prepared the constitution of the United States. We believe it to be a divinely inspired document. Will it endure? Will this country of ours last indefinitely? 

I heard a great historian once say that he has studied ancient history with very great care in an effort to determine whether or not the United States of America, as a republic, will endure indefinitely. He said: "The republics of the past have failed. This republic can only endure, if in it there is some element not to be found in the republics of the past." This historian (Andrew D. White) explained further that a careful investigation shows that we have in this republic one thing only, not to be found in other republics, and that is our great educational system. If after being trained in our schools, men have the Christian spirit, if there is in their hearts some unselfishness, if they are willing to make sacrifices for the good of others, then this republic may endure. 

REMEMBER THE LORD — TAKE COUNSEL OF HIS SERVANTS 

On this subject of unselfishness, Brother Ballard has just mentioned the matter of growing beets. He mentioned also the paying of tithes and offerings. What has your experience been in that direction? My experience has been that it is a paying proposition to remember the Lord. If we do this he will remember us. My experience also is that it pays to listen to the counsel of the authorities of the Church, to advise with the bishop. Suggestions though not given by Church authorities in a very vigorous sort of fashion, ought to be obeyed. Let me give you a specific case. I did not go to the President for advice particularly, but when we were together, I named, one, two, three, four, five reasons why I ought to do a particular thing. "Why," said President Grant, "Richard, I think this is the very time not to take the course you name." 

This was a financial matter. He did not use a club. He did not talk loud. There was no compulsion about it, but it was advice to me. I took it and for so doing I have received a rather rich financial reward. 

I defy the Latter-day Saints to find anywhere, even in literature, a man more interested in a people than is President Heber J. Grant in your own good selves. Find, if you can, anyone, any man anywhere, who is more unselfish! His first interest, his last interest, his continual interest is in the welfare of the people of the Church. 

CONDITION OF THE WORLD SINCE THE GOSPEL WAS RESTORED 

Now, to come back to our country — the United States. The constitution of this republic was prepared by men inspired of our heavenly Father. Its operations were only well begun when God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ came to the earth and restored this great gospel that is so dear to all of us. 

What has been the condition of the world since that time, since this gospel was restored? Do you realize that in the methods of transportation there had been no progress in all the history of the ages up to the time the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized? There had been no transportation faster than a man could run or a horse could travel. And what have we today? The locomotive, the ocean liner, the bicycle, the electric car, the automobile, the flying machine. These all are indications of the great progress that has come since this gospel was established. 

Many of you can remember when, every once in a while, the world was thrown into commotion by some terrible disease epidemic. There were epidemics of cholera, yellow fever, typhoid fever, diphtheria. The whole human family was powerless in the presence of these epidemics. Micro-organisms had been discovered a hundred years before, but not until about 1880 did Louis Pasteur discover the relation that exists between these organisms, these germs, or these bacteria and disease. During this hundred years there had been no progress whatever in the health of the people. The death rate everywhere was in the neighborhood of forty per thousand. What a transformation! Today there are few cities in the world in which the death rate is as high as twenty. Between 1876 and 1880, in one city, (Munich), 689 out of every thousand babies under the age of one year were taken by death. That shows the condition of the world before 1880. Dirt, ugliness and disease were found everywhere. Since then cleanliness, beauty and health have taken their places. Science has discovered that the mosquito carries yellow fever from one individual to another. Science by destroying the mosquitoes in Panama made possible the construction of the Panama Canal. Some of you may not know that with the mosquitoes killed, with the ravages of yellow fever in that particular neighborhood ended, the United States constructed the Panama Canal for less money than the French government expended investigating the question. 

PATRIOTISM AND RIGHTEOUS LIVING WILL CAUSE OUR COUNTRY TO ENDURE 

And so, too, has there been great progress in education. People are wiser, they know more, they have books and they are studious. This republic will endure indefinitely only if the individual citizens in it appreciate the liberty that has been left to us as a legacy by our fathers. The Bar Association, I have been advised, has suggested that throughout the whole country organizations be effected for the purpose of teaching the people patriotism. Others may desert the constitution of this country, but the Latter-day Saints will do it never. This great government will endure indefinitely if we, its citizens, give a proper value to that liberty which in those early days was purchased with the splendid blood of our glorious fathers. 

THE Y. M. M. I. A. AS HELPS TO GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND RIGHT LIVING 

An effort is being put forth this year by the Mutual Improvement Associations to place the boy scout training within the reach of every boy of scout age in the Church. Imagine, if you can, what it means for every boy to be trained to be clean, to be obedient, to be gentle, to be frugal, to be honest, to be courteous, trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, brave, clean, kind and reverent. Imagine what it means for all our boys to be taught these great lessons: "On my honor, I will do my best to do my duty both to God and to my country, to help other people at all times, to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." I urge you, presidents of stakes, counselors to presidents, bishops, bishops counselors and other officials everywhere, to give to this great work your most loyal support. 

We have another equally important class in the Mutuals — the senior boys or young men between the ages of seventeen and twenty-three. We are determined as the General Superintendency and General Board to so touch the lives of these young people as to thrill them with ambition. It does not take much in the life of a boy during these years to transform his whole career. We are not doing enough as officials if we only come to the meeting at the meeting hour, and there sing and preach and pray with those who happen to be present. It is my duty, and yours, as officials, to go out and search for the lost sheep, to go out in the woods, to go out on the hill sides, to go out in the timber in a faithful, fruitful search for those who are unfortunate. It is the widow's son, it is the boy who is fatherless, it is the boy who is brought up in a broken home, it is the boy who is not having a fair chance, after whom we ought to search, it is he that we must find. These are they who need our special attention. These are the boys who need the help if they are to be saved. And so, I appeal to you, in the name of our great Country, and in the name of our glorious Church, to see to it that all boys between the ages of twelve and seventeen are given an opportunity of taking the work we offer in scouting, and that those between the ages of seventeen and twenty-three be hunted up and given the clean manly training offered for them by our Mutual Improvement organizations. These brought together and thus trained we shall have a generation of citizens who will have such love for American liberty, our country, and our constitution that the best in their lives will be given to supporting our inspired institutions, to obeying unselfishly the law of the land and to making our nation live on indefinitely. 

THE SLOGAN OF THE M. I. A. 

The Lord bless you. I have enjoyed going out into the stakes of Zion where I have been associated with you splendid, clean, glorious Church workers. We have been teaching the Word of Wisdom these many years. We come forward now with a new or another appeal, a slogan. We want all the people, in their hearts, in their lives and in their actions, to be pure. 

We may think sometimes the Lord has deserted us, but really, if we think of our own shortcomings, if we think of how many people there are who drink their tea, how many people there are who drink their coffee, how many there are who do not remember the Lord in secret and in family prayers, who do not pay their tithes and their offerings, ought we then not to marvel why it is we are so richly blessed. It is our purpose to put forth this year our best effort to make our people pure, in their hearts, in their actions and in their lives generally, therefore nearly one hundred thousand strong, the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement organizations are going forth this year proclaiming the slogan: "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action." I wonder if you believe in this doctrine? I will repeat it and then give you an opportunity to say it with me for the whole Church. In this Church is to be found everything that makes people better, stronger, happier; better citizens, better supporters of our country, its laws and its constitution. I say again, others may desert it but the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will defend it forever. 

I will give the new slogan and I ask you to repeat it: "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action." 

(The Slogan was repeated by the congregation.) 

The Lord bless you. Amen.
