20
Morning
08 10 1922
George Albert Smith 
30 OR 31 (there were two ID numbers on the google doc)
94-99

None 

None

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the spirit that has characterized this gathering, and the other sessions of this conference, may continue to the end, and that I may be a partaker of it to the extent that my tongue may be loosed and that the inspiration of the Lord may flow through me, during the time I stand here. I feel my weakness, and I sense the responsibility that attaches to one who is called to address the members of this great Church, in a general conference. 

We have, during the splendid sessions that we have attended, received many instructions. There has been running through all the discourses, that which was given to us by the President in his opening address — the keynote, if you will, of this conference — "Obedience," not only to the laws of the land, but to the word of the Lord. Our heavenly Father has made it very plain to us in our day, that no man hath need to break the law of the land in order to follow the teachings of our heavenly Father. On the contrary, he has made it obligatory upon us that we should observe the law of the land. 

A BLESSED LAND IN WHICH WE LIVE 

I find in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 101:76-80, the following: 

"And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their enemies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and redemption, by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you — 

"According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 

"That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

"Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

"And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

Brethren and sisters, if there is any doubt in your minds about this being a blessed land in which you live, and that an all-powerful hand controls its destinies, remember that it was the Lord himself who raised up wise men to give to us our Constitution — the greatest paladium of human rights that any people have ever known. 

A LAND HIDDEN FOR THE LORD TO PEOPLE 

There are those who would destroy the Constitution of this land; and there are some who would rejoice if they could overthrow this Nation, not realizing that our heavenly Father has given us the best government on earth. No loyal member of this great Church will raise his voice against the government, but he will be found upholding it; he will be found praying for those who have been exalted to the office of presidency and for those who make the laws, under the Constitution. He will petition his Father in heaven for the governors and legislators of States, and for all those who are chosen from time to time to administer the laws that are calculated to continue unto us our liberty that they may be wise and just and exemplars to the people. If you are doubtful as to the interest of our heavenly Father in the settlement of this land, read in the first chapter of 2nd Nephi in the Book of Mormon, where the Lord says that it had been his purpose to keep America hidden from the other nations until he was ready to have it peopled. Read also from the Book of Mormon, I Nephi 13:10-19: 

"And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many waters; and they divided the Gentiles from the seed of my brethren. 

"And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Behold the wrath of God is upon the seed of thy brethren. 

"And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man: and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many waters. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles and were smitten. 

"And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles, and they did prosper and obtain the land for their inheritance; and I beheld that they were white, and exceedingly fair and beautiful, like unto my people before they were slain. 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles who had gone forth out of captivity did humble themselves before the Lord; and the power of the Lord was with them. 

"And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered together upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle against them. 

"And I beheld that the power of God was with them, and also that the wrath of God was upon all those that were gathered together against them to battle. 

"And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations." 

This refers to Christopher Columbus and the Pilgrim Fathers. It was the Lord that inspired that little band of people who crossed the mighty ocean and landed at Plymouth Rock, because they desired to worship him according to the dictates of their own conscience. He watched over them and safeguarded their descendants and those who followed them to America, and in due time, there came an opportunity to establish liberty such as humankind had not known before. The Lord raised up Washington, and with him that body of men who fought valiantly to establish for us in this land a government for which surely we are all grateful. 

OBEY THE LAWS; SEEK THE LORD, AND KEEP HIS COMMANDMENTS 

Do not be deceived by evil minded men who would destroy your happiness. Seek the Lord in prayer and he will hear your petition and inspire you aright; and we have need of his guidance in these days. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, 46:7-9: 

"But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils. 

"Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; 

"For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefitted that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." 

Our feet have been planted upon this sacred soil for a wise purpose. This land has been dedicated for the blessing of mankind. The Constitution and the laws that have been enacted under its provisions are calculated to insure liberty, not license, to all who dwell here. This Church with which we are identified, stands, if it stands for anything, for the perpetuation of the liberties of all mankind. We should not listen to those who find pleasure in teaching sedition. Neither should we follow those who claim to be citizens of this land, who go about violating the laws that govern it. There are many who are failing to do their duty as citizens who have the right of franchise, but who are unworthy of that blessing that has come to those who live in this wonderful country. 

President Ivins has very beautifully portrayed to us this morning the condition of the world, and has pointed out that the trouble is that men have apostatized from the gospel of Jesus Christ. They have set up churches of their own. Men have assumed, of their own wisdom, to point the way, and they have forgotten the teachings of the Creator and in their pursuit of the gifts of our Father in heaven, they have forgotten the giver. 

Upon you men of Israel — to whom the Priesthood of the Holy One has been given — there rests an obligation. You must serve the Lord and keep his commandments. It matters not what others may do, but for you there is only one course, and that is to be obedient to law, and to sustain the Constitution of this great land, and to sustain those influences and powers wherever they may be, that are calculated to uplift the human family. 

OBEDIENCE ENJOINED 

Our heavenly Father has given unto us this information, in the Doctrine and Covenants 130:18-21. 

"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life, through his diligence and obedience, than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

There should go forth from this great Church an influence intended to leaven the whole lump. We have received knowledge and information that our Father's children elsewhere know not of. We are in the position of Noah, who, in his day, went to and fro in the world, proclaiming the truth, calling all men to turn from the error of their way, warning them of the impending judgments that would fall upon them if they failed to repent; but, in due time those who refused to reform their lives and failed to listen to that servant of the Lord, became absolutely unfit to inhabit this earth and they were overwhelmed by the flood, while the eight who were righteous were preserved from that awful calamity. 

REPENTANCE A REMEDY FOR THE ILLS OF THE WORLD 

History has repeated itself many times — children of God who have followed his teachings have been preserved, and those who have refused, have gone into darkness and have been destroyed. Take the American Indians as another illustration. Their ancestors were a white and delightsome people, brought away by the Lord before the destruction of Jerusalem, in order that they might have an opportunity to develop upon this favored land. Because they refused to keep the commandments of God, because they disobeyed the law and determined to be a law unto themselves, they retrograded and were cursed with a dark skin and became the unfortunate race that wandered over this great western hemisphere for generations, before the coming of the white man. 

The Lord has watched over this land, he directed Columbus to these shores, he led the Pilgrims here, he established the Constitution of the United States, and through the Prophet Joseph Smith, restored the everlasting gospel to bless the children of men, and if they will accept it and obey it, it will be the salvation of the human family. 

There is no other remedy for the ills of this world but repentance; there is no preservation from the evils that will overtake mankind but on the score of righteousness. Unless men turn to the Lord history will repeat itself and destruction overtake the wicked. You already know that and understand it — you, upon whose heads have been laid the hands of the servants of the Lord; upon whom have been bestowed the holy Priesthood — you realize that God will not be mocked and that it is our duty as men of Israel to go in love and in kindness and with charity to all men, and divide with them this glorious message that has been given to us in this latter day. 

OUR DUTY TO PREACH THE GOSPEL OF PEACE 

We read in the 23rd chapter of St. Matthew, where the Savior foresaw the calamity that was coming upon his people and was greatly distressed. He said: 

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathered her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" 

O that this great Church, with power that has been given to it of God, might be able to more rapidly disseminate the truth, and save the nations from destruction. We are growing rapidly, as an organization, but I rejoice not so much in the increase numerically as I do in the belief that the influence that we radiate is being felt for good and that our Father's children, from the north to the south, and from the east to the west, are hearing the message of life and salvation, without which they cannot dwell in the presence of the Redeemer of mankind. 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S IMPORTANT MESSAGE 

President Abraham Lincoln, in one of his important messages, gives to us this remarkable advice: 

"Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well-wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the revolution never to violate, in the least particular, the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of '76 did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and laws, let every American pledge his life, his property, and his sacred honor. Let every man remember that to violate the laws is to trample on the blood of his fathers and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in schools, in seminaries and in colleges. Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in the legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice — in short, let it become the political religion of this nation." 

That was the voice of him now stilled in death, who gave his life because of his desire for the perpetuation of the liberty that was guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States. He was unafraid. When the duty was placed upon him to battle for the liberties of mankind, he dedicated his life to that purpose, and in due time, our Father in heaven accepted his offering, and his name is emblazoned upon the pages of history as a great and noble man who dared to do right, and his praises will be sung and his virtues extolled throughout all time. 

FREE AGENCY OF MAN 

It was the Master who decreed that men must have faith, and we are told that without faith we cannot please him. It was the Master Who declared that all men must repent, and sent his disciples into the world to cry repentance. It was the Savior who gave to us the gospel of Jesus Christ that bears his name, that declared that all men must be baptized. It was the same blessed Redeemer who said: "If I go not away, the Comforter will not come," and after he had left them, there came upon his disciples the Holy Ghost. Faith, repentance, baptism by immersion, (for that was the form of baptism that our Master received) laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, as taught by him, are the requirements in his Church that all men must subscribe to if they would obtain celestial glory. Men may refuse to accept this opportunity. We have our agency and can please ourselves, but the Lord says in the Doctrine and Covenants 93:31: 

"Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifested unto them, and they receive not the light." 

That is the trouble with this world — the holy scriptures are filled with the teachings of a kind and merciful Father that are not appreciated, and today there are hundreds of the elders of this Church going to and fro in the world, pleading for a hearing that they may be able to point out the pathway of life and salvation. This is our Father's work. The gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth for the last time. It will never be taken away or given to another people, and upon us devolves the responsibility and obligation to so live that wherever we go, or whatever we do, our light will shine in such a way that others, observing our upright lives, will be constrained to seek after the Redeemer of mankind, and to become identified with his Church, in preparation to living with him eternally. 

That the Lord will strengthen our hands; that our voices may be made powerful in truth; that the Holy Ghost may remain with the elders of this Church to inspire them to greater effort that to the very ends of the earth all men may have an opportunity to know that this is God's work, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
