26
Overflow
08 10 1922
John Wells 
108
116-118

None

None 

I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference and the counsel and admonitions which have been given. I feel the spirit of this great gathering of Latter-day Saints who have come from all parts of the country and have met in general conference to be instructed and edified in our most holy faith. 

The great World War, as well as being responsible for terrible destruction of human life and property, has absorbed the religious influence of the world. Some of the nations will never fully recover or regain their former prestige or social condition. It is the mission of the Latter-day Saints and the purpose of the gospel to make the world better. The only remedy for the conditions now prevailing in the world, is the acceptance and application of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the lives of the people of the world. Such principles as love, sympathy, kindness, mutual helpfulness and respect for the lives of others, all make for the betterment of mankind, and all are incorporated in the gospel. 

We have heard it said very often of late that the world needs to be stabilized. Instead of stability there are still rumors of wars, and the nations of Europe are in a ferment. Suffering, poverty, and adverse financial conditions have rendered it almost impossible for the nations to settle down to their new conditions of life, as a result of the war. Even in our own nation there has been brought about conflicting interests between capital and labor, which have resulted in strikes, all of which might be overcome, if an unselfish attitude were taken by those engaged in these conflicts. We may look forward to more friction of this character, but the Lord has said: "Stand ye in holy places and be not moved." We should not be tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine, whether it be social, political, financial or otherwise, because the Lord has revealed to us his purposes, and we should train our hearts to be willing to carry them out. 

We sincerely believe that in the early Christian era, the prophet, known as John the Revelator, foresaw the restoration of the gospel. He also saw an angel fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, and after that he saw a time when a voice would be heard, saying, "Come out of her, oh, ye my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and receive any of her plagues." The Lord has called us out of the world and brought us into the tops of the mountains, where, if we will follow his commandments, we may be preserved while destruction and strife prevail in the earth. 

Under our present conditions of living, we are subject to many of the conditions that prevail in the world, such as panics, labor strikes, lockouts, and scarcity of employment, etc. As a people we should learn that human beings need one another, and that mutual helpfulness, loving sympathy, kindness and a cooperative spirit should prevail among us. Some of us may be affected by politics; others by business readjustments; others by abnormal local conditions. Many have been affected by the strikes and lockouts, and the results which follow such terrible methods of adjusting disputes and differences. 

As I ponder over these things I am reminded of the great Tabernacle organ. Consider a moment its many intricacies of construction, the tireless attention to detail that this instrument calls for to keep it in tune, and to operate it so that it may bring forth the wonderful and inspiring music that we hear during conference. Unless it is handled by a master mechanic, and its keyboard manipulated by a master mind, it may get out of tune, and it needs those master minds to keep it in tune, so that its harmonies may thrill our souls. So it is with Latter-day Saints. We come to this great conference, some of us worn with the anxieties of life: we are out of tune a little, and then when we hear the voices, the admonitions and advice of the servants of the Lord, holding the holy Priesthood, our anxieties seem to lessen, we feel in accord with our fellowmen; the strife of the world appears to us in a new aspect, something to be overcome and not feared; we are in a receptive mood to receive the counsels of our brethren and leaders, and to be prepared more fully to carry on this great latter-day work. And so we should return home willing and anxious to impart to those who did not have the privilege of attending this conference, not only the words and counsel, but the spirit of the great gathering, and thus create harmony, good-feeling, and fellowship in the communities from which we come. 

The home is the great stabilizing influence of the Church, and of the nation. It is the mission of the Latter-day Saints to develop the highest type of family life. If we fail in our home life; if we fail to teach and train our children in the principles of the gospel, and to love their fellowman; if we fail to impress upon them the word of God, then we have not done our duty. And as the home fails, so will the community fail. 

Let me advise the Latter-day Saints to observe strictly the laws of the gospel, particularly to keep the Sabbath day holy and not to allow modern life with its automobiles and pleasure resorts to swerve us from what we know to be right and proper in the observance of the Lord's day. Many of the great inventions of these latter days are destroying respect for law, respect for the Sabbath day, respect for religion and for constituted authority. Let us use all these modern inventions in a proper way, but do not let us use the Sabbath day for a day of pleasure, or recreation, or devote it entirely to the pleasures of life. We should carry out strictly the word of the Lord as found in the 59th Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; for verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; but remember that on this the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full." 

May we so live that the Spirit of the Lord may be our constant companion; that it may guide us constantly; that this Spirit may develop in our hearts a love of the truth and a love of the work of God and love of our fellowmen, that we may develop sympathy for the misfortunes of humanity, and the weaknesses of our fellowmen, and strive by example to be a light to the world, that, "seeing our good works the world may glorify our Father which is in heaven." Amen. 
