31
Outdoor
08 10 1922
Joseph F. Smith 
66 (this may or may not be the correct ID number)
133-135

None

None

As I look out over this congregation this morning and see men who are older than I, who are wiser than I, who are richer in intelligence than I am, the place which I hold at this time takes upon it an awful responsibility, and I would solicit your faith and your interest for the time that I occupy this position, that what I say may be fruitful, at least in some hearts. 

Brother Jenson has told you that we are a little satisfied with some of the achievements of the early people of the Church. We are satisfied, we are proud to think that our forebears have done the work they have done: but, brethren and sisters, it is not enough to be satisfied with what has been done. The question, in my mind, that confronts us, is, Shall our children be satisfied with the things we are doing now? Are we pushing forward the Kingdom of God here upon the earth as the Lord would have us do it? Are we doing our work successfully, so that our children may, in time to come, say that they are satisfied, that they are pleased with the work that we are doing now? 

We are doing a great missionary work throughout the world. As has been announced, I have recently returned from Hawaii, where a remarkable missionary work is being carried on. In Honolulu they are building a new chapel. The Saints are donating their time to the building of that chapel. They are spending no money except for actual material, and the work is being given; and I have seen men night after night after they are through with their daily vocation, turn out to that building and haul concrete until half-past twelve and one o'clock in the morning. Now, those men would not do it for wages. You could not hire men to work like that for money. It is the same spirit working upon them that worked upon their forefathers; it is the same spirit that brought the pioneers across the plains that is having those Hawaiian brethren working hour after hour building that chapel, that they can have a place to meet that will be a credit to the Latter-day Saints,  that they can have a place in which to meet that they will not be ashamed of. 

But in my mind the place where there is the need of the greatest missionary work in the world is Salt Lake City. We send missionaries out into the world, and they do remarkable Work, but there is great need for missionary work right here in Zion, right where we live. How many of us can say that our community is benefited by our being "Mormons" and our living in it? How many of us can say our city is being helped because we are living up to the doctrines of the gospel? If we are living that kind of life, then indeed we are fulfilling our mission upon the earth. 

I think that our young people particularly have need to look to the gospel. I speak so because I am one of the young people of the Church. In many instances I feel that our young people are losing their sense of relative value. They are losing sense of the big things in life. We need to know the gospel. "The glory of God is intelligence," and we cannot obey the gospel intelligently unless we know what the gospel is and what its laws are. And we have them. Occasionally I have heard people complain and wonder why we do not have more revelation, why the Lord is not continuing his revelation. Goodness, gracious, how can he give us more until we understand what he has already given? Our scripture is full, and how many of us take the time to read it intelligently? How many of us take the time to go to our Father in heaven and ask him to help us to understand his word? Because the things of God are understood by the Spirit of God, and we cannot understand his word, simple and plain as it is, unless we have his Spirit to be with us. That is the reason the world has gone astray. They have the Bible, but they have lost the interpretation that the Lord meant for it. They have not been willing to take God at his own word. Christ spent his ministry here teaching people, explaining the gospel, and it was only a very few hundred years after that when men met together to put their own interpretation upon the scriptures, and as a result the scriptures among learned men of the world has fallen into disrepute. They have rejected the Bible as a result of the great and false interpretations that have been put upon it. They have not been able to strip it of the false interpretations, and see and understand it as it is. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I want to bear you my testimony to the truth of the gospel of Christ. I feel in every fibre of my being that it is the power of God unto salvation. It is the thing that will save us, every one, individually, if we will put into our daily lives the practice of the laws and ordinances of the gospel. It is here for us, and it will be our fault if we do not make the best of it. Young people, understand the gospel; attend to your meetings. Sometimes when I get out among our young people and they do not seem to see things just as I see them, I feel as if I could almost suffocate if I could not get them to see. There is much about the gospel that I do not understand, and I do not ever hope to understand it all. If I did, I would hope to be perfect some day — which I do not. I expect to be able to progress throughout all my existence; but there is enough — the testimony in me is strong enough — to make me feel that when I run across something I do not understand, that through my faithfulness there will come a time when I can understand it. 

It would be presumptuous for me to talk longer when there are men better able to talk than I am. I want to bear my testimony that this is the true gospel of Christ, and that the salvation of the world will be brought about through our taking upon ourselves the responsibility of preaching the gospel. Three years ago Brother Levi Edgar Young spoke in conference and made this statement, which I remember well, "There can be no solution to our economic, social, or political problems until the world accepts the Christ." And it is true, brethren and sisters, and the faster we get in and understand the gospel, sisters, the faster will the world accept the Christ, the faster we go out and do missionary work among our brethren and the sooner will the world be prepared for Christ's coming. 

May the Lord bless us to help us to understand his work, to be faithful sons and daughters, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.