34
Second Overflow
08 10 1922
Seymour B. Young 
49
145-147

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, While I stand here after witnessing your unanimous votes sustaining the general authorities of the Church, I express to you my thanks for the union of purpose that you have evinced. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was martyred he was taken, as he expressed himself, "like a lamb to the slaughter," yet he willingly laid down his life for the people, because the enemies of the Saints at that time swore in their wrath, if they could not get possession of the Prophet and deal with him as they wanted to, they would lay the city of Nauvoo in ashes, and that was, in my opinion, one of the main reasons why he yielded himself into the hands of wicked men in the defense of the Church, to preserve the Church, and the people; and he fulfilled the words of the Master in that splendid saying, "No man hath greater love than that he will give his life for another" — for his friends, for his brethren. 

I believe that it was the thought of the Latter-day Saints at that time, that if the Prophet went to Carthage, that his enemies would not have power to kill him. So thoroughly had the Saints become impressed with his calling by the eternal Father, and by his Son Jesus Christ, that they were satisfied that no harm could come to him until he had finished his work. But it appears that he had finished his work at this time. He had organized the Church and set in order every quorum of the Priesthood, the apostles, the high priests, the seventies, the elders, the priests, the teachers, and the deacons. 

He had supervised the organization of all the quorums and completed the organization of the Church, when he said, "I am going as a lamb to the slaughter, but I am innocent and my conscience is void of offense towards God and man." On the twenty-seventh day of June, 1844, he sealed his testimony with his blood in company with his brother Hyrum, who also, as Patriarch of the Church, sealed his testimony with his blood. The presiding authority came to the twelve apostles with President Brigham Young at the head, and he seems to have filled the prophecy made by the Prophet Joseph, when they first met in Kirtland, that some day, Brigham Young would lead the Church. This was at a prayer meeting where the Prophet Joseph presided and Elder Brigham Young in his prayer spoke in tongues, moved upon by the Spirit of God, and when he had ceased praying the Prophet continued in the same tongue that Elder Brigham Young had spoken in, and as he closed his remarks, he said, "My brethren and sisters, the tongue that Brother Brigham spoke in, and I have continued in, is the pure Adamic language spoken by our father Adam," and it is from the Lord. 

President Brigham Young after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in a large congregation assembled in Nauvoo in the grove near the temple, was endowed with power from on high at that meeting, and hundreds and thousands of the Saints testified that they saw the mantle of Joseph fall upon the Prophet Brigham Young, and that Joseph's voice came from the lips of Brigham Young, and the power and the testimony of the Prophet was in his utterances. It seems to me that something of this kind was necessary, because the people had become sorrowful after the martyrdom because of the many apostates that had sought to lead the Church astray, and this very providential manifestation seemed to satisfy the Saints. From that time they knew that Brigham Young was the prophet, seer, and revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that the power of his prophetic ministry had been manifest. 

He led the Saints out of Nauvoo in trying times, and he planted, in what is now the state of Nebraska, a colony of white people who settled in that state at Winter Quarters, now known as Florence, in the year eighteen forty-six; and the next year, eighteen forty-seven, he led a company of pioneers and planted their feet here in what is now Salt Lake City, and as he entered the valley at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, he said, "This is the place," and that prediction upon that occasion was prophetic absolutely — "This is the place!" He had a vision in which he saw these mountain valleys peopled with Latter-day Saints far and near, and no doubt he remembered the prophecy made by Joseph Smith in the little town of Montrose on the 12th day of August, eighteen forty-two, that the Latter-day Saints would be driven to the Rocky mountains and there become a great people. That prophecy was in part fulfilled by President Brigham Young and this people colonizing these valleys of the mountains, east, west, north, and south, which were afterward organized into the state of Utah and surrounding states. After Utah had been established, he sent a colony, first, into Idaho, the first settlement of white people in that state. They settled upon the Salmon river in 1855, and there builded Fort Limhi for protection against the Black Feet Indians. In the year 1855 he sent a colony to locate in the state of Nevada, under the direction of Elder Orson Hyde of the Council of the Twelve. This colony was located in what is known as Carson Valley, the first white settlers in the state of Nevada. In California, as early as 1846, was established the first white colony, being composed of Latter-day Saints. This colony came in the ship Brooklyn which sailed from New York on the 4th day of January, 1846. They landed at San Francisco bay on the 18th day of July, 1846, making the voyage around Cape Horn in six months time. In Arizona we can claim that the Latter-day Saints were among the first to plant permanent white colonies. President Young was the founder and the mover in organizing the University of Deseret, which has since become the famous University of Utah. The B. Y. University, located at Provo, was founded by him, as also the Brigham Young College at Logan. The L. D. S. University, located on the block east of the Temple, is another project of his, and the first building that was erected was the Brigham Young building, and later there have been erected the Barratt Hall in the Center of the block and the Joseph F. Smith memorial building, on the north side of the block, one of the largest and most up-to-date structures belonging to this Latter-day Saint University. Then was added the L. D. S. Gymnasium, one of the very best equipped gymnasiums west of the Missouri river. President Brigham Young was raised up and prepared for this great work, and he magnificently stood the test and the responsibility placed upon him in leading the Saints to these mountain valleys and in founding these magnificent institutions of learning for their upbuilding and progress, and paving the way for the colonization of surrounding states at the same time. I believe and know that God led him to accomplish these great things, and in the words of one of our most excellent hymns we may sing as we did at first: 

"We've found the place which God for us prepared, 

Far away in the West. 

Here none shall come, to hurt or make afraid. 

Here the Saints will be blessed. 

We'll make the air with music ring, 

Shout praises to our God and King, 

Above the rest, these words, we'll tell, 

All is well, all is well." 

Far be it from me to fail in paying a proper tribute to the great and good men who have succeeded President Brigham Young as leaders of this people. They, too, have each been under the inspiration of the Lord Almighty, in directing the affairs of the Church. President Heber J. Grant has been an inspiration to the people everywhere, and has done much to remove prejudice and to make friends for the Latter-day Saints. He is indeed a prophet, seer and revelator to this people, and a true and faithful president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. May the Lord bless him and the Saints forever, I pray through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
