36
Second Overflow
08 10 1922
George F. Mccune 
212
151-153

None

None

At the beginning of our services, Brother Badger, acting as mouth for all of us, asked the Lord, in his prayer, to inspire those who should speak to us his words for our comfort and well-being. I believe that prayer has been literally answered thus far in those who have spoken, and I desire that I may say nothing that shall detract from that beautiful spirit and inspiration which has been our portion here today. 

I delight to meet with my brethren and sisters, but I find it a great task to attempt to talk to you. I feel that the Saints perhaps know just as much about the gospel as I do. It would be a great privilege to meet a congregation of this size in the world, and deliver to them the gospel message; but I always sense my weakness in standing before the Latter-day Saints. Yet I do know our Father in heaven makes no requirement at our hands except he gives us the power to magnify that requirement or calling; so I respond cheerfully, trusting in the Lord, and what I do in this Church I do in the name of the Lord, for I do know, by my experience, that we have the gospel of our Redeemer, the true gospel of Christ, and the more I know of it the more I love it, the dearer it is to my heart. 

There have been so many good things spoken in this conference that I feel in my heart you will love to go home and leave with the Saints, in our wonderful institutions. 

As Brother Bennion was comparing the meetings of our annual and semi-annual conferences, a thought came to my mind. I went into a convention the other day, and as I went in I could not help but notice the terrible condition that was manifest in that meeting, and I knew as I stand here, that the people were deluded. They thought the same, perhaps, of me, but, "by their fruits you may know them." At this meeting here, it seems as if all have met with one purpose of heart. In the meeting I refer to, there was no union, no peace, but there was everything contrary to union and peace, and I never saw such contortions in my life as I witnessed in that little meeting. 

I bear testimony that we have the true gospel of the Redeemer. It is a privilege for us to live in this great dispensation of the fulness of times when we have the true gospel of our Lord, and we should take pleasure in keeping his laws and commandments. It is a privilege that we should prize. It is a privilege, I think, when we properly understand our position and the blessings that are promised as our reward, and we should cheerfully be obedient to the commandments of the Lord for the blessings that we are seeking and which have been promised by our Father. We all want happiness, we all want something which we are craving for. I believe that strict obedience to the commandments of God will bring us that which we seek. I believe there is no other way under heaven whereby we can get that which we greatly desire, except by a strict obedience to the gospel and the laws of God. When our Father in heaven said. Thou shalt not steal, he did not place on his children a hard burden, but he gave them something that would contribute to their peace and salvation. He gave them the commandments because he loved them. So we in all our experiences and vicissitudes of life should learn to love God and to keep his commandments. Our people should learn to love the principles and requirements of the gospel, and should love to conform to them according to the spirit in which they are given, for they are all elevating, even in this life, and through them, in their completeness, we may be exalted in the life to come. 

I recently returned from California. I was astonished while there at the wonderful devotion and interest shown by our people in the gospel of our Redeemer in that portion of the vineyard. I first attended our Sunday school, in the vicinity of Ocean Park. I was glad to behold that the little hall would not wholly hold our Sunday school children. As many as 25 children had to stand. On the same day I attended the services at Los Angeles; and when I left that place a little over three years ago, their chapel was ample to accommodate them all. When I returned I found that little chapel was wholly inadequate for the Sunday night meeting, and every available space was taken for standing room. On the next Sabbath I visited another branch, where the chapel was built about a year ago. In that time the building has become inadequate. The next Sunday I attended services in our little chapel in Ocean Park. It is estimated that about 1200 attended our services there, and the new chapel was inadequate to hold the people. I find those people are taking a very active interest in the gospel, a keener interest even than they had taken at home here. Brethren and sisters, I glory in this, but I regret it very much, so far as we at home are concerned. We should recognize it as a privilege to perform our duties in the Church, and to obey the requirements made upon us in our day, the dispensation of the fulness of time, and we should not look upon our duties as hard to perform. I believe the gospel plan given to us is the plan by which we can come back into the presence of God, through working out our salvation in this life. Let us find joy and satisfaction in our work in this life; it is not a hardship to conform to the requirements of the gospel; but we will find true happiness in rendering obedience to the gospel. 

There are so many principles in the gospel as we understand it, and if we will conform our lives to them, we will have our reward in this life, and in the life to come more than we can conceive in our present state, as a reward for our faithfulness. 

The brethren have spoken much about our respect for law and order. I wonder if it is possible that the listlessness that comes to us is the result of our own actions in the past. I would not say that I believe our actions are reflected in the attitude of our children, or the ideas of our children. I remember being out where we wanted to make a certain distance in a certain time. The young men who were with me said in the presence of their officers, and to my two sons, we will make it, if we go in a hurry. Now I believe that the violation of the speed law will be brought home to those men, who were willing to go outside the law in hurrying forward in the automobile. I believe that men will take advantage, and I believe that boys and men who overstep the law, will take advantage and license from the actions of others that are brought home to them. So, I believe we should resolve in our hearts to cultivate respect for law, and thus wherever we may be found, use our influence to have the laws obeyed and to produce a respect for law in the minds of all, not only for ecclesiastical authority, but all authority. It is no trouble to respond to the requirements of the president of these United States, and I believe we should take pleasure in responding to every requirement of law and order, not only from the president, but from all including the least official who acts under him. And in this way I believe we should teach our own children respect for authority. Now may we have respect and confidence in the authority placed over us by the Lord; and I believe that we will find real joy and satisfaction in honoring the deacon in his place. I believe he should be honored as bearing the Priesthood of God. I feel that I would like to honor every man who acts in the authority, either of our country, or of the Church of God, upon the earth, and teach my children to do likewise. And this I would teach all whom it is my duty to teach, as opportunity may afford. 

I did not intend to take so much of your time. It is a wonderful privilege we have of meeting together and partaking of the spiritual blessings that God has for this people, in these conferences; I wish we could fully appreciate them, for just as sure as you sit before me this Sabbath day, God lives, and Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and Joseph Smith was his chosen instrument through whom the gospel has been restored to earth; and it is our privilege to honor his memory and have respect for and render obedience to all the principles and laws revealed through him for our earthly happiness and eternal salvation. May we likewise render obedience to all who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph. My brethren and sisters, I bless you through the authority my Father has given me, in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer. Amen.
