37
Second Overflow
08 10 1922
Heber C. Iverson 
214
153-156

None

None

I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I keenly sense the mighty responsibility that is now mine, for I feel its weight when I consider that I am addressing many who have come from afar, and at considerable expense, with a desire to receive from the Lord through his ministry, by the inspiration of his spirit, encouragement and spirittual strength which may be of assistance to them in their work in the wards and stakes of Zion. I am sure that up to the present moment you have not been disappointed, and I sincerely trust that up to the closing prayer we may continue to enjoy the outpouring of divine light and intelligence which has characterized the remarks of all the speakers who have previously spoken. I have in my heart only one desire, and that is, that the Lord will grant me his choice blessing that I may impart unto you eternal principles pertaining to our salvation in his presence, that we may all be imbued with the spirit of diligence and devotion to his work, and fulfil the requirements devolving upon us; that we may perform all of them and conform to all the ordinances pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and is not a mere imaginary affair, but a reality; a living, vital power in the lives of those who permit it to come into their lives. 

I rejoice in the statement, made last evening by President Heber J. Grant while addressing the assembled priesthood, that for no other one thing is he more grateful to the Lord than that throughout the nations of the earth where he has traveled, including the wards and stakes of Zion, there prevails among the Saints an abiding faith in, and a knowledge of, the divinity of this work. This is the secret of its strength. Upon this cornerstone, my brethren and sisters, it is established, and it shall prevail; it shall triumph; it shall overcome eventually all the enemies of truth, of light, and of life. It is not alone amongst those who stand in high positions, that this splendid possession, this excellent knowledge, is possessed, it is found amongst the humblest, the meekest, the lowliest, and the most obscure among us, provided they are faithful in devoting themselves to the Lord's work and requirements. A glorious thought! It is, indeed, the very secret of our strength. How has it come to us? How shall it be maintained? In the manner in which it was obtained, and in no other way can it be a continued possession in our lives, making for our salvation; for remember that the gospel's purpose is not to save men in their sins, but from their sins, and that it is God's power brought into our lives with that definite objective, and it is revealed by him and not an imagination. As Brother McCune has said, there is no principle or ordinance of this gospel that has not its reward in blessing of faith and power from heaven; for there is a law irrevocably decreed from the foundations of the world, on which all blessings are predicated, and whenever we receive any blessing from the Lord, it is by obedience to the law upon which it is predicated; no blessing in the gospel can be obtained and enjoyed except by obedience to the requirements of that law to which it belongs. 

An old saying, very frequently repeated, is, "We learn to do by doing." May I paraphrase that, and this is equally true, We learn to know by doing. No man can know except he does. The Master Teacher has made clear that truth, for he said, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me; if any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Those words are simple and positive, we obtain a testimony through obedience, and only in a continuation of faithfulness and obedience can we retain that testimony; for we can lose it by disobedience just as we gain it by obedience. One is just as logical as the other. 

The time is so brief, we can but touch a few high points. I will quote a few words from an eminent author who illustrates the practical phase of gaining knowledge, and this principle holds true in gaining knowledge of the truth which will save us and which is the most precious possession within the power of man to gain. I read you a few words from an eminent Chautauqua lecturer, "Nobody can give us or buy us an education; we earn it in the university of hard knocks, in the school of service. Nobody can give us or buy us a great arm; we earn it in physical service. Nobody can give us or buy us a great mind; we earn it in mental service. Nobody can give us or buy us a great character; we earn it in moral service." I add this thought: Nobody can buy or give us salvation in our Father's kingdom; we earn it through divine service, performing every requirement made of us from on high. 

Again, quoting our author, he says, "We do not know what we memorize; we only know what we vitalize; we only know what we live." Then he goes on to say: "We shall have finished our education when all the strife and discord and evil and bitterness and selfishness have been pounded out of our lives; and when peace, harmony, love, wisdom, understanding, and unselfishness fill them. Eternity alone can finish our education. As we overcome, we ascend the mountain of life; we rise above the legacy of our limitations; we rise above troubles and storms into sunshine; we rise to life's mountain summit and see the night below us; we have reached the new eternal day on the summit, God's commencement day." We have then graduated and are prepared to enter into the great university of our Father, when we have obeyed absolutely and strictly the regulations, and learned well the lessons, of this school room of human experience, to which our Father has sent us for a wise and glorious purpose. And then shall we find a glorious realization of the supreme desire or prayer of our souls, expressed in the inspired words: 

When I leave this frail existence, 

When T lay this mortal by, 

Father, Mother, may I meet you 

In your royal courts on high? 

Then, at length, when I've completed 

All you sent me forth to do, 

With your mutual approbation 

Let me come and dwell with you. 

It is just as real as my life and your life; it is precious, immortal, and triumphant; it is just as true and just as reasonable and just as natural as any other thing in all the universe. 

My testimony, in conclusion, is that our Father lives and rules in yonder heaven, and that his Son is enthroned on the right hand of glory. They revealed themselves to the boy Joseph Smith, and they did commission him to establish the gospel and Church of Jesus Christ, in this the fulness of time, for the salvation of the world; and I know this is true; and in order that we may enjoy its blessings we must consecrate to this work all that we have and all that we are. I trust that we may all do so, and that we may eventually receive the great reward of eternal life in the celestial kingdom of glory, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
