39
Second Outdoor
08 10 1922
Nephi Jensen 
215
158-163

None

None

Someone asked Mark Twain if he knew of anything that is worse than to have the earache and the toothache at the same time. Mark Twain said, "I think it would be a little worse to have sciatic rheumatism and St. Vitus dance at the same time." I am quite certain that if Mark Twain had ever occupied a position like this, he would not have given that answer. 

I feel very deeply conscious of my limitations in attempting to speak to this audience on this occasion. I would not make the attempt were it not for the faith that I have that God will sustain and uphold all those who trust in him and seek humbly to do his will. I pray with all my heart that God will be kind to me while I attempt to speak to you, and that he will give me his Spirit to actuate my utterances, that I shall be able to say the things that ought to be said, and say them in the way that they ought to be said. 

I am thankful with all my heart for my heritage. I am thankful for membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful that God, in his kindness, has given me a testimony of the truth; and that he has written upon my heart by fire of the Holy Ghost a certain knowledge of the divinity of this great work in which we are engaged. I am thankful that in the goodness of our heavenly Father I have been permitted to represent this great Church upon the firing line of truth for over seven years of my life. I am thankful that God has sustained me in this ministry and enabled me, by the power of his Spirit, to touch the hearts of honest men and women by my testimony of the truth. 

During the last three years and three months I have become more strongly convinced than I have ever been in my life of the world's need of "Mormonism." It is my deep-rooted conviction this day that the world needs "Mormonism" more than anything else. Indeed, I am persuaded that the truth, the faith, and the spirit which are found in this Church are the only things that can save this world from going to pieces, socially, politically, and economically. 

Some months ago I picked up a copy of the Literary Digest, and found in it a lengthy advertisement, which had been written by a committee of the World Inter-Church Movement. The advertisement covered an entire page in the magazine. In the very heart of this advertisement appeared this pregnant sentence, "The world needs a great many things, but it needs most of all faith." I do not know who the man was who wrote that sentence, but I do know that he did pack into a few words a comprehensive, simple statement of the paramount need of this world. Yes, this world "needs most of all faith;" and it needs a deeper faith than the insipid belief which we find resident in the hearts of a great many of our orthodox Christian friends. The world needs the faith that Jesus taught. 

About two years ago I had the pleasure of speaking to a congregation in the great city of Montreal. In opening my discourse I said to the congregation, "We have come to teach you the faith that Jesus taught." I had no sooner made that seemingly trite statement than a number of persons in the congregation laughed almost out loud. I noticed a number of persons turn to their neighbors and whisper something about what I said. I am quite certain that they meant by their demonstration to manifest to me that they had already had the faith that Jesus taught preached to them. But I am quite sure, notwithstanding the demonstration of those people, that there are very few people in all this world today who have really heard about the faith that Jesus taught. 

What was the faith that Jesus taught? The Apostle Paul understood quite fully the doctrines of the. Son of God He understood the Christian doctrine of faith. He wrote a wonderful essay on this subject. It is found in the 11th chapter of his letter to the Hebrews. In this letter, Paul says, "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." 

In this definition Paul tells us, in effect, that to the person who has faith, unseen things are evident, or, in other words, that to the person who has faith, God is evident. The person who has faith has a lively, certain assurance of the existence of the invisible God. I know that that is the kind of faith Paul is talking about here, because in this same chapter he refers to Moses as a man who had this "evidence of things not seen." Of this man Moses, Paul wrote, "By faith," Moses forsook Egypt, "not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible." What does Paul mean? He means that Moses, because of the purity of his life and the integrity of his soul, was so close to God that he could almost see God. That is faith. Nothing short of this certainty is real Christian faith. When you think of faith in this sense, you will understand that it is one of the rarest qualities you will find in human souls. I have sometimes said in great cities in the east, "You do not have a thousand persons in your city who have Christian faith." 

But Paul also tells us that "faith is the substance of things hoped for." He means that faith is the assurances we have that we will receive the things we hope for. And the apostle is not here talking about any ordinary human hope. He is not here talking about the hope that the mechanic has that at the end of the week he will receive his pay. Neither is he speaking about the hope that the scientist has that in the ordinary processes of nature certain things will come to pass at certain times. Paul is here talking about a deep, strong, divine hope. He refers to Abraham as a man who had this "substance of things hoped for." Of this man Abraham, Paul said, "By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead." Notice the words: "accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead." These are wonderful words. They are powerful words. They came from a great heart. They came from a soul that was pure enough, true enough, and strong enough to trust God, even to the uttermost. One who has this certain assurance of the willingness of God to bless his children, even to the uttermost, if they trust in him, has "the substance of things hoped for." 

It was of this kind of faith that Jesus spoke when he talked about this principle. There were in his day a few souls who were noble enough and pure enough and strong enough to trust in Jesus Christ. One of these rare souls was a woman who had been afflicted for twelve long years of her life. This woman, we are told, spent her fortune upon the physicians and received no relief. One day she was standing in the throng as Jesus came walking along. She had heard of the purity of his life and the mighty works which he had performed by the power of faith. As he came into sight, her heart leaped for joy and she said within herself, "If I can touch the hem of his garment, I shall be healed." Did you ever notice those sublime words? Did you ever notice that wonderful profession of faith? Those strong words came from a big heart. They came from a soul that was deep enough, and strong enough to trust God, even to the uttermost. That noble woman, prompted by her sublime faith, touched the hem of the garment of Jesus Christ. Instantly she was healed. Jesus knew that some noble soul had come into contact with him. He turned to his disciples and said, "Who did touch me?" His disciples had not seen anything. They were not spiritually minded at that time. They were still of that class of whom Shakespeare spoke when he said, "They are only alive in their duller parts." Any person who has not living faith in the living God is not half alive. The disciples said, "The throng press thee and sayest thou who did touch thee?" But Jesus made reply, "Someone did touch me, for I perceived that virtue hath gone out of me." Then the true hearted woman came into his presence, and said, "I did touch thee." Then Jesus made reply and said, "Thy faith hath made thee whole." 

That woman had Christian faith. She had the faith that Jesus taught. She had the faith that he exemplified in his ministry. 

But alas, that faith was driven from this earth by superstition. The loss of this faith to the world is the saddest thing that has happened in the history of man. The turning of faith into superstition after the first establishment of the Christian religion, did not take place in a day. It came about very gradually. The people of that day, soon after the establishment of the Christian religion, discovered that it is easier to trust in something that they could see than it is to trust in the invisible God. So they commenced to thinking that Peter, and Paul and James and the rest of the apostles had a power peculiar to them. They soon concluded that they could not enjoy the same power that the apostles had. Then they commenced to think that if they could just get a piece of an apostle's coat or cloak and wear it upon their person, it would ward off disease and evil spirits. So in a very natural way the practice of believing in relics came into existence. 

A little later they commenced to thinking that there was some magical power in the cross upon which Christ was crucified, and that if they could just have a metallic likeness of that cross fastened about their neck, it would keep away sickness and evil spirits. You know it is so much easier to hold on to a cross fastened about your neck than it is to hold on to the throne of God. 

Then a little later still they commenced to thinking that if they could just have an image of one of the apostles, and kneel before that image and pray a formal prayer before it, they would be able to receive blessings from the invisible God. You know it is much easier to trust in an image right before you than it is to trust in the God that you cannot see. So in a very natural way, the faith that Jesus taught, the faith that the Christ exemplified, was turned into superstition. And error drove truth from the altar. 

But thanks be to our God, he has not left the world without the hope of a better day. Through his prophets, he has made it known to us that the gospel of Christ and its power should be restored to the world in the dispensation of the fulness of times. In fulfilment of those wonderful prophecies, Joseph Smith the prophet restored to this world the faith that Jesus taught. On that beautiful day in the morning of the Nineteenth Century, when the boy Joseph Smith prayed and God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him, faith was reborn. On that day the faith of the Christ came back to this world. The spot on which he prayed that day is one of the holiest spots upon this earth. It is the cradle of faith. 

The story of that boy's triumphant faith, of his all-conquering prayer, has kindled in the hearts of tens of thousands the same faith. 

I recall a beautiful story that I heard in the city of Toronto some months ago, just on the eve of my departure for the city of Montreal. The following day I was in the city of Montreal, and as I walked down St. Catherine Street in that great city, I saw a newsboy with a Montreal Standard. Across the top appeared these big headlines, "The Greatest Miracle of Modern Times." I purchased a copy of the paper and turned to page 16, and read there the story of radio. The writer claimed that radio was the greatest miracle of modern times. But I was just a little disposed to take issue with his statement. I am fashioned somewhat after the Scotch: I do not always believe everything that I hear. So I commenced to thinking, really is radio the greatest miracle of modern times? I did not have to think back very far to be convinced that I had heard of a greater miracle. Just the night before, in the city of Toronto, before I took my train for Montreal, I sat in my room in the mission home and listened to a little English woman tell the story of the tribulation and the trials that came to her shortly after she joined the Church. She said, "I was so greatly tried one day that I rushed into my little room, closed the door, and threw myself upon the bed and wept and prayed for comfort. While I was praying I heard a voice behind me' distinctly say, 'Be patient; be patient; wait.'" 

That is a greater story than the story of radio. It is a wonderful thing to be able to hear a prima donna sing on the other side of the globe. But it is an infinitely greater thing to hear the voice of God speaking comfort directly to your own soul. Where did that little English woman get the faith to trust in God to that extent that she was able to get a definite answer to her prayer? She got that faith from reading the story of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in our dispensation. That is the most thrilling story in the world except one. It is the story that this world needs to awaken its faith in the living God. For the old story tells about God's power in the world so far back that people are not able to trust in it. What this world needs is the story of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What this world needs is a down-to-date story of the power of God in the world. "Mormonism" is the only religion in the world that furnishes the world such a story. 

And I know that the story of the restoration of the gospel is true. With all the power of my soul I thank God for this testimony. I value it above the price of rubies. If any one should come to me this very hour with a billion dollars upon a golden platter and say to me, "You can have this if you will give up and surrender your testimony of the truth," I would turn from that gold as if it were dross; for I have learned in the furnace of affliction that there are a great many things that you cannot do with money. You cannot knit together the broken pieces of human will with money. You cannot heal the wounds of the human heart with gold. You cannot bring peace to the human soul with rubies. There is nothing in the world that is true enough and strong enough to bring peace to the human soul but living faith in the living God. 

I love those words of that humble poet Whittier: 

Yet in the maddening maze of things, 

When tossed by storm and flood, 

To one fixed stake my spirit clings; 

I know that God is good. 

I know not where his islands lift 

Their fronded palms in air; 

I only know I cannot drift 

Beyond his love and care. 

I do know that those dear words are true. I do know that this religion of ours is God-given, God-instituted. I know it is the best and truest thing in the world. God give us power to live it to the end of our days, and to do all in our strength to declare its truths, to the end of the world, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
