41
Second Outdoor
08 10 1922
Benjamin Goddard 
63
167-169

None

None 

I do not know how my voice will carry in this large assembly, as I have been suffering with a cold for some days. I am very glad to be with you in this open air meeting and to observe how many there are in this audience who are members of the Church. It is truly wonderful to observe the growth and development of this Church from the beginning. We are distinct from all other people upon the face of the earth, for we are members of a living Church; we have all the authority upon the earth that God ever gave unto men; and with that power and influence, is it to be wondered at that Zion should grow and increase, until, by and by, this block will not contain the hosts of Israel that come to conference. I was asked this morning if it would not be a good idea to build another Tabernacle similar to the one that is now crowded with nearly twelve thousand people, and I remarked to the good brother who made the inquiry that if we wanted to accommodate in meetings all the people who desired to come here, we must roof in the whole block and hold meetings in every corner thereof. 

I am glad to observe the increase in faith and the growth and development of the work, as we see it today. While President B. S. Young was speaking I was contemplating how this work really commenced. Let us briefly review it from the lowly beginning, when the boy Prophet Joseph Smith, between the ages of 14 and 15, went into the grove near Palmyra, New York, to pray. Think of that wonderful demonstration when the Father and the Son appeared unto him and gave instructions to him to prepare for the great mission that had been assigned unto him. It was a marvelous event, and Joseph scarcely realized the important work unto which he had then been called. Subsequently this was impressed more forcibly upon him by the appearance of John the Baptist, who conferred upon the youthful prophet and upon Oliver Cowdery the authority of the holy Priesthood, as recorded in section 13 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Later the heavens again opened, and angelic messengers conferred upon these two men the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood with all its gifts, powers, and blessings, and this authority has continued with the Church until the present day. Thus by the direct ministry of angels the Church was fully established. I draw your attention to these marvelous manifestations so that you may understand how God has blessed his Church and caused it to grow on the earth. Do you marvel that the prophet Joseph should burst forth in song when contemplating all that God had done for him? In section 128 of the Doctrine and Covenants, after referring to the restoration of the holy Priesthood, and after proclaiming the opening of a new dispensation through divine ministration, the prophet utters these impressive words: 

"Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them! 

"And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets — the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times! 

"And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam, down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their Priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope! 

"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free. 

"Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods, and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our .ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers." 

This is how the Prophet Joseph felt when contemplating the wonderful revelations given of the Lord. 

You have heard our brother here speak of the elders and their influence and what they are able to accomplish. These young men and young women, not only in the Northwestern States mission, but in every mission of the Church are wielding the same wonderful influence. What is it that gives them this power? What is it that singles them out from the multitude as men of a different class, having different qualifications and different personalities? What is it that impresses the people as they gaze upon these youths and listen to their earnest testimonies? Strangers upon this block, when entertained by guides, often ask, "What have your young people got that impresses us so much? What is it that distinguishes these young people?" It is the Priesthood of Almighty God, and without that we would be no more successful in missionary work than are all others of the various contending creeds. 

You brethren have received the Priesthood of Almighty God. Our youths hold the Aaronic Priesthood. They are proud of it. They are glad to exercise it. Our elders labor in the authority of the Priesthood of Melchizedek. Look over this audience. I think possibly President Kimball will be glad to know the character of this great assembly. I noticed when we voted sustaining the authorities of the Church that some raised their hands carelessly while others raised their hands high. I feel to bless the man who in a whole-souled manner sustains the brethren. Now appealing to you men in the congregation, a great many of you have received this Priesthood given to us by the revelations of God, by the ministry of angels, as referred to. How many of you in this audience, within the sound of my voice, hold this Priesthood? We want to learn by the show of hands. All of you that hold the Priesthood, raise your hands. I notice nearly all of you have responded, God bless you all. 

Now, let me give you a final exhortation. I urge you to magnify that Priesthood; live according to every covenant made with God, and let him feel that you are worthy of this divine power. If the same vote were called for in the Assembly Hall, and again in the Tabernacle, ten thousand hands would readily be raised confirming the thought that upon this block today there are thousands and thousands of men, clothed with the authority and power of Almighty God. May the Lord help us to appreciate and to magnify it, that we may be as lights set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
