43
Closing Session
08 10 1922
Heber J. Grant
10
174-177

None

None 

When this great auditorium was built, we were a thousand miles from civilization; nails were worth a dollar a pound, therefore the building is mostly pinned together with wooden pins. 

Elder Junius F. Wells handed me a memorandum day before yesterday and I have had it copied, and I am sure it will be of interest to all of the people here assembled: 

THE FIRST CONFERENCE IN THE GREAT TABERNACLE 

"Fifty-five years ago today, October 6, 1867, the first General Conference ever held in this building convened, on Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. 

"The building was incomplete — there was no gallery. The gallery was added in 1870; improvised seats; the organ was partly built, 700 pipes, and it was announced that when finished there would be 2000 pipes. Joseph J. Daynes played upon it. Choir was led by Robert Sands. The choirs of Springville, Payson and Spanish Fork attended — Elder Fishburn conductor. Croxall's Brass Band, Eardley's Ogden Band and the Nephi Brass Band attended. A hymn by Eliza R. Snow composed for the occasion was sung. Solos were sung by W. C. Dunbar and J. T. D. McAllister. 

"The General Authorities were: First Presidency: Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and Daniel H. Wells. Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Sen., John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, George A. Smith, Ezra T. Benson, Charles C. Rich, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards, George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith. (All present but F. D. Richards presiding in the European Mission.) Patriarch: John Smith. First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, Henry Harriman, Albert P. Rockwood, Horace S. Eldredge, Jacob Gates and John Van Cott. Presiding Bishopric: Edward Hunter, Leonard W. Hardy and Jesse C. Little. Reporters: George D. Watt, David W. Evans, Edward L. Sloan, Clerk of the Conference. 

"Of the General Authorities sustained that day all died in the faith. (Four of the Twelve became Presidents and three Counselors in the First Presidency.) Neither before this period nor for thirty years afterwards could this be said. The Church then numbered less than 120,000. It has increased three-fold if not four in the fifty-five years. 

SUBJECTS AND REMARKS BY THE SPEAKERS 55 YEARS AGO 

"President Young congratulated the workmen and the people on the good work done towards completing the building and gave out a number of texts for the brethren to preach upon: The Perpetual Emigration Fund; Education of Children in the Ways of the Lord; and of Young Women in Business, so that they could be profitably employed in Light Labor, such as Bookkeeping and Store Work; On Raising Five Hundred Teams to Haul Rock for the Temple; On the Southern Mission; On Temperance in Eating and Drinking; and the Word of Wisdom. 

"Elder Orson Hyde said: 'This is the largest congregation I ever addressed and the largest assembly of religious worshipers I have ever seen together.' The house was filled to overflowing. He testified that at a meeting in Iowa, in 1848, the Lord revealed to the Twelve Apostles and others that Brigham Young should be their leader. 

"Elder Orson Pratt remarked upon how the great tabernacle appeared towering above other buildings like an artificial mountain — "the Mountain of the Lord's House in the tops of the mountains," as he came down Parley's Canyon, returning from his late mission to Europe. He delivered a powerful discourse on the personality of God, and touched on the resurrection. 

"President Young said he did not know how the resurrection would be but supposed he knew as much about it as any one. 'No man can explain it except he has received the keys of it by revelation.' He said that we should preserve our personality and that the essential parts of our bodies endure forever. 

"Elder John Taylor spoke upon the supremacy and superiority of the laws and government of God over the governments of men, and of the comprehensiveness of the gospel, comparing savage and civilized peoples. 

"Elder Wilford Woodruff spoke of the wonderful providence of God in the growth of the people, in means and members, and advised the young people to marry and lay the foundation for homes and happiness. 

"Elder George A. Smith advocated home manufactures, recommending the use and economy of wooden-soled shoes and urged the people to emigrate the poor. 

"President Brigham Young delivered a wonderful sermon on the Word of Wisdom. He said: 'It is wisdom for us not to drink liquor, tea and coffee, and to let tobacco alone.' If there are any cases when a cup of tea or a little tobacco will do good he would not object to their being taken; but who is to be the judge of when they will do good? He was satisfied that when the least lenity is given, there would be a disposition to treat resolution. Some seem to think that this counsel will soon die away and that the people will return to the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor. He would say that if any of the Elders of Israel should treat this counsel lightly he would promise them the curse of God would be upon them. It is required of the Latter-day Saints that they keep the Word of Wisdom and if they trifle with it they will be sorry for it. He spoke briefly several times during the conference. He offered the opening prayer and he made the benediction. 

"Elder Ezra T. Benson spoke on home industries, and referred to the good effect of President Young's recent trip in the North. 

"Elder Charles C. Rich spoke briefly on home industries and upon the unity of the Saints, saying there never had been a time when they were more united than at the present. 

"Elder Lorenzo Snow spoke on education and preaching the gospel, warning the nations of the judgments and calamities coming. He illustrated his theme by reciting the dreams of Joseph and their fulfilment in Egypt. 

"Elder Erastus Snow spoke prophetically of the South country saying there were elements of great worth there, which in time, would justify the wisdom of colonizing that country. About one hundred and fifty young men were called to go south and live, and strengthen the settlements there. This was the 'Muddy Mission.' The names were called out by Elder George Q. Cannon, who also presented the General Authorities sustained as above. He spoke on education, and of the regeneration of a people through observing the Word of Wisdom. He also laid before the audience the plan of the Sunday School Union soon to be organized. 

"Elder Joseph F. Smith was called into the Twelve to fill the existing vacancy. He delivered an interesting discourse on individual duty and obligations and advised all foreign born Saints to learn to speak the English language. He said: 'Our mission is to work righteousness and to bring all things subservient to the will of God.' 

"President Young paid Brother Joseph F. Smith a remarkable tribute, and commented upon the honors, rights and privileges of every man holding an office in the Priesthood. 'No man succeeds to the crown or honors of another; each secures his own by his faithfulness and his deserts.' 

"On Tuesday, October 8, the President said there were things he would like to teach the people that would keep them together continuously, but it was not prudent to hold them too long. A vote was then taken to decide whether to adjourn conference for six months or to continue it over another day. The vote was to continue, and so the fourth day, Wednesday, October 9, meetings were held all day. The emigration of Saints from Europe was stressed by all the speakers. 

A REMARKABLE GATHERING 

"This was a remarkable conference. There were no railroads here then, no street cars, no paved streets, no sewers, electric or gas lights, no telephones, automobiles or radiographs, nor three story buildings in Utah. There were no High Schools, Improvement Associations or Primaries. The University had but a nominal existence. The instructions were nevertheless to preach the gospel of Christ; emigrate the poor; build up Zion substantially; educate the children; cultivate the land; produce our own wares, food and fabrics; set our own fashions; be kind to families, charitable to all people, clean, refined, virtuous, lovers of God, obedient to his counsels, and loyal to country and one another." 

I felt sure that this audience would be pleased to hear what transpired in that conference fifty-five years ago — before I was eleven years old. 