45
Closing Session
08 10 1922
J. R. Howard
No speaker ID
177-178

None

None 

I deem it a very great privilege, as well as a favor, to stand before you and acknowledge before you my belief in God, and in his Son, and in the guidance of his Holy Spirit. 

I come from a farming community. Agriculture is my business. My neighbors, as well as myself, belong to the common people of America, and I am glad to know that in this audience, and in this splendid inter-mountain empire, there are many of my own kind of folk. 

I am sure you will agree with me that the measure of strength of any church or any government or any school, is that of the average individual. The purpose of us all, in our work, is to raise the level of the average, rather than to create an aristrocracy of wealth or of intellect. We are going through trying and troublous times, as a people. I am convinced that there is but one thing that is going to restore normalcy in this world, and that is the advancement of the religion of Christ. We will not get back to the place where we can further make progress, except we are anchored on things eternal. 

On my farm, as I go to my work, and look at my crops, I love to see, in their growth, the work of a divine hand. I never travel or cross the mountains but what I think of the eternal God which made those hills. But we, as a people, need to recognize God, not alone as the God of the fields, of the flowers and the plants; not alone as the God of the mountains, but we must recognize him as the God of the human heart. So, I am glad to bring you this greeting, and to tell you that the spirituality of this session and the session of this morning are as a sweet incense upon my soul. 

I often think of a patriarch and prophet of old, who returned to his country after it had been devastated by enemies. He found the walls of the city down, and the temple destroyed. He set about, with a brave heart, to rebuild the walls of that city, but the enemies on the plains beset him and hindered him and harassed him, but the brave old man worked on, regardless of the enemy. Finally, the last gate of the wall was almost completed, and the enemy, in order to distract him from his work sent a delegation to him saying, "Come down to one of the cities of the plains and let us talk this thing over." I want to bring you his reply today, and to say to you that I hope that your lives are so adjusted, whether you be farmer or merchant, manufacturer, laborer, school-teacher or housewife, whether your position be high or lowly; I hope that his reply will be your reply, as it is mine. I imagine I can see the flash in the old man's eye and the straightening of his shoulders, as he said to those who sought to distract him from his noble work, and get him to come down to the city of the plains. These were his words: "I am doing a great work. I cannot come down." 

May those be your words, and may He who rules over the destinies of men and nations continue with you and all of us in your good work.