Outdoor
08 10 1922


ELDER WINSLOW F. SMITH 

(President of the Northern States Mission) 

In his first epistle to the Corinthians, Paul addressed a particular message to the men of Corinth, in these words: 

"Ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called; 

"But God hath chosen, the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; 

"And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are: 

"That no flesh should glory in his presence." 

The great word of the Lord at all times has been given to the world through humble men. It has not been the policy of our Father to go into the schools of the learned, into the palaces of the mighty, to pick men to do his work, but at all times he has chosen men who were humble, who were unknown, and he has magnified them and made them mighty in the work which he had for them. We can look back into Old Testament times, and almost without exception the men who were called were humble, obscure men. We can come down to the day of the Savior, and we find that "though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." The Savior of the world, the Redeemer of mankind, the Son of the living God, came here and lived humbly, as a man among men. He moved with the humble; he lived with them; he ate with them; he slept with them; he was one of them; and until he began to come into prominence, he was unknown to the mighty of his day. And when the hour had come for him to commence his work in public and he needed helpers, he did not go into the higher schools nor into the palaces of the mighty, but he went down to the seashore and chose humble fisher folk, men of no importance in the eyes of the world. He said unto them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men;" and in that they did follow him, he did make them the fishers of men, and he magnified them that they grew to be most marvelous servants of the Lord. And while the men of their day who were mighty in the political, and influential in the commercial and the educational world, have in a large degree been forgotten, these humble fisher folk and tradesmen that the Lord called and magnified live in the hearts and in the lives of millions of men, and their names will go down through all time as the men who carried on the great work inaugurated by the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Now, coming on further down in the history of the world and considering the great latter-day work, we find that when the time had arrived, when God was ready to do his great work, he did not go into the schools of the learned, into the palaces of the mighty, but took an unknown backwoods boy in the state of New York. That boy was the man he wanted. His spirit was pure; his life had been such that he qualified for this great work. So the Lord chose Joseph Smith and appeared to him with his Son, Jesus Christ, and they told Joseph that if he would be loyal and true and live the life that he should live, he would see the day that the gospel would again be on the earth, with all its powers, its gifts, its graces, and its blessings. 

So this boy went forth; and in time there came to him more revelation, more light, more knowledge; and ultimately it was made known to him that he was the chosen vessel to carry on the work of the Lord. When he was qualified, and had received this heavenly knowledge, he called to himself humble men (for his own position in life was not such as would attract the attention of the important and the learned) and in full faith, Joseph Smith, and the men who joined him and believed in his message commenced the work of organizing in its fulness, in its completeness, yes, in its entirety, the Church of Christ. 

We are all familiar with the work that they did: how that in this Christian land of ours, which God had prepared for the day of the coming of his work where there were hundreds of churches, with many honest souls who were ready to receive the light in its fulness, these young men went forth declaring, not a new gospel, not something that the world had never heard, but the old fashioned gospel, the same principles that existed in the primitive church, the same officers to administer in the ordinances of the gospel, the same godly virtues that men must follow in order to work out their salvation. The world was astonished to hear this unknown boy declaring these same principles and the same things that they had always heard; but the world was more astonished, more completely upset when this same boy, this man called to open the dispensation of the fulness of times, this prophet of God declared to them that they did not have the power of the Priesthood of the living God. In the Church of Jesus Christ there must be divine power. These churches were doing good, they were teaching moral living and uprightness, yet in their organization, in their ordinance work, in their teaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, there was not the power of the Priesthood of the living God. 

Boldly did he declare this great message, fearlessly did he and his associates go forth teaching and preaching, and the result was that the world saw that there was something astir that they had not dreamed of. The world saw that in the work of this young man and his associates there was power, and they marveled at it. And that power was there, my brethren and sisters, because the Priesthood of the living God was again upon the earth. Joseph and his associates, humble men that they were, rose to a place that today their names are known throughout the entire civilized world, and the work that they commenced, the gospel of Jesus Christ, taught through the organization known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has grown steadily. Despite the fact that it has met bitter opposition, terrific opposition, in fact, at the hands of the mighty, at the hands of the learned, it has grown and developed until today it is filling the whole earth. 

I have in my pocket here a statement made by the late Charles Ellis, a non-member of the Church who lectured a number of years ago in Salt Lake. He asks this question, "Why has 'Mormonism' been so much misunderstood?" And then he proceeds to answer his own question in these words: "Simply because the evangelical churches saw in its success their own downfall, and they dared not let their own followers know what 'Mormonism' really is, lest they should embrace it." This is a truth, an absolute fact, my brethren and sisters. The thinking world recognizes in this thing called "Mormonism" a power with which it is not able to cope, recognizes that despite a hundred years of bitter persecution that little stone, cut out of the mountain without hands, has rolled forth and is rolling forth slowly filling the whole earth. They see this, and when we turn back to that passage of scripture that I quoted to you, we see, as members of the Church, that God has made the weak strong, has made the humble mighty, has made the unlearned so wonderful that the light of their teachings has gone into all the world. 

When we study present-day religion, when we study the creeds and the teachings and the doctrines of the present-day churches of the world, we find all through them the effects of "Mormonism." They are changing their doctrines. They are teaching something new. They have cast aside many of the old things that they had one hundred years ago, and in their place are substituting the glorious principles of life and salvation. We find them teaching tithing, we find them teaching a personal God, we find them teaching the brotherhood of man, we find them teaching in a small degree the Word of Wisdom. We find things first advanced in this day and age by Joseph Smith, the unknown, unschooled boy prophet, whom God made mighty for the work, gradually being accepted by the world; we find the churches of the world teaching his doctrine. 

And so, my brothers, you men who hold the Priesthood especially, I say unto you that upon you, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, rests the grave responsibility of doing the work of the Lord. We have the Priesthood, and if we are living to magnify our calling, we have the right to officiate in the name of God, and if we are doing our duty and are faithful and true and our faith is sufficiently strong, those blessings and signs which the Lord Jesus Christ said should follow the believer will be made manifest in our behalf; we will heal the sick; we will cast out devils; because of these things; these signs, are to follow them that believe. While we admire the man who strives for education, and while we rejoice to see our brethren climb up in the world of affairs, more potent, more powerful, more wonderful than all that can be achieved by them is this Priesthood of Almighty God, which is yours and is mine, if we live worthily and magnify our callings. 

How wonderful is the gospel of Jesus Christ! How gloriously is its message being heralded to all the world! What a splendid body of men and women are the missionaries you send out into the field! Go where you will, search this great world of ours from one end to the other, and, brethren, I tell you, you cannot find their like, for in their souls they have the Spirit of the living God; they have obeyed the command of the Lord; they have done his will; they have kept his word. And according to the promise of the Lord Jesus Christ, wherein he said, "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself," they have done his will, they are doing his will, they are keeping his commandments, and they know of the doctrine, that it is of God, and they go forth fearlessly. In their humility they are mighty. They are men of God and women of God, and the work that they are doing will fill the whole world. God has said that this work shall triumph. 

You or I may fall aside, we may lose our faith, we may fail to sustain and support the men God calls to preside over us, but the work of the Lord will go on and we, if we fail to do those things, will lose. It has been here a hundred years now. The work is going forward. The purpose of the gospel of Jesus Christ is to prepare men to receive from our heavenly Father the great glories that he has for them. "This is my work and my glory," said the Lord, "to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man." And I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that these words are true, that they are being fulfilled, and that the men and women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who are loyal and who are true will reap this blessing. The Priesthood of the living God is here. It is on the earth. Its effects are being felt, and our eternal Father is at the helm. Men may fight against the Church of Christ; men may say all manner of evil things against this people; men may kill us, if it goes so far, but at the helm there stands the living God, and this work, the gospel of Jesus Christ, taught by the Church of Jesus Christ, is here to prepare the world for Jesus' coming, for truly he is coming to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. And we, my brethren and sisters, will have our place in the kingdom of our God, if we are true. May he help us to be true, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

My brethren and sisters and friends: I am afraid my voice can not reach the people who are standing way off in front of the Assembly Hall. I have never posed very much as an outdoor speaker. I prefer to speak under a roof. But nevertheless, I desire, on this occasion, to be true to my appointment and endeavor to say a few words, trusting that most of you can hear what I have to say. 

I am representing the historical department of the Church, and I have for many years had a kind of a mission of my own. In this connection I have to a certain extent been alone in my class — not but what others have also worked faithfully in the same line, but it has been my privilege for many years to devote nearly all my time, and the best of my mental faculties, to writing, compiling and gathering together material for a somewhat complete history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the Nineteenth Century. It is expected that younger historians will write the histories of later years. 

I find, my brethren and sisters, that the very first thing which the Lord said to his Church, after it was organized on the 6th of April, 1830, was that a record should be kept among the members. Several years later Joseph Smith (in an epistle that he wrote from Nauvoo) stated something like this, "Whatsoever you record on earth, shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth, shall not be recorded in heaven." The Prophet, in writing this, alluded to baptism for the dead, but the rule holds good, if I judge right, in other matters as well. 

Now, in perusing the Bible, I find that the very first thing, the very first line in the sacred volume, is history: It says: "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth." The first paragraph in the Book of Mormon is also history, as it reads: "I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents: therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father." The very first passage in the Pearl of Great Price is of a similar nature. We find these words: "The words of God, which he spake unto Moses, at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceeding high mountain. And he saw God face to face, and he talked with him, and the glory of God was upon Moses; therefore Moses could endure his presence." Continuing on, the narrative explains how the Lord wanted to reveal to Moses the early history of this world. The Lord said that there were many other worlds, but that Moses could not comprehend the extent of God's creation, and therefore he proceeded to tell Moses about the beginning of this world — the world "upon which thou standest." 

I allude to these things to show you the importance of records. I am convinced that no one historian, nor four or five historians, can possibly do justice to everything that ought to be written on Church history at the present time. Nor can the stake clerks, the ward clerks, the clerks of the different quorums of priesthood, nor the clerks of the different auxiliary organizations, do all the recording necessary. You must help do it. All of you must assist in this great work whereby the memory of men and women of prominence and of integrity can be perpetuated, and their history be handed down, so that their glorious examples may shine for the benefit of those who follow through future generations. 

We do not as a people desire to boast of what we have done, or are going to do, in fact, we are not boasting at all when we occasionally allude to what the Latter-day Saints have done and what they intend to do. Nor do we wish our friends to imagine that we are egotistic when we allude to what we think the future has in store for us. But we are proud, as historians, to occasionally refer to the fact that the Latter-day Saints have already done something worthy of them. The gospel has already been preached by us in the different nations of the earth to an extent that gives us great satisfaction. True, we have not covered the whole earth yet with our preaching, though our elders have visited almost every land and clime. But there are many countries where the people would not receive us as missionaries, where the governments have banished us the moment we have shown our faces to testify of the restored gospel. Consequently, the majority of the inhabitants of these countries cannot be held responsible, as they have not heard enough of the true gospel of Jesus Christ either to save them or damn them. But in such countries where we have had access, we have diligently preached the gospel to the best of our ability and are just a little bit pleased with our records of the past in this regard. We are somewhat satisfied with the missionary work we have done in the past and with what we are doing now. However, we have had more missions in years gone by than we have at the present time; that is to say that several missions were established at an early day which are not in existence now. We are thankful to our heavenly Father for the work enjoined upon us as Latter-day Saints, namely, to preach the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, to gather in the elect from the four quarters of the earth and to organize them into stakes of Zion and into wards and settlements by locating them in the land which God has designed for his Saints to gather to. 

We have done something also by way of colonizing, and that is another thing with which we are somewhat pleased. We commenced our first colonization way down in Jackson County, Missouri, as early as 1831, and we are anxious that a true and faithful record should be made of what we did there to be handed down to future generations. We desire our children to know what the Latter-day Saints were doing at the beginning on the borders of the United States (on the western edge of the country) as pioneers and colonizers. Among other things we established a printing office 120 miles further west than any other printing office in the United States, as early as 1832. We founded a settlement near the banks of the Missouri River which would undoubtedly have grown to great dimensions, had we been permitted to continue our efforts, and instead of a Kansas City we might perhaps have built a strong "Mormon" headquarters in Jackson county. Perhaps we would have called it Zion, the New Jerusalem, or the capital of the world, from which the law should go forth in the Lord's own due time to all the nations of the earth. Jackson county, Missouri, is the one locality about which the Lord said, "Zion shall not be moved out of its place," and while we are now here in these mountains and Salt Lake City contains our central stakes at the present time, Jackson county, Missouri, will nevertheless be a capital, a headquarters, the place where a great temple shall be built unto which Christ shall come in his own due time. 

We are proud, also that we did not become discouraged because we were driven from our first location. For after the mobbers had robbed us of our homes in Jackson county, we had courage enough to cross the Missouri river and try again, and thus we became successful colonizers also in Clay county, Missouri, in 1833-1836. 

Then speaking of what we did a little later, we are quite satisfied with our achievements in the upper counties of Missouri. We can truthfully say that in going into an open prairie country, where there were only four families living at the time, in the course of three years we had between twelve and fifteen thousand Latter-day Saints, occupying Caldwell, Daviess, Ray and other neighboring counties. We turned the naked prairie into fertile and thickly populated farming districts. We founded the city of Far West which, at the time of its prosperity, contained something like two thousand inhabitants. We also commenced the city of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and purchased the town of De Witt, in Carroll county, besides building quite a number of villages in that part of the country. I will venture to say that we are a little proud of our pioneer achievements in the state of Missouri. 

We are also a little proud when we think of Kirtland, Ohio, to which place Joseph Smith, the Prophet, moved early in 1831. He found there only a few families, but in the course of a few years the Saints had two thousand souls gathered in Kirtland, and built their first temple, which still stands. 

We are even more satisfied with what we did as pioneers and colonizers in Illinois. When the Saints, who had been driven out of Missouri, robbed and plundered by mobs, came to the little village of Commerce, they found a few inhabitants, who were struggling in vain to build up a town on the banks of the Mississippi river, but had only succeeded in building up a graveyard on the side of the hill, although they had plenty of means wherewith to establish a settlement in the western country. The Saints, who followed these people feel pleased and satisfied when they consider the labor that was done there by them through the blessings of the Lord. 

And let me not forget to add that in all these instances it was not only our Christian endeavor and our union, that caused success to come to us, but we sincerely believe that God was on our side. We were a God-fearing people; we prayed to the Lord then as we pray now, invoking his blessings upon our labors, and it seems to me that the Lord took special delight to prove to the world that it mattered but little whether his Saints were located in a desolate or a good country, for he would take care of them anywhere; he could temper the elements for their sake and make them prosperous. And thus it came to pass that right there in Hancock county, Illinois, where the rich people who preceded us as settlers had not been able to build up a village, the Saints, in the course of five or six years, built up the beautiful city of Nauvoo, with a-million-dollar temple in the center of it; it was at the time of its prosperity the largest city in the state of Illinois. By what I have said, it will be seen that we had considerable experience as pioneers before we were driven westward and before we came to the Rocky Mountains. 

We are very well satisfied also with the history of the Mormon Battalion. The Saints who were exiled from Nauvoo, in 1846, had expected to reach the Rocky Mountains that year, but did not succeed in carrying out their plans because a call came from Washington, D. C, for five hundred of the "Mormon" men to go into the war with Mexico; and it seemed that this was a great sacrifice and a number of our co-religionists could not understand why the Saints should respond to a call to fight for a government which had neglected to defend them against mobs; but good counsel prevailed, and the battalion marched west; and among many other things connected with the history of the Church with which we are pleased is the achievements of the Mormon Battalion, and the way these "Mormon" boys behaved themselves as Christians and soldiers. The effect which their good example had upon the civilization of California at an early date is most remarkable. It is a chapter of Church history that we like to write, and while it is already partly written, it will be written in more detail hereafter. 

When we speak of Winter Quarters, located near the present site of the city of Omaha, we are just a little pleased to know that Winter Quarters was the first Anglo-Saxon settlement in what is now the State of Nebraska. We were successful there, as is well known, in building up a Christian community in an Indian country. We had a Church organization there with twenty-two wards, in which for a couple of years (1846-1848) we had great success, comparatively speaking; and, as I say, it was the first Anglo-Saxon civilization in that part of the United States. 

A majority of the members of the Mormon Battalion, marching westward, reached California in due course of time, but others became worn out with fatigue on the long journey. There were sick men among them, besides women and children, who were considered unable to cross the great, sandy American deserts, through what is now New Mexico and Arizona and the eastern parts of California; hence, some of the Battalion boys were sent northward and camped during the winter of 1846-1847 on the Arkansas river, at a place called Pueblo; and we are just a little pleased to think that that little Anglo-Saxon settlement, formed by the sick detachment of the Mormon Battalion, and a small company of Saints from the State of Mississippi, etc., was the first Anglo-Saxon settlement in what is now the State of Colorado. 

We are satisfied also with what we did after our arrival in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, the next year, 1847, we being the founders of this beautiful city, the like of which there is none in the United States, nor in all the world. Some of us have circumnavigated the globe, and I wish to say this to you: Go where you may in the different lands and climes on earth, and you will not find a city just like our own beloved Salt Lake City, with its broad streets, its majestic temple, its unique tabernacle, its attractive assembly hall and many other things that adorn our city, which are not to be found elsewhere in the whole world. And we are more than pleased to think that our city was founded by a God-fearing people, men and women who put their trust in God, and who sought first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, relying upon the promise that other things should be added unto them. This city, the most beautiful city in the world, and a number of other cities and towns existing in this Rocky Mountain region, testify of temporal blessings that have come to a people who have faith in God. 

After we had been in this central valley a while, we extended our settlements north, south, east, and west. We are quite pleased to think that when Thomas S. Smith, of Farmington, was called, in 1855, to go north and locate a settlement among the Indians near the Salmon river, he and his company of pioneers became the first Anglo-Saxon settlers in what is now the State of Idaho. We are pleased with the labors of Apostle Orson Hyde, in the year 1853, when he and others were called to settle Fort Supply, near Green river, which was the first Anglo-Saxon settlement in wihat is now the state of Wyoming. We are quite pleased also to think that we were the first settlers in Nevada. Our boys, who had served in the Mormon Battalion, in returning from California to join their families in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, found that beautiful valley in which Carson City, the capital of Nevada, now stands. Enoch Rees and others were called by President Brigham Young to settle there as "Mormon" pioneers, and afterwards Orson Hyde organized a stake of Zion which flourished for a while in that part of our country. 

It also gives us considerable satisfaction to think that in the year 1846, some of the Saints who resided in or near the cities of New York and Boston, and others as far east as Maine, decided to embark on a long voyage in order to reach the new gathering place of the Saints, instead of crossing the great continent of America. They chartered the ship Brooklyn, set sail from New York, doubled Cape Horn, touched the Hawaiian Islands, and arrived in the Bay of San Francisco one year before President Young and his pioneers arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley. We are just a little proud to think that these same Latter-day Saints, about 230 strong, almost immediately after their arrival in California changed a little, insignificant Spanish village, called Yerba Buena, into an Anglo-Saxon town, the present San Francisco. We are also a little pleased to know that the beautiful San Joaquin Valley, in California, was first settled by Latter-day Saints. Some of those who arrived in California on the Brooklyn were farmers who came from the rural districts of New England, and as they could not see any opportunity for successful farming on that sandy stretch on which San Francisco is built, they naturally looked into the interior of the country, and there found the place where the two rivers, the San Joaquin and the Stanislaus, join together, and here they established Port Hope, the first Anglo-Saxon settlement in that beautiful valley of California, which now contains seven of the most flourishing counties of that state. 

I could continue my historical narrative but the time is limited, because there are other speakers. I refer to these incidents of history, my brethren and sisters, to inspire you with courage, and to impress upon your minds the fact that it is not alone what we intend to do — though we believe we have a far greater future than we have had a past — but that we have already done certain things in the past which should encourage us and our children. When our children learn what their parents and grandparents have done, they should naturally place more confidence and reliance on the Lord, and believe that he will sustain them and bless them and give them success, as he has given their parents before them success; for we are destined to fill up America with settlements of the Saints and stakes of Zion. North and South America is the land of Zion itself, and when we have President Pratt presiding over this open-air meeting today, we must not forget that he is also presiding over a mission that is perhaps destined to become one of the greatest and most important missions of the Church. The Mexican mission, when it flourishes, will be able to produce an element that can fulfil every prediction we have in the Book of Mormon concerning the Lamanites. We may perhaps be forced to acknowledge that our nomadic Indians in the United States have disappointed us to a certain extent; for they have not embraced the gospel in such numbers as we had expected, and some of those who did embrace it, after our missionaries had spent the best part of their lives among them, did not remain faithful. But there are millions and millions of another class of Lamanites, more civilized, in the South, and we hope the time will come when they will embrace the gospel in large numbers, and thus be able to fulfil everything contained in the Book of Mormon by way of prediction concerning that race. And not only do we expect the Mexican mission to become most successful, but we also expect in the near future to preach the gospel in Russia, in the Balkan peninsula, in Persia, India, and all over the world. Nationalities which formerly closed their doors against us will undoubtedly, sometime in the future, allow us to enter their countries and declare to the people, as we have done for these many years in the United States and in other countries, that God indeed has spoken from heaven in these last days and has raised up a great Anglo-Saxon prophet to restore the true gospel of Jesus Christ to the earth once more. The name of that prophet shall yet be known by millions throughout the world. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we would like you to understand that you belong to the greatest gospel dispensation that has ever been commenced upon the face of the earth; every other dispensation of God's Providence has come to an end, but in this particular instance, when God restored the Priesthood in our day, it was understood that it should remain upon the earth forevermore. I believe sincerely that the time will never come when historians shall write the history of the Latter-day Saints as a people who once flourished on the earth, but are no more, for we shall remain for ever, and out of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will eventually come forth the Kingdom of God, which shall govern the whole world in righteousness. Let us hope for a great future; let us hope for better times than those we now have. Let us hope that men may become better Christians than they are now or have been of late years. Let us hope for the time to come when we Latter-day Saints may be more faithful than we have been in the past. Yet after all, our greatest success will come when Christ shall reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. In the meantime, we must try to the best of our ability to extend the borders of Zion, build stakes where there are no stakes now; and then look forward to the time when Christ shall personally acknowledge us as his people. Then comes the glorious time of which we think when we sing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," and when "millions shall know Brother Joseph again." 

And now, by way of conclusion, my brethren and sisters, let me allude once again to what I said in the beginning of my remarks; Keep your own records, you heads of families; do not rely altogether upon anything that we historians may do. You may rely upon us to a certain extent, but not altogether, because you are too numerous. We cannot reach every individual, and yet every faithful man and woman in the Church has a history that is worth writing and is worthy to be handed down to future generations, for the benefit of thousands who should profit by their experience. And so my instructions, my advice, my pleadings with you are to the effect that you will not overlook this fact, that record-keeping is a matter of the greatest importance, and that you should keep your own records. All members of the Church should know when they were baptized, when they were confirmed, when they were ordained to the Priesthood, etc. We have a way of tracing the Priesthood held by every man in the Church back to Peter, James and John, but unless you help us in this matter by giving us your personal record we may not be able to reach you. Again I say, make your own individual records; find out who ordained you, who baptized you, who baptized your children, etc., and then, if you find it necessary, come to the Historian's Office, and we will try to connect you up with the past, so that every man who bears the holy Priesthood, and every man or woman who has a membership in the Church, will be able to prove by written documents that they are members, that they have been baptized and blessed by "one having divine authority," and that they have been ordained by those who held the Priesthood before them. If you will observe this word of counsel, you shall rejoice at some future day. Let us all feel interested in bequeathing to our children truth, true history, facts that cannot be successfully contradicted. God bless you. Amen.

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Our next speaker will be Elder Joseph F. Smith, who has lately returned from a mission to the Hawaiian Islands. He is a grandson of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, and a son of the late Elder Hyrum M. Smith, of the Council of the Twelve. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH 

As I look out over this congregation this morning and see men who are older than I, who are wiser than I, who are richer in intelligence than I am, the place which I hold at this time takes upon it an awful responsibility, and I would solicit your faith and your interest for the time that I occupy this position, that what I say may be fruitful, at least in some hearts. 

Brother Jenson has told you that we are a little satisfied with some of the achievements of the early people of the Church. We are satisfied, we are proud to think that our forebears have done the work they have done: but, brethren and sisters, it is not enough to be satisfied with what has been done. The question, in my mind, that confronts us, is, Shall our children be satisfied with the things we are doing now? Are we pushing forward the Kingdom of God here upon the earth as the Lord would have us do it? Are we doing our work successfully, so that our children may, in time to come, say that they are satisfied, that they are pleased with the work that we are doing now? 

We are doing a great missionary work throughout the world. As has been announced, I have recently returned from Hawaii, where a remarkable missionary work is being carried on. In Honolulu they are building a new chapel. The Saints are donating their time to the building of that chapel. They are spending no money except for actual material, and the work is being given; and I have seen men night after night after they are through with their daily vocation, turn out to that building and haul concrete until half-past twelve and one o'clock in the morning. Now, those men would not do it for wages. You could not hire men to work like that for money. It is the same spirit working upon them that worked upon their forefathers; it is the same spirit that brought the pioneers across the plains that is having those Hawaiian brethren working hour after hour building that chapel, that they can have a place to meet that will be a credit to the Latter-day Saints,  that they can have a place in which to meet that they will not be ashamed of. 

But in my mind the place where there is the need of the greatest missionary work in the world is Salt Lake City. We send missionaries out into the world, and they do remarkable Work, but there is great need for missionary work right here in Zion, right where we live. How many of us can say that our community is benefited by our being "Mormons" and our living in it? How many of us can say our city is being helped because we are living up to the doctrines of the gospel? If we are living that kind of life, then indeed we are fulfilling our mission upon the earth. 

I think that our young people particularly have need to look to the gospel. I speak so because I am one of the young people of the Church. In many instances I feel that our young people are losing their sense of relative value. They are losing sense of the big things in life. We need to know the gospel. "The glory of God is intelligence," and we cannot obey the gospel intelligently unless we know what the gospel is and what its laws are. And we have them. Occasionally I have heard people complain and wonder why we do not have more revelation, why the Lord is not continuing his revelation. Goodness, gracious, how can he give us more until we understand what he has already given? Our scripture is full, and how many of us take the time to read it intelligently? How many of us take the time to go to our Father in heaven and ask him to help us to understand his word? Because the things of God are understood by the Spirit of God, and we cannot understand his word, simple and plain as it is, unless we have his Spirit to be with us. That is the reason the world has gone astray. They have the Bible, but they have lost the interpretation that the Lord meant for it. They have not been willing to take God at his own word. Christ spent his ministry here teaching people, explaining the gospel, and it was only a very few hundred years after that when men met together to put their own interpretation upon the scriptures, and as a result the scriptures among learned men of the world has fallen into disrepute. They have rejected the Bible as a result of the great and false interpretations that have been put upon it. They have not been able to strip it of the false interpretations, and see and understand it as it is. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I want to bear you my testimony to the truth of the gospel of Christ. I feel in every fibre of my being that it is the power of God unto salvation. It is the thing that will save us, every one, individually, if we will put into our daily lives the practice of the laws and ordinances of the gospel. It is here for us, and it will be our fault if we do not make the best of it. Young people, understand the gospel; attend to your meetings. Sometimes when I get out among our young people and they do not seem to see things just as I see them, I feel as if I could almost suffocate if I could not get them to see. There is much about the gospel that I do not understand, and I do not ever hope to understand it all. If I did, I would hope to be perfect some day — which I do not. I expect to be able to progress throughout all my existence; but there is enough — the testimony in me is strong enough — to make me feel that when I run across something I do not understand, that through my faithfulness there will come a time when I can understand it. 

It would be presumptuous for me to talk longer when there are men better able to talk than I am. I want to bear my testimony that this is the true gospel of Christ, and that the salvation of the world will be brought about through our taking upon ourselves the responsibility of preaching the gospel. Three years ago Brother Levi Edgar Young spoke in conference and made this statement, which I remember well, "There can be no solution to our economic, social, or political problems until the world accepts the Christ." And it is true, brethren and sisters, and the faster we get in and understand the gospel, sisters, the faster will the world accept the Christ, the faster we go out and do missionary work among our brethren and the sooner will the world be prepared for Christ's coming. 

May the Lord bless us to help us to understand his work, to be faithful sons and daughters, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

32
Outdoor
08 10 1922 
Junius F. Wells
70 OR 166 (there were two on the google doc)
136-138

None

None 

The last time I had the pleasure of speaking at an outdoor meeting was in London, in Hyde Park, a year ago last June. I went up there to look for a congregation of Latter-day Saints, as I supposed there might be an outdoor meeting. I found near the Marble Arch, in the northern part of the park, several congregations: one of Catholics, one of Lutherans, one of Free Thinkers, some Socialists. They were all holding forth, far enough apart from one another, not to confuse one another in their services. I looked for some time before I found, off at one side, a small number who were singing, "O, my Father." And then I knew that I was in the right direction for our own congregation. I went up to them, and found a young man had just stepped forward to speak as the hymn closed. His name is Andre Anastasiou, a born Russian, who had been converted to the gospel four or five years before. He had become a very zealous and active member of the Church; holding the Priesthood, he was filled with an ambition to proclaim the truth, ultimately, to his own countrymen. He was a student of law in King's College, London. He had learned the English language, to speak it quite fluently. I listened to him with interest as he was speaking. Presently three or four fellows in the congregation, who had come there on purpose to nag the "Mormons," began to interrupt him. I had not let it be known that I was of that faith. I stood with the rest of the small congregation; I had a Panama hat on and kept it on, and so was not recognized. When those fellows got to interrupting too much, I stepped forward and pointed to them and held up my hand to my ear (I only hear with two-fifths of one ear), and I said to them: "Be still; I want to hear what this man has to say." That caused them to be still, and they listened, and Elder Anastasiou completed his discourse. He delivered a very wonderful message, with a fine testimony. 

As he was nearing the end, I drew nearer to him and told him that I was Elder Wells; that I had come from Liverpool, and would follow him. So, presently, he quit. The congregation commenced to move, just as the back part of this congregation is moving a little now, and so, as soon as I stepped forward and took his place, I called out in a loud voice, "I was born in Salt Lake City." You should have seen how the people turned and drew about me again. I was at once a curiosity. Of the Catholic congregation, a large part came over, and from the Lutheran congregation, and some of the others; so, presently, we had a large — certainly the largest — congregation assembled there on that Sunday morning; not so large, however, as I see before me now. 

It is a great pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to go out in the world and meet the congregations of unbelievers, to deliver to mankind, irrespective of their faiths, whatever they may be or have been in the past, our message; for we have a message to deliver to our fellow creatures. We are called upon by the sublime authority, the highest of all, God himself, to declare to his children that he lives, that he is, that he has spoken from the heavens; and deliver to his children a message that has been committed to the Latter-day Saints. Holding the Priesthood, with the authority to speak in the name of God, we have to proclaim the principles of the gospel of life and salvation, and to call all men to repentance of their sins, that they may come into the brotherhood of the Church of Jesus Christ. We declare to those who listen to our message and give heed to it, that if they will follow the counsel and instruction we are sent forth to give them, they shall come to a like testimony and knowledge of the truth of our message. We have the courage to do this and dare challenge mankind to put our testimony to the test. We say to every man what Peter of old said: "Repent, and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost; for the promise is unto you and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." That is our proclamation to all the world, to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. Whosoever sets himself up to proclaim any other gospel than this, we challenge to a proof of his divine authority; and of his right to call upon any of his fellow creatures to repent, in the expectation that he shall come to a knowledge and the certain testimony that he is accepted of God, in the congregation and brotherhood of the Saints, and is approved of our Father in heaven. So we say, my brethren and sisters, that it is a delight to go forth in the world and proclaim this glorious message; because we may and can and do so without fear. 

I feel to rejoice with all my heart in the sight that is before me; to think that the great tabernacle cannot hold the multitude of Latter-day Saints assembled at this conference. In addition to those in there, the Assembly Hall is crowded, and here on the outside is a congregation that would fill it pretty well, listening to the servants of God bear their testimony. 

I remember when the Bowery stood just north of here. I remember when the old adobe tabernacle stood there in the southwest corner of this block. There was a bowery at the north of that. I remember when the first stones were laid for the new tabernacle, and have seen it and the temple in process of building. I have played upon the walls of the temple all my early life, and remember when they were not above the foundation. I think I have said my prayers on nearly every step, as the building was raised to the top — on those circular steps in the corners; for this was my playground; I was born across the road from here. I have known the men who have officiated in this Church, personally, intimately, and have been closely associated with them all my life. I bear testimony that they were men of God. I knew Brigham Young, have sat on his lap, called him "Uncle Brigham," and was treated by him almost as one of his own children. I knew his counselors, Heber C. Kimball, and George A. Smith, and those of the twelve apostles who have administered here. I did not know Parley P. Pratt, the grandfather of the man who is presiding at this meeting, but I knew his father, Helaman, and himself — three generations of faithful missionaries, declaring the gospel that I am proclaiming to you now. 

Do you think the world realizes how strong we Latter-day Saints are today? Do you think you could portray to a congregation in Hyde Park, London, the truth, and have them realize what I am looking upon in this assembly? Not at all. They think that "Utah City" is some sort of a place out here in the Rocky Mountains, surrounded by a high wall, into which we gather a few of those poor girls from Great Britain and make plural wives of them. The ignorance of the world concerning the Latter-day Saints, in view of the fact of the marvelous progress that is being made in the multifarious means of communication, is something that is dense indeed. The prophet who saw a time when "darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people" must have been looking upon people of the present day world, out in London for instance, the greatest city on earth, where gross darkness concerning the Church, concerning this people and the work of God, concerning the character of God himself, is dense as the darkness of Egypt. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I do not wish to prolong my remarks. I wish to close with a testimony to you that the work that we Latter-day Saints are engaged in is the truth; that it is God-given; that it has been preserved by his providence, by his loving care; that it is of far more consequence to him than it can be to any one of us; and that every little effort which any one of us puts forward, in the authority of the holy Priesthood to proclaim the truth and declare our message to our fellow creatures, is taken up and magnified by unseen associates and powers under the control of God, and is carried on with influence and power that we little comprehend to the conversion of the honest in heart; the seeking out and searching for the House of Israel; the bringing to pass of the glorious purposes of our Father and God, in the establishment of his Church and kingdom on earth in power. The day is at hand when this work shall be recognized as established upon the earth in power — "Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power." 

It is for us to qualify by fidelity to the truth; by faithfulness in our prayers; by observance of our duties as Latter-day Saints in our lives, to carry in power to the ends of the earth this message of Almighty God to his children; to come out from Babylon, from wickedness, from darkness and error and sin, into the light of everlasting life, through the gospel of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Amen.

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission) 

33
Outdoor
08 10 1922
Rey L. Pratt 
26
139-144

None

None 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that my voice will carry sufficiently far so that all of you may hear. It is to me this morning an inspiration to see this wonderful congregation before me. I have had the privilege in conferences that are past of speaking from these steps to the congregations of the Latter-day Saints in overflow open air meetings, but I think never before have I seen so many people who were not able to enter the great buildings, the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall, and who because of their desire to hear the word of the Lord have congregated themselves upon these grounds. We are truly blessed of the Lord today in the magnificent weather. It is wonderful how mild it is and how comfortable we are here this morning, although I realize perfectly well that you are becoming tired from standing. But it will only be once or twice a year that you will be asked to do this, and I would say, brethren and sisters, we would appreciate it greatly if you will hear us through. My only desire in speaking to you this morning is to teach you the truth concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I find here recorded in Amos these wonderful words, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing but he revealeth his secrets unto his servants the prophets." And I should like to turn and read to you the scripture that is given to the world in what is known as the Articles of Faith. "We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that the Church of Jesus Christ has been founded and is established upon the principle of revelation, and that is the message that we have borne to the world since Joseph Smith announced that God himself had spoken to him, that his Son, Jesus Christ, had come and revealed his mind and will unto him, and we hold it forth as a principle that cannot be controverted, or set aside, that the kingdom of God must rest upon the rock of revelation. We believe that all the events, that have befallen the children of men, from the very beginning of time, have been revealed even before they happened through the prophets of the Lord to the children of men. 

We believe that the Lord is speaking through his prophets today, and we also believe that through all time to come, as long as mortal man lives upon this sphere, God will reveal himself to his servants the prophets and through them to his people. Your boys and your girls by the thousands have gone forth as missionaries, and today almost two thousand of them are standing among the nations of the earth on this Sabbath morning, and that is the burden of their message. There are ministers of the world who read the scriptures; there are ministers of the world who teach morality; there are ministers of the world who teach truth in some phases of it, but deny revelation. We might go forth, my brethren and sisters, and be learned in the scriptures, in science, and in all the learning of the world, but our message, like theirs, if robbed of this one great thing, would be a dead letter that killeth and does not give life eternal to the souls of men. 

We find that the world is not believing in these things, and for that reason it seems that we should be stirred up in remembrance; for the Lord, through his prophets, has revealed conditions that truly and verily prevail in our day, and my desire today is to stir up in the hearts of the youth of Zion and the people of the Church a renewed belief in prophets, a renewed belief in the word of revelation. We do not need to look for revelation clear back to the time of Moses, of all the prophets of the Old Testament, of the apostles of the New, and read their word only and the revelations of God to them, but verily today men commune with our Father and receive his revelations just as those prophets of olden times did. 

Is there any difference in the apostles who sit over here in this tabernacle and who stand upon their feet and proclaim their prophetic message to the world today, and the apostles who were sent out by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Who was Peter? Who was James, and John, and Paul? They were men, merely men — but endowed with a holy prophetic calling and made apostles unto the Lord Jesus Christ, and through them his word came to the world. Who are the men who have been endowed with this calling here? They are mortal men, but the calling is the same. Know it, ye youth of Zion! When you look upon those men, you look upon men as great as the men about whom you read in sacred and holy writ. And is there any difference in the quality of the prophets, the presidents of the Church, and those who have been the mighty prophets of the past? I say unto you, there is no difference. But there is a danger that we do not appreciate these things, and there is hanging over the world that wo of Almighty God because they have rejected this principle of revelation. 

Behold, what I read unto you is the revelation of the Lord through his prophets in times that are past, and we are committed to believe in it: "Yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord, and that shall say the Lord no longer worketh by revelation, or by prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by the power of the Holy Ghost! Yea, and wo unto him that shall say at that day, to get gain, that there can be no miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that doeth this shall become like unto the son of perdition, for whom there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ." 

It behooves us, therefore, to continue steadfast in this belief. We sang at the beginning of this meeting that wonderful, inspirational hymn, that should go to the heart of every Latter-day Saint, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet, to guide us in these latter days;" and in this great conference the word of the Lord has come to the Church through the prophet of the Lord, and that word is, Repent ye; and live in harmony with the laws of God and the laws of the land. 

Brethren and sisters, can we expect to be blessed and disregard this call? I trembled last night as I listened to the words of that prophet calling upon the people to live clean lives. It seemed that it was not the word of mortal man, but it was the word of God, that penetrated to the very center of my being. Brethren and sisters, I bear you my testimony that this is the word of the Lord. 

The prophets of old have pointed out the conditions that should exist in this age. We believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God, and yet we find people who are professed Latter-day Saints who are skeptical in regard to some of the prophecies contained in that book. Reference has been made this morning to the fact that there is a Lamanite mission. I thank the Lord that I am identified with it. I thank the Lord that for 16 years I have raised my voice in defense of the principles of the gospel and in the teaching of eternal truth to the Lamanite nation that live to the south of us, and still I come home to find men, my brethren, who say, "surely the Lord can do nothing with those people, surely our time and effort is wasted in all that we try to do for them." O, my brethren and sisters, can the voice or the hand of puny man stay and forestal what God has predicted shall come to pass? Who will stand up contrary, to avert the bringing to pass the purposes of God? Do we believe what he revealed in regard to the redemption of that people? I do. And if it takes my life, it won't take any more than it has taken of some other men to establish the gospel in some of the countries where perhaps some of you have come from. It is the Lord's work; he has decreed it, and it shall go forth. 

Reference has been made during this conference to the spirit of lawlessness that prevails. I think that one of the greatest things that endanger this great country of ours is the mistaken conception of liberty in the hearts and in the minds of the people. The people mistake liberty for license and are becoming licentious. They are unvirtuous; they are unchaste, and they say they are so because they are free to do what they wish to do. They engage in disastrous strikes and imperil the life and limb and liberty of their fellow men, because they say they are free. Beware of a false freedom, of a false liberty, that transcends the bounds of true liberty, true freedom, which comes with the exercise of truth and the knowing of it. The prophet of the Lord has called us to repentance in regard to these things. Now, my brethren and sisters, can we consistently fail to give heed to his warning? I should like to read to you the word of the Lord, as it came to the prophet as recorded here in the 30th chapter of III Nephi. The prophets of old and the prophets of modern time sound the same warning. Under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, President Brigham H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States mission, sounded a warning to the Gentile nation of which we form a part. Through prophetic vision the prophets of old foresaw our day; they foresaw the evils that would come in among us; and resounding down through the ages come to us the words of the prophets of old, by way of admonition and a call to repentance, that I should like to read to you. It is to us, in so far as it is applicable in that we are guilty of any of the things mentioned here, and it is to the great nation of people known as the United States of America, directed specifically to them as a call to repentance. And let me say here that their very existence upon this continent is conditioned in this great prophetic book upon their living in harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ, and not rejecting him; and when they do reject him, wo, wo unto them: 

"Hearken, O ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, which he hath commanded me that I should speak concerning you, for, behold he commandeth me that I should write saying, 

"Turn, all ye Gentiles, from your wicked ways, and repent of your evil doings, your lyings and your deceivings, and of your whoredoms, and your secret abominations, and your idolatries, and of your murders, your priestcrafts, and your envyings, and your strifes, and from all your wickedness and abominations, and come unto me, and be baptized in my name, that ye may receive a remission of your sins, and be filled with the Holy Ghost, that ye may be numbered with my people who are of the house of Israel." 

Should we write a catalog of the crimes to which this people are most addicted today, would we not name the very ones that the prophet calls the people to repentance of in this great prophecy? Is the nation chaste? Is it true? Are they not deceivers? Are there not abominable secret combinations that threaten the very foundations of our society? There are, and the Lord holds forth a means of escape from these things. He has not cast the people off. No; his arm is yet extended, even as in times of old, when he would have gathered the people together even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wing. But he will not, if they will not. No force, no coercion will be used. But in the due time of the Lord, his calamities and his judgments will be poured out, to let the world know that God will not be mocked, that he is at the helm, that this is his work and we are his creatures. So the great cry today to Israel, to the world, to us all, is repentance. And the great message to the world that should be delivered here at home and in the nations abroad by your sons and by your daughters, is the fact that God speaks again and that he will continue to speak right down to the remotest moment of time. 

I live in a part of the country where recent occurrences have brought very forcibly to my mind some conditions. You will note in what I read here that the Lord spoke in regard to secret combinations. Now, I would like just to say a word — and let it be known that it is not mine, but it is the word of the prophets of the Lord, a warning word and a voice raised to give us a key by which we might understand and know danger when it appears. 

Wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these things should be shewn unto you, that thereby ye may repent of your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall get above you, which are built up to get power and gain, and the work, yea, even the work of destruction come upon you, yea, even the sword of the justice of the eternal God shall fall upon you, to your overthrow and destruction, if ye shall suffer these things to be; 

Wherefore the Lord commandeth you, when ye shall see these things come among you, that ye shall awake to a sense of your awful situation, because of this secret combination which shall be among you, or wo be unto it, because of the blood of them who have been slain; for they cry from the dust for vengeance upon it, and also upon those who build it up. 

For it cometh to pass that whoso buildeth it up seeketh to overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries; and it bringeth to pass the destruction of all people, for it is built up by the devil, who is the father of all lies; even that same liar who beguilded our first parents; yea, even that same liar who hath caused man to commit murder from the beginning; who hath hardened the hearts of men, that they have murdered the prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out from the beginning. 

If the temptation comes to you to join these super-governments, as they are called, those invisible empires that swear allegiance greater to their own organization — although it be within the organization of the great United States — than they swear to the constitution of the country, remember the words of the prophet, for it is of the devil, and it will bring destruction to the person and to the community and to the nation that will foster it and will permit it to grow and become a power in their midst. 

The voice of the Lord through his prophets is calling us to repentance from these things. O, why, why, brethren and sisters is it so? Where is the intelligence that the Lord gives us? We can see that to live within the law is best, is safest. Why are we so prone to live outside of the law? Why should we make ourselves a power unto ourselves and prescribe that part of the law that we should live? Did the Lord command us not to kill? He did. We all believe that we should not kill. Was it a different one that told us not to steal? No. Was it a different one that told us not to bear false testimony? No. Was it a different one that told us not to make or traffic in or sell or drink bootleg whisky? No. For through his prophet he has told us not to do those things. Was it a different one that told us not to drink tea and not to drink coffee? No. It is the same one, and we are disobeying him when we do those things, and the judgment of God sooner or later will come upon us. Was it a different one than the one that told us to be chaste, to be virtuous, to be true, and to be clean? No, it is the same one, my brethren and sisters. So let us obey him. Was it a different one that told us to go into all the world and preach the gospel unto every creature? No. It is the same one; and whether those creatures reside in Mexico or whether they reside in Siberia, or whether they reside in India, when the call of God comes, O, brethren and sisters, let us lay all we have upon his altar, and let us go and keep his commandments and cleanse our garments of the blood of the generation in which we live. 

I am happy to have had the privilege of speaking to you for a few moments here this morning. I wish, in conclusion, to bear you my testimony that I know that God lives, he is my Father, he reveals himself to the children of men. I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh, and that he came in the meridian of time and wrought out a salvation and a redemption for the children of men. Passing over the time of the apostasy, I testify to you that God and his Son, Jesus Christ, in answer to a humble prayer of that prophet boy, Joseph Smith, came to him and spoke to him and revealed to him what God is. I testify to you that from him came messengers bearing the holy message of the gospel and the power of the Priesthood, and that the power of the Priesthood was committed to the Prophet Joseph Smith by which power he organized the Church and put in operation the great work that has brought us together here today. I testify that, given to him by the Angel Moroni, he translated the plates from which the Book of Mormon was taken, and gave to us a "new witness for God" in the world. I testify to you that he received from God further revelation and inspiration — every word that is contained in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and it is the law and the will of the Lord unto us, his people, here today. 

I testify to you something more; that every man who has stood as the successor of that great prophet has held the same keys of prophetic leadership and apostleship that he held. There has been no mistake, from Brigham Young right down to the man whose voice it is the privilege of all of us to hear in this great conference here today. I testify to you that Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God; and the man who rejects his words, the man who rejects his counsel, rejects it to his own peril in the world. 

The Lord bless you; the Lord help you to live as Latter-day Saints should live, and bear up the part assigned to you in this great work; for our Father's children are everywhere yet hungering and thirsting for righteousness. O, brethren and sisters, compared with the joy it brings to them, how little is your sacrifice, after all, in sending forth your boys and your girls — being without them, scrimping to support them! O, if you could only feel and know and see the joy that comes to those whom they reach, I know that your hearts would be made glad. Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. Can we give more than our Savior gave? Think of what he did for us. Then, next, can we do more than the Prophet Joseph did? Think of his life and what he did and what he gave. Just where we stand in the conflict, that is our place; just where we might think we are useless, let us not hide our face; for God has placed us here for a purpose; whatever it be, let us think that he has chosen us for it. Let us work loyally. The Lord bless you is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight."
The closing prayer was offered by Patriarch William Jex, of Springville, Utah.
