Second Overflow
08 10 1922


ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(President of the First Council of the Seventy) 

My brethren and sisters, While I stand here after witnessing your unanimous votes sustaining the general authorities of the Church, I express to you my thanks for the union of purpose that you have evinced. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was martyred he was taken, as he expressed himself, "like a lamb to the slaughter," yet he willingly laid down his life for the people, because the enemies of the Saints at that time swore in their wrath, if they could not get possession of the Prophet and deal with him as they wanted to, they would lay the city of Nauvoo in ashes, and that was, in my opinion, one of the main reasons why he yielded himself into the hands of wicked men in the defense of the Church, to preserve the Church, and the people; and he fulfilled the words of the Master in that splendid saying, "No man hath greater love than that he will give his life for another" — for his friends, for his brethren. 

I believe that it was the thought of the Latter-day Saints at that time, that if the Prophet went to Carthage, that his enemies would not have power to kill him. So thoroughly had the Saints become impressed with his calling by the eternal Father, and by his Son Jesus Christ, that they were satisfied that no harm could come to him until he had finished his work. But it appears that he had finished his work at this time. He had organized the Church and set in order every quorum of the Priesthood, the apostles, the high priests, the seventies, the elders, the priests, the teachers, and the deacons. 

He had supervised the organization of all the quorums and completed the organization of the Church, when he said, "I am going as a lamb to the slaughter, but I am innocent and my conscience is void of offense towards God and man." On the twenty-seventh day of June, 1844, he sealed his testimony with his blood in company with his brother Hyrum, who also, as Patriarch of the Church, sealed his testimony with his blood. The presiding authority came to the twelve apostles with President Brigham Young at the head, and he seems to have filled the prophecy made by the Prophet Joseph, when they first met in Kirtland, that some day, Brigham Young would lead the Church. This was at a prayer meeting where the Prophet Joseph presided and Elder Brigham Young in his prayer spoke in tongues, moved upon by the Spirit of God, and when he had ceased praying the Prophet continued in the same tongue that Elder Brigham Young had spoken in, and as he closed his remarks, he said, "My brethren and sisters, the tongue that Brother Brigham spoke in, and I have continued in, is the pure Adamic language spoken by our father Adam," and it is from the Lord. 

President Brigham Young after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in a large congregation assembled in Nauvoo in the grove near the temple, was endowed with power from on high at that meeting, and hundreds and thousands of the Saints testified that they saw the mantle of Joseph fall upon the Prophet Brigham Young, and that Joseph's voice came from the lips of Brigham Young, and the power and the testimony of the Prophet was in his utterances. It seems to me that something of this kind was necessary, because the people had become sorrowful after the martyrdom because of the many apostates that had sought to lead the Church astray, and this very providential manifestation seemed to satisfy the Saints. From that time they knew that Brigham Young was the prophet, seer, and revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that the power of his prophetic ministry had been manifest. 

He led the Saints out of Nauvoo in trying times, and he planted, in what is now the state of Nebraska, a colony of white people who settled in that state at Winter Quarters, now known as Florence, in the year eighteen forty-six; and the next year, eighteen forty-seven, he led a company of pioneers and planted their feet here in what is now Salt Lake City, and as he entered the valley at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, he said, "This is the place," and that prediction upon that occasion was prophetic absolutely — "This is the place!" He had a vision in which he saw these mountain valleys peopled with Latter-day Saints far and near, and no doubt he remembered the prophecy made by Joseph Smith in the little town of Montrose on the 12th day of August, eighteen forty-two, that the Latter-day Saints would be driven to the Rocky mountains and there become a great people. That prophecy was in part fulfilled by President Brigham Young and this people colonizing these valleys of the mountains, east, west, north, and south, which were afterward organized into the state of Utah and surrounding states. After Utah had been established, he sent a colony, first, into Idaho, the first settlement of white people in that state. They settled upon the Salmon river in 1855, and there builded Fort Limhi for protection against the Black Feet Indians. In the year 1855 he sent a colony to locate in the state of Nevada, under the direction of Elder Orson Hyde of the Council of the Twelve. This colony was located in what is known as Carson Valley, the first white settlers in the state of Nevada. In California, as early as 1846, was established the first white colony, being composed of Latter-day Saints. This colony came in the ship Brooklyn which sailed from New York on the 4th day of January, 1846. They landed at San Francisco bay on the 18th day of July, 1846, making the voyage around Cape Horn in six months time. In Arizona we can claim that the Latter-day Saints were among the first to plant permanent white colonies. President Young was the founder and the mover in organizing the University of Deseret, which has since become the famous University of Utah. The B. Y. University, located at Provo, was founded by him, as also the Brigham Young College at Logan. The L. D. S. University, located on the block east of the Temple, is another project of his, and the first building that was erected was the Brigham Young building, and later there have been erected the Barratt Hall in the Center of the block and the Joseph F. Smith memorial building, on the north side of the block, one of the largest and most up-to-date structures belonging to this Latter-day Saint University. Then was added the L. D. S. Gymnasium, one of the very best equipped gymnasiums west of the Missouri river. President Brigham Young was raised up and prepared for this great work, and he magnificently stood the test and the responsibility placed upon him in leading the Saints to these mountain valleys and in founding these magnificent institutions of learning for their upbuilding and progress, and paving the way for the colonization of surrounding states at the same time. I believe and know that God led him to accomplish these great things, and in the words of one of our most excellent hymns we may sing as we did at first: 

"We've found the place which God for us prepared, 

Far away in the West. 

Here none shall come, to hurt or make afraid. 

Here the Saints will be blessed. 

We'll make the air with music ring, 

Shout praises to our God and King, 

Above the rest, these words, we'll tell, 

All is well, all is well." 

Far be it from me to fail in paying a proper tribute to the great and good men who have succeeded President Brigham Young as leaders of this people. They, too, have each been under the inspiration of the Lord Almighty, in directing the affairs of the Church. President Heber J. Grant has been an inspiration to the people everywhere, and has done much to remove prejudice and to make friends for the Latter-day Saints. He is indeed a prophet, seer and revelator to this people, and a true and faithful president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. May the Lord bless him and the Saints forever, I pray through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President Central States Mission) 

I hope that the Spirit of the Lord may direct my remarks, that what I may say may be in accordance with his holy mind and will, for6 the good of all who are gathered here. I do not remember a more beautiful Sabbath, at this time of the year, than today, when everything seems favorable to us, everything seems saturated with the spirit and the power of our Father in heaven. Surely his Spirit has been made manifest to a very great extent in the sessions of the conference thus far. I think I have never attended a conference when there seemed to be a greater interest, when the people themselves seemed more devoted. The large numbers in attendance show that the Spirit of God is upon the Latter-day Saints and in their hearts. They have a desire to be taught that which will do them good for all time to come. They desire to serve God and keep his commandments more than they have ever done before. 

As the Church grows older its influence must be greater. There is a growth in all scientific lines in the earth. The great discoveries that have been made by men in the last few years are far in advance of the theology of the churches of the day. They have not advanced. And truly this Church, under the divine inspiration of our Father in heaven must stand as the fountain head of all of the wisdom that comes to men, for God has revealed it and he makes known to his people his mind and will if they will but listen. I firmly believe that the truths that have been revealed to men in the dispensation of the fulness of times, in which we live, have had their beginning in the principles of truth that are found in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

A short time ago I heard a man of international fame deliver a lecture in Kansas City, before a convention of Sunday School workers. I heard this gentleman say, that there are one or two passages of scripture in the Bible that are worth more than all the books that have been written from time to time by the so-called professors of the day. One of them which he drew attention to is the doctrine which plainly declares that God "created man in his own image, male and female." He said there are many men and women who do not believe that scripture; but he said, "the Bible teaches it." I never heard this doctrine taught, in my experience out in the world, before, save by the elders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but I want to assert to you, that it would not surprise me at all if in the very near future it should be taught by many of the leading sects of the day. I believe it will not be long until there shall be teachers who will be preaching the doctrine of an ante-mortal state. They will be teaching in plainness that mortals had a preexistence. I believe that there shall be men arise not of our faith who will declare that there is a salvation for the dead, and that men may live and attain the blessings of the almighty Father if they have not forfeited their right to those blessings in mortality. The law of tithing is taught in many of the churches of the day. The principle of divine healing as taught and practiced by Christ and his ancient apostles is taught in many of the so-called Christian sects. Whoever asks of God in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, may receive, and with the light that came into the earth through the visitation of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the visitation of holy angels, the principles of truth will find lodgment in the hearts of the honest among the children of men, and God's Church shall receive more endorsement and greater influence than ever before. 

It will be found, then, when they shall attempt to teach the principles and doctrines of Christ, that in our day, for more than ninety years the principles of eternal truth as taught in the Bible and revealed in the Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants have found place in the hearts of the children of men. 

One of the first things that the Prophet Joseph Smith taught was, that he had beheld the Father and the Son, that they were immortal men, that he was in their image. He declared this with boldness, and it has now been preached by this people for nearly a hundred years. It has been testified of in all the civilized nations of the earth, where the elders of Israel have been sent. And when men begin to lay claim to the principles of Christ they will have to acknowledge that there was a prophet raised up in the dispensation in which they live; and a people raised up through him, who have taught these principles; that God has revealed these things in plainness unto the children of men, and that he has revealed to us the true state of the world and the truth with respect to all his creatures. And then they will have to admit the superiority and the originality of God's truth in the earth, for the Lord has never allowed any son or daughter to come to the earth but he has provided a way for them to live and be taught the truth. 

And when men testify that they know that Jesus is the Christ they will be confronted again with this fact, that the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy, and that as men receive the testimony of Jesus they must believe in prophecy. And when they believe in prophets they must acknowledge that God revealed his mind and will to prophets. They will have to turn again to the true order of worship, and they will find again that God has revealed his truth to the children of men, and has raised up men, and conferred upon them divine authority to proclaim his truth. Then they will come to know that the true gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored, and is preached with power in the earth. 

And now I want to say that the man that is at the head of this Church truly is a prophet of the living God, a man who was ordained to that calling before the earth was created. And associated with him are men of power ordained to stand in the name of God in the earth, which power will remain until the Lord shall come. When a man questions the divine authority of this Church, he needs only to investigate the doctrines of the Church and listen to the preaching of the men who declare the gospel. To my mind the man to whom I referred has read "Mormonism." There are thousands that believe it, but had it come from a "Mormon" elder, it is a question if they would have received it at all.  

I want to say to you that the Lord will raise up men who will further his cause in the earth by allowing them to preach parts of the restored gospel. The apostles in the days of Christ saw men who were casting out devils in his name, and they forbade them, but Jesus said, "He that is not against us is on our part." That same privilege is in the earth, for men and for women to stand for the right, and to stand for the gospel itself, no matter where they have heard it, no matter where they obtained it. There will come a time, just so surely as the sun shines, that they will have to acknowledge that to the Church of Christ in the days of the dispensation of the fulness of times, our Father gave that light and that power with authority to declare it to the children of men. I fully believe that the gospel as it is taught by the servants of God bearing divine authority, will find place in the hearts of thousands as the result of the faithfulness of the men of God who have declared it, and that in many of the churches of the day the restored gospel will be taught, and it will establish faith in the hearts of men. Sooner or later, men and women will be drawn unto the Lord, through prayer, and shall seek him by faith and by study and they shall discover that that knowledge of the truth, and that light and knowledge of God and his gospel came through the Church of Christ in this day, and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God through whom it was revealed and restored to the earth, who sealed his testimony with his blood; died for the truth which through him God gave to the world. He became a martyr to the cause of Christ, and no man ever became a martyr for the cause of Christ without having known him and the truth that he declared, though that truth be preached by men who are not called of God. We pray that the honest in heart, may be honorable enough to admit, when it is brought to their attention, that the truths which they have been taught, were received through the Prophet of the Lord in the day in which we live, and that they must repent and believe the gospel; that the law that John taught is in force and in effect for people who have not been baptized by men having authority. And that in order to partake of the glorious principles of Christ, they must enter into the straight gate and live according to the truth and the laws that has been revealed for their salvation. 

I pray for the children of men. I pray for the honorable men of the earth, men and women who are blinded by the cunning craftiness of men who deceive by teaching doctrine that is not true. I pray for the Latter-day Saints, that they may walk uprightly before the Lord, that they may testify before the world that God lives, and that they may rejoice in the truth which comes to them through these conferences and through attending to the duties of Saints of God upon the earth. May we all feel determined in our hearts to live the lives of Saints, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

Mrs. Lorinda P. Brewerton, sang a solo, "Give to me thy support." 

ELDER GEORGE F. McCUNE 

(Formerly President of ihe Eastern States Mission) 

At the beginning of our services, Brother Badger, acting as mouth for all of us, asked the Lord, in his prayer, to inspire those who should speak to us his words for our comfort and well-being. I believe that prayer has been literally answered thus far in those who have spoken, and I desire that I may say nothing that shall detract from that beautiful spirit and inspiration which has been our portion here today. 

I delight to meet with my brethren and sisters, but I find it a great task to attempt to talk to you. I feel that the Saints perhaps know just as much about the gospel as I do. It would be a great privilege to meet a congregation of this size in the world, and deliver to them the gospel message; but I always sense my weakness in standing before the Latter-day Saints. Yet I do know our Father in heaven makes no requirement at our hands except he gives us the power to magnify that requirement or calling; so I respond cheerfully, trusting in the Lord, and what I do in this Church I do in the name of the Lord, for I do know, by my experience, that we have the gospel of our Redeemer, the true gospel of Christ, and the more I know of it the more I love it, the dearer it is to my heart. 

There have been so many good things spoken in this conference that I feel in my heart you will love to go home and leave with the Saints, in our wonderful institutions. 

As Brother Bennion was comparing the meetings of our annual and semi-annual conferences, a thought came to my mind. I went into a convention the other day, and as I went in I could not help but notice the terrible condition that was manifest in that meeting, and I knew as I stand here, that the people were deluded. They thought the same, perhaps, of me, but, "by their fruits you may know them." At this meeting here, it seems as if all have met with one purpose of heart. In the meeting I refer to, there was no union, no peace, but there was everything contrary to union and peace, and I never saw such contortions in my life as I witnessed in that little meeting. 

I bear testimony that we have the true gospel of the Redeemer. It is a privilege for us to live in this great dispensation of the fulness of times when we have the true gospel of our Lord, and we should take pleasure in keeping his laws and commandments. It is a privilege that we should prize. It is a privilege, I think, when we properly understand our position and the blessings that are promised as our reward, and we should cheerfully be obedient to the commandments of the Lord for the blessings that we are seeking and which have been promised by our Father. We all want happiness, we all want something which we are craving for. I believe that strict obedience to the commandments of God will bring us that which we seek. I believe there is no other way under heaven whereby we can get that which we greatly desire, except by a strict obedience to the gospel and the laws of God. When our Father in heaven said. Thou shalt not steal, he did not place on his children a hard burden, but he gave them something that would contribute to their peace and salvation. He gave them the commandments because he loved them. So we in all our experiences and vicissitudes of life should learn to love God and to keep his commandments. Our people should learn to love the principles and requirements of the gospel, and should love to conform to them according to the spirit in which they are given, for they are all elevating, even in this life, and through them, in their completeness, we may be exalted in the life to come. 

I recently returned from California. I was astonished while there at the wonderful devotion and interest shown by our people in the gospel of our Redeemer in that portion of the vineyard. I first attended our Sunday school, in the vicinity of Ocean Park. I was glad to behold that the little hall would not wholly hold our Sunday school children. As many as 25 children had to stand. On the same day I attended the services at Los Angeles; and when I left that place a little over three years ago, their chapel was ample to accommodate them all. When I returned I found that little chapel was wholly inadequate for the Sunday night meeting, and every available space was taken for standing room. On the next Sabbath I visited another branch, where the chapel was built about a year ago. In that time the building has become inadequate. The next Sunday I attended services in our little chapel in Ocean Park. It is estimated that about 1200 attended our services there, and the new chapel was inadequate to hold the people. I find those people are taking a very active interest in the gospel, a keener interest even than they had taken at home here. Brethren and sisters, I glory in this, but I regret it very much, so far as we at home are concerned. We should recognize it as a privilege to perform our duties in the Church, and to obey the requirements made upon us in our day, the dispensation of the fulness of time, and we should not look upon our duties as hard to perform. I believe the gospel plan given to us is the plan by which we can come back into the presence of God, through working out our salvation in this life. Let us find joy and satisfaction in our work in this life; it is not a hardship to conform to the requirements of the gospel; but we will find true happiness in rendering obedience to the gospel. 

There are so many principles in the gospel as we understand it, and if we will conform our lives to them, we will have our reward in this life, and in the life to come more than we can conceive in our present state, as a reward for our faithfulness. 

The brethren have spoken much about our respect for law and order. I wonder if it is possible that the listlessness that comes to us is the result of our own actions in the past. I would not say that I believe our actions are reflected in the attitude of our children, or the ideas of our children. I remember being out where we wanted to make a certain distance in a certain time. The young men who were with me said in the presence of their officers, and to my two sons, we will make it, if we go in a hurry. Now I believe that the violation of the speed law will be brought home to those men, who were willing to go outside the law in hurrying forward in the automobile. I believe that men will take advantage, and I believe that boys and men who overstep the law, will take advantage and license from the actions of others that are brought home to them. So, I believe we should resolve in our hearts to cultivate respect for law, and thus wherever we may be found, use our influence to have the laws obeyed and to produce a respect for law in the minds of all, not only for ecclesiastical authority, but all authority. It is no trouble to respond to the requirements of the president of these United States, and I believe we should take pleasure in responding to every requirement of law and order, not only from the president, but from all including the least official who acts under him. And in this way I believe we should teach our own children respect for authority. Now may we have respect and confidence in the authority placed over us by the Lord; and I believe that we will find real joy and satisfaction in honoring the deacon in his place. I believe he should be honored as bearing the Priesthood of God. I feel that I would like to honor every man who acts in the authority, either of our country, or of the Church of God, upon the earth, and teach my children to do likewise. And this I would teach all whom it is my duty to teach, as opportunity may afford. 

I did not intend to take so much of your time. It is a wonderful privilege we have of meeting together and partaking of the spiritual blessings that God has for this people, in these conferences; I wish we could fully appreciate them, for just as sure as you sit before me this Sabbath day, God lives, and Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and Joseph Smith was his chosen instrument through whom the gospel has been restored to earth; and it is our privilege to honor his memory and have respect for and render obedience to all the principles and laws revealed through him for our earthly happiness and eternal salvation. May we likewise render obedience to all who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph. My brethren and sisters, I bless you through the authority my Father has given me, in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer. Amen.

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(Formerly President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, that I keenly sense the mighty responsibility that is now mine, for I feel its weight when I consider that I am addressing many who have come from afar, and at considerable expense, with a desire to receive from the Lord through his ministry, by the inspiration of his spirit, encouragement and spirittual strength which may be of assistance to them in their work in the wards and stakes of Zion. I am sure that up to the present moment you have not been disappointed, and I sincerely trust that up to the closing prayer we may continue to enjoy the outpouring of divine light and intelligence which has characterized the remarks of all the speakers who have previously spoken. I have in my heart only one desire, and that is, that the Lord will grant me his choice blessing that I may impart unto you eternal principles pertaining to our salvation in his presence, that we may all be imbued with the spirit of diligence and devotion to his work, and fulfil the requirements devolving upon us; that we may perform all of them and conform to all the ordinances pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and is not a mere imaginary affair, but a reality; a living, vital power in the lives of those who permit it to come into their lives. 

I rejoice in the statement, made last evening by President Heber J. Grant while addressing the assembled priesthood, that for no other one thing is he more grateful to the Lord than that throughout the nations of the earth where he has traveled, including the wards and stakes of Zion, there prevails among the Saints an abiding faith in, and a knowledge of, the divinity of this work. This is the secret of its strength. Upon this cornerstone, my brethren and sisters, it is established, and it shall prevail; it shall triumph; it shall overcome eventually all the enemies of truth, of light, and of life. It is not alone amongst those who stand in high positions, that this splendid possession, this excellent knowledge, is possessed, it is found amongst the humblest, the meekest, the lowliest, and the most obscure among us, provided they are faithful in devoting themselves to the Lord's work and requirements. A glorious thought! It is, indeed, the very secret of our strength. How has it come to us? How shall it be maintained? In the manner in which it was obtained, and in no other way can it be a continued possession in our lives, making for our salvation; for remember that the gospel's purpose is not to save men in their sins, but from their sins, and that it is God's power brought into our lives with that definite objective, and it is revealed by him and not an imagination. As Brother McCune has said, there is no principle or ordinance of this gospel that has not its reward in blessing of faith and power from heaven; for there is a law irrevocably decreed from the foundations of the world, on which all blessings are predicated, and whenever we receive any blessing from the Lord, it is by obedience to the law upon which it is predicated; no blessing in the gospel can be obtained and enjoyed except by obedience to the requirements of that law to which it belongs. 

An old saying, very frequently repeated, is, "We learn to do by doing." May I paraphrase that, and this is equally true, We learn to know by doing. No man can know except he does. The Master Teacher has made clear that truth, for he said, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me; if any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Those words are simple and positive, we obtain a testimony through obedience, and only in a continuation of faithfulness and obedience can we retain that testimony; for we can lose it by disobedience just as we gain it by obedience. One is just as logical as the other. 

The time is so brief, we can but touch a few high points. I will quote a few words from an eminent author who illustrates the practical phase of gaining knowledge, and this principle holds true in gaining knowledge of the truth which will save us and which is the most precious possession within the power of man to gain. I read you a few words from an eminent Chautauqua lecturer, "Nobody can give us or buy us an education; we earn it in the university of hard knocks, in the school of service. Nobody can give us or buy us a great arm; we earn it in physical service. Nobody can give us or buy us a great mind; we earn it in mental service. Nobody can give us or buy us a great character; we earn it in moral service." I add this thought: Nobody can buy or give us salvation in our Father's kingdom; we earn it through divine service, performing every requirement made of us from on high. 

Again, quoting our author, he says, "We do not know what we memorize; we only know what we vitalize; we only know what we live." Then he goes on to say: "We shall have finished our education when all the strife and discord and evil and bitterness and selfishness have been pounded out of our lives; and when peace, harmony, love, wisdom, understanding, and unselfishness fill them. Eternity alone can finish our education. As we overcome, we ascend the mountain of life; we rise above the legacy of our limitations; we rise above troubles and storms into sunshine; we rise to life's mountain summit and see the night below us; we have reached the new eternal day on the summit, God's commencement day." We have then graduated and are prepared to enter into the great university of our Father, when we have obeyed absolutely and strictly the regulations, and learned well the lessons, of this school room of human experience, to which our Father has sent us for a wise and glorious purpose. And then shall we find a glorious realization of the supreme desire or prayer of our souls, expressed in the inspired words: 

When I leave this frail existence, 

When T lay this mortal by, 

Father, Mother, may I meet you 

In your royal courts on high? 

Then, at length, when I've completed 

All you sent me forth to do, 

With your mutual approbation 

Let me come and dwell with you. 

It is just as real as my life and your life; it is precious, immortal, and triumphant; it is just as true and just as reasonable and just as natural as any other thing in all the universe. 

My testimony, in conclusion, is that our Father lives and rules in yonder heaven, and that his Son is enthroned on the right hand of glory. They revealed themselves to the boy Joseph Smith, and they did commission him to establish the gospel and Church of Jesus Christ, in this the fulness of time, for the salvation of the world; and I know this is true; and in order that we may enjoy its blessings we must consecrate to this work all that we have and all that we are. I trust that we may all do so, and that we may eventually receive the great reward of eternal life in the celestial kingdom of glory, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

Brethren and sisters, our hearts are glad because the Lord has shown us the path to eternal life. In his service there are joys that fill the heart to overflowing. 

On my way to South Carolina, a few days ago, the passenger train on which I was riding was delayed four hours. A freight engine running ahead of this passenger train ran off the track. Enquiring from one of the railroad men the cause of the engine being derailed — for the track appeared to be in good condition — I received this reply: "The engine was running 'light.' It had no cars — no load to pull. The engineer was driving it at high speed. If the engine had been pulling a train it would probably have kept on the rails." 

I pondered over this answer. How many men in this republic are running "light?" Shakespeare makes one of his characters say: 

"Let me give light, but let me not be light. For a light wife doth make a heavy husband." 

If there were more men who would take upon themselves the natural and God-ordained responsibilities of this mortal life, that is to say, if there were more men who were heads of families, assuming the duties of life there would be fewer strikes and less industrial disturbance. 

The Latter-day Saints are a great people because they are engaged in a great work and they sense the responsibilities thereof. They have not made this work great, but the work has made them great. It is God's work. What is the mission of the Church? It is a glorious one. In the Book of Mormon the Lord said to one of his prophets: "For my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be, until the end of man; neither from that time henceforth and forever." Yes, the Almighty hath a work. It must be a noble one, a work of power and glory worthy of the Majesty on high. The Lord said unto Moses: "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." And this work will go on throughout the countless ages of eternity. 

Blessed are the Latter-day Saints, for they have been called by the Master to perform a great and far-reaching work pertaining to the salvation of the souls of the children of men. The Lord says that we are called to lift up our voices "as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud, and cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming." 

This is the mission of this Church, to warn the world by the preaching of the everlasting gospel proclaiming to the world that the coming of the Lord is nigh at hand. He is coming to judgment, to reward the righteous, to bring to pass the resurrection of the righteous dead; and to reward every man according to the deeds done in the body. "And even so I have sent mine everlasting covenant into the world," saith the Lord, "to be a light to the world, and to be a standard for my people, and for the Gentiles to seek to it, and to be a messenger before my face to prepare the way before me." 

In sublime faith in the spirit of service and sacrifice, meeting every form of prejudice, your sons and daughters are proclaiming the truth to the children of men, at street meetings, in halls, cottages and houses of worship. They are preaching the gospel as a witness and a warning to the nations of the earth preparatory to the glorious second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

As I listened to President Grant, President Penrose and President Ivins I thought of the splendid lives of these men. What a great blessing to the people of the world and especially to the Latter-day Saints they are and have been. 

And the same may be truthfully said of all the leaders of the Church both past and present, and it will be said of those who will follow. God said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: "And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." Our leaders instruct us by the power of the Holy Ghost and their words are carried by that power unto our hearts. We rejoice in the fulness of the gospel and thank God that Israel is led by prophets, seers and revelators. 

Almost at the commencement of his communication to Joseph Smith, the angel Moroni said that God had a work for him (Joseph) to do. In what spirit did the Prophet Joseph perform that work? In the spirit of service and sacrifice. He lived for others. On his way to Carthage, knowing that he was going to his martyrdom, in the splendor and nobility of his soul, he exclaimed: "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of none to myself." We are living for others. We want to be of service to our fellow men, to our country, to our God. I believe from the bottom of my heart that this faith which the world designates as "Mormonism" is the spiritual force that is saving the world from bursting asunder into spiritual anarchy. The young people have the faith of their fathers in their hearts, and it is the faith that is the power of God unto salvation. The missionaries go into the world with the light and inspiration of the Holy Spirit to deliver their vital message in the name and power of Jesus Christ. 

God, in his spiritual firmament, has set constellations of spiritual power and righteousness "for the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." Chief among these is the First Presidency of the Church. So long as the Latter-day Saints look to these spiritual guides, the Presidency and the Twelve, and obey their counsels, they will never go astray. These inspired men are servants of Jesus Christ. The Redeemer is the head of the Church, the chief corner stone of our salvation and faith. Without him we can do nothing. In keeping counsel and in doing the things the Lord shall command them the Saints will walk in the glorious light of truth: they will share the glory of the first resurrection, and the great gift of salvation will be their eternal reward. 

May God help us to keep our vision from being blurred by the deceitfulness of riches and the cares of the world. May he help us to live and preach the gospel to help mankind to keep from perishing spiritually, to teach our children to be true to their leaders, to themselves, loyal to their country and to God, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir and congregation sang. "Awake, my soul." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Frederick E. Barker. 


