Overflow
08 10 1922

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church.) 

Those who have been called upon to speak during this conference have dwelt upon subjects which to them seem most important. Each man who feels his responsibility is anxious for the cooperation and help of the Church members. I sincerely hope that I may be assisted by the Spirit of the Lord in delivering to you the message I have in my heart. 

The Apostle James counseled us as follows: 

"Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath: for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful bearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." 

What a blessing it would be if we could only remember and obey this counsel. It is a common thing for one to find grounds for criticising others, and how seldom do we make a careful examination of our own lives, with a view to correcting our own faults. 

This was forcibly impressed upon me the other day when, upon returning to Salt Lake City from the north, where I had been with a number of Salt Lake business men, I made the remark in the presence of President Grant, that we had covered the distance in very fast time; a time which far exceeded the speed allowed by law. His reply was: "How foolish we are. We get up in the morning and pray that God will protect us during the day, and then go straightway and do things we know to be foolish and dangerous." I answered that with a high-powered, heavy car, forty or fifty miles does not seem fast. "No," said he, "but if you should hit a telegraph pole you would know how fast it is." 

I have been unable to get away from this thought. How many of us fail to prove by our life's work that we are doing our part toward the protection of our own lives, as well as to protect and elevate those who have an equal right with us to live and enjoy happiness. Sometimes this is only impressed upon us when we, figuratively speaking, hit a telegraph pole, or some other object, thus doing injury, not only to ourselves but to others. 

I imagine that we have improved very little since the days of Nephi, and that perhaps we are living in the day he spoke of, when he said, "In that day there shall be many which shall say, eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die, and it shall be well with us; and there shall also be many which shall say, eat, drink and be merry, nevertheless fear God; he will justify in committing a little sin. Yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes and at last we shall be saved in the Kingdom of God." 

We have been warned time and time again that God's blessings are dependent upon the fulfilment of his law; to receive his promise we must comply with the law. For the purpose of helping us to understand and prepare more fully to comply with the law, we have had given to us certain organizations. 

During this conference considerable has been said concerning the work of the Mutual Improvement Association. Brother Lyman appealed especially to the members of the Church to encourage young men between the ages of seventeen to twenty-three to become active in the Mutual Improvement Association. Dr. Widtsoe spoke on the great work being accomplished by our Church school system. These organizations are necessary and very helpful, but in my opinion the main responsibility for the training of young men in this Church, rests upon the Priesthood organizations, which is God's plan, "which Priesthood continueth in the Church of God in all generations and is without beginning of days or end of years." 

At times man seems to feel that he can improve upon God's plan, and in his anxiety to do so may overlook the greater object in his endeavor to see his own work succeed. The auxiliary organizations and Church schools are in the Church as helps in government; stepping-stones in the Priesthood, — the final reward is to come to man through his Priesthood activities. 

In considering these organizations we must not overlook the value and importance of home training, for, after all, it is in the tender years that habits are formed that have a great influence in directing the lives of God's children. We have the Primary, kindergarten, Religion class and Sunday school, which are given to us for the purpose of helping to train children during these tender years, and sometimes I wonder if parents are content to leave the training of their children wholly with these organizations. The age of twelve has been fixed as about the time a young man should be prepared to receive the Aaronic Priesthood — the first step in authority in God's great work. How wonderful is his great plan, and yet how simple. 

The child when born into the world learns largely from observing others. It sees its parents or brothers and sisters do things and makes an attempt to imitate them. By untiring effort it learns to do the things it sees them do, and learns to repeat the words they encourage it to speak; thus step by step it grows and develops and becomes less dependent upon them, although their life and actions have exerted an influence, and has so impressed the child that this influence, whether good or bad, will thereafter have its effect upon the child's life. 

As a deacon in the Church, the boy is given his first experience in Church government. As the baby learns through observation, the deacon learns to do by doing. His duties require that he perform outward ordinances, such as passing the Sacrament, visiting the homes of the members for the purpose of collecting fast offerings, or to distribute substance to the poor. He may go upon errands for the bishop, act as usher, and should at all times be made to understand that he should have reverence and respect for the House of the Lord. 

Think of the effect of this work upon a young man just commencing his labor in the Priesthood. Think of the strength that comes to him in knowing that he is, in a sense, custodian of the Lord's properties. Think of the joy that should come to him in assisting to comfort the poor and needy and those in distress. Think what might happen in the life of this young man, when passing the Sacrament he sees a brother or sister partake of the Sacrament, or perhaps his own parents, and knows at the time, that those parents are not keeping the commandments of God, and are breaking the Word of Wisdom. Think of the effect upon a young man, after having seen a brother partake of the Sacrament, and then that afternoon or the following day to see him smoking a cigar or cigarette or profaning the name of the Lord. Do these acts have a tendency to create in the life of the boy a spirit of respect and reverence for this ordinance? Or do they have a tendency to make them mechanical with him, and thus cause him to lose his respect for this ordinance, and his interest in the work he should be performing as a servant of the Lord? 

Can a young man of this age, the age when his life is being molded for good or bad, hear his parents complain of the bishop, the president of the stake, or the general authorities of the Church, and have the respect for these men he should be taught to have? Oh, how different it would be if all these influences were for good, and the purpose of encouraging the young man to greater faithfulness in the Church, and to create a greater spirit of reverence and a desire to become more active in his labors as an officer in the Church. To taste the sweetness of service, under the constant encouragement of members of the Church would bring to the young man of this age a safeguard that would be everlasting, and would help to prepare him for the next step in authority which comes with the ordination to the office of teacher. 

Often I have wondered if the members of the Church really grasped the importance of this office and the magnitude of its possibilities. Many times have I heard men holding the holy Melchizedek Priesthood refuse to be burdened in their labors with a young man whom they thought was poorly prepared to labor in the Church as a teacher. I have heard them say, Of what real use in the teaching corps is a young man of fifteen or sixteen? When it has been possible to answer these queries, I have referred to the fact that at this age Joseph Smith went into the woods to pray, and in answer to his prayer, through his faithfulness, received the visitation from the Father and the Son. At this age, the late President Joseph F. Smith was sent to the Islands of the Sea to preach the gospel. At twelve the Savior heard and asked questions of the doctors, and declared he must be about his Father's business. 

Have we ever stopped to consider that the mission of the teacher is not to preach or to teach the people concerning the principles of the gospel, but that his duty is, "to watch over the Church always, and be with and strengthen them, and see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking, and see that the Church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty." This requirement, to my mind, fixes the home as the training ground for young men just beginning their ministry among the people. Think of the influence upon a young man to know and to be encouraged to feel that his mission is to watch over the Church always — not to labor with the outsider, with those who are unfriendly or unsympathetic, but to "watch over the Church, and be with and strengthen them, and see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting nor evil speaking." 

Can a young man of the age of fifteen to seventeen years enter the homes of members of the Church and there find that the members of those homes are keeping the commandments of God, and are complying with this requirement, and go from those homes and engage in doing the things he knows to be wrong, and which will bring reproach upon him, and lessen his influence to do good in the office to which he has been called? Think what a wonderful opportunity of training and helping to fix indelibly upon the mind of the young man God's purposes and promises through the encouragement he may receive from members of the Church. And again, think of the discouragement that may come when he sees that members of the Church are giving very little thought to these matters, and criticize the actions of the Church officers in calling boys of this age to this important work. If we engage in this we have not hearkened to the words of the Apostle James to "lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls." We are not doers of the word but hearers only, deceiving our own selves, and we cause the young man thus discouraged to look, as it were, in the glass, wherein he sees the picture we, in our distorted condition of mind, picture him to be, rather than the servant of the living God he was intended to be. It is through this discouragement, I believe, that so many of our young men withdraw from Church activity and fail to measure up to the requirements of the Priesthood. 

The next step in authority is the office of priest. The young man, after having received his training as a deacon and teacher, is required, to "Preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament, and visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret, and attend to all family duties." Thus as his experience increases, his opportunity for service increases, his labors being with the members of the Church where, through their example and help he can grow and develop into a useful instrument in the hands of the Lord to deliver his word to those who are unfriendly and know not of the plan of salvation. What a wonderful opportunity is here given to the Church in laying the foundation for the future usefulness of God's children. You can see that the responsibility of carrying on this work, and of making God's plan serve its purpose, rests mainly upon the members of the Church: that the ward bishopric is the guiding hand for them, standing as the presidency of the Lesser Priesthood. 

Do we as parents, as members of the Church, fully realize the responsibility that rests upon us? Are we teaching our boys and girls in their youth to respect the principles of the gospel, and to labor diligently and faithfully in the office and calling whereunto they have been called, where they can learn the joy of service and feel the love that comes through a united effort in the service of the Lord? Are we paying our tithes and our offerings? Are we providing the way by which our children can learn in their youth to obey the commandment of the Lord, that we remember him with our tithes and our offerings? I often recall the words of the Psalmist: "The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. He shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation." 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that in humility, we will take advantage of the opportunity God has given to us for the training of young men who are called to positions in the Lesser Priesthood, and feel fully the responsibility that rests upon us in carrying on this great work. May God give us strength and determination to do our part, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

This great gathering of people is a lesson to me in faith. You have come up to conference to give your time in listening to the principles of life and salvation. From all parts of the state and all the West, you congregate twice a year on this Temple Block with the spirit of worship in your hearts. What a wonderful thing it is to go to the "holy altar of God and pay your devotions." In ancient days, the Jews went to their temples to worship God, and in the days of Christ, his followers came together to give unto each other the "light of the Spirit." Today this Temple Block has become a gathering place for the worship of the Most High God. To me the place is very sacred. Here we have the temple, which is the symbol of eternal life, for therein many hundreds of God's children are being directed to eternal truth. It took many years to build the temple. In fact, it was erected by a people who were compelled to toil and learn life's meaning by the anguish of their souls. The people who created that holy temple did so by work and faith, and they knew full well that work with faith in Christ Jesus would accomplish anything. That building is the symbol of strength; it is the expression of the ideals of a great people who are building and working with their eyes lifted to God. It should always inspire us to great ideals. 

Then think of the tabernacle. Do you know something of its history? It was built before the railroad came to our doors. It, too, is an expression of great ideals and hard work. You assemble there to hear God's word; you go there with the spirit of reverence and worship. 

The tabernacle is indicative of the strength of character and religious dreams of the Latter-day Saints. The only building of its style in the world, stands out as unique in the history of architecture. While its massiveness suggests a people strong in spirit, conviction, and purpose, its lines indicate a splendid adaptation of scientific principles in architecture. The tabernacle is a perfect ellipse, with focuses, which partly account for the good acoustics of the building. A plain, egg-shaped building, "studded with heavy entrance doors all the way 'round'", there is no attempt at ornamentation of any kind, and yet the building is wonderful both on the exterior as well as in the interior, and is an example of the utilizing of the resources of the people for the purpose of elevating their intellectual and religious idealism. The tabernacle impresses one as a great, immense, irresistible force, "humanly superhuman," an expression of sovereign intelligence. It is the acme of usefulness as a building; it is wonderfully artistic. It is as the great Ibsen has declared of all art, "an illumination of life." 

The pioneers who erected the Tabernacle were a high minded people. From the innermost depths of their souls, they gave their children a fine idealism of life and its meaning which they hold sacred today. Their ideals found expression in venerable and lofty institutions, and they contributed to the religious and intellectual, the ethical and civic life of the age. They made homes and turned the arid waste of the far West into beautiful private gardens. They built institutions of learning, and did much to improve the prevailing order of their day. They built houses of worship and fostered the drama and art, and out of that time of vitality and social virility, they constructed their great tabernacle, a building that commands the respect of all people who see it. 

The tabernacle is one of the largest auditoriums in the world, and seats from six to eight thousand people. It is 250 feet long by 150 feet wide, and 80 feet in height. The self-supporting roof rests upon pillars or buttresses of red sandstone, which are from ten to twelve feet apart in the entire circumference of the building. These buttresses support good wooden arches, which span 150 feet. The arches are of a lattice truss construction, and are held together with great wooden pegs and bindings of cowhide. On the interior one is impressed with the great vaulted ceiling, and "the vastness of the place grows upon one and inspires one with mingled feeling of solemnity and admiration." 

The immense roof, which is the principal portion of the building, rests upon forty-four piers of cut sandstone masonry, each nine feet from the outside to the inside of the building, three feet in thickness, and twenty feet in height. On each side of the building are nine pillars in a straight line. From these an arch of forty-eight feet is sprung. Thirteen arches spring at each end from thirteen piers, which stand on a circle. The height from the floor to the ceiling, in the center of the building, is 70 feet. Between the ceiling and the roof, there is a space of nine feet. The roof is framed of lattice-arched bents, twelve feet from center to center, each arch converging and meeting at the highest given point of the main outside bents, where they are securely fastened with cowhide and wooden pegs. On the north and south sides are thirty spaces between the piers, where the windows, containing over 2,500 lights of glass, are placed. In twelve of the spaces are the doors opening outward, which affords ready egress from the building. There are four small doors in the west end of the building, and two large ones in the east end, leading to the gallery. 

Above the piers are over one million feet of timber; in the floor, 80,000 feet; in the joists, 100,000 feet; in the sleepers, 30,000 feet; in the doors, stand, benches, and other equipment, 290,000 feet; in the aggregate 1,500,000 feet. The roof was originally covered with nearly 400,000 shingles, but these were replaced in 1900 by a metallic covering weighing many tons. 

Something now about the great organ. 

In the early sixties, Mr. Joseph Ridges was selected by President Brigham Young to build an organ in the tabernacle, and the idea was endorsed by other citizens, among whom were David O. Calder, Daniel H. Wells, George A. Smith, Alexander C. Pyper, and Dr. J. M. Benedict. After submitting preliminary drafts to President Young and his counselors, Mr. Ridges began making arrangements for the construction of the instrument, and was assisted by his associates, Shure Olsen, Niels Johnson, Henry Taylor, Frank Woods, and others. Meetings were held with these men almost daily, and the reports of each man's work were listened to. While one was collecting various specimens of wood from the canyons of Utah, another was devising good tools to work the wood with, while still a third man was experimenting in making glue. So the preliminary work went on. Specimens of wood were sent by the colonists from all over Utah, and it was finally decided that the best wood was found in the hills around Parowan and in Pine Valley, more than 300 miles south of Salt Lake City. It was a fine grain of the white pine variety, free from knots and without much pitch or gum. For the large pipes, it was especially well adapted. 

The larger pipes, some of which measure thirty-two feet, required thousands of feet of timber, all of which was sawed on the ground where the trees were cut down. Over the long, lonely roads trudged the oxen day by day, hauling the heavy logs to Salt Lake City. At times there were as many as twenty large wagons, each with three yoke of oxen drawing its load. The roads were rough and dusty, and many streams had to be bridged, that the wagons could pass over without difficulty. In crossing one stream in southern Utah the logs were let down over the bank with ropes and the oxen driven some miles to find a ford, where they crossed and followed on down the bank to pick up the wagons and loads again. The timber was finally landed in Salt Lake City. Another important necessity for making the pipes was glue. This was made of hundreds of cattle hides as well as buffalo skins, by boiling the strips in large pots over fires. 

The organ was begun in January, 1866. About one hundred men were employed constantly in its construction, and it was dedicated in October, 1867. 

Just outside this building — the Assembly Hall — is the Gull Monument. It is one of the most beautiful specimens of sculpture ever executed in America. The sculptor was Mahonri Young, a grandson of President Brigham Young. Critics of art have pronounced it a distinct contribution to the world's sculpture. It commemorates the saving of the wheat fields in the spring of 1848 by the gulls. Have you ever carefully studied the bronze tablets on the four sides of the base? I call your attention to the one on the south in particular. It shows how the woman, the mother remaining true to her work, and expressing her instincts is looking up to the sky with sublime faith on her face. The gulls are wending their way over the fields from the Great Salt Lake, and are to pounce on the crickets, destroy them, and thus save the crops. The mother's look is one of sublime trust that all will be well. She is the mother, the pioneer mother, who over unknown trails has passed on to the new land with the joy of God's Spirit in her soul. The monument is the embodiment of an ideal, the family life of early-day Utah. 

So, my brethren and sisters, this Temple Block is worthy of your coming. It is the symbol of God's holy place where he may be worshiped in spirit and in truth. To these grounds we must all bring the spirit of worship; and then, as we leave them, to go our way in life, we will have a spirit of life ever-lasting; a soul full of light and happiness. To me the Temple Block is a symbol of beauty, light, and life everlasting.  

A solo, "Within the sacred house," was sung by Walter A. Wallace. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

Among the number of the inspiring songs to which we have listened during this Conference was one sung yesterday, a favorite of the late Theodore Roosevelt: 

"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in his excellent word."  

I thought how firm a foundation for personal and national righteousness is being laid during this Conference. I think it is well that the brethren have said what they have of the great charter of American liberty, the Constitution of the United States. It is no new theme in the Church. Elder Orson Pratt referred to it as "established as firmly as the rock of ages." Elder Parley P. Pratt said: "The longer I live and the more acquainted I am with men and things, the more I realize that the instrument called the Constitution of American liberty was certainly dictated by the spirit of wisdom, by the spirit of unparalleled liberty and by a spirit of political utility." The Prophet Joseph Smith said that it was "a glorious standard." He compared it to a great tree whose branches were broad enough to shelter people of all classes; "the 'Mormons' as well as Presbyterians and every other denomination have equal rights to partake of the fruits of this great tree of our national liberty." In view of the emphasis laid by President Grant and other speakers upon the Constitution of the United States, it will be timely to read the words of one Judge Marshall, of Wisconsin, in a modern decision; he wrote: 

"At no period has appreciation of the great work of the fathers been more important than now [referring, of course, to the framers of the Constitution]. We need to sit anew at their feet — revive knowledge that the result was wrought by a body of men, representatives of the great seats of learning of the English speaking race of two hemispheres, and otherwise men of broad experience, many of whom had been students of all federal governments of all prior ages in preparation for the special task — as the historian declared, 'the goodliest fellowship of lawgivers whereof this world has record' — a body dominated by specialists, inspired by ennobling love fon their fellow men, and the thought that they wrought, not for their age alone, but for the ages to come, and, so, sought to avoid the infirmities of previous systems of government by the people, by carefully providing that no change in letter or spirit should occur except in a particular and most deliberate and conservative way." 

The document has been amended by us in recent years in just such way giving us recently the great principle of national prohibition in this country, which it is the duty of every good citizen, particularly every Latter-day Saint, to support — support by giving information to the officers of those engaged in illicitly distilling liquor, and as complaining witnesses against those who are engaged in any such illegal business. 

I am sure that the great Lincoln would have been pleased to have heard the proceedings of this Conference in support of law and order, for he made a plea a little stronger, perhaps, than anyone else has, in fact, the strongest I have seen in literature upon this subject. President Lincoln said: 

"Let every American, every lover of Liberty, every well-wisher of his posterity, swear by the blood of the revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate either violation by others. Let reverence for the laws be preached by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap; let it be taught in schools, be written in primers, in spelling books and in almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpits" — and so say the First Presidency of the Church today — "let it be preached from the pulpits, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in the courts of justice. And in short, let it become the political religion of the nation and let the poor, the grave and the gay, of all sexes and tongues, and colors and conditions, sacrifice unceasingly upon its altars." 

One of the jurists of the United States has pictured the glory that would come to us if every citizen would do his duty. This is the language of Justice Brewer: 

"Picture the glory of this Republic if in each individual life were fully disclosed respect for law, taste for justice, regard for the rights of others, remembrance of the poor and afflicted, encouragement of education, the helping hand to everything that is true, beautiful and good." 

Speaking of the jurists of the United States, I think we of Utah may well be proud of the fact that one of our citizens was recently selected to fill a place on that great tribunal, the greatest that the world has ever known, and I am sure that the friends of Utah also will feel proud that Utah has been given special honor in that one so conservative and so learned in the law has been selected from Utah for a place upon that august tribunal. 

The beauty of this gospel of ours is that not only is it the plan of life and salvation to individuals but also to nations. It is not the part of patriotism to ignore entirely the dangers there may be to our nation. Great statesmen have not been indifferent to the perils to the life of our nation. Webster, for instance, on this subject said: 

"If in our case the representative system ultimately fails, popular government must be pronounced impossible. No combination of circumstances more favorable to the experiment can ever be expected to occur. The last hopes of mankind, therefore, rest with us, and if it should be proclaimed that our example had become an argument against the experiment, the knell of popular liberty would be sounded throughout the earth." 

We are living in a day when there are many advocates of things affecting adversely the well-being of this country of ours. The trouble in this country is the lack of faith and confidence. We hear pessimistic remarks as to the future of our country. During the war, one of the greatest of the war poems, so estimated, was in reference to the destructibility of nations. Time will not permit the reading now of this poem, written by Marshall South, entitled "Progress," giving the condition of nations that have passed away. He takes first the history of the glory of the Assyrian cities, and their boast, "Behold our progress and enlightenment; we are the people. We shall surely stand." — That was their boast respecting themselves. Then there is a description of those proud Assyrian cities, the destruction of which is predicted in holy writ. Then the same thing in reference to Egypt: "Behold our progress and enlightenment! We are the people! We shall surely stand. And speaking thus they passed." The same with Rome and with modern nations, and thus boasting they fell to decay. We sang the other day in Conference of the time when the "proud monarch's costliest diadem will be counted but dross and refuse." Many of those present here have lived to see this come to pass. 

The question is, what can we do to safeguard our nation? Look at current literature as to the condition of our nation and the world. Prof. G. Stanley Hall's article in the October number of the Century Magazine is entitled "Salvaging Civilization." Doesn't that have an awful import — salvaging civilization? In support of his article he reviews a number of writings as to conditions affecting our country. For instance he reviews an article entitled, "The World in Revolt," by Gustav LeBon. Another article by McDougall, who takes the place of Prof. Munsterberg at Harvard, discusses, "Is America Safe for Democracy?" He feels called upon to sound a warning note. Then there is Prof. Edward A. Ross whose subject is, "The Old World in the New." Then there is "Democracy and the Human Education" by Ireland; "Dynastic America," by Klein; "The Modernizing of the Orient," by Clayton S. Cooper; "The Awakening of Asia," by Hyndman; "The Rising Tide of Color," (the negro problem in this country) by Lothrop Stoddard; "The Next War," by Will Irwin, in which he depicts the horrors of another war if it should ever come — how two big airships could wipe out a city like Berlin in a few hours; that is the picture shown by him; "Microbes and Men," by R. T. Morris; "The Simian World," by another author, emphasizing "man's origin from the apes;" and the dramatist's conception of Deity is awful. I would not like to publish the slander! There is a note of deep pesimism throughout all this literature. Prof. G. Stanley Hall thinks that the churches cannot cure the evils; of course he speaks of churches as he knows them. He may not know the saving power of so-called "Mormonism." It is not a gpod picture that is presented by the writers of the world. In a recent speech Secretary Davis spoke of a million of babies taken annually from their mothers' breasts in death almost before they can open their eyes in this world; of a half million of cripples and defectives; of the million children who have to labor, and do not have an advantageous childhood, but are pressed down by adverse circumstances, and the millions of school children of our land who are getting an education that will fit only about one in ten for the particular labors which then will follow in life. 

The gospel is not only reasonable but it is practicable. You can test every question agitating the nations of the world by these saving principles of "Mormonism." 

A few simple verses in conclusion. I commend the thought to those who teach the millions in our school rooms and to those who elsewhere are seeking the development of character: 

We are building every day, 

In a good or evil way, 

And the structure, as it grows, 

Will our inmost self disclose, 

Till in every arch and line 

All our faults and failings shine; 

It may grow a castle grand, 

Or a wreck upon the sand. 

Do you ask what building this 

That can show both pain and bliss, 

That can be both dark and fair? 

Lo, its name is Character! 

Build it well, whate'er you do; 

Build it straight, and strong and true; 

Build it clean, and high, and broad; 

Build it for the eye of God. 

And that is what we Latter-day Saints are endeavoring to do in our auxiliaries, and in the quorums of the Priesthood, — the building of character; and may the Lord help us to do so, that, in the splendid character of men and women that can be developed, there will be a saving grace for commonwealths, for states, and also for nations, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church) 

I have enjoyed the spirit of this conference and the counsel and admonitions which have been given. I feel the spirit of this great gathering of Latter-day Saints who have come from all parts of the country and have met in general conference to be instructed and edified in our most holy faith. 

The great World War, as well as being responsible for terrible destruction of human life and property, has absorbed the religious influence of the world. Some of the nations will never fully recover or regain their former prestige or social condition. It is the mission of the Latter-day Saints and the purpose of the gospel to make the world better. The only remedy for the conditions now prevailing in the world, is the acceptance and application of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the lives of the people of the world. Such principles as love, sympathy, kindness, mutual helpfulness and respect for the lives of others, all make for the betterment of mankind, and all are incorporated in the gospel. 

We have heard it said very often of late that the world needs to be stabilized. Instead of stability there are still rumors of wars, and the nations of Europe are in a ferment. Suffering, poverty, and adverse financial conditions have rendered it almost impossible for the nations to settle down to their new conditions of life, as a result of the war. Even in our own nation there has been brought about conflicting interests between capital and labor, which have resulted in strikes, all of which might be overcome, if an unselfish attitude were taken by those engaged in these conflicts. We may look forward to more friction of this character, but the Lord has said: "Stand ye in holy places and be not moved." We should not be tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine, whether it be social, political, financial or otherwise, because the Lord has revealed to us his purposes, and we should train our hearts to be willing to carry them out. 

We sincerely believe that in the early Christian era, the prophet, known as John the Revelator, foresaw the restoration of the gospel. He also saw an angel fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, and after that he saw a time when a voice would be heard, saying, "Come out of her, oh, ye my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and receive any of her plagues." The Lord has called us out of the world and brought us into the tops of the mountains, where, if we will follow his commandments, we may be preserved while destruction and strife prevail in the earth. 

Under our present conditions of living, we are subject to many of the conditions that prevail in the world, such as panics, labor strikes, lockouts, and scarcity of employment, etc. As a people we should learn that human beings need one another, and that mutual helpfulness, loving sympathy, kindness and a cooperative spirit should prevail among us. Some of us may be affected by politics; others by business readjustments; others by abnormal local conditions. Many have been affected by the strikes and lockouts, and the results which follow such terrible methods of adjusting disputes and differences. 

As I ponder over these things I am reminded of the great Tabernacle organ. Consider a moment its many intricacies of construction, the tireless attention to detail that this instrument calls for to keep it in tune, and to operate it so that it may bring forth the wonderful and inspiring music that we hear during conference. Unless it is handled by a master mechanic, and its keyboard manipulated by a master mind, it may get out of tune, and it needs those master minds to keep it in tune, so that its harmonies may thrill our souls. So it is with Latter-day Saints. We come to this great conference, some of us worn with the anxieties of life: we are out of tune a little, and then when we hear the voices, the admonitions and advice of the servants of the Lord, holding the holy Priesthood, our anxieties seem to lessen, we feel in accord with our fellowmen; the strife of the world appears to us in a new aspect, something to be overcome and not feared; we are in a receptive mood to receive the counsels of our brethren and leaders, and to be prepared more fully to carry on this great latter-day work. And so we should return home willing and anxious to impart to those who did not have the privilege of attending this conference, not only the words and counsel, but the spirit of the great gathering, and thus create harmony, good-feeling, and fellowship in the communities from which we come. 

The home is the great stabilizing influence of the Church, and of the nation. It is the mission of the Latter-day Saints to develop the highest type of family life. If we fail in our home life; if we fail to teach and train our children in the principles of the gospel, and to love their fellowman; if we fail to impress upon them the word of God, then we have not done our duty. And as the home fails, so will the community fail. 

Let me advise the Latter-day Saints to observe strictly the laws of the gospel, particularly to keep the Sabbath day holy and not to allow modern life with its automobiles and pleasure resorts to swerve us from what we know to be right and proper in the observance of the Lord's day. Many of the great inventions of these latter days are destroying respect for law, respect for the Sabbath day, respect for religion and for constituted authority. Let us use all these modern inventions in a proper way, but do not let us use the Sabbath day for a day of pleasure, or recreation, or devote it entirely to the pleasures of life. We should carry out strictly the word of the Lord as found in the 59th Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; for verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; but remember that on this the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full." 

May we so live that the Spirit of the Lord may be our constant companion; that it may guide us constantly; that this Spirit may develop in our hearts a love of the truth and a love of the work of God and love of our fellowmen, that we may develop sympathy for the misfortunes of humanity, and the weaknesses of our fellowmen, and strive by example to be a light to the world, that, "seeing our good works the world may glorify our Father which is in heaven." Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of the Seventy) 

I was deeply impressed by the remarks of Elder John A. Widtsoe in the opening meeting of yesterday, in the great Tabernacle, who spoke of education as a means for overcoming the evils of the present day — the utter lack of regard for law and order — the spirit of violence and contempt for law on the one hand, and the stiffnecked selfishness and greed on the other. I am converted to the fact, and always have been, that education (and when I say education I mean that full rounded-out education which contemplates the development of all our faculties) would be a complete remedy for all such evils. We are the children of God and this world is a great school. Shakespeare said: "All the world is a stage, and all the men and women are but actors in it." But you will allow me to paraphrase this expression and say: "All the world is a school, and all the men and women are but students in it." All other institutions of learning such as our public schools, our seminaries and academies, our colleges and universities, including also our Church schools are supplemental auxiliaries to this great school which has enrolled upon its record every living human being, and in times that are past, every soul that ever breathed the breath of life. By far the greater part of our education is received outside of these auxiliary institutions, and I hope that no one will think that I underestimate their value. On the contrary I regard them highly important and the teachers and professors who have specialized for their respective departments are great benefactors of the human race and are engaged in a noble calling.

Among these educators men have risen to high distinction, and the world is rightly proud of them, but in this great school God is our teacher and with him none can compare. "There is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding" (Job 32:8). And whatever enlightenment or understanding may have come to man, be sure it came from the Great Fountain of all truth — from the Almighty that giveth him understanding; and this is true whether men admit it or not. Some there are who arrogate all the credit to themselves and their work — to perspiration not inspiration. Surely the inspiration of the Lord will come to those who work and study and endeavor with all their might to know the truth, and not to the indolent. 

I often think of that Greek philosopher, who had been studiously searching for the law of specific, gravity, and who while bathing in a pool noticed how much lighter the body was in the water than out of it, and forgetting that he was naked rushed out into the street crying "Eureka, Eureka, I have found it! I have found it." The inspiration of the Almighty had given him an understanding. So has it always been with every great discovery or invention, and this view does not and should not in any degree detract from the honor which the world is glad to give to those whom God has used as instruments in bringing truth to light. "And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world." (Doc. and Cov. 84:46.) This clearly relates to every department of learning whether secular or religious and to all men and women whether believers or not. It is universal. Thus God is teaching by his Spirit all the nations of the earth, but there have also been many false teachers and many have preferred thair teachings, for "men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil." 

Even in the study of the secular branches of education we need the inspiration of the Almighty. In the study of history, geography, mathematics and the sciences, also in our physical education which involves the law of health and the proper care of the body but above all in our spiritual education, which relates to the things of God and which includes within it the two former branches, for after all, with God all things are first spiritual. 

It is the mind and will of God that all men shall receive the highest education and enlightenment, but there is "no royal road to learning, and those who will receive diplomas in the school of God must take the course outlined in its curriculum which provides that men shall not only know the truth, but also do it. And this truth is the gospel of Jesus Christ which is the "power of God unto Salvation;" and salvation means education; for, as the Prophet Joseph Smith has told us, "men are saved no faster than they obtain knowledge," and "the glory of God is intelligence." The first steps are faith in God and repentance from sin to be followed by baptism by immersion for the remission of sin performed by a duly accredited agent of God endowed with "power from on high," and all this that men may be cleansed from sin through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, whose death and resurrection is so beautifully symbolized in this sacred ordinance. And after having thus been cleansed from sin, and not before that, they may receive the Gift of the Holy Ghost — the Spirit of truth whose special duty is to lead us into all truth — the great educator under whose tuition we may receive the highest degrees — become real Doctors of Divinity. But we may only obtain this special endowment, which comes to us as a gift from God, the gift of the Holy Ghost, through the cleansing process of the gospel, as I have just indicated, and it may only be retained just as long as we keep ourselves "clean and unspotted from the sins of the world," for his Spirit will not dwell in an unclean tabernacle. 

Do we appreciate this wonderful gift and the necessity of retaining it — the constant companionship of the Holy Spirit to be our tutor, our teacher, our educator? To what heights may we not ascend or into what depths may we not delve in our pursuit of knowledge under such guidance? "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. But God hath revealed unto us by his Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save by the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God" (1 Cor. 2:9-11). 

Education obtained under such divine instruction would surely be a remedy for the evils of the day. The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance from sin and is therefore a panacea for every evil. Its teachings would do away with selfishness and greed, with violence and lawlessness, with strikes and their cause, with immorality and debauchery, with robbery and murder, and the whole category of crime.

Education means development and growth. We are the children of God, and have inherited from him all of his divine attributes. The difference between him and us is this: he is educated, we are not, but having his attributes we are susceptible to receiving an education which means the development in us of his divine attributes. The injunction: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect," is reasonable and within the limit of possibility, which would not be the case if we had not inherited all his attributes. These attributes though perfect in him are very imperfect in us, and are capable of being perverted or distorted and counterfeited and thus changed from virtue into vice. The development of the divine attributes and the rejection of the distorted and counterfeited ones is only another phase of repentance. 

For example: Economy is a godlike attribute and in the economy of God there is no waste. What an abundant supply of water there is in the creation of this earth; three-fourths of its entire surface is covered with this element. It comes trickling down the mountain sides, springing forth from the canyons into the mountain streams, and thence into the rivers. It is often diverted onto arid lands, and causes them to bring forth rich harvests; and sometimes harnessed, lighting our cities with electric rays, setting in motion the machinery of the world, and again finding its way into the river beds and on out into the great ocean where it is caught up into the clouds through evaporation and wafted by the winds back into the mountains to begin anew its useful course. And yet, not a single drop is wasted. In the economy of God there is no waste. Yet how liberally and abundantly it is used. Contrast this divine attribute with the devil's counterfeit — stinginess. Some people think they are economical when in reality they are merely stingy. How I despise a stingy man. Generosity is a noble attribute. The Lord loves a liberal giver. Its counterfeit is wastefulness and prodigality. Acquisitiveness is the power of accumulating and acquiring wealth. See what the Lord hath acquired, the earth is his and the fulness thereof, and the devil has his counterfeit of this noble attribute, we call it avarice; it is one of the great causes of human suffering, it is the love of money, the root of all evil, thus we might continue the long list and show how praise becomes flattery, wisdom pedantry, pride, vanity; admiration is changed to envy and self esteem, a proper regard for one's self, becomes egotism. How despicable! The big I and the little you. Always talking about oneself, and only interested in others when they are talking about him. The greatest of all attributes is love, the biggest thing in the world, the all including attribute; the love of God and our fellow man is the fulfilment of the law and the prophets. This is truly alone the complete remedy for all the evils of our day. And then, think of the devil's counterfeit, lust, licentiousness. The holier the divine attribute the more contemptible Its counterfeit. 

Everything that is good and useful someone tries to imitate or counterfeit. Our government issues currency in various denominations, and they pass for legal tender, but some devil counterfeits them and palms them off upon the public. Gold and silver coins are issued from the mints, and are worth their face value, but the devil or some of his imps will take a baser metal and gild it over with gold and pass it off as genuine.  

Pure religion and undefiled, before God the Father, embraces within it everything that is good and holy; but hypocrisy, the devil's counterfeit, embraces within it all that is vile and evil, including these distortions and counterfeits. Don't despise the pure gold of religion simply because the devil has made a counterfeit of it in hypocrisy. 

Thus the Lord is endeavoring to educate us in his great school, for his Spirit is striving with all men, and through the inspiration of the Almighty a great flood of light and understanding is coming into the world, but if you are ambitious and desire a full rounded-out education and particularly in the deep things of God, remember this can only be secured by obedience to his gospel through which we secure and may retain the constant companionship of his Holy Spirit, the gift of the Holy Ghost, a life scholarship in the great School of God. Amen.

The choir sang the anthem, "As the dew from heaven distilling." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder G. M. Barnes. 


