Afternoon
06 10 1922

At 2 o'clock President Heber J. Grant opened the afternoon meeting by announcing that the choir and congregation would sing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

After singing, prayer was offered by Elder Joseph E. Cardon, president of the Cache stake of Zion. 

The choir and congregation sang the favorite hymn of the late beloved President Anthon H. Lund, "O say, what is Truth?" 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

More than ever in my life, I feel this afternoon that I need the help of the Lord in endeavoring to address a congregation of his people in conference assembled. 

I hope I shall be able to make you hear my words, and that whatever I say may be under the spirit of inspiration from above. I have been suffering for sometime from what we popularly call "a cold," although I believe I contracted it in the heat. I do sometimes, on railroads, feeling oppressed with the heat of the car in which I am traveling, catch what is called a cold; but I trust that with the help of the Lord, and your attention and faith, I may be able to overcome the effects of this disorder and to speak so that you can hear and understand. 

TRUTH AND THE PRACTICE OF TRUTH 

I believe every word of the hymn which we have just sung. Truth is a great thing, and next to it, perhaps quite on a level with it, is the practice of truth. Jesus Christ, according to the New Testament, offered a prayer to his Father, concerning his disciples, his apostles particularly, and he said: "Lord, sanctify them by the truth; thy word is truth." We can always depend upon the word of the Lord, for his word is truth, and "truth abideth and hath no end." 

Truth, speaking of it in the abstract, has no beginning. Truth is eternal, without beginning of days or end of life. The power and ability to receive truth is a great thing — that is a gift which I believe is largely bestowed upon the Latter-day Saints. I believe there is something in our racial connection which has to do with this. It is evident to me that in the last days the Lord has wrought mightily upon the descendants of the house of Israel. We have in the Church, the office of patriarch, and those who hold it are supposed to be specially inspired of the Lord to bless the people upon whom they lay their hands, and to reveal to them what tribe they belong to; and the blessings that have come to the Latter-day Saints have chiefly been that they are of the house of Israel, and the majority of them, at any rate, of the tribe of Ephraim, and the Lord has said that they would be first in his work in the latter-days. 

A SPECIAL MISSION FOR THE HOUSE OF ISRAEL 

I believe there is a special mission intended for the house of Israel in the latter days, gathered in from the various nations, and principally it will be of the tribe of Ephraim, and that through them the blessing and power of God will go to the world, and particularly to the descendants of Abraham, the father of nations and the head of his race. 

I had a conversation with a gentleman a short time ago, who is connected perhaps rather remotely, with this Church, and he told me that he had a blessing from a patriarch many years ago, when he was a boy, and he never liked it, for the reason that he was told therein he was a descendant of Abraham, and he did not like the idea of descending from a Jew. When I informed him that Abraham was not a Jew, he seemed to be very much surprised. He said: "What, Abraham not a Jew!" "No," I said, "He was not a Jew. He was dead long before any Jews were born." The name of Jew comes from the tribe of Judah. Abraham, the father of our race, and, as we believe, our father on earth, so far as family is concerned, was "the friend of God," and God blessed him and his posterity, because, he said, they would do his will and obey him, and they should "keep the way of the Lord." 

Now, I think that we who are of that race, are naturally so disposed; that there is something with us that tends to our willingness to accept the truth when it comes from God. I do not mean to say that this is confined to us, but that particularly those who are of the house of Ephraim are ready to receive the word and act according to it as the Lord shall direct. 

OUR STANDING WITH REGARD TO CIVIL LAW 

I bear testimony to you that all we heard this morning from our president, for our guidance and direction and enlightenment, is true and is very good. The sections from the Doctrine and Covenants, and other things that he presented here, are the divine word of truth. I have been familiar with them for many years. The section which pertains to our intercourse and position in regard to civil affairs — the affairs of governments in general, have been familiar to me, because from the time that I was a boy, when I embraced the gospel, I have believed in them and rejoiced in them — the plain, simple, but powerful declaration of our standing with regard to civil matters and affairs of Government. We are therein exhorted to be obedient to the laws. One of the revelations of God which supports that, states that if we obey the laws of God, we have no need to break the laws of the land. That has been qualified somewhat by a further revelation that all constitutional laws we should observe to uphold, for they are from God. We believe that he inspired the writers of the Constitution of the United States, that they were led by his Spirit when they composed that splendid pronouncement of government and law. Of course we have had views different from some of our friends in regard to what shall be considered constitutional and what should be considered unconstitutional, and those are questions that have been raised almost from the beginning of our establishment as a nation. But there is a provision in the constitution of this country, which gives to the supreme court of the United States authority and power to determine what is constitutional. We had some ideas concerning what we considered unconstitutional, which had crept into certain laws. We can entertain just what view we may think right in regard to them now, but we have to obey that which the supreme court of the United States decides is constitutional law, so we are told in the revelations of God. This we have been endeavoring to do and to conform as far as possible to those laws which have been declared to be the constitutional laws of the land. 

The Lord has told us in regard to matters in general, and the doctrine and principle, and particularly in regard to the laws concerning marriage — the union of the sexes — that what he has not appointed, that which he has not ordained, that which he has not commanded, "shall have an end when men are dead, and they shall not continue in nor after the resurrection," saith the Lord, our God. He will only receive those offerings, he says, which he has appointed; and that is a very good guide. 

ORDER IN THE HOUSE OF THE LORD 

There is another thing: "My house is a house of order, saith the Lord;" and as we have seen exhibited in the organization of this Church, which he, himself has established in the latter days, it is really a house of order, for everything in it is in order, according to that which we understand to be his divine will, in regard to the laws, commandments, doctrines and discipline, and all matters concerning his Church and our work therein. 

One of these things, which is very important for us to understand, and which has been taught from the very beginning of the organization of the Church, on the 6th day of April in the year 1830, is that the head of the Church — a prophet, a seer, and a revelator — shall be appointed by him to receive the oracles, to give the commandments, the revelations and doctrines in the Church. This I consider and always have considered, to be a very wise provision. We are all permitted, under the laws of the United States, under the constitution of the United States, and under the revelations of God, to believe in that which seems right and true to us. Sometimes we do not know how to determine what is true and what is false, but we can all come to a knowledge of the truth if we are humble and tractable and willing to place ourselves in the order that God has established. 

CONCERNING DREAMS, VISIONS AND REVELATIONS 

We hear a good deal in these times about manifestations to individuals. These are proper in their place, for those who receive them. The gifts of the gospel, which we read about in the New Testament, are all restored in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The gift of tongues, interpretation of tongues, the gift of prophecy, the gift of healing, the gift of discerning of spirits, etc., etc., that we read about in the epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, are all in this Church. I have been blessed with seeing and participating in most, if not all, of these gifts that we read about, and they belong to the Latter-day Saints just as much as they belonged to the former day Saints; and according to the prophet Joel, that after certain wonders have been accomplished — the great things of the latter days, the Lord says: "I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh and your old men shall dream dreams and your young men shall see visions; also upon my servants and handmaidens will I pour out my Spirit." That is a great blessing yet to come to the inhabitants of the earth, for the result will be as another prophet has declared, that "the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of God as the waters cover the great deep." 

Now, all these things will be brought about in due order, according to the mind and will of God, for his Church is established on that basis. The man who stands at the head of the Church is the one to receive revelations and commandments to the Church, and we are commanded of the Lord to receive "none other." I will not take time to read from the book of Doctrine and Covenants in regard to that, but I recommend my brethren who have not done so, and some of those who have, to get it in their minds anew; that they read the 43rd section of that book where that principle is plainly set forth under commandment to this Church, so that while it may be true that the Lord will pour out his Spirit upon individuals for their good, for their benefit, for their comfort, for their consolation, for their enlightenment; while the Lord will do this by dream and by vision and by tongues and by the gift of prophecy, etc., that these things he gives to his people are for them individually but not for the Church as an organization. When he has anything to give to the Church by way of revelation or commandment, for the enlightenment of the Church, for the government of the Church, to guide and direct them in the right path, in the only way — for there is but one — it will come through him whom he has appointed — the head of the Church — who presides over the Church and has the right and privilege to receive from the Lord inspiration and power like that given unto Moses of old. This is a guide for you and for me and for all of us in the Church. 

There are many divine dreams we can read about in the Old Testament, some in the New Testament, that are evidently given from the Lord, and they are a great blessing so far as they are intended to go but no further, and we must be very careful to distinguish what the Lord reveals to individuals, or what they think is revelation from the Lord, and what the Lord positively declares he gives to us only in the order that he has appointed. "For, my house is a house of order, saith the Lord, and not a house of confusion." This Church was organized by the gift and power of God. The Book of Mormon was revealed by the gift and power of God to one individual, and he was called and appointed for that work and he performed it, and there is abundant evidence to prove that it was a divine appointment, and that the translation which was made by him by the gift and power of God is verily true, and is translated so as to be pleasing to and accepted by the Lord. That is a good guide for us, as the Old Testament and the New Testament are guides as far as they give us any counsel and advice by way of commandment from on high. And the blessing that the Lord bestows sometimes upon people, of giving them communications by dream at night, or vision by day, are for themselves. I can testify that the Lord has done that for me, but I have not made known that which was given to me for my own comfort and my advice and my benefit. I have had dreams which I have to acknowledge were divine, because they were fulfilled to the very letter — clearly given and clearly made manifest, and clearly brought into actual being — but they were for me and for my guidance and direction, and sometimes they were of such a nature that they appeared to me to be almost trivial, to think that the Lord would reveal to me certain things that were of very small moment. They only affected me and those with whom I was associated in the ministry, they came to pass in very deed, but I have not had them put on record nor had them published or spread abroad. I did not think that would be right. 

During my experience, when succeeding President Grant as President over the European mission, I had some manifestations in regard to my duties and to guide me in what I had to do when I was what we vulgarly call "up a stump." I was "up against it," did not know what course to pursue but the Lord made manifest to me what to do and I did it, and it came out all right in the end. I believe in the doctrine of waiting upon the Lord, and I have a special belief in the doctrine of Paul, for I have found it to be true all my life, in which he says: "We know that all things work together for good to them that love the Lord and are called according to his purposes." I know that doctrine is true. Events have occurred in my life at times when I could not tell which course to take, and in my duties in some respects; in the mission I have referred to, it was particularly so, and I will not take up the time of the congregation to explain any further, only that I know that word of the Apostle is true. We know that all things work together for good to them that love the Lord and are called according to his purposes, and we can trust in the Lord and obey his word, and we can trust in that which he reveals to the man who is placed at the head to declare and to bring forth by way of commandment and revelation, and if we will take that little guide that God has given us in the section I have referred to — Section 43 — we will not be led astray. 

Now, dreams are very peculiar things. I have had some recently. They were very clear and plain. I have dreamed several times that I had passed out of the body and was in the other world, and I saw things and heard things that seemed to me to be just as plain and just as clear as if I were actually out of the body, but when I came to wake up and weigh what I had seen I found it was only a dream. Just what the cause of it was I cannot tell. There are various causes for dreaming. The wise man, as he was called, Solomon, said, "In the multitude of dreams and words, there be divers vanities," and I have dreamed a great deal that was nothing but vanity and followed by a vexation of spirit. 

A lady who was a great believer in dreams, came to me once, and wanted me to give the interpretation to one of them. She dreamed some very peculiar things, "And, Brother Penrose," she said, "just give me the interpretation." I did not want to offend her. I saw there was nothing in them of any particular moment so I said, "Sister, what did you have for supper last night?" You know in England, (it was in England) they often have very late suppers. "Well, Brother Penrose," she said, "I had some fried pork and onions." "Well," I said, "that is the interpretation." I do not want you to infer from this that when the Lord gives a dream to anybody, or persons dream something which is enlightening to their souls and comforting to their hearts and seems to be clear and plain, I wish to attribute that to anything else but what they think it is; but I do say and repeat, that nothing is to be received in this Church by way of direction and commandment, outside of the order which God has established in his Church, and which is most wise and beneficent and beneficial. Follow the counsel and advice and commandment revealed through the head of the Church to the Church and we will not go wrong. 

THE WORK PROSPERS UNDER THE PRESENT ADMINISTRATION 

I enjoyed the meeting this morning very much. I enjoyed those readings to which we were treated by the president. I believe in them fully and entirely. I am sure they are true and good, and I know that the work which is now going forward in the earth is being prospered under our present administration. I bear witness, not only that Joseph Smith was and is indeed a prophet of the living God, but that he was raised up purposely in this dispensation to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times, under the direction of Jesus Christ, the Lord, whom Joseph was told to heed and listen to; and that our leaders, down from the prophet Joseph, after his martyrdom, have been inspired of God and have been made fit for the work which was entrusted to them. It is so today. I have the privilege and blessing of being very close to our present president. I have been familiar with several who have passed away, had their confidence, I am proud and blessed in saying, and their good will. Sometimes they have received my ideas and my word of advice, sometimes they have not, but I know they have been men of God, and I do know that everyone of them has had his soul set upon doing what God wanted, and to benefit the people; that they did not seek their own aggrandizement nor their own personal benefit, but they sought the mind and will of God, and they were prayerful men; they were kind-hearted men; they were humble and willing to do that which the Lord required of them and which was made known to them. Sometimes things were manifested to some of them that they did not agree with in spirit until they received the manifestation, but when it was made clear to them what they ought to do, they have done it and the Lord has been with them and he will be with them, as he has been with his servant who now stands at the head of our Church, and I rejoice in having his confidence and good will and that I am able to pray for him as I do every day, that he may be filled with the spirit of his office and calling; and he has it, and so have his brethren who are associated with him as leaders in the Church. 

THE GOSPEL IS TO ALL NATIONS 

This morning's conference was a wonder. A great congregation gathered here. I thought to myself, in a kind of humorous vein — how clearly this proves the assertion of the world that "Mormonism" is going down, particularly that the third generation of "Mormons" will discontinue their faith! And while I was thinking of that, Brother Ivins, who was sitting next to me, had the same idea, no doubt, because he made the same remark. Well, it is wonderful! Is it not wonderful how we were gathered here this morning to demonstrate the untruth of what is said concerning the going down of "Mormonism." "Mormonism" is spreading and prevailing. "Mormonism," so-called, is fulfiling its mission in the world. It was established by the Father and the Son, and angels have come from them to the servants of God on the earth, and brought great truths for the benefit and salvation of the children of men, and we are called and appointed to carry this message to all the world. This is not only to individuals, but, as somewhat touched upon by Brother Roberts this morning, it is to "every nation and tongue and people;" it is as Jesus Christ told his apostles, to every creature — "Go ye into all the world," said he, "and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned; and these signs shall follow them that believe — " You can read what they are, in the New Testament. I believe in every word of that; and now, in these the last days, the Lord has repeated it to us. He says that we are his messengers. What he revealed to Orson Hyde and some other elders, as we read in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42, is to all of us, to all his servants who are sent to the world; they are to go forth and preach this to everybody. I have tried to do my part in the good work. Brother Grant has had a wide field of labor ever since the time when he was ordained one of the twelve apostles. He has labored in all the nations he has spoken about. 

READY TO WEAR OUT IN THE SERVICE OF GOD 

I hold in my pocket here today, my Elder's certificate, I was called to go forth and preach the gospel without purse or scrip, to carry the message wherever I could, and I was ordained, according to my certificate, on the 6th day of January, 1851. I continued diligently in that work until I was released to come here, a little over ten years afterwards, and then I have been back there three times since then, and it is all right. I have nothing to complain about; I rejoice in these things, and I am still endeavoring to do my part in the work. Many of you old Saints here will remember Brother George B. Wallace, who was one of the presidency of the Salt Lake stake of Zion many years ago. He was on a mission in England with Daniel Spencer, and they were counselors to the president of the European Mission. He came to me, when I was called very unexpectedly when quite a young fellow, to the office in Jewin Street, London, and I was ordained an elder on that occasion, and told what my mission was, and he looked at me as if he would look me through, and said: "Brother Penrose, it is expected of the elders of Israel in these last days, that they will wear themselves out in the service of God, and it is better to wear out than to rust out." Now, that admonition given to me then has been with me all the time in my work in the Church. I am ready to wear myself out in the service of God, to try to carry out the admonition that we are to be willing to do all things, sacrifice all things, even to the laying down of our lives, if necessary, for this great work, and it is worth it, it is worth all that and a great deal more. It is worth all our being, is this work that we are engaged in. 

THE WORK IN THIS GREAT CAUSE SHOULD BE DONE CHEERFULLY 

The idea that men have to be stirred up by teachers or other officers to do their little duties in the Church, and particularly in the Priesthood, is a wonder to me — why a man should have to be urged to stand forward and minister in the things of God, to make himself well informed as to all that is to be done, and to do his part is a mystery. He ought to be glad in heart, cheerful in spirit, and disposed always to do his little bit, or great bit, if it is a great bit to him. Everything that we have is from the Lord. All items of information, every testimony of the Holy Spirit, which we have enjoyed so many times during all these years, are from God, not from men, it is to me, and I am thankful for every manifestation of light and intelligence and understanding in the things of God that has come to me, and I have had that disposition and have it today, to do anything and everything that lies in my power. 

TESTIMONY 

I regret to say that my eyesight is failing very fast. There is no disease in my eyes, no pain in them, thank God; I have been freed from the pains that I endured for a while in my body; my physical organization, through the blessing and gift of God, through his inspiring power, in answer to prayers. I am thankful today for this, but I have worn out my eyesight, so to speak, in working for this Church and people, and for myself therein. Everything I have been able to do for the Church has also been done for me; it has blessed me and comforted me and opened to me the things of eternity, in which I rejoice with all my heart and soul, and am glad to be able to bear testimony, once more in the midst of the congregation, that I know this is God's work; I know he commenced it; I know he is carrying it on now; I know it will prevail; I know it will conquer every evil; truth will overcome error, under the inspiration of God, under the labors of his servants; light will dissipate the darkness; misrule will pass away, and the government of God will be established upon the earth, and Christ will be our king just as sure as we are gathered here in this tabernacle this afternoon. And we are the children of God. We are of the right family and race. God has called us, everyone, male and female, men, women and children who are born in the covenant; they are all especially sacred to the Lord and his work. Under the divine direction, through the order that he has established in his Church, we should be ready and willing to take our place and labor with all our might and do everything we can to promote this great work. 

CONSECRATION AND LIBERTY OF THE SAINTS 

Now, in regard to the liberties of the Latter-day Saints, I can say this: that in all my associations with the leaders of the Church, past and present, I have never been coerced or compelled, or commanded to do things that were contrary to my own feelings and good will; what I have done, I have done voluntarily in the exercise of that God-given gift, the gift of agency, which God says he gave to man. Yes, we are indebted to God for that. When we were first born in the spirit world our agency was given to us — when we were begotten or organized or created, whatever you are pleased to call it — it all means the same thing — we were begotten unto the Lord, as the president read this morning from the great Vision. 

Well, we should be consecrated to him and ready to labor for him, for when we are laboring for him, we are laboring for ourselves, with all the truth we can gather to our souls, all the intelligence that can be communicated to us, which we receive and put in action under divine direction. Though we may die and our bodies be buried in the ground we shall rise again and we shall receive these gifts, or have them with us, in the morning of the first resurrection, and we shall go on to that glory and power and dominion and extent which is incomprehensible, which is everlasting, which is without end. These things are for us, for you and for me, if we will put ourselves in the right way to receive the divine law and to act upon the divine communication, and put ourselves in the order which God has established, and be guided thereby. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel well this afternoon, in spirit, rather weak in body, but I am very glad — more than I can tell — that I have the privilege of saying a few words to you in this conference. I have attended a great many. I have always rejoiced in them. I rejoice today. What there is of me left on the earth is at the service of the Lord and his work, as it has been from the beginning. I rejoice in it; I glory in it; I thank God for all his gifts and blessings to me, and what little good I have been able to accomplish. It does me good to hear the missionaries come back and give the testimony that they do, that President Grant spoke about this morning, and to note the willingness of those who are now being called to go into the mission field, and the desire they have had in their bosoms for years. They have grown up from childhood with a disposition and a desire to sacrifice themselves, so to speak, to go out to the world and preach the gospel without pay, without earthly reward. It is a great blessing and it is a great sign that God is working with the youth of Israel. They are of the right kind of people; he has chosen them and sent down their spirits to be born on the earth in these latter days, especially to engage in this great work, and to exercise their agency. 

FREE AGENCY AND OUR GLORIOUS DESTINY 

Everything that God reveals is upon the principle that we can receive it, or reject it if we want to. We ought not to want to reject anything that comes from the Lord, through his properly appointed channels. We should be glad to know the word and be glad to carry it out. Now, if we have this disposition, these gifts that are spoken about — spiritual gifts — they are all from one spirit, though that spirit has different operations and different phases, so to speak; different degrees, like light has — natural light — so that the light that comes from God, that divine light, is the Holy Spirit, it is the Spirit by which the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, as a personality, act. That is their spirit; it is the spirit of creation. God created all things firstly spiritual, and afterwards temporal, but he did it all, so he says, by the power of his Spirit, and his Spirit pervades all things, not only on this earth, but throughout the vast immensity of space. God will guide and direct this work, as he commenced it, for certain purposes — and, I was going to say — bring it to an end, but there is no end to it; there will be an end to our earthly work in the body; there will not be an end to our continuation in after life, if we come forth with a crown in the kingdom of the Father and inherit all things, all heights, all depths, all breadths, all eternity, all knowledge, all intelligence, all wisdom, all power, and our family increase will go on and there will be no end to it, and therefore, no end to our glory. 

Glory be to God, I feel in my heart today, for all his goodness to me, and for that which he has revealed and will reveal for the salvation and redemption of the human race, and give us power to use the agency with which he has endowed us, for good, for the benefit of mankind, the building up of the kingdom of God, and the preparation of the way for the coming of the King of kings and Lord of lords. 

May God's peace be with you and with us all, and may we be able to attain to the great salvation, even the crown in the kingdom of the Father, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "The Recessional," was sung by Walter Wallace. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission)

It is certainly a great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this general Conference, and to have the opportunity of occupying a few moments in this meeting. I most earnestly hope that the words I speak may be prompted by the same good Spirit that has directed the remarks made by the brethren who have addressed the people thus far in the conference. I realize, my brethren and sisters, that one can only teach the things of the kingdom of heaven by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and that every man must be under the direction and in the companionship of that Spirit, if he is to magnify his calling and Priesthood and discharge acceptably the duty and responsibility that rest upon him as a servant of God, who holds divine authority. 

I am very glad to say to the people that the California mission, is in a very prosperous condition. We are glad to be able to report that the missionaries assigned to that field of labor are striving as a general thing to discharge the duties that rest upon them. They are making earnest effort to come in contact with the people throughout the mission, and to deliver to them the message of the gospel, and make exposition according to their power and ability concerning the truths that have been revealed, and that they have been authorized to teach. The missionaries know that these principles are essential to the salvation of the children of men. Generally speaking, the missionaries are young men and women with but little experience in the Church. Many of them come into the mission field without any experience at all in standing before the people, to attempt to give expression to their thoughts pertaining to the gospel, but they all come with the determination to discharge their duty. They all manifest a very willing and obedient spirit. As a general thing, they are anxious to study the gospel and to obtain information by the reading of the Holy Scriptures, and by asking questions that will help equip them for the duties that rest upon them as preachers of righteousness. It is certainly a very wonderful thing to observe the spirit and attention to duty manifest by these young men and women, and to note the development they make and the understanding they come to concerning the work of God until, notwithstanding the feeling of weakness of which they are all possessed to a greater or less extent, they do come to feel and know in their very souls that they have been called of God to preach the gospel of his Son, and they do have an assurance that they have been blessed with that authority which is necessary in the preaching of the gospel. I oftentimes feel, as I listen to their testimonies, and note the development that they make, that they are just as sure in their own souls concerning the truth of the work of God, as their fathers and mothers are. There is no indication on the part of the missionaries who are laboring in the California mission that they love the truth of God one whit less than the generation that preceded them. They are just as anxious and they are just as determined to discharge the duties that pertain to their calling as their fathers or their grandfathers could have been in the days that have gone by. 

We have about ten thousand Latter-day Saints in the California mission. Most of these people are located in the state of California; a few, probably seventeen hundred, are in the state of Arizona, and a much smaller number in the state of Nevada. The mission includes portions of the state of Arizona and portions of the state of Nevada. There has been a very wonderful growth in the membership of the mission during the past two years, not so much by way of conversions although there are always some honest souls found by the missionaries, as they go from door to door, or as they lift up their voices in the proclamation of the gospel upon the street corners, who hearken to their message, and are brought to investigate the principles of the gospel, and become convinced of its truth, and cheerfully enter into covenant with the Lord our God by going down into the waters of baptism. A few hundred souls, year by year, are thus convinced of the message that the missionaries are seeking to impart to the people; but the great development in numbers has come from people at home. We have had, probably, in the last eighteen months, or such a period, two thousand or more Church members who have come to California, bringing their recommends, and have undertaken to establish homes in various portions of the state. Many other Church members have come into the state who have not yet become identified with the Church. 

California has not been distressed financially to the same extent during the past year or two that many of the western states have been. There has been considerable employment; in fact, I think there has been employment for all who desired to find labor, particularly those who are engaged in building, as there are thousands of residences and many great hotels, theatre buildings, bank buildings, and other buildings of like character, that have been erected during the past year or two. The present year is one of the remarkable years in the growth of southern California. It has been stated by those who seem to understand and know what they are talking about, that there are more buildings now being erected, or that have been erected during the present year, than in any other like period in the history of California, and because of the lack of employment and dull business conditions in Utah, Idaho and Arizona, and other sections, many of our people have come to California to find employment. I am happy to be able to say that, as a general thing, they have found employment, and have been able to maintain themselves comfortably. These newcomers are strengthening, to a very wonderful degree, the branches of the California mission. I suppose the largest branch that has ever been known in the Church is located in Los Angeles. This branch has a membership of about three thousand souls. The Los Angeles branch is divided into a number of subdivisions. There are no independent branches in these suborganizations, but there are five other divisions where Sabbath schools are being held, where a preaching service is conducted every Sabbath morning, and where Relief Societies have been organized. There are also other districts that are being opened up where we hope in the near future there will be other organizations effected. 

We have been trying to give attention to the people who have come in from the adjoining states. We are seeking to effect organizations and endeavoring to impress upon the people, as they come, that they are always under obligation to give service to the work of God, and to be true to the covenants that they have made with our Father in heaven, and set an honorable upright example before the people. 

We try to impress upon the missionaries that it is the solemn obligation of every man and woman who has been called to be a preacher of righteousness to be an eloquent preacher in conduct. It may not be given to every man or woman to expound the doctrines of the gospel by word of mouth eloquently, but we feel that it is given to every man and to every woman to expound the gospel, most eloquently, by the uprightness of their lives, by living in such a manner that those who look upon them may feel in their hearts to say: This man or this woman is a good man or a good woman. Their conduct indicates that they have the fear of God in their souls, and that they desire to work righteousness. 

Wa are trying to impress upon the minds of men the principles that have been spoken of in this conference. We are testifying to the people that we are living in a wonderful age in the history of the world, and that in this great and last dispensation in which we live, the Lord our God has in very deed revealed himself to mortal men; that by the sending of holy angels the divine authority, which had been lost from among men for ages, has been restored, and that there is necessity for this authority; that men cannot be saved in the presence of God without the authority of the holy Priesthood. The ordinances of the gospel necessary to the salvation of men can only be legally administered by divine authority, and no man can assume that authority. If men pretend within themselves — even though they may have honest feelings in their own souls — that they have the authority to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and to administer in the ordinances thereof, they but deceive themselves; for the administering of gospel ordinances can only be properly and legally attended to by the authority of the holy Priesthood. 

We are trying to impress upon the minds of men the fact that that authority has been restored; that God our Father in heaven has, in very deed, in this age of the world, given back to man the same power and authority that was exercised by the apostles of old, and by other men who were chosen, legally and properly by the apostles, and sent forth to preach the gospel of repentance. 

We do not feel that it is possible for any being to receive this authority from the Holy Scriptures. Recently, in one of our priesthood meetings, a young lady missionary, who feels the great responsibility that rests upon her, and her own weakness, and is seeking to discharge her duty in going from door to door, came to the home of a minister of the gospel, and the minister gave the young lady to understand that it was time wasted for her to come to his door with the message that she had to deliver. He told her that he had been a preacher of the gospel for forty years, and wanted to know from her what right she had to come to his home with the gospel message. She then wanted to know from him where he obtained his authority. She asked a very simple question: "How did you obtain authority to be a minister of the gospel, and to administer gospel ordinances?" And he made answer: "I obtained that authority from the Holy Bible." Well, my brethren and sisters, weak as the lady missionary may have felt, she did know in her soul that he had never obtained one particle of authority to administer in the name of Jesus Christ from the Holy Bible. She had understanding and comprehension to know that no man living can find authority to speak in the name of the Redeemer of the world by the reading of the Holy Scriptures, that authority can only be received by the laying on of hands and by the voice of revelation and prophecy. 

When inquiry is made of missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as to how they obtained authority they give an altogether different answer. I have given it myself when men have wanted to know: "How did you receive authority?" I have made answer: "I was ordained to be a special witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, a Seventy in the Church of Christ, by a man named Royal A. Barney, and Royal A. Barney was ordained to the same calling by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Joseph Smith was ordained by Peter, James and John, who were ordained by the Lord Jesus Christ;" and I have no thought or fear in my mind when I make this sort of answer, that any man living can overturn the foundation of authority that has been given to me, by the laying on of the hands of a humble servant of God who had been properly authorized and commissioned by authority thus revealed from heaven in these latter times. It cannot be overturned. 

I rejoice in my soul in bearing witness that this divine authority has been given. I rejoice in the opportunity of inviting men to investigate the message of the gospel, and I understand that I am called to preach the fundamental principles of the gospel, that the responsibility is upon me, and upon my associates, to cry repentance among the people, to invite men not only to have faith in the Redeemer of the world, but to repent from sin, and we understand that if men repent, they turn away definitely and entirely from wrongdoing. As it has been said by one of the apostles: "Let him that stole, steal no more;" and this teaching applies to every other line of misconduct. We persuade men to repent and to receive the ordinance that has been given by our Father in heaven, whereby remission of sins can be obtained, through the holy ordinance of baptism by immersion. How it gladdens my soul; and it gladdens the souls of my companions, when they go down into the waters of baptism and, lifting up their hands before the Lord God of heaven, and before their associates and witnesses, can say: "Being commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." For it is by that sort of commission, and by that character of authority that we lead men and women into the waters of baptism, and we do know that this authority has been given us. 

I sometimes feel that men think that it is a radical and improper attitude for young men and women, who stand up with more or less fear in their hearts, and make the declaration that they know that the truth of God has been revealed, and that divine authority has been restored. I, however, rejoice when I hear them bear such a record, for I know concerning this matter; and as God is my witness, I knew that God has spoken in the days of my boyhood. It came to me when I was far off, laboring as a boy missionary — the conviction and the knowledge that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world, and that he has revealed in this dispensation the principles and doctrines and ordinances that I have been called to teach. That knowledge came into my soul most convincingly forty-one or forty-two years ago, although it seems to me, when I look back that long, before that, before I ever felt that I could honestly and truthfully bear witness to such knowledge, when I look back now, it seems to me that there was always within me an abiding assurance that the religion of my fathers was in very deed the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ. I do know, as my associates know, whether they be young or old, that we have not assumed this authority, that we have not sent ourselves, but that we have been called of God by the Redeemer of the world, through the authority of the holy Priesthood to be preachers of righteousness; and we do have the right to call men to repentance and to warn them of the judgments and calamities that are coming upon the inhabitants of the earth. The Lord God of heaven will confirm the testimony that is delivered by his servants and handmaidens, whether they be young or old, and the inhabitants of the earth in due time must be brought to comprehend and know that we speak the truth and lie not, thank God. 

And this is my joy and knowledge and testimony that these precious things that have been spoken by the presiding authority of the Church during these meetings are the truths of God, that they have been revealed, that they are to remain, that they are in very deed the power of God unto salvation. I feel again and again in my ministry to consecrate and reconsecrate my time and service to the spread of this glad message among the inhabitants of the earth. I feel that I am under obligation to the Lord God of heaven who has given me, from the very jaws of death, my life, and with the help of God I shall bear witness concerning his truth, whether men receive me gladly or whether they receive me with contempt. I am under obligation to bear this record and witness that God hath indeed spoken, that his Priesthood and authority have indeed been restored, that Joseph Smith was the great instrument to reintroduce the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and I pray that with you I may be true, firm and steadfast to this testimony forever and ever, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY

(Presiding Bishop of the Church)

While I stand before you this afternoon and attempt to address you, I earnestly desire that the spirit which has characterized our meetings and the utterances of our speakers may continue with me, and that I may have that which I need so much, the Spirit of the Lord, so that the words spoken will be of benefit and service to the work of the Lord. 

I rejoice in the testimonies of the brethren such as have just been delivered by Elder McMurrin, for I know him to be a faithful servant of the Lord, one who is desirous of doing and performing the mission to which he has been called, in an earnest and acceptable manner. And let me say, the Church is blessed with an abundance of young men, as well as middle-aged and elderly men, who are just as faithful, just as earnest, just as devoted, just as certain of their position with respect to the work of the Lord as Elder McMurrin is. We know well enough that the Lord has established this work, and is bringing to pass his purposes in connection with it. This is his special work, and to this Church is given the power and authority to lead the world to spiritual life, so that our mission really is to teach the people how they may come from death unto life. For a man may be very much alive in a temporal way, and yet be spiritually dead. 

There are great problems also before our nation, which demand solution; they are burning, pressing questions which must be solved, and which can only be solved on the principles of righteousness. These principles will help to adjust the jarring, warring, contentious problems which selfishness very largely produces, and which can only be solved through the principles that the Lord has revealed. It is not in man that walks, to guide his steps aright. It is not in man of his own power to solve these problems, nor can any man do it of himself alone. It is only by the help of the Spirit of the Almighty that will bring us to the point where justice and righteousness can at least approximately be approached. We have had contentions in our own nation during the recent months of railroad strikes, coal strikes, and other contentions that have threatened the very existence of our government; and also there have grown up in our nation, secret organizations, combinations of men, no doubt desiring to protect their own selfish interests, even though those interests should conflict with the strict principles of justice. Some of these organizations like the Ku Klux Klan have undertaken to administer what they call justice, independent of Constitutional law, and the rights of men, and they have taken the law into their own hands and have dealt with certain people in a way which can only result in disorder, turmoil, strife, and in the breaking down of Constitutional law. For these secret organizations undertake to administer punishment upon men and women, irrespective of the laws of the land. 

It has been the counsel of the leaders of this Church from the beginning, to observe the Constitutional law of the land, and it is stated in the revelations that whatsoever is more than this or less than this, cometh of evil. We do not need anything outside of this strict letter of the law, for if we do go beyond it, or come tardy of it, we are liable to make a mistake. The agency that the Lord has given to his sons and daughters was given to all — the free agency to choose between right and wrong, and that agency makes us free, for the Lord has said, "If ye abide in my truth, then are ye free indeed." Now, whenever any man enters any organization, secret or otherwise, that takes from him a certain degree of that free agency to choose between right and wrong, and makes of him a servant, to do as he is told in certain matters, quite irrespective of the righteousness or justice of the case, or of the right or wrong of the case, then that man surrenders that much of his free agency which he ought not under any circumstances to surrender. Let me explain. 

In the Bishop's Office the question was brought directly before us as to the right of a man to labor on some work which the Church was doing, whether he belonged to a Union or not. We decided that we would hire Union men or non-Union men; if they were good workmen, we would not ask the question as to whether they belonged to any Union or not. But we were confronted with this difficulty: one of our brethren who is a Union man, refused to work on the job with a non-Union man, a good member of the Church. In this case we said, this brother who does not belong to your Union is a good man, a good neighbor, a good citizen; you meet with him at the Sacrament table and administer the Sacrament to the Latter-day Saints. You may be appointed as a block teacher and go around teaching the Saints their duties. You may both be called on to administer to the sick, and you go and offer your prayers, but when it comes to working together, you, our brother who has a Union card and belongs to the Union, will not allow this good brother of yours to work for his living, nor will you work with him in any way, because he does not belong to your organization. Now we ask, do you think this is right or just or fair? He, a good man, every way acceptable, a good workman, to be deprived of working on a job because he refuses to surrender any part of his God-given agency to any organization whatsoever on the face of the earth? Or, because in this he refuses to put himself in a position where he may be called upon to do a wrong; for it is a wrong to say your own brother shall not have the privilege of earning a livelihood because he will not join your organization. On the other hand, a man comes along who is not the best kind of a citizen, who may be more or less disreputable, who is rather a discredit to good citizenship than otherwise, and yet he can show a Union card, and you, my good Latter-day Saint brother, who belongs to the Union, you will work with him; you will allow him to work for his living and join with you in this work, although he is not one-twentieth part the tithe of such a man as your own brother in the Church is, whom you refuse to work with. 

This Union brother acknowledged that such was practically the case, and yet he was powerless to help it. Now, my brethren and sisters, don't you see that this man had surrendered so much of his free agency to this Union of his that he was not permitted to do that which was plainly and clearly right toward his own brother in the Church? Therefore, I say, the counsel which has been given all along by the leaders of the Church, to refrain from joining any organization, or giving your allegiance, or any part of your allegiance to any society or Union which will interfere in the least degree with your free agency, is good sound counsel. Of course, one will say that he has a right to join whatever organization he pleases. It is true that he has that right, but his duty, his plain simple duty, is to protect his brother and the interests of his neighbor. A good many people stand upon their rights, as they say, and quite often forget their duties. Our duties to our God; to our Church; to our families; to our neighbors; these ought to be first, rather than prating so much about our rights. 

Our President said this morning in his opening remarks, we believe in freedom, in liberty; liberty for a man to work without being threatened to be killed if he does work. Now, I grant you that some of these organizations have done much to bring a greater share of prosperity to the laborers than they otherwise might have had, but would you say that a man working for you as a farmer, and you are right in the midst of your fall work, getting up your potato crop, perhaps you have a car that must be loaded; it is urgent that this work be done, because there is a storm coming, and your potatoes will be frozen, and what not, — and right then, knowing your extremity, this man who knows the circumstances you are in, and how much you need his help, he yet says, I am going on a strike; it is my right to strike, and I quit work right here. Would you say that this man was doing the right thing, doing his duty when he leaves the farmer in that predicament, just because he knows he can inflict an injury upon a man whom he is working for? That spirit is wrong, and most reprehensible. 

The President of the United States, in one of his messages, said that there is just as much sacredness in the right to work as there is in the right to strike. Well, I thought in analyzing that statement, What sacredness is there in the right to strike, if by striking I injure my brother? Am I not commanded as a Latter-day Saint, and directed always by the revelations of the Lord, to love my neighbor? 

Now, the impression I would like to leave with you is this, that the counsel which has been given all along by the leaders of the Church is good, safe, wise counsel, and that is, to join no organization which interferes with your doing the right thing under any and all circusmtances. Of course, we must be charitable. We must be forgiving. The Lord has given us some very high ideals in respect to this matter, in these latter-day revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

You can read in the 98th section of the Doctrine and Covenants a revelation which was given just after the first mobbings and drivings in the state of Missouri, how the Lord instructed the Saints that, although they had been mobbed and plundered and driven and robbed of their property, yet the Lord puts the high ideal before them in that revelation, that they must forgive even their enemies, and even though that enemy has not repented. If he has repented, thou shalt forgive him seventy times seven; but "If thine enemy" — mark you, thine enemy — "if thine enemy comes upon thee and repents not, nevertheless thou shalt forgive him." This is the wonderful standard of forgiveness which the Lord holds up to this Church. It is of the same spirit that we read of as being exhibited on Calvary, when the Lord of all said, "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do." I say again, we should remember our duties as well as remembering always what we call our rights; the duty of the husband to his wife, to love and to honor and protect, and a good many of us husbands have learned to obey as well. 

We do not need to join any organization in the world outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to be absolutely free, and this Church has given evidence, let me say in plainness, of its determination to keep and abide the laws of the land, and to observe them, and to uphold them. This Church did that in the principle of plural marriage, which it surrendered in obedience to law, even though the Church did not believe the law to be Constitutional. But when it was declared Constitutional the Church surrendered, and has obeyed the law. Could any stronger evidence be given that this Church stands for obedience to the law? 

We should uphold all the laws of the land whether we like them or not; so long as they are the laws of the land, we should observe to uphold them. The prohibition law; the cigarette law, whatever law is enacted; and while it stands on the statute book, it should be obeyed. If we will remember the first great commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and might, mind and strength," that will always keep us within the law, obeying the law, respecting the law in whatever land or country the Saints may abide. And if we will think more of our duties, and a little less, perhaps, of our rights, we will be gainers thereby, and we will not break any law of the land, for the Lord has said, "He who observeth the law of God hath no need to break the law of the land." 

My brethren and sisters, I hope that we will go home from this conference determined as a great body of people, to stand for law, order, righteousness, justice and peace on earth and good will among all men. I believe as the Prophet Joseph has written, that the day would come when there would be so much of disorder, of secret combinations taking the law into their own hands, tramping upon Constitutional rights and the liberties of the people, that the Constitution would hang as by a thread. Yes, but it will still hang, and there will be enough of good people, many who may not belong to our Church at all, people who have respect for law and for order, and for Constitutional rights, who will rally around with us and save the Constitution. I have never read that that thread would be cut. It will hang; the Constitution will abide and this civilization, that the Lord has caused to be built up, will stand fortified through the power of God, by putting from our hearts all that is evil, or that is wrong in the sight of God, by our living as we should live, acceptable to him. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is indeed the work of the Lord. I am not only sure of it; I am certain of it. I am certain as to our position in respect to this being the special work of our Father who is in heaven. I am absolutely certain that it is the power of God unto salvation to all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples; to everyone that will hearken. These men, the presidency of this Church, and the other leaders of the Church with them, have received that authority which enables them to give guidance and direction in that way, that the great sweep of the Kingdom of God will go on and on, conquering, and to conquer until every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ to the glory of God the Father. 

May the Lord hasten it in his time, and prepare us for the great days that are coming, that we may go forth and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ in all the world, build up his Kingdom, and give our first allegiance, and no divided allegiance, but our first and sole allegiance, to God and country, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

As you all know, we have more preachers than time; and all the time has expired, really, but we will ask Brother John M. Knight, the President of the Western States mission, to talk and to forget the time until at least ten minutes after 4 o'clock. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Ensign stake of Zion, and President of the W estern States Mission) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privilege I have of attending this session of our conference. I desire that the few moments that I shall speak to you I may be blessed of our Father, and have the same good spirit that has characterized the remarks of our brethren. I rejoice that our President has given unto us a definite and positive and concrete statement with respect to the attitude of the Church concerning some of the great problems that confront us. So far as I am concerned, I shall go to the people of the Western States mission and advise the Latter-day Saints who reside there to observe the counsel, the advice and the instructions they have received this day. 

I call to mind the semi-annual conference of the Church nineteen years ago this month. At that conference President Joseph W. McMurrin was one of the speakers. His remarks on that occasion have had a great influence upon my life. I was prepared to leave Salt Lake City to make my home in southern Idaho. I had made preparations to sever my connections with my father in a business way, and to leave this city for that section of the country. Brother McMurrin advised the Latter-day Saints living in this city, at that particular time, if they entertained any such ideas that they should seek counsel before leaving. I went to Brother McMurrin the next day at his home. I asked him for counsel and he said: "I cannot give it to you. I will take your case to the presiding brethren." He did so, and late in the afternoon of that day came and told me what they had to say. I was advised to remain in Salt Lake City. That was not the counsel I wanted. I desired with all my heart to go, and my father turned to me and said: "My boy, what do you intend to do?" And I said: "Follow the counsel of my brethren. I never would have sought counsel if I did not intend to obey it." 

Sometimes we seek counsel and we fail to obey that counsel. Sometimes counsel is given unto the Latter-day Saints without their seeking, and they fail to obey it. I call to mind that at the conference, six months ago, certain counsel and advice were given to the Latter-day Saints. I know that they have not followed that counsel, some of them to their sorrow. I want to say to you that I have implicit faith and confidence in the presiding authorities of the Church, and with the help of my Father I promise to follow the counsel and the advice and the instruction that they give. I thank God that I had the strength to follow their counsel; for, for four years after that counsel was given I went through the most trying period of my life. Sickness and death in my family, financial reverses and other things came, one following the other with great rapidity, and ofttimes I wondered if my own judgment would not have been best. But I am grateful unto the Lord that I have had the disposition to be obedient to the counsel of our brethren, and I know there is safety in following their advice on all matters. Time has demonstrated beyond the possibility of a doubt that the counsel given me was the very best thing for me. 

I rejoice in the blessings of the gospel. It is a wonderful privilege to come up to Zion to partake of the influence of a gathering of this kind, for, as Bishop Nibley has indicated, there is strife and bitterness and contention in every part of the world, and it is a privilege to gather with the Saints of God who have in their hearts a love for him and a desire, I am sure, to serve him and to keep his commandments. I feel that, as a people, the time has come when we should turn our faces towards the rising sun, and that we should set our hearts like flint against the very appearance of evil, that we should give the very best efforts of our lives to the furtherance of God's work here upon the earth. I wish we were as loyal to the presiding authority of the Church as some of our enemies say that we are. The article referred to by President Grant this morning by Dr. Martin was published widely in the newspapers of the United States. It appeared in the Denver Post with heavy headlines. I wished that he did have the power that was indicated, while I knew that he was not exercising such power. 

One of our reverend gentlemen from this state visited the Western States mission and he magnified greatly the statements that were given by Dr. Martin, He not only said that President Grant controlled millions, but billions of dollars — I think four billions of dollars that he controlled in actual money. I presume he would like to get his hands upon it. This good gentleman applauded our efforts as misionaries. He told of our wonderful organizations. He spoke a good word for the Sabbath schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He referred to the loyalty of the Saints in observing the law of tithing, and after saying a number of good things he asked the question: "What can we do to stop it?" (Laughter.) 

Well, I remembered the word of the Lord, and I felt in my heart to say that neither he nor any of his kind, nor even the devil himself, could stop the work of the Lord, so long as we were in the line of our duty, and preaching the gospel of repentance to the nations of the earth. I am thankful to my heavenly Father for the faith that I have in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for the influence it has had upon my life. I am grateful unto my Father in heaven for my parentage, for my ancestors. I represent the fourth generation in the Church. My grandfathers and great grandfathers and grandmothers, and my father and mother passed through all the trials incident to the pioneering of this great western wilderness, and they were faithful to the truth. I ask for no greater legacy than that, because their lives were an inspiration to me, and they encouraged me in living the principles of the gospel. I mentioned this fact in Denver, that I represented the fourth generation in the Church, and our baby, a little fellow of seven years, went to his mother and said: "What do you think father called us in meeting?" And she said: "I don't know, son, what was it?" He said: "Father said that we were the fifth amendment" (Laughter). 

I am also thankful that my children are faithful to the truth, and that they are willing to bear the same testimony that their greatgreat-grandparents bore concerning the restoration of the gospel. I know as I know that I live that it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believes and obeys the commandments of our Father. I rejoice in the opportunity of bearing this testimony to the people of the earth. We are not ashamed of it. 

"We're not ashamed to own our Lord, 

And worship him on earth; 

We love to learn his holy word, 

And know what souls are worth." 

We have no controversy with the world, but, as I say, we make a definite and a positive statement with reference to the fundamentals of our faith. We know that if people will obey them in their lives that they will receive the witness of the spirit that it is the power of God unto salvation. We are not afraid to make that statement. We lay down the gauntlet to the world and declare upon their obedience to the fundamentals of the gospel they shall know whether it is of God or whether we speak of ourselves. I thank the Lord for all of these blessings. I pray that his Spirit may attend us that we may have a desire always to serve him and to keep his commandments and that we may be loyal to the presiding authorities of the Church, and that when they give us counsel and advice and instruction we will reduce it to practice in our daily lives. 

May God help us so to do I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.

The choir and congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel, our only delight." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Mark Austin, president of the Fremont stake of Zion. 

Conference was adjourned until 10 o'clock Saturday morning. 
