Afternoon
07 10 1922 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

If I may be endowed with sufficient breadth of thought and some liberty of expression, I should like to speak for a few moments upon the subject of broad-mindedness. I am led to propose this subject for brief consideration, not because I think it will be particularly attractive, but because my observation in the Church and out of it convinces me that something in the nature of definition and interpretation of that subject might be of advantage, particularly to a large body of young people within the Church. 

TWO DIFFERENT VIEWS 

There are many, both within the Church and without it who take the position that we are so circumscribed by tradition, practice, customs, and our reverence for that which has been established, that we do not lay hold of new thought, new ideas, and new practices, to carry forward this great work. There are also those within the Church who take a position almost directly converse, who say that we have gone so far beyond the initial understandings, the revelations, practices and traditions, that we are in grave danger of straying away from the genius of the work. 

To my thinking, both of these, whose views I have attempted to give, fail in an understanding and a conception of the work, compatible with its genius and its great ideals. I am not sympathetic with those who take some degree of pride in saying that they are not orthodox, while they believe in the main the principles of the gospel, they are liberal in their views, and feel at liberty to go beyond the conceptions and regulations which the leaders of the Church have held and sustained from its beginning until the present time. I am orthodox; I am proud to be orthodox. I cannot conceive how one who is impregnated with the great mission of this work in the earth, and who is convinced of its truth and divinity, can be other than orthodox; and when I say I am orthodox, I do not, for one moment, contemplate a situation in which I am not receptive to all good new thought, to the development of true science, and to the extension of the application of the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to all circumstances which may arise in life. 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BROAD-MINDEDNESS AND HERESY 

In my judgment, there is a vast difference between broad-mindedness and heresy, and I sometimes think that often well-disposed members of the Church do no inconsiderable harm, among the young people of the Church, in particular, when they advocate a departure from some of the established rules, regulations and traditions of the Church, upon the principle of liberality of view and broad-mindedness. It is one thing to be compassionate and sympathetic with him who sins; it is another thing to compromise with or to sin, in the least degree, or tolerate sin. A marked distinction should always be drawn between our ideals and the weak human beings who try to live them. 

THE GOSPEL EMBRACES ALL TRUTH 

For my part, I construe the great principles of the gospel as being sufficiently broad and comprehensive to embrace all truth, and I circumscribe and limit their definition and operation, only by the broadmindedness of truth itself. Whatever is true, whatever is virtuous, whatever is of good report, lovely or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. 

HOW TO PRESERVE OUR STANDARDS AND IDEALS 

All people are subject to their environment. We react to the persons and to the influences which surround us. It is human so to do. We cannot live in the world without, to some extent, partaking of the things of the world. Every plant, every form of animal life are likewise subjected to the influence of environment; they will respond to light and darkness, warmth and cold, foulness and wholesomeness. We cannot associate with men and women all through the country, who have different ideals and different standards, without, in some degree, being influenced by such contacts. There is no possibility of a territorial isolation of the people of the Church. We mingle with strangers, we live in the same communities with those who entertain vastly different views from the ones we entertain. The only possibility I see, is to maintain a great moral and religious isolation, or segregation, if you will, in order to preserve our own standards, our own ideals, and in order to safeguard our young people from the hazard that must ever be present with them as they associate and mix with the people of the world. We welcome the stranger within our gates. We recognize the fact that we will do business with him, but we do not welcome the influence of the world to dilute and weaken the great exalted principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I look upon it as one of the greatest responsibilities we have, to maintain in their purity and in their absolute integrity, these principles of truth which have been committed to us for dissemination throughout all the world. Any solution into which is poured another solution loses some of its virtue, its strength and potency. You cannot pour the influences of the world into this great solution of the gospel without diluting it. It is our obligation to keep it undefiled, undiluted, and to maintain it in its present strength and purity and efficacy. Therefore, I feel fully justified in saying to those thoughtful, progressive, admirable people within the Church who are not quite content with present interpretations and procedure, be broadminded, but remember that the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ demand absolute and unvarying loyalty, adherence, and observance. 

BLESSINGS COME AS WE SUBJECT OURSELVES TO THE CONDITIONS UPON WHICH THEY ARE PREDICATED 

The very first section of the Doctrine and Covenants — that great section which is regarded as the preface to that work, and which I have often characterized as the charter of our religion, sets forth that Joseph Smith was called in order that faith might be increased among men, and, mark you this, which I regard as fundamental, in order "that mine everlasting covenant might be established." I construe the new and everlasting covenant as I would construe, in large measure, a legal contract. I believe that our Father intended that he would obligate himself as well as obligate the beneficiaries of that contract to the performance of it. I believe that no one is entitled to the full measure of its blessings unless he subjects himself to all the conditions upon which those blessings are predicated, and I construe that covenant to be broad enough to embrace every principle of the gospel, so that under that construction, no man or woman can be so broadminded as to fail to observe, in any part, any of the principles of the gospel, and claim the full reward promised to those who keep them all. 

BROADMINDEDNESS OFTEN CONFUSED WITH LICENSE 

Broadmindedness and liberality of thought and view are often confused with licentiousness and with liberty to do the things which are not in consonance with the principles and regulations of the Church. I am thoroughly satisfied that if our boys and girls attending colleges and universities could be shown the gospel in all its great breadth of view; if they could be made to understand that it will subserve their best interests in life, and that it embraces all that is good and true, they would not think that it is narrow, and they would not think that those who stand up to proclaim it and who contend for an observance of its principles, are contracted in their views and not willing to accept new truth. 

NEED OF ADEQUATE INTERPRETATION OF THE GOSPEL 

We need an interpretation of the gospel. We need an interpretation that appeals, and we do not need to contravene, in any manner any of the principles of the gospel, to make an appealing interpretation. I plead for that interpretation to come through the auxiliaries of the Church, as well as from the priesthood of the Church. I think it is the highest degree of misfortune when young folks, kindly disposed toward the gospel and the Church, are not given adequate opportunity to understand it and to appreciate its great, beautiful truths. 

We have all been inspired by the testimonies which have been given during this conference. I have been thrilled as I have heard men stand in this pulpit and declare that they know that God lives and that Joseph Smith was his prophet. As I have heard their voices ringing and reverberating through this building, I have shaken and trembled with a sense of obligation, and with a great feeling of joy — an obligation in knowing that all my brethren and sisters must have the opportunity of understanding the gospel and coming to a knowledge of its truth and divinity in the same form and in the same fervor with which our brethren have expounded it and borne their testimonies; and a great feeling of joy that that same testimony rests with me. I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, you who manifest your great interest in the work of God, by coming here to the general conferences of the Church; I appeal to you, not for your own good particularly, but for the good of the thousands and thousands who are not here, who cannot be thrilled and inspired by these glorious testimonies, to carry back the message of this great gospel to them, to make it appeal to them, to make them know that there is nothing narrow or constricted in it and that there is nothing in the way of their going forward with the utmost progression in the development of all truth, and in the understanding and comprehension of the great principles of truth which God intends should be revealed for the guidance and direction of all the human family. 

GOD GIVE US VISION AND UNDERSTANDING 

God bless the young people. God give them vision and understanding to see the great truth and beauty of this gospel, and God bless the older ones that they may be sympathetic, compassionate, kind, tolerant, merciful and loving, that these young people may not perish without the faith. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

I think it well for us at times to look at ourselves and take stock to determine what we are, and this both as individuals and as an organization. We may need a mirror to show just how we look as individuals, and I pray you if you use one, be sure that it is a right mirror, unwarped, and that your eyes be clear, that we may see ourselves as we are. And it is well to look at the Church, not that we need separate ourselves from it for the occasion, but to look at it impartially and get its proper perspective in relation to other organizations. 

A PANORAMIC VIEW OF SOME ESSENTIAL POINTS IN CHURCH HISTORY 

If it were possible to show by means of panorama or the moving picture, the essential points connected with the history of the Church of Jesus Christ, going back no farther than the apostolic dispensation of old, we would see first a scene of wondrous activity and sacrifice. The apostles, who had been ordained under the hands of Jesus Christ, and those who had been called into the council of the apostles afterward, and the seventies who had been marshaled for their work, and the bishops and the elders and the priests, teachers and deacons — these we see at work, going amongst the people and spreading the gospel, spreading it so thoroughly that Paul was able to say in his day that practically every soul had heard it, by which I understand that he meant that every soul had had a chance to hear of it, to learn something about it. As the scene changes we see there many others who followed in the footsteps of the apostles, so far as their energy and devotion and authority to labor was concerned. Then we see confusion coming into the Church, partly because of oppression and almost indescribable persecution from without, partly because of the threatening disruption from within. 

THE GREAT APOSTASY 

There was an apostasy, and a great one, not the first one by any means in the history of mankind, but a great falling away, an apostasy of individuals from the Church in countless numbers, and then the apostasy of the so-called church itself, turning away from the ways that had been laid down as the government of the church, corrupting the ordinances established by divine authority, pandering to the so-called philosophy of the day, introducing the elements of paganism and heathenism to make their worship more spectacular and more attractive, until we see as we look at the changing scene, that there is only the outward form of godliness and not one flash to tell us of the power thereof. 

THE PERIOD OF SPIRITUAL DARKNESS 

Then as the panorama moves, comes the period of darkness, spiritual and mental. For, mark you, the mind is an attribute of the spirit; and as spiritual powers dwindled, mentality became deficient and the dark ages loomed. The sombre cloud failed to arouse faith and trust, but deepened the gloom of unbelief. We see people struggling in the midst of darkness trying to get out of the jungle. Men were sent unto them to help, men of God, seeking to lead them back into the light, to some extent, but they had a hard time. The Church had become apostate and tyrannical. It had undertaken to rule by autocratic methods. It claimed the right to tell men what to do and to force them to do it on penalty of loss of life or limb, and the confiscation of their goods. It undertook to dictate unto nations, unto kings, what they should do, and professed to absolve subjects from all allegiance to their rulers if the rulers failed to obey the behest of the church so-called. 

THE LIGHT OF GOD IN THE RESTORATION 

The centuries passed and by and by a light appeared; a glorious illumination broke forth; and the word of God was heard again, for God the Eternal Father — I speak it without reservation or modification—that Being after whom we have been formed in physical, mental and spiritual image, did appear upon the earth unto the lad Joseph Smith. And with the Eternal Father stood the only Son whom he had begotten in the flesh, Jesus the Christ, who affirmed that the authority and power to speak and to act in the name of God was not at that time upon the earth. Then followed the promise that it should be restored and in time, even as the prophets of old had foreseen, angels came to earth ministering unto those who had been chosen, and bestowing upon them by the same outward ordinance as was observed of old, by the laying on of hands, the power and the authority not only to speak but to act in the name of the living God, according to the order set forth. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has not sprung from any "mother church." The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is no sect; it owes no allegiance to any other religious society, call it by the name pf church or what you will, on the face of the earth. It does not claim to possess the Holy Priesthood by direct and uninterrupted descent from Peter of old, but it does claim that Peter, accompanied by his associates James and John, the three who constituted the presidency in the organization of the apostolate of old, did come by instruction of the Lord and did confer upon men here upon the earth the authority they possessed and which they exercised in the flesh before their martyrdom. We speak that plainly. I know it shocks the ears of some who may not have prepared themselves to receive it; and yet, wherein is the inconsistency? We proclaim the fact and also proclaim that the apostasy was a reality; and others admit it, theologians, scholarly men, and even churches. Though you have heard it before, I wish to draw your attention to that solemn declaration by the chief of the Protestant churches, the Church of England, made soon after the time of its creation — for it was created by act of Parliament. But there were wise men and good men numbered in the organization, and that church declared, about the middle of the sixteenth century, in its homily on the peril of idolatry, as follows: 

"Laity and clergy, learned and unlearned, all ages, sects, and degrees of men, women, and children of whole Christendom — an horrible and most dreadful thing to think — have been at once drowned in abominable idolatry; of all other vices most detested of God, and most damnable to man; and that by the space of eight hundred years and more." 

THE CHURCH OF GOD ESTABLISHED ANEW 

That, I take it, is good testimony as to the actuality of the apostasy. We proclaim the restoration which the prophets of old said should follow the apostasy. The Church of Jesus Christ has been established upon the earth anew, through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith the Prophet and his immediate associates in the ministry. It is the Church of Jesus Christ brought to earth again, established anew as had been predicted, I repeat; and its mission is the preparation of the earth for the great consummation, the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

In this restored church has been placed, by divine ministration and ordinance, the authority of the Lesser and of the Greater — or of the Aaronic and of the Melchizedek Priesthoods, with the several offices thereof and the several duties, responsibilities and powers pertaining to each office as of old. 

THE NEW AND EVERLASTING COVENANT 

That it was and is something new, and yet something old, as it is in fact eternal, was set forth by the Lord in a revelation given in April, 1830, just after the organization of the Church. There were people who had joined other churches. Many of them had been and were devout. They had been baptized, some of them by sprinkling and some of them by pouring, but they called it baptism, and some of them by immersion; and they raised the question as to whether they could not become members of this Church now by application and profession of faith alone, affirming that it was unjust that they should be required to be baptized again. In this claim they plainly forgot that the outward form of baptism can be performed by anybody, but that baptism as an ordinance acceptable unto the Lord requires the power and the authority of the Priesthood which he has given. Therefore the Lord said: 

"Behold, I say unto you that all old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a new and an everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. 

"Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the law of Moses, neither by your dead works. 

"For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this Church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old. 

"Wherefore, enter ye in at the gate, as I have commanded." 

I have read from Section 22 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Isn't that in line with the declaration our Lord made while he talked in the flesh, even the Christ, known as Jesus of Nazareth, who was acknowledged as a marvelous prophet whose teachings were full of wisdom? On one occasion, amidst circumstances which the rest of the chapter will give unto you, he spoke these words recorded in the 9th Chapter of Matthew, beginning with the sixteenth verse: 

"No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up taketh from the garment, and the rent is made worse. 

"Neither do men put new wine into old bottles; else the bottles break, and the wine runneth out, and the bottles perish; but they put new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved." 

The Judaism of that day was a travesty on the law that God had given. Many believed in part of what Christ said, but they wanted to tack it on to the Judaism of the day; they wanted to make the word of God conform to their philosophy, or with their sophistry, or with their man-made precepts, and the Lord warned them: Do not put a new piece of cloth on the old garment, it will tear it away and make a more hideous rent than there was before. Do not put that newly fermenting juice into old leathern bags, for that was the nature of the bottles of that day. You know how quickly old leather breaks. Don't put it into such bottles, for the fermentation will burst the bottles and the good wine will be lost and the bottles will be entirely ruined. There was to be no compromise with the semi-pagan doctrines of the day, nor was there to be any compromise between the principles of the gospel of Christ and the teachings of men not conforming therewith, the doctrines of men that have been evolved in the minds of men without the inspiration of the Holy Spirit — no compromise! 

THIS CHURCH LED BY REVELATION AND INSPIRATION FROM HEAVEN 

We are tolerant, tolerant in the extreme. We grant unto every man the right to worship after his own conscience, even as we claim it; but we do not compromise by the acceptance of the views of men in an attempt to mingle them with the doctrine of Christ, and call it all the word of God. The Lord has spoken and is speaking. I bear you solemn testimony that ever since the reestablishment of the Church in 1830, this Church of Jesus Christ has been led by inspiration and revelation from the heavens. This is the day in which you witness such. The Lord is not leaving his Church to itself. He is speaking in the ways best known to him, and inspiring and leading those whom you sustain as your leaders. Follow them and be safe. May the Lord be with us in carrying out the determination for a better life which we have formed in this conference, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

PETER'S ADVICE TO THE SAINTS OF OLD

"But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light: 

"Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. 

"Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; 

"Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by our good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. 

"Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be to the king, as supreme; 

"Or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well. 

"For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men; 

"As free, and not using your liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. 

"Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king." 

APPLICABLE TO SAINTS OF LATTER DAYS 

This advice which was given by Peter to the saints of a former dispensation is just as applicable in the dispensation of the fulness of times. It is true that we have been called out of the world to serve the Lord, that we have received from him, the restoration of the gospel and the priesthood, and have become a royal people. It behooves us as Latter-day Saints to keep his commandments, to walk uprightly, to honor the law not only of the land, and that we are under the necessity of doing, but also to honor the law of God, and that also we are under obligation to do. Through revelation from the Lord we have been informed that it is our duty to serve God, to keep his commandments, to be subject to the powers that be, until that time comes when he shall come to reign whose right it is to reign and shall subdue all enemies under his feet. 

OUR DUTY TO KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the thing that I have in mind particularly in reading this passage of scripture is to call our attention to the fact that it is required of us as it was required of the former-day saints to keep the commandments God has given us, that we may not, in the eyes of the Gentiles, those who are not members of the Church, be considered as people who are insincere. For this is the will of God, that with well-doing we may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Any man or woman in this Church who violates the commandments, though it may be one of the least, is doing injury not merely to himself or to herself, but to the entire body of the Church. We individually have in our care and keeping the good name of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and having that good name in our keeping, it is required of us that we walk circumspectly, that we be sincere in our conversation, in our deportment, in all that we do. A man may say that, if he violates one of these commandments which have been given to the Church, he is injuring only himself, but that is not the case, for he is doing an injury to the entire body of the people, because the world will judge the Church by the acts of the members. I have no right to do wrong, and you have no right to do wrong, although we have our agency and the privilege of doing right or wrong as we may choose in and of ourselves; but we, as members of the Church, are under covenant and under commandment of the Lord to keep his law; to observe his words. It is stated in one of the revelations that we are to "live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God." Moreover, in another of the revelations, the Lord has said: "If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments." I commend to you all that has been said, but particularly the remarks that were made here this afternoon by Elder Stephen L. Richards, because they appealed to me, and I feel as he does that it is required of me and of you as members of this Church to stand by that which God has revealed for the salvation of the souls of men. We have accepted it; we have come out of the world, and have entered into the waters of baptism, and received the light and the truth of the everlasting gospel. 

HOW OTHERWISE WE MAY BRING REPROACH UPON THE WHOLE CHURCH 

Now if we fail to live in harmony with this light and pose as members of the Church, claiming a standing and yet violating the commandments God has given us, then we are doing an injury to the entire work and bringing reproach not merely upon ourselves but upon the entire body of the Church. 

Let me read to you another passage of scripture: 

"For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

"For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes. 

"A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil; for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh. 

"And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? 

"Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them I will shew you to whom he is like: 

"He is like a man which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it, for it was founded upon a rock. 

"But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great." 

NO RIGHT TO MEMBERSHIP, IF WE JUSTIFY VIOLATIONS OF THE LAW OF GOD 

What right have we to claim membership, to call upon the Lord, and do not the things which he says? Therefore, if there are any among us who are violating even the least of the commandments of God and feel that they are justified in doing so, they are under condemnation. Remember that it has been written in section one of the Doctrine and Covenants, that the secret acts of men shall be revealed. 

The Lord has sent forth his gospel unto the world and the voice of warning is unto all people who are called upon everywhere to repent. 

"Wherefore," said he, "the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: 

"Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

"And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth; 

"And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people." 

This in substance was quoted to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the Angel Moroni on the night of that visitation ninety-nine years ago, when he quoted the 22nd and 23rd verses of the third chapter of Acts, which reads similarly. The angel declared unto Joseph Smith that the time was near at hand when this scripture should be fulfilled, in which it says that they who will not hear the voice of that Prophet shall be destroyed from among the people. Now that applies to the members of the Church as well as to those who are in the world. If we as members will not hearken unto the words of the apostles and the prophets and especially to this prophet referred to, who is Christ, then we shall take our places among the stubble and shall be destroyed by the brightness of his coming. The time is near at hand when the Lord will come in power, and shall cleanse the earth. We must not deceive ourselves. I think sometimes that we are inclined somewhat to excuse the world in sin and to declare that the world is growing ibetter. I want to say unto you that the Lord will save the righteous, but not the wicked. His decrees have gone forth, and his anger is kindled against the wicked, and those who will not receive the fulness of the gospel. In Section 35 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we read: 

"And there are none that doeth good except those who are ready to receive the fulness of my gospel, which I have sent forth unto this generation." 

The time will come when they who will not receive this fulness shall be swept off and shall not stand, when he comes in his glory to reign upon the earth and take vengeance upon the ungodly. The tares are being bound in bundles to be burned. The wheat is being garnered into barns, and the day of separation is near at hand. Even the Church shall be cleansed, and those who are of the world, who are numbered among the members of the Church, will be cast out, and will find their place among those who are unworthy, where there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Brethren and sisters, let us praise the Lord, keep his commandments, walk uprightly and humbly before him in all things, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

A sacred solo was sung by Myrtle Orr, "How beautiful upon the mountains." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Brother McKay has been chosen to preside over the European Mission. Elder Whitney, the only one of the twenty-six General Authorities who is absent from us today, has undergone a serious operation, and on account of his weak condition he has been released to return home as soon as his health will permit. I am very pleased to announce to this audience that our last word from him is that he has left the nurses' home, that the wound has closed up, and that he is on the high road to recovery.

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

It seems but a very short time indeed since I faced a similar audience, on my return from a very recent mission. The interval between that home-coming and the present time leaving seems very brief indeed. 

I am very sorry that Elder Whitney's ill health necessitates his release. I met him about ten months ago. He was doing excellent work and feeling apparently well, although he informed me then that he feared he would have to undergo an operation. I rejoice with you in the latest word that he is better, and I hope when I shall greet him, that I shall find him well on the road to his usual normal, vigorous health, and I shall be pleased — I will assume it here — to take the best wishes of this magnificent congregation to him. 

During the few moments that I shall occupy this afternoon, I am going to ask you to become missionaries, and thus render help to your sons and daughters who are in the mission-field. I am going to ask you to make their work more effective. 

TEXT 

"Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." 

THE CHURCH A CHURCH OF MISSIONARIES 

There are approximately two thousand men and women representing this Church in the missionary field. There should be, in a general way, about two hundred and fifty times two thousand missionaries in the organized wards and branches of the Church. 

WHAT THE MISSIONARIES ARE PREACHING BY PRECEPT AND EXAMPLE 

These boys out in the field are sweet and clean and wholesome, and they are striving to live exemplary lives, that their example might accord with their precept. I have met them, as you know, in many missions, and, invariably, they are fit, noble representatives of their parents and of the Church. Their skin is clean, their eyes clear, their lives wholesome, and men and women who are opposed to our teachings are forced to acknowledge that the missionaries of the Church are noble young men and pure women. O, I grant you there are men and women in the world who are suspicious, many who are suspicious of them. Sometimes, too, once in a great while — a missionary man forgets himself and brings disgrace upon the body of the Church, but the percentage of such failures, thank heaven, is extremely small. The two thousand missionaries are preaching by "plain living and right thinking" the efficacy of "Mormonism." 

A SUMMARY OF CHRIST'S MESSAGE TO THE WORLD 

In addition to that, they are proclaiming a wonderful message. The other day I read, in a very carefully written book, on the life of Christ — a summary of his teachings to the world. The eminent writer said: 

"Christ came to the world and gave to the world a message, which consists, first, in giving to men a true conception of God. Second, in teaching men how to attain a larger and freer life." 

Then, basing the third message, or the third lesson upon the fact that a man's actions depend upon his motives, he draws this conclusion that, 

"Christ's message meant the ultimate development of God's kingdom or rule upon earth, which is destined to transform society. Loyalty to the divine King — the common Father of all mankind, is the strongest and only universal bond that can bind all men together. His teachings, therefore, have a large social, as well as individual significance, for they contemplate a universal brotherhood or democracy in which all men are united in the common desire to do the will of God." 

I think this a good summary of the message that your sons and daughters are giving to the world. They teach to all men a true conception of God. They invite the world to investigate the great declaration that God and his beloved Son have appeared in person in this dispensation. What a glorious message! Second: they are teaching men the means of attaining a higher and freer and diviner life. Say what you will, that is their only purpose, and they prove their sincerity in it by leaving their loved ones, leaving their vocations, spending their own money, or the hard earnings of their beloved parents, in trying to induce men to hear that message. Third: they can stand before the people of the world and say that "Mormonism" does contemplate, in its ultimate consummation, the transformation of society; and who, conversant with world conditions today, will say that the time is not ripe for society to be transformed! 

THE WORLD REJECTS THEIR MESSAGE 

But the world does not believe this message. We have heard in this conference about evil designing men and women, who say, in substance, that our missionaries teach one thing, but the people practice another at home. Such accusations but emphasize the importance of preaching to the world by example. It seems to me that this conference has been characterized by the gospel of application, and so, I feel in perfect accord with the spirit when I ask that you who constitute part of the two hundred and fifty times two thousand missionaries, in the organized stakes and branches of the Church, preach by example these glorious things — prove to the world that you are not only a God-fearing, but a God-trusting people. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF ORGANIZED BRANCHES AND WARDS TO EXEMPLIFY IN DAILY LIFE THE DOCTRINES AND PRINCIPLES OF THE GOSPEL 

If you ask me where I first received my unwavering faith in the existence of a God, I would answer you: in the home of my childhood — when father and mother invariably called their children around them in the morning and at night, and invoked God's blessing upon the household and upon mankind. There was a sincerity in that good patriarch's voice that left an undying impression in the children's souls; and mother's prayers were equally impressive. 

I ask today that every father in the Church see to it that, in all sincerity, he impress his children with the reality of the existence of God, and with the reality that God will guide and protect his children. You carry that responsibility. Home is one of the units — the fundamental unit of society. Let the sincere investigators who believe more from what they see than from what they hear, find, upon investigation, that "Mormons" prove by example in the home, by devotion, and in their service to God, that they believe and know that God is their Father. I knew before I heard my father testify that he had heard a divine voice, that he lived near to his Maker; and I know, by a nearness to that same Eternal Father since, that father told the truth when he said he received in answer to prayer this admonition given in audible tones: "Testify that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God." Such is the reality of the true Latter-day Saints' conception of God the Father. 

IDEALS 

Secondly, I would ask that every parent in the Church teach men by example how to obtain a higher and freer life. Missionaries are pointing the way; we should follow it. What a strength it would be to the missionaries, if they were able to point back to the thousands and thousands of villages and find in each a community that introduces into its life the higher and better things. We have heard much throughout this conference about the necessity of pure individual living. We have heard that no Latter-day Saint can indulge in "boot-legging" with impunity. He is not only violating the law, but he is casting reflection upon his people and upon his nation. Latter-day Saints should uphold the officers in their efforts to ferret out these law breakers. No Latter-day Saint can enter into a gambling den without casting reflection upon his people and without violating the statutes of his state. A few gambling dens are still found, I am informed, in Ogden and Salt Lake City at least, and it behooves Latter-day Saints to stand by the officers in their efforts to close these places of vice. Latter-day Saints do not smoke. If your houses are contaminated with tobacco smoke, your appeals to God are not going to be very availing in the minds of your children. Pray to him to give you strength to overcome the habit, and I promise you God will give you that strength. I care not how viciously the habit is fixed in your body, God will not forsake you if you call to him in sincerity. Obedience to the laws of health, and of the Spirit will lead to the higher and freer life. 

Lastly, missionaries are preaching that the gospel is destined to transform society. We believe it and we believe that from an economic standpoint, from a social standpoint, from a spiritual standpoint, we can offer to the world today such practical ideals in organized society, that if applied to the world, would alleviate much of the suffering and misery in this poor war-ridden, famine stricken, selfish world. Take for example the little simple work of your fast day; your contribution to the poor. I remember mentioning that before an audience in New Zealand, at Auckland, about six hundred non-members being present. We took that as the theme because a day or two before the meeting a paper had published the fact that citizens had discovered some suffering women and children about whose condition nobody seemed to be aware. Following the meeting, a man said: "Do you really mean to say that every member of your Church is visited every month by some officer?" "Yes, that is the plan." "And that the amount contributed once a month on your fast day is sufficient to meet all the needs of the poor?" "Yes, that is the fact. All do not do it, however," I confessed. Ah, that is it. Don't you see — all do not comply. All do not come up to the standard. O, fathers and mothers, what an example to the world in economic salvation if we could only live up fully to this economic principle! Let us determine here and now to raise the percent per capita, of our fast offerings. Let us raise it from twenty cents to a dollar. Though that is not what it should be, what a lesson to the distracted government in this war-torn world today! 

I was in Syria when some of your fast offerings came over there, and realized, as Brother Booth gave out relief to those suffering Armenians, that one hundred cents in every dollar went to those poor people, because of the perfect organization of the Church. The  minimum overhead expense was not deducted from your contributions. Let us return home from this conference determined to live up to this one principle, in addition to the many others that have been named. Then, as the boys and girls are preaching and bearing testimony to the efficacy of "Mormonism," they can, with pride, point back to the home ward and say, "You may find these principles exemplified there." Remember, "example is more forcible than precept." People look at you six days in the week to see what you mean on the Sabbath. 

Therefore, with this idea that we are giving to the world the same message which Christ gave, namely: leading the people to a true conception of God, their Father, teaching them how to obtain higher and freer life, bearing witness to them that it is possible in this day, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel, to transform society; let us resolve this day to "Be noble; and the nobleness that lies in other men sleeping, but never dead, will rise in majesty to meet our own." In this way we can make our light so shine among men, that they seeing our good works may be led to glorify their Father in heaven. 

God help us to be near to him, for I testify to you he is ever ready to be near to us. I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

In one of the revelations of the Lord to his servant Moses, he made use of this expression: "Behold it is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." As "eternal life" is here used, we understand it to mean exaltation with our heavenly Father in his Celestial kingdom. In order to accomplish this purpose, the gospel was instituted, which includes the atonement of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The gospel is the plan of the Gods for the existence of this earth and of man upon it, of their fall, of their redemption, and of their glorification, for not only is man to be redeemed and glorified through obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the gospel and the effects of the atoning blood of our Savior, but the earth also is to be renewed and receive its paradisical glory, and be prepared that the sanctified may dwell upon it. 

DISREGARD FOR LAW THE CAUSE OF THE DOWNFALL OF NATIONS 

The land of North and South America is a very much favored portion of our Father's footstool, and he has declared with his own mouth that it is a land of promise — a chosen land — above all other lands. His eye has been upon it. In the days of the confounding of the languages, at the tower of Babel, when that little band of men and women associated with the prophet Jared, and his brother sought the Lord that their language might be preserved, and that his favor might be extended unto them, he granted their desire and led them across the mighty waters to this land of America. They were given the promise that if they, on this promised land, should be faithful, it would be unto them a land of promise that should flow with milk and honey, but that if they did not serve the Lord, but engaged in wickedness, they would be swept off the face thereof. The history of this people, contained in the Book of Mormon, plainly tells us that because of their wickedness, notwithstanding they had become a mighty and a numerous people, they were swept from off the earth, through contention, warfare and strife, amongst themselves. 

Some six hundred years before the coming of our Lord in the meridian of times, Lehi, a great prophet, with Jeremiah and others, preached the gospel to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, but his testimony was rejected and his life was sought. The Lord led him out, with a little colony, and across the waters, and settled them also in America. 

Afterwards, Mulek, with a colony from Jerusalem came to this country. These colonies were located in the southern part of North America, in Central America, and in the northern part of South America. And all this land, as well as that into which they migrated to the north and to the south was designated by the Lord as the land of promise. Because of the wickedness of a part of the people of Lehi, they were cursed with a black skin and became a degraded and a loathsome people. These were called Lamanites, after their first leader in rebellion. The remainder of the people of Lehi were called the Nephites. In the course of time they also became wicked and contentious and were finally destroyed. I believe that the downfall of governments and the destruction of nations is a natural result from a disregard for law and government and for the principles of righteousness. Let the nations be warned. 

NEED OF LIVING RIGHTEOUS LIVES 

As I have listened to the brethren speak upon the keynote topic as it has been characterized — obedience unto law, I have thought of and counted my blessings, and among them, have emphasized the blessing of being privileged to live here upon this land of America, and particularly within the confines of the United States, because it is a good country, but more than this, because of the government which God has given us in these United States. I do hope and pray that the people now inhabiting these lands will be brought to a realization of the necessity, for their own sake and the sake of their posterity, of living righteous lives and of seeking the God of this land and worshiping and serving him, that it may be unto us a land of promise — a choice land in very deed. 

I am thankful, too, for my home and the happy associations I have in these peaceful valleys of the mountains; also for the protection that is afforded us here; and for the peace we enjoy, for there is a peace felt here that is not felt all over these United States and in the other countries of the world. 

CLOSE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MAN AND THE EARTH, THE CHURCH AND THE NATION 

In speaking of the purpose of our Lord, the plan of salvation, the fall of man and of the earth, I desire to bring to your atttention, my friends and brethren and sisters, the close relationship existing between man and this earth. When man, through his disobedience, was cast out, the earth also was cursed for his sake, so that instead of bringing forth, spontaneously, fruits, flowers, grains, grasses, etc., which were necessary to sustain the life of man and animals, it brought forth thorns and thistles, briars and obnoxious weeds, and it was only by the sweat of the face of man that those needful things were produced. I believe, brethren and sisters, that there is a similar nearness existing between the Church of Christ, and the state, or the law of the land and the law of God, particularly as regards to the United States and the government thereof. I do not think that the Church should undertake to control, or to dictate in state affairs, or vice versa, but I do think that the Church and the State alike, should strive to make the people, the citizens of the nation, and the membership of the Church, an industrious, prosperous, law abiding, peaceable, and righteous people. The Church needs the protection which the state or the government affords, and the government needs the influence of the Church upon the lives and conduct of its citizens. 

One of the articles of faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, says: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." Being subject to kings and presidents? Yes. Rulers and magistrates? Yes. By reason of the franchise which is given us as citizens of these United States, we have a responsibility and a privilege; we have the electing, either directly or indirectly, of those who preside over us, who are our officers and our servants, and it is the duty of every citizen of the United States to use his franchise and his opportunities, to have men elected to office in the city, in the county, in the state, and in the nation, who will fairly represent the people. They should, themselves, be law-abiding citizens. They should have the common good of the people at heart. They should be philanthropic, unselfish, having a desire to use their talents, and if need be, their means, at least to do their part in the support of the government, and working for the common good of all. They should be righteous men, so that they may receive help from God, and he delights to help those who are righteous and who are engaged in a righteous cause. He has declared by his own voice that he redeemed this land by the shedding of blood, and therefore it should be regarded as a sacred and hallowed land. By men who were raised up of the Lord and inspired by him, the constitution of these United States was given to us, and all the laws enacted should be in conformity therewith. 

A DUTY IN SELECTING LOYAL OFFICERS AND SUSTAINING THEM 

It is God's government; he has given us an inspiration in regard to government, and it is an example to all the world. I see no reason why a senator of the United States, a governor of a state, a legislative assembly, the judges upon the bench, or other officers should not be so true, loyal, and righteous that God would give to them inspiration to guide them in their work; and if they are men of this character we will support and sustain them; and the institutions of our country, and the liberties and freedom of the people will be preserved and protected. 

We have a duty in the electing of these officers, and then when they are elected, we have a duty to support and sustain them. It matters not, when the President of these United States is elected and takes the oath of office, and bears the responsibility of his administration, whether he is a Republican or a Democrat, all are bound to support him in his position. If he does not magnify his calling according to his oath of office, I suppose he may be impeached, but until he is, he is our president and we should speak well of him at home and abroad; likewise with the minor officers — the governors of states, the mayors of our municipalities, etc. 

WE BELIEVE IN HONORING AND SUSTAINING THE LAW 

We believe in honoring and sustaining the law. That to the Latter-day Saints, is a principle of the gospel. The Lord has given us that and it means that he expects us, as members of his Church, to uphold and sustain the law, and to be obedient unto it, and when we violate the laws of the land, we violate the law of God, and we are not good Latter-day Saints; we are not worthy representatives of this religious body, and we have no right, in ourselves, to disregard the obligations resting upon us as members of the Church. When men are elected to office, where it becomes their duty to enforce the law, it is their religious duty, as well as a civil or political duty, to enforce the law according to their understanding of it, and the powers given them so to do. And so, we believe in upholding and sustaining the law and the authorities of the law, giving them our moral support and all the support we have to give, and thus we maintain the integrity of the government of the United States and of the state to which we look for protection in those things which are dearer to us than life itself — liberty and the right to worship God according to the dictates of our conscience. 

So I say, the State needs the Church and the Church needs the State, and together we should work harmoniously to these ends. In doing so, we are helping God, the eternal Father, in the great aim and purpose of all his works, and that is the saving of the souls of men in his kingdom. 

May the Lord add his blessing, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.

Elder Melvin J. Ballard, of the Council of the Twelve, sang, the congregation joining in the chorus, "Who's on the Lord's side, who?" 

President Heber J. Grant gave notice of overflow meetings to be held on Sunday at the Assembly Hall and the Bureau of Information, and stated that this was the first time in the history of the Church that people had been obliged to stand in the aisles of the building on the week days of any general Conference. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder U. G. Miller, president of the Cottonwood stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock, Sunday morning, Oct. 8.
