19
Overflow 
06 10 1901
Elder B. H. Roberts 
29
57-60

None

None

The semi-annual conference for the year 1901, with this session, is drawing to its close. I have tried to recapitulate in my thought the great things that have been taught us; and I have come to this conclusion with reference to all our conferences, that while a great variety of instruction is imparted, it is generally the case that one doctrine will rise up in prominence above every other, according, I presume, as the development or circumstances of the Saints require that now this and now that, and then another doctrine should be impressed upon their minds. 

I think when you return to your homes, the one thing which above all others you will carry with you from this conference will be the emphasis that has been placed upon the doctrine of reverence for the name of Deity. The time had come in the history of our people when it became absolutely necessary that their attention be called particularly to this commandment; for it is a commandment, as much in force today as it was when first given amidst the thunders that were heard from the summit of that lonely mountain in the wilderness — Mount Sinai) — namely, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength;" and also, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord In Vain; for God will not hold him guiltless who taketh His name in vain." That law, I say, is in force today, and yet there has grown up among us a carelessness with reference to this commandment. Blasphemy has become Quite common among some of the youth of Zion and it is proper, therefore, that this evil should be corrected, even if it requires the whole attention of a great conference of the Church such as that which is now drawing to a close. The time is opportune for calling the attention of the youth to this subject. The junior classes of the Young Men's Improvement Associations will be taking up the study of the life of Christ during the winter; while the senior classes are about to begin a rather advanced course of study on the First Principles of the Gospel. Some five lessons of their manual are devoted to the subject of "God and the Godhead;" and since there will be such universal thought and study upon this great and fundamental doctrine of the Gospel of Jesus Christ among members of the Church, it is eminently fitting that side by side with this study on the being and character of God, there should be taught also a reverence for His holy name; and that reproof where ever necessary be properly administered to those who do not respect the name of Deity. 

It is not necessary, however, in the closing moments of this conference for me to attempt to add anything to what has already been said, and so well said, upon this important subject. 

During the few moments that remain for us to be assembled I want to call your attention to one or two things closely related to this main topic of the conference. There is another commandment that might well be regarded almost as a continuation of this commandment calling for respect for the name of deity; and that is respect for Father and Mother. He who commanded man to honor God and reverence His name, also said, "Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord Thy God giveth thee." It was also the law of God in ancient Israel that when disrespect for father or for mother went so far as to lead the thoughtless or wicked son or daughter to curse father or mother, death was the penalty. (Exodus, xxi: 17). Of course, that would be regarded as a very extreme doctrine now; but extreme as you may think it, the Lord Jesus Christ Himself placed the seal of His approval upon it. You remember, perhaps, the circumstance of a number of the Pharisees coming to Jesus and complaining against His disciples because, forsooth, they ate with unwashed hands, and thus violated the "tradition of the Elders." A wonderful thing, was it not? But Jesus replied with a counter charge against them, which I will read to you: "But He answered and said unto them: Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?" A more serious thing, I take it, than transgressing the "tradition of the Elders" by eating with unwashed hands. "Why do ye transgress the commandment of God by your traditions?" For God commanded saying: "Honor thy father and thy mother, and he that curseth father or mother, let him die the death." But ye say: Whosoever shall say to his father or mother. It is a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; and honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. Ye hypocrites! Well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying: This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me." 

So that however harsh you may think the law of God as given to Moses upon this matter of requiring that there shall be honor for father and for mother among God's people, I answer your charge of harshness against the law of God with the statement that the Lord Jesus Christ approved of it, harsh as it may seem. And reproved sharply those who rendered of non-effect the commandment, by their tradition. Now all I desire to do on this occasion is to impress upon your minds the importance of this doctrine, of honoring father and mother, as well as of honoring the name of Deity. These are kindred commandments, and there is almost as much need to teach the youth of Israel respect for father and mother as there is to teach them reverence for the name of Deity. 

There is still another commandment closely related to these two, viz.: respect for the Priesthood of God. In addition to respect for father and for mother, and respect for the name of God, there should also be respect for the Priesthood of God. And when I speak of respecting the Priesthood, I do not mean merely the President of the Church nor for the Apostles of the Church, nor the general authorities of the Church. I mean them of course; but I also mean all those who hold the Priesthood. I bespeak respect for the presidents of Stakes; for Bishops of wards; and also for the Priests, who teach the Gospel at the firesides of the people. I bespeak respect for the humblest of God's servants, as well as for the highest; for it is all one authority; it all comes from God. Priesthood is God's power delegated to man, and the humblest that holds that power has a claim upon the respect of both old and young in the midst of the Saints. 

I sometimes think that the Priesthood is a little too common in our thought, not too plentiful, for there is work enough for all to do. But in thinking upon it we take into account too much the weaknesses of men, and do not honor sufficiently the Priesthood they hold, and by which they teach the children of men and administer the ordinances of the Gospel. Just one passage from the words of Jesus regarding this power and authority, that I may show you how respect for the Priesthood of God is really but a piece of the commandment that men shall honor God. We can trace the doctrine of honoring the Priesthood of God right back to the first commandment to which I refer, namely reverence for Deity Himself. 

It is written here in the Scriptures, that when Jesus was sending out His disciples to evangelize the world, he said: "He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth Him that sent me." And the converse of the proposition is of course equaly true; namely that he that rejecteth those whom God sends also rejects God. 

It is written in this same chapter from which I am quoting that the people who reject the apostles, reject God; and they are commanded to bear witness of it in the most solemn manner, and the Lord promises His servants that it shall be more tolerable for the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for those who reject them. 

When the humble teacher comes into your homes, Latter-day Saints, or when the Priest seeks opportunity to sit by your fireside and teach the peaceable things of the Kingdom to your children, and build up their faith in God, let me say they are God's messengers to your household, and ought to be received as coming from the Lord; and as being possessed — as indeed they are — with a portion of His authority; and it is just as binding upon us to receive these humble servants of God as it is to receive those who hold the highest authority in the Church. We make a mistake if we think we are fulfilling the law of God which commands that His servants shall be honored by honoring the more prominent officials in the church while we sneer at and laugh at and deride the efforts of the more humble servants of God who come among us to instruct us in the things of the Kingdom. Let this conference, then, O, Latter-day Saints, be remembered for teaching, first of all, reverence henceforth in Israel for the name of Deity; and as collateral parts of that same doctrine — honor for parents; and profound respect for the priesthood of God. 

The Lord bless you, Amen.
