21
Afternoon 
06 10 1901
President Joseph F. Smith
36
62-63

None

None

THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

were presented for the votes of the general assembly by President Joseph F. Smith, as follows: 

Lorenzo Snow, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Joseph F. Smith as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Rudger Clawson as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

As members of the council of the Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff and Reed Smoot. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

Patriarch to the Church, John Smith. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies, Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldsted, Brigham Henry Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder as his first and second counselors. 

Anthon H. Lund as Church Historian and general Church recorder. 

As Trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Lorenzo Snow. 

As members of the general Church board of education, Lorenzo Snow, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith, John Nicholson, Gorge H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson and Joseph M. Tanner. 

As general superintendent of Church schools, Joseph M. Tanner. 

As secretary of the general Church board of education, George Reynolds. 

As members of the board of examiners, Joseph M. Tanner, George H. Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul, James H. Linford and John M. Mills. 

As secretary of the board of examiners, John M. Mills. 

Owing to the recent death of Sister Zina D. H. Young, late president of the Relief Society, and there therefore not being a full organization, the officers were not presented. 

General authorities of the Sunday schools: 

Lorenzo Snow, general superintendent; George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. Members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board: Lorenzo Snow, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, Joseph F. Smith, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, treasurer. 

General authorities of the Young Men's Mutual improvement associations: 

Lorenzo Snow, general superintendent; Joseph F. Smith, Heber J. Grant, B. H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan Stephens, music director; Horace S. Ensign, assistant music director. 

Board of Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, Le Roi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner. 

General Authorities of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations: 

Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Cannon, secretary and treasurer; Joan Campbell, recording secretary. 

Board of Aids — Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes Campbell, Lillie T. Freeze, Minnie J. Snow, May Booth Talmage, Rose W. Bennett, Emma Goddard, Alice K. Smith, Elizabeth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. Brixen, Helen W. Woodruff, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Susa Y. Gates. 

General Authorities of the Primary associations: 

Louie B. Felt, president; Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. West, second counselor; May Anderson, secretary and treasurer; Olive Derbidge, assistant secretary; Euphemia I. Burnham, recording secretary. 

Board of Aids — Aurelia S. Rogers, Lulu L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Cornelia H. Clayton, Belle S. Ross, S. E. Hyde, Edna L. Smith. 

Officers of Religion Classes — Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant; L. John Nuttall, general secretary and aid; John M. Mills, Henry Peterson, aids. 

Leader and Director of the Tabernacle Choir — Evan Stephens, with Horace S. Ensign as his assistant; John J. McClellan as organist, and all the members of the choir. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the general conference. 

All the voting was affirmative.
