10
Overflow
01 06 1919
Prest. Seymour B. Young 
49
30

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I want to thank Brother B. Cecil Gates and those who have been with him in giving us good music today.  
  
I also want to speak in regard to President Joseph F. Smith, as this day has been chosen.  
  
At the funeral of his son, Hyrum M. Smith, just as the family were taking leave of the remains in the Beehive house, I entered the house that morning, and while standing a little way from the bier of our beloved apostle, there came from another room President Joseph F. Smith, the father of the beloved deceased. He saw me and came directly to me, and putting his arms around me drew me to his bosom, and we kissed and embraced each other. And he said, "Seymour, we have been boys together." And when we thus embraced I found that we were both weeping. President Joseph F. Smith has been indeed a remarkable man. He has maintained the love of his people from the beginning of his ministry to the end of his life. I don’t believe that he had an enemy in the world, or an enemy that could give any reason for his enmity; because all men saw in Joseph F. Smith, our recent president, a man who stood high in the estimation of humanity, and of God our eternal Father.  
  
President Heber J. Grant has now been sustained by the congregations of the Saints, and by the special quorums of the priesthood, and I beseech for him that love, reverence, and sustaining power that he so well deserves and has so well merited through his life of devotion and faithful labors all the days of his life. For I have known him since the days of Nauvoo, and I say that I have never known better and truer men, than President Joseph F. Smith and President Heber J. Grant. We are all glad today that so noble a man has been chosen by the people and sanctioned by the voice of our heavenly Father to be the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. May the Lord add his blessings to you fathers and mothers, boys and girls, friends and strangers, who are here attending our general conference, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 