12
Afternoon
01 06 1919
Elder Rudger Clawson 
7
38-40

None

In the quorums of the priesthood there is an irresistible, compelling power — The leaders of Israel, what a galaxy of men! — President Joseph F. Smith a powerful preacher of righteousness.  
  
Brethren and sisters, my feelings this afternoon are quite in accord with the views expressed by President Penrose. I think we had a glorious meeting this morning. The gathering in of the quorums of the priesthood and arranging them in their order was eminently proper, and as they sat here filling the body of the house they presented a most inspiring scene. And when they arose and voted for our new President and the General Authorities of the Church, quorum after quorum, with uplifted hands, and finally, when all the congregation stood with uplifted hands and voted, it indicated to me that there is in these quorums of priesthood an irresistable, compelling power; I was reminded of the trite saying that in unity there is strength, in division weakness. And surely, brethren and sisters, the Latter-day Saints are strong because they have a united priesthood and people.  
  
The theme chosen and dwelt upon by the speakers this morning was most ennobling. Our leaders, Josph Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith — what a galaxy of men! Where could you find their equal in all the world? These men were brilliant in the knowledge of truth. They were learned in the deep things of God, and they exercised keys and powers bearing upon the salvation of immortal souls. These men, prophets, seers and revelators, held the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Great were they indeed, but men, nevertheless, with their weaknesses and imperfections. However, their record, their faith, their words, their lives are before us, as an open book. Scan them as you will, investigate, look up their records from all sides and you will find no great blemishes. They were pure, good men, free from the sins of the world, and men whom we could safely follow.  
  
The late President Joseph F. Smith — I loved sincerely and deeply. I loved him because of his integrity to the work of God. I loved him because of his good example before the Church and before the world. I loved him because of his kindly and thoughtful consideration for his brethren and associates in the ministry and for the Latter-day Saints generally, for he was a most genial and lovable man. I loved him because of the wise counsel and timely admonitions that constantly fell from his lips. He was indeed a powerful preacher of righteousness. The influence of his words will be felt by the coming generations. A righteous man may die and pass from the earth, but his words of truth and testimony can not die and will not pass away, but they will live in the hearts of the people and bear fruit to the honor and the glory of God.  
  
The following fervent exhortation was uttered by President Joseph F. Smith, at the April conference of 1902, which was shorty after he had been sustained as President of the Church. Brethren and sisters give ear to these words:  
  
"Let us sustain the cause of Zion. Let no man speak lightly of the ordinances of the house of God. Let no man hold in derision the priesthood that the Lord has restored to the earth. It is the authority that He has given unto men. Let no man look contemptuously upon the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it has been established in the earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom the Lord raised up when he was but a child to lay the foundation of the same. Let no man treat these things lightly or doubtingly, but let every man seek to instill and understand me truth and teach his children to become familiar with those truths of heaven which have been restored to earth in the latter days. I believe with all my soul in God the Father and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I believe with all my might, mind and strength in the Savior of the world and in the principles of redemption from death and sin. I believe in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I believe in all the truth that I know, and I believe that there are many principles of eternal truth that still lie hidden from man and from the understanding of men which will yet be revealed by the power of God unto his faithful servants. I believe that the Lord has revealed unto the children of men all that they know. I do not believe that any man has discovered any principle of science or art, in mechanism or mathematics or anything else that God did not know before man did. Man is indebted to the Source of all intelligence and truth for the knowledge that he possesses and all who will yield obedience to the promptings of the Spirit which lead to virtue, to honor, to the love of God and man to the love of truth and that which is ennobling and enlarging to the soul will get a cleaner and more expansive and more direct and conclusive knowledge of God's truths than any one else can obtain. I believe this because I know it is true. The Lord Almighty liveth. He made the heavens and the earth and the fountains of water. We are his children, his offspring and we are not here by chance. The Lord designed our coming and the object of our being here. He designs that we shall accomplish our mission to become conformed to the likeness and image of Jesus Christ that like him we may be without sin unto salvation, and like him we may be filled with pure intelligence, and like him we may be exalted to the right hand of the Father to sit upon thrones and have dominions and power in the sphere in which we shall be called to act. I testify to this doctrine for the Lord has made me to know and feel the truth of it from the crown of my head to the souls of my feet. I love good honorable men, even men who may be mistaken, as far as their judgment is concerned, but who try to do right. I love them for the reason that they are my brethren and sons of my Father and I would that they might all see the truth as it is in Christ Jesus and accept it and receive all the benefits of it in time and throughout all eternity. If the Lord has revealed to the world a plan of salvation and redemption from sin by which men may be exalted again into his presence and partake of eternal life with him, I submit as a proposition that can not be controverted that no man can be exalted in the presence of God and attain to a fulness of glory and happiness in his kingdom and presence save and except he will obey the plan that God has devised and revealed."  
  
Brethren and sisters, if we will take these few precious words to heart, treasure them up in our souls, and conform our lives to them, we will surely attain to a salvation and an exaltation in the celestial kingdom, which is God's greatest gift to man. May the Lord bless us and help us to do his will, and to follow in the steps of our file leaders, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 