13
Afternoon
01 06 1919
Elder Geo. Albert Smith 
31
40-45

None

Meaning of sustaining the Authorities — Eulogy of President Joseph F. Smith — An honor to preside over the British Mission — Personal testimony of the Divinity of the Church and the restoration of the gospel — Injunction to faithful service — Prayer for mission presidents — The world has need of missionaries; let all prepare to teach the gospel— Farewell remarks — Sustaining the leaders of the Church.  
 
I rejoice today in being permitted to meet with you in this general conference and in being permitted to raise my hand to sustain those whom our heavenly Father has called to preside over us. It must be a source of strength to the President of this Church to look into the faces of thousands of honest men and' women and observe them raise their hand in covenant with our Father in heaven, and sustain him in the office to which he has been called as president, of this great Church. The obligation that we make when we raise our hands under such circumstances, is a most sacred one. It does not mean that we will go quietly on our way and be willing that the prophet of the Lord shall direct this work, but it means, — if I understand the obligation I assumed when I raised my hand — that we will stand behind him; we will pray for him; we will defend his good name, and we will strive to carry out his instructions as the Lord shall direct him to offer them to us while he remains in that position. So it is a power of strength that has been reared today to our beloved president, Heber J. Grant, and his counselors, as we voted for them in this solemn assembly.  
  
It is with peculiar feelings that I stand here today. At our last general conference I was stricken ill, and was only able to attend one meeting of the conference, being taken to the hospital from the first meeting in the morning. I am grateful that the remembrance I have of President Smith was his wonderful testimony borne on that occasion to us. I look back and feel that it was a privilege to be at that meeting, because it was the last assembly that he addressed in this great building. His work is done. The beautiful tributes that have been paid to him by loving brothers and sisters of this Church have no effect now other than to comfort those of us who remain, but his wonderful devotion to duty, his magnanimous feeling toward mankind, his tender love of the weak and the erring, will be sources of inspiration to all of us who knew him, as long as we live upon the earth.  
  
There was no duty too arduous for him to perform, if he felt it was the will of the Lord. He began his work in infancy almost, and I might say in passing that his life was preserved from being smothered to death by a mob when he was a little baby in his mother's arms. He was resuscitated and brought back to life after his little body had turned black as a result of suffocation. He came across the great plains with his mother, and while only a child was a man in determination, standing by the side of his mother and those who were with her, determined to do his duty and serve God and keep his commandments. When a mere youth he was called to the islands of the sea as referred to here this morning. He had to work his way across the ocean and was willing to do anything that he might be able to reach his field of labor; not going as some of us do today, in a palace car and in a palatial steamer, but he went in a humble manner. He wrought upon the hearts of the people of that land until today there are thousands in the islands of the sea who call his name blessed; and in that land to which I have been called to go, he ministered in his young manhood, devoted himself in faith and devotion to win mankind to repentance, to warn men of the judgments that were impending, calling them from the error of their ways, begging them to turn to the Lord, to receive the gospel, and to accept of the mercy of our Father to those who love him and keep his commandments.  
  
These are some of the memories that come to me upon my feet regarding this blessed man. Of course, most of you, many of you, know how near he was to me, almost like a father. I had the opportunity of traveling with him from ocean to ocean, and from the north land to the south, all over the United States. I had the pleasure of watching over him by day and guiding him by night. I have rejoiced in the testimony of the gospel that I have heard him bear in many places, and I have been made glad when I have seen the great strong men of the earth shake his hand and go away with the impression that he was indeed no ordinary man. I have known of people who, out of curiosity, called at the office here in Salt Lake City to see President Smith, and before they have left the ground upon which the building stands, I have heard them say, turning to each other: "What a wonderful character!"  
  
Think of him as a little boy whose father was taken from him in his childhood — this little boy who was willing to go where the Lord wanted him to go. He had not the opportunities of college, of university training, but he was lifted up clay by day, under the inspiration of almighty God, until he could stand among his fellows, honored and blessed, and loved, not only by all Israel, but by many of those who are alien to the gospel of Jesus Christ. What did it, my brethren and sisters? It was the gospel of our Lord. It was devotion to the Father of us all. It was a desire to bless mankind, and a knowledge that our Father lives; that Jesus is the Christ, and then a determination to live up to that knowledge in older that he might gain a place beside his beloved father and mother and the prophets who had gone before, to be worthy of their companionship throughout the ages of eternity.  
  
He was blessed as few men have been blessed in this world — indeed I might say as no other man I know of in this world, — by a most remarkable family, to which reference has been made today, men and women who honor the Lord and keep his commandments, who revere their husband and father. We do well to remember, even at this remote period of time from his passing, the man who has been lifted from poverty to affluence, who was able to stand among his fellows unsurpassed by any child of our father who lived in his day. I am grateful that I have had the touch of his. hand, I am thankful that I have had the press of his lips upon mine, I am pleased that he considers me one of his family, and today I mourn his departure and remember his passing as if it were but yesterday.  
  
I am grateful to be permitted to walk along the paths that he has walked, and as I go to that land referred to by President Grant, I desire, with all my soul, to be worthy of those who have preceded me — the great and good men of this Church who have presided there in honor and dignity, and among them our beloved brother and president, Joseph F. Smith. There are those sitting here upon this stand who have been there and have performed a wonderful labor. I would like to say to you, my brothers and sisters, that I esteem it an honor — nay, more than an honor, I esteem it a very great blessing — that the Lord has raised me from the feeble condition that I was in a short time ago, restoring me to such a condition of health that the brethren have felt that it will be possible for me to fill a mission in a foreign land. I would not undertake; it if it were any other kind of a mission. I know that my Redeemer lives; I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and is exalted at the right hand of his Father. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord. While he gave his temporal life in order that his testimony might be binding upon the children of men, I am sure as I stand here that today he is exalted in the presence of the Redeemer, rejoicing in the development that has come to the work of the Lord since the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth through his humble instrumentality. I am grateful for the testimony that burns in my bosom that this is our Father's, work.  
  
Be diligent, ye men of Israel, who bear the Priesthood of our Lord. Do not think that you can gain the honor, the distinction and the eternal blessings that President Smith will gain if you do the works that are less than he has done. It is not necessary that a man should be a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, or the Presidency of the Church, in order to obtain the greatest blessings in the kingdom of our heavenly Father. These are but offices required in the Church, and there are many faithful and devoted men worthy to fill these offices whose time and talents are needed throughout the Church. There are, in the Church more good men than those occupying these positions, and remember that in the ranks and throughout the Church there is ample opportunity for every man and for every woman to do something for the blessing of their fellows and for the advancement of the work of the Lord.  
  
I see sitting before me today men who have been in the mission-field as presidents of missions, who have come here from their fields of labor, honorably released. They have performed yeoman service; they have devoted themselves to the blessing of God's children. They have left, in the fields from which they have come, men and women who bless them and who will remember them in tenderness throughout all times. I feel in my soul to bless them and welcome them home with their loved ones and pray that they may have their feet planted here among their loved ones in the valleys of the mountains with the same determination to serve God and magnify their calling, as they have manifested while they have been entrusted with presiding offices in the mission-field. I see before me men who have been called to succeed them. I pray that the spirit of their calling may fall upon them, that they may feel the inspiration of the Lord and fully understand the necessity of doing their duty as they go to their fields of labor, that they may rejoice in seeing the children of our Father come to him by reason of their faith and their devotion; that they may rejoice, as those who come home have rejoiced and, if possible, that the blessings of the Lord may be more abundantly bestowed upon those among whom they minister, than has been done in the past.  
  
The world is in distress, in travail, from one end of it to the other. Men and women are looking here and there, seeking where they shall go to do the things that will bring them peace. My brethren, the authority of the holy priesthood is upon the earth. The gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored. The truth revealed from heaven is here and it is that truth, that gospel, which, if the world only knew it, will be a panacea for all their ills. It is the only thing that will bring them peace while they remain upon the earth.  
  
I find here a short section of the Doctrine and Covenants to which I wish to draw your attention. I would like every man who bears the priesthood of our heavenly Father to remember the words of this particular section. I would like every man to apply it to himself, and I would like every good woman who has received the blessings of the gospel to apply it to her life; and applying it to our lives, remember that our days are numbered and that the opportunity to magnify our calling will soon be cut short here in this world. This is a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Harmony, Susquehanna county, Pennsylvania, February, 1829:  
  
"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to to come forth among the children of men;  
  
"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God. see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day:"  
 
That is what I would Jike us to remember. That is the word of the Lord unto Israel, repeated again this day by one of God's servants. The world has need of you and of your ministry. There are no other men in the world, outside this Church, who have the rights that you have, and the privileges, and no other body of men will have the opportunities that come to you. Now that the time is near at hand when the bars will be let down and the barriers overthrown that have been raised to the spread of the gospel, when the sound of the voice of the Lord shall come to you, through his servants, "Prepare to go into the world and preach the gospel," do not do as Jonah did, do not try to hide or run away from your duty; do not make excuses that you do not have the necessary means to go; do not set up foolish things in the way of your vision that will prevent your seeing eternal life in the presence of our heavenly Father, which can come only by reason of faith and devotion in his cause. Let every man set his house in order; let every man who bears the priesthood, set himself in order, and when the call comes from the servants of the Lord, telling him to go into the world to teach the truth, to warn the children of men, as our Father requires they shall be warned, let no man hide behind some foolish thing, to be swallowed up, if not by a great fish, by the foolish things of the world.  
  
I pray that the Spirit of God may burn in the bosoms of the Latter-day Saints; that the love and charity our Father has for his children may be ours; that we may rejoice when we see his children understanding the truth and that we may be willing to make what may sometimes be termed a sacrifice; that we may be willing to make the investment to bless our kind, going forth with all our might to bring light and salvation to the children of men by preaching unto them the restored gospel of our Lord.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I may have no other opportunity of saying goodbye to you, before I leave. Next Wednesday I expect to take the train to the coast and then across the ocean to the field to which I have been called. Thank God for the opportunity of going. I am grateful that the knowledge of this truth has come into my soul. I am thankful for the companionship of the men by whom I have been surrounded and with whom I have been permitted to associate. I am grateful for you and for the kindness you have bestowed upon me as I have ministered unto you in your homes in the stakes and wards of the land. God bless you and yours and all Israel. O, brothers and sisters, pray with all your might that the light may enter into the hearts of the children of men; that they may turn from the error of their ways when the gospel is brought to them by a humble eider; that they may understand the voice and receive the message and be gathered out from the nations, before the Lord shall sweep the earth again with his scourges, as he has promised to do. This is but the beginning of sorrow and it is your duty and mine to minimize so far as possible, the sorrows of our Father's children, by blessing them with the message of peace, with the gospel of love, and call them from the error of their ways; that they may rejoice with us, if we are faithful, in the mansions of glory on high. May the peace and blessing of our heavenly Father be upon us all. May we be worthy of the opportunity that has come to us. May we see the magnitude of the work we have set our hands to do and remember the commandment that we shall do it with all our might, mind and strength; that we may stand blameless before the Lord at the last day.  
  
With all my heart, I sustain the men whom we have sustained today — President Grant and his counselors — to preside over us. They have been called by divine power; they have been sustained by this great people, and the Lord will sustain them in their ministry. They are unselfish and they are untiring in going about doing good and blessing those who live upon the earth. I honor them and I love them. I pray that our Father will bless them that they may have joy in their ministry. I pray that these, my brethren of the Council of the Twelve, whom I soon shall leave, may have joy in their ministry wherever they may go. Brethren and sisters, welcome them into your homes and into the organized stakes as they go among you. They bring to you a message of love, as also do the First Council of Seventy, the Patriarch and the presiding Bishopric, all those who, as general authorities of the Church go to visit you from time to time. These all are our Father's servants. Honor them, sustain them, and bless them, and our Father will honor and sustain and bless you. I pray that our Father may grant unto you the peace that passeth all understanding.  
  
May the joy of the memory of that devoted man, President Joseph F. Smith, in whose honor, in part at least, we have met here today, remain with us. Let us try, so far as may be, to measure up to his splendid virtue and, by and by — it may not be long for any of us — when the Father of us all shall summon us home, that we may find awaiting us on the other shore these splendid men and women who have honored God and kept his commandments, who have earned celestial glory in our Father's kingdom, that we may rejoice with them and they with us throughout the ages of eternity, is my desire! O may the Lord bless us all; may he help us to appreciate the opportunity that is placed in our way and give us a burning desire to bless our kind. May we honor him and keep his commandments, and in the end obtain eternal life and celestial glory with our Father's children wherever they may be in the world, who are worthy, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 