15
Second Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder Hyrum G. Smith 
32
49-51

None

None

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church). 

As was announced this morning in our general conference, the program for this afternoon is to remember both in spirit and in word the life, mission and works of our late president, Joseph F. Smith, and I am very grateful for another privilege of raising my voice in testimony concerning his life and mission.  
  
It has been said by a number of older men, that they knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that they have known all of the presidents in their succession since him. It seems to me as if I knew him, because I have seen and heard those who did see; hear, and know him, and so my faith is just as firm and just as well founded, perhaps, as if I had known him and seen him with my own eyes. I believe in his mission, and know that he was a prophet of God. Neither did I see his successor, President Brigham Young, because his mission was finished two years before mine began here upon the earth. So,like unto the Prophet Joseph in my life, the life of President Brigham Young is that of memory and history to me. But I have heard the voice of those who were in that meeting which was referred to by President Grant where the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon President Brigham Young, when some of the people were in doubt as to who was going to lead the Church, after the martyrdom.  
  
So I feel that I have really partaken of the gathering upon that occasion, and I testify here that I think that the lives of men and women have been spared to us, to me for instance, to hear their voices in this great testimony which established the fact in my mind, as it did in the minds of hundreds of Latter-day Saints, that it was President Brigham Young who was to lead the Church instead of Sidney Rigdon or any other man. I am grateful that the lives of these men and women have been spared that I might hear their testimony, since I did not live in the time when it was possible for me to have attended that meeting or to get that testimony first hand. I have faith in the testimonies of these men and women whom I have mentioned. I mention particularly the life of Aunt Emmeline B. Wells. I think her life has been spared by the power of the Lord, for at least one purpose — that the youth of Zion might hear her testimony, that she was in that meeting and heard the voice of the Prophet Joseph from the mouth of President Brigham Young. I have also heard the testimony of Patriarch George Romney, whose life has been spared, I believe, that his testimony may go forth among the young people concerning that same fact, and circumstance.  
  
I do not remember President Taylor; although as a small boy, I may have seen him. but during his presidency of the Church, his personal mission did not come into my life, because I did not live in Salt Lake City, and so I did not get acquainted with him. But I do have a distinct remembrance of President Wilford Woodruff. I think my first memory of him was when the Salt Lake temple was dedicated.  
  
I have also a very distinct memory of President Lorenzo Snow. When I was a member of the Church school at Provo, he came to the school, and I remember that a number of small children marched up to the stand and presented him with flowers; and as they passed by he gave each one a blessing by placing his hand upon their heads. That was a very impressive memory in my life.  
  
I also have a very distinct memory of the life of my dear uncle, President Joseph F. Smith, and I learned to love him, although we were separated about three generations. There are many people in the Church who, perhaps, due to their lack of acquaintance of the family history, have taken me to be a member of his family. But had I been an actual son of his, he could not have treated me better. His latest words to me were to the effect that I was not a real member of his family, but that he felt towards me as though I were a member of his immediate family; also in tenderness expressing his love for me. His kindness toward me was so manifest, I could not help but love him. I was always happy while in his presence, and I never had that feeling of timidity or desire to withdraw from him. There seemed to be power in his spirit that drew me toward him rather than repelled me from him. I love his memory, and look upon his testimony and his works as those of a prophet of the Lord, as those of one who was among the leading prophets and presidents of the Church in all the world.  
  
I have often contrasted the events of history, when he took the office of president and when he left it. Outsiders, as we speak of nonmembers, looked upon him, how they hated him. Many of them said violent words about him; and they not only said words but they drew hideous pictures about him, caricatured him, and maligned his name and family.  
  
Although I was not present upon either of the occasions to which I shall refer, I have heard that when Prest. Joseph F. Smith was taken as a witness before the United States Senate that people in the gallery, many of them influential persons and officers of the government with their friends, actually hissed at him when he was brought in before them as a witness; but before the close of that great case, these very persons, sought an opportunity to pay respect to him.  
  
Upon another occasion, the genealogists of Utah were gathered in a great meeting in California, where there were many friends gathered, many influential men and women gathered in an outdoor meeting. Many of them were wearing their hats, and when President Joseph F, Smith arose and declared that he wished to speak to them as a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, those men took off their hats and paid him due reverence, not as just an ordinary man, but as a servant of the Lord who was to speak to them in the name of Jesus Christ. And they gave reverence to him, by uncovering their heads.  
  
Little by little these changes took place until, as you remember, the hour of his funeral, by the proclamation of the Governor of this State, every house of business, every piece of machinery, almost, that was run by the state was closed and stopped for one hour; and not only the places of business throughout the state, but all men who knew him, whether they once hated him or not, once slighted the work that he did, or the cause which he represented, gave reverence to him and his name, and the work that he represented, the work of God. I am also told that in the distant and remote towns of this state the stores were closed. All business was closed. Street cars here in this busy city stopped for one hour, no matter where they were, at the given time. Other tokens of respect also were shown to him. This was a wonderful contrast to show that the people of the world, not only our friends, but our very enemies, have given honor to this man "whom God hath chosen."  
  
So I love and bless his memory. I join with my fellows in praying God to bless his memory, and those who shall live after him, that his teachings may live in our hearts, that we may honor them, and through them honor God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 