16
Second Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder Richard R. Lyman 
17
51-54

None

During President Joseph F. Smith's administration all but three of the members have come into their present positions — Other great changes that have taken place — Persecution turned to admiration — The barren places into a veritable garden of roses — President Smith's rise from a lowly station to the highest among his people — His character and life.  
  
My feelings were greatly touched, as no doubt yours were also, when, in the Tabernacle this morning, President Heber J. Grant took the place as presiding officer, which for some seventeen years had been occupied by President Joseph F. Smith.  
  
Last Thursday at the regular weekly meeting of the First Presiidency and the Council of the Twelve, President Grant explained that all but three of the members of the Council have come into their places during the administration of President Smith. "Therefore," he said, "it will be very fitting for all of us to speak briefly in honor of this wise and now immortal man and prophet, President Joseph F. Smith, at the memorial services which will be held for him as a portion of the general conference next Sunday."  
  
Not only are the members of the First Presidency and of the Council of the Twelve assembled here today to do honor to his memory, but the presidents of nearly all the stakes, and the bishops of nearly all the wards, and the counselors to all of these, are also present. Of these I say what a traveling sister recently said of the presidents of the stakes: "I think no finer band of men can be found in all the world."  
 
The heart of President Smith must be glad and gratified at this hour if he knows that all of these worthy officials are assembled, and so many other thousands of the members of the Church, that three great services are being held simultaneously in order to accommodate the multitude that is here for the purpose of paying respect to his dear memory.  
  
During the administration of President Smith great changes have come. The intense prejudice that existed in the beginning has disappeared. The Patriarch, in his remarks has just referred to conditions that existed at the time of the Smoot investigation. Well do I remember those conditions. I was a graduate student at Cornell University. The Ithaca papers printed glaring headlines drawing attention to the testimony and published grotesque cartoons of those who, as witnesses, were being examined. These were trying days for me. They must have been much more trying for those of our people who were in Washington. The public jeered at the president. They spoke to him and of him disrespectfully, His keen sensibilities were deeply cut when in derision they called him "Prophet Smith." But truth will prevail. Right is might. When right and righteousness really come to the attention, then are people convinced.  
  
It was but a few years after this investigation that President Smith went again to the city of Washington. Instead of being addressed as "Prophet Smith." he was greeted on every hand with "Mr. President, I am delighted to see you." The Vice-president of the United States said to him: "Mr. President, may I have the pleasure of your commapy at the great foot-ball contest this afternoon?"  
  
Fairy tales hardly draw pictures more thrilling than that of the life of President Joseph F. Smith. When, as a boy at the age of nine, he drove an ox team into Salt Lake Valley, there was here, I have heard him say, but one green spot. If I remember correctly, he said there was in sight but one green tree and that tree grew on City Creek. This was then a prairie — a desert. During the seventy years since his coming, barrenness has been changed to beauty. This is today a veritable garden of roses. We are surrounded with every luxury and convenience of modern times.  
  
The story of the life of President Smith is not unlike the story of David, King of Israel. The Lord said unto the Prophet Samuel: "How Iong wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil and go. I will send thee to Jesse, the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.  
  
"Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and came to Bethlehem."  
  
When Jesse brought before him one of his handsome sons, tall and erect, the Prophet Samuel said: "Surely the Lord's anointed is before him."  
  
"But the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him; for the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." And Jesse brought another son, and another, and another, until seven had passed by.  
  
Then Samuel said unto Jesse: "The Lord hath not chosen these. Are here all thy children?" Jesse said: "There remaineth yet the youngest and behold he keepeth the sheep."  
  
Who was he? The carpenter's son? Was he the widow's boy that drove the ox team across the prairie in 1848? Was it the little fellow who herded cows bare-footed in this great valley long years ago? "Yes," said Jesse, "There remaineth yet the youngest and behold he keepeth the sheep."  
  
And Samuel said unto Jesse: "Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither."  
  
When the shepherd boy with the ruddy, handsome countenance appeared, the Lord said: "Arise, anoint him, for this is he."  
  
As it was with the shepherd David, so was it. with the carpenter's son; and so was it with the widow's son who drove the ox team into the valley, in 1848. "The Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." All honor to the memory of President Joseph F. Smith, the widow's son. Under his leadership and the blessings of God, we find ourselves today a united, happy and prosperous people.  
  
The sterling strength and nature of Joseph F. Smith would permit him to make no compromise with sin. On one occasion, he was approached, by an attractive young woman, a member of the Church, who said: "My profession brings me on the stage where short sleeves and low necks are a positive necessity. Is it not possible in my case to have the regulations of the Church slightly modified? Are you going to require me to live in the same strict conformity with the technicalitites of the gospel in this respect as you do others?"  
  
Some might ask the president: "In my case, may I not take just a little tea?" Or another in poor health might say: "May I not be permitted to take just a little coffee?" Still another might ask: "In this one case, will you not permit me to take just a little liquor?" Still others: "Is it necessary for me in my condition to remember the Lord every night and morning in my family and secret prayers?"  
  
To all such questions as these, President Joseph F. Smith would reply, as he did to the charming little lady: "My dear little girl, if you do any of these things, you must do them on your own responsibility."  
  
One of the great lecturers speaking before the Bonneville Club, at the Hotel Utah recently, said: "After the names in your city directory or telephone book you frequently find such words as doctor, merchant, dentist, lawyer, engineer, etc., etc. These words do not indicate the main business of those whose names they follow. They only indicate their sidelines. The main business of every man and the main business of every woman is the rearing of a family."  
  
There is no part of the excellent life and labor of President Joseph F. Smith that he did with more pronounced success than he performed this, the main business of his life, the rearing of his family. History, ancient or modern, does not record a more perfect example of man's first and highest duty well done than that of President Joseph F. Smith in the rearing of his large and worthy and wonderful posterity.  
  
For this good man and for his good life and wise leadership our hearts are full of gratitude. May we put forth successful efforts to follow his teachings and his worthy example. Every feature of his life, is an inspiration.