17
Second Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder Stephen L. Richards
96
54-58

None

Faith emphasized and made plain in the life of President Joseph F. Smith — His life and words forceful and powerful — An erecter of standards and respecter of law — Few could equal his record of service — As a father and husband, he had few, if any equals — He was a home-builder — As a preacher of righteousness, he held first place among us — His was the strength of being clean and he abhored impurity and evil habits — His main influence for good upon the thousands who heard and loved him.  
  
I can hope, at best, to make but little contribution to the splendid eulogies that have been paid to our late President. I do not hesitate, however, to respond with some little feeling of satisfaction as well as trepidation to the call which gives me the opportunity of acknowledging, in some measure at least, my obligation to President Joseph F. Smith, a debt of gratitude to him that I feel I cannot express, and I can scarcely ever hope to repay.  
  
I believe that every man and every woman requires an ideal. President Smith was my ideal in so many respects that I have a very large obligation to him for the leading of my life and for the inculcation of the principles which have controlled it. He was my ideal in nearly every respect. He so embodied in his life the great principles which I hold dear that he gave them a significance and a meaning and a tangibility that they could have had in no other way. I believe that he was the greatest living exponent of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that we have known, at least in our day and generation. So perfectly, indeed, did he incorporate into his life the great principles to which he dedicated himself and his effort, that those principles were vitalized and made plain and sacred in his living, to an extent seldom achieved in the life of any man. When I think of the great principle of faith, I immediately think of the manner in which that principle was made plain and tangible in the life of President Joseph F. Smith. He was the very incarnation of faith. He made faith a plain, livable principle of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That great principle which is at the foundation of all religious life radiated from his very person. When you heard him bear testimony of the truth and give expression to the faith that was in his soul, you never doubted, not for a moment, the truth of that which he felt and that which he spoke. It seemed so perfectly plain to him that he in turn could make it plain to others.  
  
When you think of the other great principles of the gospel — repentance, the Word of Wisdom, and prayer, and other fundamental truths, you cannot dis-associate those principles from the life and attributes of Joseph F. Smith. He taught them in the one great way that all great principles of truth must be taught, in order to be effective in the lives of men, by living them. Great as were his words, potential as was the great message that he always had to bear to the people, his words and his message were never so forceful or so powerful as was the sermon of his life and his works. Above all other men that I have ever known he adhered to the very letter of the law of the gospel. With him there was no deviation from truth. As has been well said, he could never compromise with sin in the least degree, and yet he was possessed of that marvelous faculty of being kind and considerate and compassionate with the sinner, but uncompromising and intolerant with and of the sin. He would never deviate from the strict path of righteousness. And yet to those who had sinned, he held out more of hope and mercy, of encouragement in repentance, more of kindness, more of sympathy and true love than most any other man I have ever known.  
  
President Smith possessed that rare combination of upholding all the laws and standards of the Church and of the gospel, and at the same time extending the hand of helpfulness to those who needed help. Such were his remarkable traits of character that he was indeed a friend to every man, and a truer, a juster, a kinder man, and more considerate friend, has never graced this earth than our late President. His friendship was of that fine quality that always led his friends up, and never under any circumstances encouraged them to do that which was not in accordance with the truth and the law of the Church and the gospel. Every man who really knew him, loved him. Those who did not know him came to love him as they became more intimate with his real motives, and as they understood better the high principles for which he constantly stood. I believe that Goa so mixed up the elements in him that he was able to stand all of the temptations, all of the distresses, all of the sorrows and joys of life in a manner that has no parallel among our generation.  
  
Bishop Nibley, I think it was, standing at his grave, said he was the greatest man in the world. I believe that he was. I believe that from every standpoint he came more nearly measuring up to the stature of a man made in the image of God than any other man on God's footstool. It means a great deal to us. I recognize the fact that in our admiration and love we are apt to be extravagant in our praise and in our tribute, but I think that it is only the truth to say that there are no greater men than our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith.  
  
I care not from what angle you view his life. If you will consider his life and his public career, as a public teacher of the people, as a servant in the cause of humanity, there are but few who could equal the record of service that he has made. Indeed, so devotedly did he work for the welfare of the state, for the welfare and the uplift of his people that during the greater poition of his life he gave his whole effort to the good of the common cause.  
  
I think it was President Grant who said the other day that not until long after he had been made the President of the Church did he ever occupy any business positions that brought personal emolument to him. All that he had and all that he was he gave to the people. He believed in service. He believed in that devoted service which gives one's whole life to the people and so he gave his life. He was the greatest of all public servants in this, that he served the souls of men. He sought to raise the standard of living. He sought to impress the glorious principles of the gospel of truth on the lives of men and women, to raise their standards of life and to enable them to conform their lives with the principles of the gospel; and all that he could do for this cause he did do. No man could do more.  
  
As a father and a husband, as Brother Lyman has just remarked, he had but few if any equals in the history of all time. I have had the opportunity of being somewhat intimate in his homes, and know something of the love which he had for his wives and his children. I have seen the expression of that love in his homes, and have seen the love that he gave reciprocated in the hearts and the actions of those who loved him. Indeed, I never knew a man who had a stronger love for his home than did the President, and I never knew a man whose family loved him more than did his wives and his children. I have seen him go about among his homes, and he had a large family as you know, when at the close of a day his powers were well nigh exhausted, when he had worked from early morning until late at night, go from home to home to plant the loving kiss of a father upon his children and his wives in recognition of the great love that he bore them. And this love was the bond that bound them to him and to each other; and I think it may well be said in truth and with propriety that there are no finer families in all the land than the large, splendid family of Joseph F. Smith.  
  
He was a home builder. In this respect as in other respects he has set a glorious example to the world. He has taught that good homes are at the foundation of all that is best in life; that the nation itself can never hope to accomplish and achieve its great destiny unless the homes of the people are right; that the home is the foundation of society; and he set the example by making a home from which good citizens came, from which Latter-day Saints came, where could be found always the spirit of the gospel, and wherein are taught the things of God, and wherein are practiced deeds of righteousness. So that in his public life and in his private life he was the great exemplar of the truth of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He vitalized those principles, by living them. He made it plain for men and for women, that they can live the principles of the gospel individually. He taught them that the beauties and the glories of the kingdom of God are to be had by those who will conform their lives to the commandments.  
  
As an advocate of truth, it has been well said President Joseph F. Smith was well nigh without an equal. As a preacher of righteousness he held first place among us. His burning words have entered the hearts of those who have sat under his voice and have stimulated them to higher deeds and to better Iives. Why, I have heard his voice ring out under the inspiration of God, in those majestic tones of his, in such a manner as to fairly raise the audience from their seats. You could well imagine men and women rising to their feet as he expounded the glories of the kingdom and cry, "Glory to God" for the way in which he expounded the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ.  
  
He was not a learned man in the ordinary acceptation of that term. He had not attended schools and colleges and universities, but he was learned in the great school of experience. He was truly educated. All the latent faculties that God had given to him had been developed and had been augmented until they had reached the very full measure of their power, and that is real education. That is real training. He was truly cultured, truly refined, a gentleman of the highest type and order. All his thoughts and his speech and his life were clean and wholesome and uplifting.  
  
I think perhaps one of the predominant traits of his life was his absolute cleanliness. He was clean in body, he was clean in mind, and he was clean and pure in his soul. The strength of being clean was his. He yielded obedience to the laws of the gospel which require men to be clean and pure. He never took into his body anything that would pollute it, anything that would desecrate it. He was the most forceful of all the teachers of the Worn of Wisdom, because he lived the law all his life to the very letter, and his family lived it. He taught it. He abhored things that were impure and obnoxious to the body. He believed that the tabernacles which God has given us in which to house these God-given spirits of ours were sacred in the sight of God, and he would no more have desecrated his body than he would have desecrated the temple of the Most High. "Such was his faith, and such his belief in this divinely given body of ours. I remember how he abhored the filthy habits of drinking and of smoking, or any of the habits which did not conform to the laws of the gospel. I remember how he inveighed against them, and yet he loved men and women. And while at times he may have seemed harsh in. the condemnation of these practices and in the condemnation of those, too, who persisted in the practice of these things, he loved men and women with his whole soul. He would strive for them. He would pray for them. He would recall them from their sins and their troubles if he could. I know of no man who would have gone farther than he to have reclaimed one who had fallen. Such were his remarkable characteristics that he seemed friend to everybody at all times. I know that throughout his whole life he was pure and immaculate from sin, and just as freely yielded obedience to all the laws of the gospel, just so freely did God give to him power. Just so did God magnify him and make him great and mighty, giving him a power that has scarcely been known among our own people as among any other people, to draw men to him and to impress them with the greatness of the principles and doctrines of the gospel which he so perfectly lived.  
  
I want to say, my brethren and sisters, that I am indebted to President Joseph F. Smith for the best ideals in my life. I am indebted to him in large measure for my genuine love of the truth. I have taken the best course, that is, the best course that I have taken, in large measure because of the splendid example that he set. Never did he meet me and shake my hand without thrilling me with his own goodness and with the desire to try to emulate, in small measure at least, the splendid example that he set. Never have I seen his venerable face without being encouraged in the work of God. Never have I heard him announce the great truths of the gospel without being built up in my most holy faith. I don't know how I can hope to pay the debt that I owe to him, unless it be, perchance, to try to do the work that he loved so well and to which he gave his life and his all. I don't know how I can ever in any measure repay him for the influence which he has had upon my life, unless it be by doing the things that he called me to do, and by attempting to serve in my weak way in the same manner in which he served in his most efficient way.  
  
I loved him as a son loves a father. I was present at his home the day that he died, or at least the night before. I remember shaking hands with him, and saying what I felt must be my last goodbye to him. As I shook his hand he drew me to him, and he planted upon my lips a kiss that I can never forget. I shall try as long as the memory of that embrace remains with me to live true to the great principles which he so loved, and while I cannot do one single thing to help him, while I cannot do one single thing to add to his greatness or to the love which you bore for him, all that I can do is to dedicate and consecrate my life, my service, whatever talent God has given me, to the great cause which he loved and for which he gave his noble life.  
  
If he has helped you, my brethren and sisters, as he has helped me, will you not join with me in the very high resolve to dedicate our lives and our services to the gospel of Jesus Christ, to uphold the high standards that he upheld, and to the very close of our days to love God as he loved God, to be parents such as was he, and to love humanity with that same tender devotion and love that he exhibited toward all men? To this end, my brethren and sisters, may we devote ourselves, lending all our might, our strength and the best that is within us, I humbly pray God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 