23
Outdoor
01 06 1919
Elder David A. Smith
95
63-65

None

None

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.)  
  
My brethren and sisters. — When I look over this assembly and think of the thousands of Latter-day Saints who are meeting in the Assembly Hall and in the Tabernacle, my heart is filled with joy; yet I cannot approach this task at rib's time without a feeling of sadness. All my life, I have known President Joseph F. Smith. As a little fellow, I only saw him accasionally, and knew him best through the letters he wrote to me, as it was his custom to write personal letters to his children when absent from home And during my early childhood he was away from home on missions most of the time. Bui when at home, no father ever took more pleasure or greater delight in his children than he did.  
  
I remember when Bishop Nibley, as he has said, made it a custom to call at our home occasionally. He was almost as much a father to us as our own father, and we learned to call him Uncle Charlie. I did not know for many years that Charles W. Nibley was not my own uncle.  
  
For over eleven years it has been my privilege to be nearer, closer to President Joseph F. Smith, I believe, than any other man. Morning, noon, and night, I have been with him. Having been honored by him, having been trusted with many of his private affairs, being urged on by Bishop Nibley, who loved him and knew what work he was doing, I was finally given much of his private work to do. And when, today, in coming to this conference, I recall the fact that never before for over eleven years had he attended a general conference on this block that it was not my privilege to accompany him here and home again, you can, therefore, imagine to a small degree at least, the reason for that feeling of sorrow which comes to me at this time, for I loved him and miss him greatly.  
  
It is not because he loved me more than he did other of his boys that I was with him perhaps more than they, for President Smith had no favorites. It could not honestly be said of him that he loved one boy more than he loved another, or that he loved one of his girls more than he loved another, or that he loved one of his wives more than he loved another. As Bishop Nibley has said, President Smith was a just man, and he loved his wives and he loved his children, and tried to treat them as wives should be treated and as children should be treated — no favorites among them, and they loved him and tried to honor him. I was greatly honored, and more so than some of the others, because of the position I had been blessed with, which gave to me a greater degree of freedom, which permitted me to associate with him more and to assume part of his responsibilities, which would gladly have been assumed by any one of his children had any one of the others been placed in the same position and given the same opportunity.   
  
I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, today, in the fact that I had such a father. And O, I pray God that I shall prove worthy of such parentage. Think of the honor that has come to me: honored by you, my brethren and my sisters; honored of God, having been permitted to come through this lineage which has been so blessed of him. O, I am grateful for the blessings I have received, the blessings that I do receive from day to day, and I want to live worthy of the confidence that has been placed in me by you and by this people. I want to serve the Lord that I will be entitled to his blessings.  
  
When I look over the congregations of the Saints in their conferences, when I am permitted to meet with you in your homes and in your meetinghouses. I rejoice in that privilege, because there I always find the Spirit of the Lord. I feel it. I come away filled with it; it is that same influence that has caused you to come here today and stand for two hours; that which has caused others to crowd into the buildings, and what for? To hear the word of God, for we are seeking knowledge and strength that we may better serve the Lord. We know that just so far as we have in our hearts a desire to learn of his will, we are blessed and strengthened and are better able to carry on the work and the responsibility that rests upon us as Latter-day Saints, and I pray sincerely that I may have an interest in your prayers, in your faith, the sustaining influence of which will enable me to do that which is required of me, that I may better uphold and emulate the noble example which has been set me by my beloved father.  
  
May God bless us all is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus.  Amen. 