26
Outdoor
01 06 1919
Elder Melvin J. Ballard 
1
67-73

None

The choice of President Smith as leader of the Church a remarkable evidence of the truthfulness of the work — Testimony of his noble character and work — The tremendous influence of two mothers contrasted — The mantle of President Smith has fallen upon President Grant.  
  
There is no task that I have been asked to perform which gives me greater pleasure and more real happiness than on this memorial day to speak of our late beloved prophet-leader, President Joseph F. Smith, whom, like my brethren who have preceded me, I love with that same love and affection I had for my own father — for he was a father to me and to every man and woman who became acquainted with him who loved the Lord and sought to keep his commandments. I bear witness that President Smith was a lover of such men and women.  
  
The selection of President Smith to. preside over this Church, as in the case of his predecessors, is one of the remarkable evidences of the truthfulness of the work called "Mormonism," that God is in it, that his hand has been over this work and guiding the destinies of this Church, and he is indeed the source from which light and truth and knowledge have come to the men who have directed the affairs of this Church.  
  
I recall many years ago being in the city of Nauvoo, attending a celebration of newspaper men of the state of Illinois, in that city. The representative of one of the leading newspapers of that state was giving the history of the city of Nauvoo. He told of its growth until it became a city of twenty thousand people when Chicago was only a small village and St. Louis on the south was only a trading post. He told of the prejudice that inspired the hearts of those who drove the Latter-day Saints from Nauvoo, and how Nauvoo had gone down until it had but twelve hundred souls and not a railroad yet. He told of the vandalism that prompted the burning of the Nauvoo temple, and that even while the blackened walls of that temple stood, the steamboats stood half a day at the wharf to allow passengers to come and view its ruins. And then he told of the travels of the Latter-day Saints in their pilgrimage across the plains to these valleys of the mountains, how they had made the desert to blossom as the rose; and said, "Maybe God likes the 'Mormons' better than he does bigots and vandals, if not, why doesn't he give the inhabitants of Nauvoo better evidence that it was all right to drive the 'Mormons' out?"  
  
I felt as I listened to his utterances, that any man who would follow this Church, and become acquainted with its leaders must be blind indeed if he cannot see that a power greater than man's has attended it and the men who have led and directed it.  
  
From the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith until this hour, I feel there are evidences of the wisdom of an allwise and overruling Providence in the selection of the men who have stood at the head of this Church, and it is manifest in the result of their administrations. Where could we have found a man like unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, who could have done the work that the Prophet did in receiving the revelations of God — naturally a spiritually minded man, a prophet selected from beforehand, even as in ancient days.  
  
It might also be said of each one of these men down to the present prophet of, the Lord, Heber J. Grant, ordained prophets before they came into the world; God knew them; he selected them for their hour and for their time, took them through a schooling of experience, of trial and hardship and preparation, each to be his mouthpiece to reveal the truths of the everlasting gospel, the organization of the Church, the doctrines of the Church, as in the case of the Prophet Joseph; or his prophetleader, Brigham Young, whom he had in schooling, as we heard this morning, and in training and preparation to accomplish the great pilgrimage of the Latter-day Saints into these valleys of the mountains; and likewise the men whom God raised up thereafter, each in his turn the man for the hour, and the Lord was with him, and the Lord has been with our late President Joseph F. Smith — we are all witnesses to that.  
  
I recall my early recollections of President Smith with a good deal of pleasure — because I admired him, he was to me my ideal, I tried in my life, as I became acquainted with him, to be as he was. I knew as a child, for the Lord revealed it unto me, that President Smith would some day preside over this Church; and in connection with that I saw many things that President Smith would do; and when, last October, he stood before the congregations of the Saints, feeble and weak as he was, my soul was filled with great sorrow, because I knew that all that the Lord had for President Smith to do had been done. That which I saw as a child was fulfilled, finished, completed. And yet there was a feeling of great regret that we should soon have to part with him and let him go on to the work which the Father has prepared him to do in that realm where he is now.  
  
It was my privilege, I presume, to deliver the last public address that President Smith ever listened to, being the last speaker of the last Conference of the Church. And I recall, as I had concluded, he grasped my hand and pressed it and gave me a blessing that I shall not forget, for my whole soul was thrilled with his blessing and with his love.   
  
I bear witness that he was a man who loved the souls of the children of men in the world — not only those who belong to the Church; for no man has done more, than he, looking toward the establishment of the work of the Lord among the nations of the earth. He has builded more meeting houses in the mission field, and mission headquarters, than in the rest of the years of the Church put together. His heart was in the preaching of the gospel, and so he lent himself to uphold and sustain those who were engaged in this work.  
  
His coming into the world was at a time when his own father and his own uncle the Prophet, were incarcerated in a foul dungeon, with chains forged upon them by a blacksmith, condemned to be shot, confined in this condition for the gospel's sake, held as hostages for the Church, a ransom for the balance of the people that they would leave the state of Missouri; the father, Hyrum, was separated from his beloved companion, the mother of Joseph F. Smith; and under these conditions, Joseph F. Smith was born into the world, without a father's love and protection for the mother of the child; there was one occasion when the enemy ransacked, as they were accustomed to do, the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and invaded the home of Mary Fielding Smith, the mother of President Joseph F. Smith; and in their anxiety to find treasure, tumbled bedclothes over and finally succeeded in almost exterminating the life of President Smith — for he was buried under bedclothing when rescued by his mother after the invader had left their home. The boy was so black that life was almost extinguished, but the hand of the Lord was over him; from that moment the Spirit of the Lord attended him in the midst of trials, in the midst of vicissitudes, and has preserved his life marvelously to complete that which the Lord had in store for him to do.  
  
And I thought of him as a child. How few boys would have shown the courage, the manhood, that he did, while scarcely eight years of age, driving a yoke of oxen part way across the plains, and then when a little over nine years of age, in 1848, driving two yoke of oxen the entire distance from the Missouri river to these valleys of the mountains, taking a man's part. But as I have thought of it, I know what was in President Smith's heart. He did not take the credit unto himself. A very large part of that credit shall forever belong to his illustrious mother, Mary Fielding Smith. He often said it, and I know if he were here today he would be delighted to have these words of praise spoken of that good woman who was his inspiration in his childhood.  
  
I have thought of it in connection with the sorrowful experiences that came into the life of the descendants of the Prophet Joseph Smith — you remember that the catastrophe that took away the Prophet Joseph Smith also ended the career of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, the father of President Joseph F. Smith; and the wives of these two men were shocked to be thus bereaved of their support, their loving husbands, the fathers of their children; and then the persecutions did not end with the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, but centered on the Church, and in those perilous times, seeking to find an asylum, a home for the Saints in the place appointed by the Lord, and unto which the Prophet Joseph said they would go, President Young started to lead the Latter-day Saints to these valleys of the mountains. I remember listening to the testimony of a daughter of Samuel H. Smith in the city of St. Louis, many years ago, to the effect that during those days President Young sent an invitation to Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet Joseph, to furnish conveyance for herself and children, and provisions and means to take them to the mountains, but it was refused, and Emma would not come with the Latter-day Saints. But I never read in any of the histories where Mary Fielding' Smith received such an invitation; but rather on her own initiative this woman gathered up her children, made the trip clown to St. Louis, purchased provisions and equipment, financing herself, with the help of her brother and made the journey to these valleys of the mountains. Surely she had love and good fellowship and support of the brethren, but I contrast the action of these two women. I do not wish to say one disparaging word of Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet, for she went through much affliction, and much did she do for the comfort of the Prophet and the building up of the work of God; but the blow that fell upon her in the death of her husband, and the weakness of the flesh exhibited in that hour, were more than she had the courage to endure, and so she faltered, she weakened, and fell by the wayside, and took her children off with her.  
  
I have thought of what a tremendous influence the example of these two mothers has had. On the one hand Emma has turned all the posterity of the Prophet through herself and the Prophet away from the Church — aliens to the truth that God has revealed and established; while Mary Fielding Smith turned at the very fountain of that stream the posterity of her illustrious husband, Hyrum Smith, into the channels of the Church, into the truth; and here they stand a mighty host, increasing, and will continue to grow as the generations come.  
  
When the President was taken away, in the imaginations of my own mind by the enlightenment of the Spirit of God that came to me, I saw President Joseph F. Smith received on the other side. Tongue cannot tell the joy that was in Hyrum Smith's heart when he received his beloved son, Joseph F. Smith. Joy beyond expression was in the heart of Hyrum Smith when his true, tried, noble, and God-fearing wife, the inspiration, the protection of her son Joseph Fielding — came to him.  
  
I thought of it in contrast to the feelings of the Prophet when his son and his wife Emma came. His must have been a sorrowful greeting.  
  
All honor to Mary Fielding Smith, the mother of the boy Joseph F., who, in his tender years turned him right, led him into the paths of truth, started him on the way. And then all honor, and credit to the sterling character of that noble man of God who did follow the footsteps of his father and his mother and wavered not.  
  
He was not privileged to obtain an education like others, nevertheless he was a student, and I do not think that a man ever preached the gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints more eloquently, used better language, more perfect and choice and finished, than President Joseph F. Smith. I remember, following an address he delivered in Portland at the dedication of our church several years ago, a prominent lawyer in Portland, himself an orator, said, "I have never heard a finer utterance from a man than President Smith delivered." "Why," said he, "you must be a lawyer, for you arranged your argument — everything was done in such a logical way, most convincing." He was an all-round educated man. As a citizen in this city, he has left his mark, that will never be effaced. I am told that it was through his influence more than any other man's that Liberty Park belongs to this city. When he fought for that blessing to the people, he stood almost alone, but won out.  
  
There was a time, as President Grant remarked this morning, when men doubted the financial ability of President Smith, schooled in poverty, knowing the burden of debt. Yet the Lord had prepared him to come into the Presidency of the Church during its most prosperous financial period, to take charge of the affairs when it would require men of great financial ability, looking at it from a human point of view, to succeed. But he had it — God-given financial ability came to the prophet; he had the inherent qualities and the willing spirit, listened to the voice that prompted and directed him, so that he had to do with the finances of the Church during its most prosperous period, and handled, I presume, more funds of this Church than all the other presidents put together; and the Lord at the same time blessed him, as has been remarked, to be the greatest preacher of righteousness of this dispensation. It does seem marvelous what the Lord has done. President Smith's wisdom in financial affairs excelled all his companions for he was guided by the light of the Lord.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I have no doubt but that President Smith is busy and active. How I want to live to go where he is! I do not care whether the streets are paved with gold, whether there are diamonds and jasper in the walls. I do not care what kind of place it is. If I can go where President Smith has gone and be with him land men like him, it will be heaven to me, I want to be there.  
  
I realize that I cannot come there by wishing, but that I must follow the example of men like President Smith if I shall ever come to be associated with them; and so his life is like an anchor sent out from that world to which he has gone, to my soul, and I hope it shall be to all the Latter-day Saints, pulling us, beckoning us, calling us unto that realm to which he has gone, where he will be honored, as are those with whom he is associated.  
  
I want to say to you that this generation, who did not receive the Prophet Joseph Smith, who have not listened to the testimony of President Joseph F. Smith and the elders of this Church, shall yet hear them and honor their names and receive from them the message of the everlasting gospel in the spirit world, or they shall never be saved. God said in the beginning, that this generation should hear the message of this gospel through the men to whom he revealed himself. Men and women who die shall not see Peter, they shall not look upon the face of the Redeemer of the world, they shall not have Paul to come and visit them; but they shall have the elders of this Church, whom the Lord sent to them in the earth; and they shall receive this gospel from none other, for the Lord will vindicate them, and he will have them honored. He will not discredit them. And when they go to the other side, we shall find standing in places of honor; representing the Lord Jesus Christ, men like President Joseph F. Smith, who will be given greater authority and greater power than they ever had upon the earth. He is not shorn of anything because he is gone from this world. The place and position which belongs to him is one of greater presidency, greater influence and power and authority than he has ever had in the earth; for over there are countless billions of our Father's children who are receiving this gospel and they shall come under the administration of the elders of the Church who have been faithful; and presidency and power and authority shall belong to President Smith forever and ever, among the redeemed and the sanctified in the eternal world.  
  
I bear witness to you that the mantle of the Prophet has fallen upon his successor, President Heber J. Grant. I am a witness of this. I know that he is a prophet of the living God, and the Lord has raised him up. The Lord has had him in schooling and in training, so that he will be a wise and prudent man, a true successor of President Joseph F. Smith; and in the heart of President Grant is the spirit of humility and of faithfulness and of devotion to the Lord; and the inspiration of the Lord rests upon him, that is my witness; and the Lord will use him. He will not do just exactly what President Smith did — there was a day of material progress and of enlarging the boundaries of the Church, a time of material prosperity and growth for the Church and for the membership of the Church, all of which was right and splendid, and conducted successfully; but the time has come when the Church must also grow spiritually, and must return with greater devotion to the standards of our fathers, to the true and living God and the keeping of the Word of Wisdom, in the payment of our tithing, in saving our prayers, in seeking to discharge the great responsibility that rests upon us to carry the gospel to the nations of the earth, and ceasing to excuse ourselves because we are financially involved or because we have been once — and sending our boys in our stead. We must go ourselves, even as President Smith did. He never stopped or hesitated or said that he would have to be excused because he was indebted, but went at each call; and we must get that spirit again, for the hour of preaching the gospel once again to the nations of the earth has come, where thousands will be needed to cry, after this day of chastisement, repentance to the nations of the earth. And it shall not surprise me if the chief characteristic of President Grant's administration shall be the spiritual awakening and growth and progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
As we followed President Smith, let us follow our leader today. He is the spokesman of the Lord. The Lord has his program to work out; and so far as I am concerned, and I hope It shall be true of every member of this Church, we shall be willing to listen to the voice of the leader today. All honor to the leaders of the past. They filled their niche, their place, their station, completed their work. But the work of God is not finished in the earth. It has only partly completed what God ordained it to do. And those of us who remain must seize the banner and carry this work off victorious, to glorify the names of those who have been identified with this work in the days that are past, and to receive honor and place and position with them in the eternal world, and vindicate the word of our Father in his blessings and promises to those who would enter into sacred covenants to keep the commandments of the Lord.  
  
I rejoice to be identified with this work. In my soul I am thankful for a standing in this Church. I feel my weakness in appearing before the Latter-day Saints in the responsibilities that have come to me. When President Grant informed me that it was the will of the Lord, and that the brethren had approved of that decision, that I should become a special witness for the Lord Jesus Christ, I was overwhelmed, because I did not feel that I was worthy of any such thing; and I answered him that if I believed that I could be worthy to be a special witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, an apostle, it would be the happiest hour of my life; for I look upon it as the highest honor that can come to a man on the earth; but my standard of what kind of men they ought to be was so great, so far above what Lam, that I did not know if I could measure up to that standard or not; but if the Lord wanted me, as I had sung, and as I had tried to live, —  
  
I'll go where he wants me to go,   
 
I'll say what he wants me to say,  
 
I'll be what he wants me to be;  
  
and if the Lord was willing and the brethren would be patient with me, then with all my heart, mind and soul, I would try to be the kind of man that the Lord wanted me to be, and fulfil this calling, not as a master, but as a servant of the people; not that I am any better than thousands of my brethren, but just because the Lord sees something in me that he can use at this time, and I am willing that he shall use it- to the glory of his name.  
  
God bless and sanctify this conference and this gathering, that we shall keep in our minds the noble example of our illustrious leader who is gone, that we may to the close of our lives be as true as he was, to the truth, and find, as I am sure we shall, salvation in the kingdom of God with him and with all the faithful who have gone before, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 