27
Morning
02 06 1919
President Heber J. Grant 
10
74-76

None

None

From the annual reports for the year 1918, we have compiled some information that I believe will be of interest to the Latter-day Saints:  
  
STATISTICS.  
  
During the year 1918, there were 14,761 baptisms and 15,963 children were blessed. There were 5,752 deaths, which is the largest number on record for any year. Of this number, 1,054 died of influenza and 862 died of pneumonia.  
  
MILITARY.  
  
Over 20,000 members of the Church were in the military service of the United States and its allies at the close of the year 1918. Of this number, 383 died in the service. We should have been allowed not less than twenty chaplains and we made application for permission to furnish our quota, but for some reason, unknown to us, we were only allowed to furnish three chaplains, two of whom saw active service at the front in France.  
  
PRIESTHOOD.  
  
There has been a better attendance of the priesthood at the ward weekly meetings but there are still 9,078 persons who hold the priesthood whom the Bishops report are willing to labor but have not been assigned to any duties in the stake or ward.  
  
TITHES.  
  
There has been a considerable increase in the amount of tithes paid for the year 1918. The tithing has been well handled by the Bishops. Very little loss has been incurred, except through the failure to find a market for the large potato crop of the year 1917.  
  
TEMPLES.  
  
There were 175,525 baptisms for the dead performed in the temples, and. there were 78,001 endowments for the living and the dead. The Hawaiian Temple is now practically completed at a cost of about $200,000.00. The Cardston Temple is nearing completion and will cost, when finished, about $600,000.00.  
  
SACRAMENT MEETINGS.  
  
In consequence of the quarantine and conditions prevailing during the epidemic of influenza in the latter part of the year 1918, the attendance at Sacrament meetings has fallen off and the visits of the ward teachers have not been as regular as in other years.  
  
FINANCES.  
  
The following are some of the expenditures paid out of the tithes and other Church funds during the year 1918:  
  
There has been expended for assisting the worthy poor . .$ 279,244.30  
  
For missionary work, and building of meeting houses in the missions, mission houses and return fare of Elders. 345,761.51  
  
For the maintenance and operation of the Church school system, including the erection of new school buildings . . . 695,561.70  
  
For the maintenance and operaiton of the St. George, Logan, Manti and Salt Lake Temples .... 170,000.00  
  
For the construction and equipment of the Hawaiian and Cardston Temples. . 340,036.17  
  
For the erection of meeting houses (This does not include donations for the same purpose by members of the respective wards) . . . 288,766.76  
  
For the maintenance of stakes and wards in all their various departments 526,002.91  
  
$2,645,373.35  
  
Attention has been called to the fact that the work which the Pioneers did in planting trees and in beautifying homes, farms, ward meeting houses, schools and other buildings, is being sadly neglected in the Latter-day Saint communities. Our advice and counsel to the Latter-day Saints is to plant more trees, to get the best kinds adapted to each locality and grow them wherever they can be grown.  
  
In my remarks here yesterday I referred to the comments of a gentleman from St. Louis, who makes a specialty of parking and beautifying cities, and who stated that we are not living up to the very splendid record made in this particular by the early pioneers. A gentleman remarked to Brother McMurrin, on one occasion, that our whole city is a park, and it would be indeed a park if we carried out the advice given in early days, by President Brigham Young and others, that we should plant trees in the vacant spaces in front of our homes.  
  
As stated yesterday, I had the privilege of attending the Semi-centennial Celebration of the completion of the Union and Central Pacific Railroads at Ogden, and regretted that a report was not taken and published of the speeches of four officials of the Southern Pacific Railroad. I have just received a letter from one of the speakers, Mr. J. M. Fulton, enclosing a short extract from his address, on which I had personally complimented him. I desire to read this extract, in order that it may become part of our proceedings:  
  
But we all do, and must, remember that before either survey or construction of the Central or Union Pacific Railroads had commenced, a hardy, thrifty, industrious, God-loving people had shown that the desert, from the Missouri river to Utah, could be conquered. They were the pioneers who blazed the trail to where we now are, and it is they who have made of Utah what it is today, but in my judgment, they did not then, do not now, conceive of the great future that lies before them.  
  
We find in this Valley, a vast production of sugar-beets, grains, fruit, livestock, and everything that man needs, and the blessing is that there is a home market for all that is produced. You have vast sugar factories, flour mills, canning plants, and your splendid meat packing establishment, all standing ready to take from the farmer for cash all that he produces.  
  
This cooperation will surely make of Utah a great and rich land. Nowhere else in the world do I know of such helpful cooperation between the producer and the manufacturer as shown in Utah, nor have I ever known a more hospitable people. It is the blood of those brave men, whom we all revere, who, for their love of God, dared the desert and sought a new land, who are now building and will soon make of Utah one of the greatest states of the Union. Even now, Utah manufactured commodities are finding a market in nearly every state, and in many foreign lands.  
  
And now, in conclusion, I want to say to you that on this day you are driving a Spike of Gold into our hearts that will stay put, and we hope so worthy a people as you have a similar feeling for us.  
  
The chief engineer of the Southern Pacific Railroad, Mr.Wm. Hood, delivered a magnificent speech upon that occasion, paying one of the finest tributes to the pioneers that I have ever heard. I regret exceedingly that the enterprise of our newspapers was such that we only had pictures of the procession, page after page, but nothing I of the very splendid remarks that were made.  