38
Afternoon
02 06 1919
Elder John L. Herrick 
53
103-105

None

None

(Retiring President of the Western States Mission.) 

If it were possible, I feel more today the need of your faith than I did when I occupied this stand in a like capacity a little over ten years ago. In many ways we have realized the truth of the words of our Lord and Master in saying: "And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life." What we failed to receive, I have faith that we will receive, and the blessings of the Lord will come to us in such measure as we deserve. Not in a material sense have we increased an hundredfold — for I have been connected with no business during that time, other than mission work, but in divers ways, we have been the recipients of such blessings that it is beyond my power to describe. I entered upon the duties of a mission, under a blessing from President Anthon H. Lund, and I acknowledge to you today that I have received the blessings that he promised at that time. I acknowledge also to you that the blessings that were promised to my wife have been more than realized upon her head; and next to the inspiration that has come to me, through the ministration of Christ, the efforts of my wife have been one of the greatest sources of support and helpfulness. "Life will give us back whatever we put into it," said a prominent writer. "In many ways, it is like a bank. Put joy into the world and it will come back to you with compound interest; but you cannot check out either money or happiness unless you have made deposits. If you put in joy and love, unselfishness and a little laughter and faith, they'll all come back some day."  
  
I need hardly go into details at this time, to tell you what we have accomplished in the Western States mission, and I think it is not looked for. Suffice it to say that we have increased the population nearly four times, and the receipts about ten times. In turning over the mission to our sucsessor, President John M. Knight, we can only hope that he will find there a responsive chord in the hearts and the minds of the people. I believe he will find the going comparatively easy, although I am sure that from now on we may look for greater success in the mission fields, than ever before. I confidently look for it. I believe the time is at hand when men of understanding and men of power and influence will go forth in full purpose of heart, and in the authority of God will bring untold thousands to a knowledge of the truth.  
  
I acknowledge with deep gratitude my connection with by brethren, the mission presidents. It has ever been a source of joy and of satisfaction to labor with them. They are men of God and whether they remain in the field or go elsewhere, my prayer and my good wishes shall always be with them.  
  
I regard highly and am deeply grateful for the association that I had with the late President Joseph F. Smith and his associates, his counselors, and I am no less grateful for even a brief association with those who have been chosen to succeed him. This work will go on. The man who stands at the head of the Church today is the appointed of the Lord, and he will lead this Church with just as much wisdom as the first prophet in the last dispensation, according to its needs. These men who have been selected for the Council of the Twelve are all wonderful characters, and I feel it a compliment to the missions that one of their number has been chosen to be an apostle in this day.  
  
I bear you my witness to the knowledge that has come to me of the divinity of this work. It is truly the Lord's work. His servant, Joseph Smith, was divinely called, divinely inspired, and he was led in all his acts by the wisdom of the Almighty. My testimony has grown with the months and years of service, and I do not regret one moment of the time that we have put in the service of the Church.  
  
If I may be permitted to say it; I want to refer to the overpowering thought that came to me in the last few months of our mission work, and I have not hesitated to speak of it among our people in the world; and that is that we should stand as a bulwark in defense of this nation. We should stand by him who is at the head of it at this critical period, just as we should support our leader who sits upon this stand today, and believe me I do not say it in any partisan spirit. I say it because I firmly believe that in the culmination of this great world peace conference; a League of Nations is to come and it will be a step forward in the interest of humanity — a step forward in the interest of religion. In It we can realize in a sense that we are approaching the day that we have long dreamed of and hoped for, when there should be a universal peace. God hasten the day, and let us realize the importance of this unique work. Let us resolve, if the time comes, that it needs our support, that we should cast our vote and use our influence in order that the world may be made better and safer to live in, better to live in than ever before.  
  
Grant, O Lord, blessings to this people, to thine appointed servants, and hasten the advancement of thy great work established in the world, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 