39
Afternoon
02 06 1919
Elder John M. Knight 
213
105-106

None

None

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

The testimonies that have been borne during the sessions of this conference have impressed me as I have never been impressed before. I am grateful for the fellowship that I have with you, my brethren and sisters.  
  
As I witnessed the magnificent assembly on Sunday morning, and realized that assembled on that occasion was the best body of men that could be brought together under heaven, I thanked God for my fellowship and association with you. I was grateful in my heart for the testimony of the truth that has been borne in upon my life. I was grateful unto my Father for the belief that I had in the mission of his Son, the Redeemer of mankind, and I thanked the Lord that the opportunity had come again to me to go forth to the nations of the earth and bear witness of the restored gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.  
  
It was my good fortune, in 1895, to be called upon a mission. I had desired, like the other brethren, from my early childhood to preach the gospel of repentance to the nations of the earth. My grandfather and many of my relatives had been active in the mission field. My grandfather had filled four missions abroad. I had listened to the testimony that he bore concerning the gospel, concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the other men who were instruments in establishing this work in the earth. I believed it, with all my heart, and it was my desire to proclaim that truth to the nations of the earth. I found joy unspeakable, when I first went into, the mission field, in testifying to the world that there was need of a new revelation from God, that there was need of a new prophet in this dispensation, and that Joseph Smith was that prophet. I never felt to apologize for the faith that I had in "Mormonism." It was a pleasure to testify that it came to the forefront without any apology whatsoever for its existence. It was a pleasure to invite all men to make the fullest and freest investigation of all its principles, its doctrines, its precepts and commandments, and to declare unto them that if they would have faith in God and repent of their sins, they might know the truth, and the truth would make them free.  
  
I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel that has come into my life. I know that it is true. I know that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet. I have faith and confidence in the presiding brethren of the Church. I uphold and sustain them with all my heart. I have not only rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in laboring in the ministry abroad but I have had satisfaction in laboring at home. I have had just as much joy come into my life in giving service to the cause in the Stakes of Zion where I have lived, as I received in the mission field, and I have felt that we should give service to the Church. I have fully felt compensated for all the efforts and service I have ever given to the Church. What we call sacrifice to me was no sacrifice at all, because I have been repaid for every effort that I have put forth.  
  
I shall go into the mission field in the humility of my heart, and endeavor in my weak way to accomplish the mission that is laid upon me I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have full faith in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that it is my desire to preach the gospel of repentance to the people of this generation. May the blessings of heaven attend you in all of your undertakings, and may God's choicest blessings attend the presiding authorities of the Church; may they have power and influence with the Latter-day Saints, and may we have a disposition to put into practice in our daily lives the instructions that we receive from them. God bless you, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 