4
Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder B. H. Roberts
29
20-23

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.)  
  
When the king of England dies, a herald is sent out to make the announcement, which he does in this form: "The King is dead. Long live the King." No sooner is the announcement made that the king is dead than it is followed by the other sentence, Long live the king. It is an announcement which means that though the king has just died, yet England has not been an instant without a ruler. In one breath the passing of one monarch is made known, and the all hail given to his immediate successor. That is the theory of the British constitution, that while kings may come and go, the British sovereign always is, and there is no lapse in succession to the throne. In some such way that is true of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints also. From the time it was organized by divine appointment of God there has never been a moment when there has not been a President of the Church of Jesus Christ in the earth. And although presidents may come and go in the future, my faith is that there will never be a time when there is not an immediate successor in the presidency. The constitution of the Church makes this provision.  
  
The presiding authority in the Church consists of three high priests, who constitute the presidency of the high priesthood of the Church, and also the presidency of the Church. They are chosen, upheld and sustained by the priesthood of the Church, and also by all the congregations of the Church, for all things must be done by common consent in the Church, and no officer in the Church; from the presidency thereof down to the humblest branch president in the Church can hold his place and exercise the function of his office otherwise than by the consent of the body of people over whom he is called to preside. There is none exempt from this constitutional regulation of the Church. It was so from the beginning; for although the Prophet Joseph Smith had received the keys of the holy priesthood, and God had communicated to him his mind and his will, yet when it came to the organization of the Church, and the time had arrived for him to exercise the authority which God had given him over others, he was informed that he must call the brethren and sisters together who had been baptized, and obtain their consent to organize the Church. This great question was submitted to that little band of people, the organization being effected, of course, by six members in order to comply with the law of the State of New York respecting religious organizations. The question was submitted to them, and they voted upon it, and they sustained Joseph Smith as the first elder and Oliver Cowdery as the second elder of the Church, and thus this Church by divine appointment of officers and their being sustained by the membership of the Church, was brought into existence — this great institution now known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Today we are repeating the things that were done from the commencement, and are privileged to exercise the same right in saying who it is that we will accept from our hearts to be the general authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
We stand at the point where one presidency leaves us, and another is inaugurated. I think it is fitting that we should not only have our minds drawn out towards the man who is taking on new responsibilities, viz., President Heber J. Grant, but that we should also remember in loving kindness the faithful labors of him who, so short a time ago, was the President, and very worthily the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, viz., President Joseph F. Smith. Those of us who were in close association with him and who knew him and worked with him, cannot, I think, look upon this inauguration of a new president without calling to mind the devotion, the fidelity, and the splendid administrative abilities of Joseph F. Smith, son of Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the Church, the second presiding Patriarch of the Church, succeeding the father of the Prophet Joseph, who was the first presiding Patriarch of the Church. This man Hyrum Smith was a man upon whom the Lord conferred very splendid and very great blessings, especially in regard to his posterity. Blessings and promises that had been previously pronounced upon the head of Oliver Cowdery were also gathered up and placed upon the head of Hyrum Smith and his posterity after him. And truly the blessing has been realized in the posterity of Hyrum Smith, for I think there is no other man in the Church from the beginning until now who has been more abundantly blessed in his posterity than has Hyrum Smith. He was blessed in his two sons, the late Patriarch John Smith, who for so many years was a prominent figure in our community, and known throughout the Church, many thousands of the Saints receiving patriarchal blessings under his hands. Hyrum Smith was likewise blessed, and splendidly blessed, in the person of his great son Joseph F. Smith, who for so many years devoted himself to the work of the ministry in the days of his youth, and finally was brought into the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, while yet a young man, which position he held for many years. At the inauguration of the administration of President John Taylor he became a counselor to President Taylor. He sustained the same position to President Wilford Woodruff, and then to President Lorenzo Snow; and finally he came to the presidency himself, and held that position for more than seventeen years. And under his administration the Church was truly and greatly blessed, blessed not only by the wisdom that was manifested in his counsels, but also blessed by the example of his righteous life. So that when he passed away he passed away in honor and much beloved by the people. The blessing pronounced upon the head of Hyrum Smith is not only manifested in the person of John Smith, the Patriarch, and President Joseph F. Smith, but from the loins of President Smith there came forth men and women who were highly honored in the community, and who have found place for ministry in the Church. Two of his sons have been brought into the apostolate of the Church, faithful men. One of them, Elder Hyrum M. Smith, as you of course recall, passing away about a year or more ago; but he left a name and a fame that is honored in Israel. I am glad to say that President Smith is still honored by one of his sons being sustained this day as one of the Twelve Apostles. President Smith, then, was honored in his life; and worthily represented the second Presiding Patriarch in the Church; and this succession of righteous men in the family of Hyrum Smith shows that the blessings of the Lord pronounced upon the heads of his servants are not mere words, but represent substance, represent realities. So God has magnified this family in the Church, and has especially honored this branch of it as he promised to do in one of the revelations now extant in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants.  
  
My brethren and sisters, it would not be proper for me to occupy further of your time, but I just wanted to call your attention to these few things in relation to this day in regard to the incoming administration by your legally taken votes, according to the constitution of the Church which God has established. Of course, however, Heber J. Grant has been the president in reality from the time that President Smith passed away, for when the first presiding quorum of the Church for any cause is disrupted and goes out of existence, the man holding the authority stands in the second quorum, of the Church, viz., the President of the quorum of the Twelve, and the authority to act is his until the Church can be assembled, as we are now assembled, and proceed with the organization as it has been done today.  
  
I congratulate the Church upon the noble men who have become God's representatives as the presidency of his Church in this dispensation. We this day inaugurate the seventh president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; they represent a line of men who for simplicity of life and character, for greatness of soul, for bigness of faith, for fidelity to the trust which God and the Church imposed in them, stand unparalleled in the religious history of the world. Thank God, not only for a prophet, but for all our prophets, the presidents of the Church, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 