40
Afternoon
02 06 1919
Elder Heber C. Iverson 
214
106-108

None

None

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

I share the feeling expressed by the worthy man whom I am succeeding, in his splendid address to us this morning, when he said: "Standing in the presence of my new responsibility I feel truly weak, insignificant and almost helpless." Once before in my life have I felt almost, if not wholly, as I do today. That was when, twenty years ago, I was called to preside over the ward in which I was born and have lived all my life, called as a boy to preside over one of the largest wards in Salf Lake City, and three men who had formerly been my bishops. I sincerely trust that as the Lord was good to me in that ministry, and that those over whom I presided were patient and loving and kind, that he will again be good to me and that those among whom I labor will bear with me in my weakness, with my many imperfections, and that I may find in the ministry now before me the same joy that I had in the ministry that I have just completed. I am conscious of the fact that I am following in the footsteps of a mighty man in Israel. He enjoyed, to a very marked degree, the love and the confidence of the people among whom he labored, and I do not wonder at this, for my association with him, during a few days, has endeared him to me. They love him no more than I do; my belief is that to the cause I have consecrated, in the same measure that he did, my humble ability and every sentiment of my being, and sincerely trust that God will recognize that consecration, and that he will give to me the ability and strength to do what is in my heart — my duty to my fellow men, whom I love as God's children.  
  
I have been overwhelmed, my dear brethren and sisters, with the magnitude of the work and the possibilities that lie before us. This is the hour, and we have the message for which the sorrow-stricken world is crying. Unfortunately it bears an unpopular label. If known by some other name, it might be more acceptable. An illustration of this fact was in evidence when a lady in Seattle, approached by one of our elders, in conversation, the articles appearing in the paper published there, written by Brother Talmage, were under discussion and she expressed her admiration for tho.se splendid articles — which, by the way, I want to say to you, are doing an immense amount of good — and when told that they were written by a member of the "Mormon" Church she absolutely refused to believe it. For she could not think that any such good could come out of "Mormondom." Like those of old, "can any good come out of Nazareth?" But conditions have very greatly changed. The sentiment toward our people has changed since my last mission in the state of Tennessee, in connection with my dear associate and friend, Elder George Albert Smith. When there, we found that objections to our message, and ridicule, was the rule. Now we find such to be the exception, when our elders approach those to whom they desire to deliver the message, and I am thankful for the changed sentiment. I am thankful for my association with Elder George Albert Smith in the mission field in Tennessee, and I cannot forebear this opportunity of invoking the blessings of the Lord upon him, indicating my feeling for him. Since laboring in Tennessee together we have been very close friends. Now we separate — he to go to the East and I to the West, and I sincerely pray that God will bless him, strengthen him in body, renew him in spirit, and return him to us to live many years, to continue his labors as a pillar and tower of strength in this work and an inspiration to all Israel, as he has been these many years, a most worthy son of a most noble sire — John Henry Smith. I know I voice your sentiments when I thus speak, though feebly.  
  
I am convinced, my brethren and sisters, from the articles that appear from time to time, written by eminent thinkers, that as Elder McKay expressed it this morning, all institutions of human construction have been shaken from center to circumference, during the past few years, and the so-called Christian churches — for they belong to this class, being of human origin,formed by human wisdom — are not an exception to the rule; and as one has expressed it; "Modern Christianity has been tried in the trenches and found wanting, and the experiences of the past year have proved the death of mystic Christianity." "Let us hope and pray that it may be the birth of an ethical, practical Christianity which men really believe and live." It is for this reality the world is crying — not for a religion founded upon a God that is immaterial, invisible, incomprehensible — no, but upon a God who is a reality, and with the message which the children of men need; knowing that in the language of the poet,  
  
"Life is real, life is earnest, And the grave is not its goal.  
  
Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul;"  
  
And, as Carlyle has said: "Remember that thy life is not an idle dream, it is a sacred reality, all thine own, and the only thing thou hast with which to face eternity." So, we believe in a real God, who is really our Father, as Paul has declared — "We have had fathers of the flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence" — they were real beings; there was nothing mystical about them — "should we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of our spirits and live?" He is the Father of our spirits, and he is just as real a being as was the one whom we knew and called father in the flesh. That is our message to the world. We have been criticised because we are "too materialistic." If by that our critics mean consecrated to and devoted to the pursuit of wealth and material things, primarily, we say, Not guilty. We do believe in the reality of life, in the reality of God, whose Son was the Redeemer of the world, was the Babe of Bethlehem, was the carpenter of Nazareth, was the crucified One, on Calvary's cross, and the body risen from the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea — the disciples being told to behold the prints of the nails in his hands and feet, and the wounds of the spear in his side; "Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have" — thus indicating realities in which we believe and which we know to be true; knowing that real beings, Peter, James and John conferred upon Joseph Smith the Melchizedek priesthood; that John the Baptist, a real being, conferred upon him the Aaronic priesthood. We know that these things are true; and this is our message to the world. God help us to bear it, and may the Lord bless you, my breturen and sisters. These brethren know my sentiments toward them. Every sentiment of my soul, with all its love and affection, belongs to those who lead Israel. God help them and us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 