41
Morning
03 06 1919
President Heber J. Grant 
10
109-110

None

None

I am sure that all the presidents of our missions have had the perfect love, confidence and respect, and the daily faith and prayers of all the Church leaders, as they have had mine, morning and night, for their success in the mission field, each and all of them.  
  
CONCERNING THE MISSION PRESIDENTS  
  
I regret to learn that in some sections there is a feeling that there must be something wrong or releases would not be given to the men who have labored so long, so faithfully, with such energy and zeal and with the inspiration of the Lord in the mission field. I desire to correct any such impression on the part of any of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
Some years ago it was the unanimous opinion of the Council of the Twelve that it would be fair to the men who had been many years in the mission field, to be released and to have the opportunity of returning to their homes. The Council so unanimously recommended, but further action on the matter was deferred. Soon after the death of President Smith the Twelve Apostles again recommended to the presidency the honorable release of some of the men who had spent long years in the mission field. It so happened that this recommendation was made at a meeting where President Anthon H. Lund presided, and it so happened that Brother Heber J. Grant and Brother Charles W. Penrose were members of the quorum when the original recommendation was made. So you can plainly see that it happened to be strictly unanimous with the First Presidency and all of the Twelve that we should honorably release some of our mission presidents.  
  
I want to say that they have labored with untiring zeal and energy; that they have gained not only the love, the confidence and respect of the general authorities of the Church, but I am sure from my experience in traveling in all of their missions that they have gained the love and confidence of the people with whom they have labored; and because of that intense love, which has grown up in the hearts of the people for those who preside over them in the mission field, some of the Saints have been broken-hearted over the releases that have been made. I felt that it was only fair to say this. I want to say that all of these brethren will always have a seat here and he counted as mission presidents. They have our love and our confidence. When I called for one of the brethren yesterday, he had to come from the gallery. He perhaps felt that, as his successor had been installed, this was not his place. But we expect those men always to come here. We expect to look upon them as faithful, diligent mission presidents. Whenever an announcement is made, from this stand that there will be a special priesthood meeting to which presidents of missions are invited, it will include all of those who have presided and who are now released. We want them to feel that they belong with the mission presidents and are invited. I wanted to say this much.  
  
OUR CHAPLAINS IN THE ARMY  
  
As was read here yesterday in the statistical report, we were entitled to twenty chaplains and we only have had three. Two of these chaplains — Calvin S. Smith and Herbert Maw saw active service on the firing line. I understand that Brother Smith was wounded three times, and has been decorated for bravery. He is a son of President Joseph F. Smith.  
  
In that wonderful charge of the marines, at Chateau-Thierry, which will go down in history, where six thousand, two hundred out of eight thousand men were killed or wounded, one of President Francis M. Lyman's sons, named after your humble servant, lost his life.  
  
I wish to say here that the general authorities of the Church are very grateful to General Richard W. Young who volunteered, although beyond the age limit, to accept the position of colonel in the army. He had a very excellent oversight and care of the boys from the state of Utah, and was subsequently advanced to the rank of brigadier general. Our hearts go out in gratitude to him for again offering his services to his country, as he did in the Spanish American war, when he served in the Philippines.  
  
We are grateful to Brother B. H. Roberts, who also volunteered, notwithstanding he was beyond the age limit, and did splendid service in looking after our boys, as chaplain. He gained their love and their confidence and had an excellent influence over them for good. I desire to say this much with reference to the patriotic service of these men.  