43
Morning
03 06 1919
Elder Joseph E. Robinson
79
112-115

None

None

(Retiring President of the California Mission.)  
  
"Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods, for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly, he was above them." These are the words of the Midianite High Priest, Jethro, to his son-in-law, Moses, the great law-giver of ancient Israel. Aaron's rod had budded, evolved into a serpent, ana had devoured the sacred snake of the Egyptians, their symbol of kingly power and priestcraft. The river Nile, which they worshiped as a cleanser of sin and a healer of diseases, had become a loathsome thing. Hathor and Isis, and the sacred beetle had been brought to naught by the thunder, the hail, and the plague of lice and flies. The frog which was supposed to be a purifier of water and upon which no man could tread even inadvertently and escape the penalty of death — had befouled their bedrooms, their kneading troughs, and had become a loathsome detestable plague. The great god Apis whom they worshiped in the temple at Memphis had doubtless died when the common cattle of the Egyptians died by pestilence. The great god Ra, who painted the flowers and ripened their harvests, had been darkened, and then Osiris himself, the god of life, was put to shame when the first-born among the Egyptians had been brought to death. When these things were related by Moses to his father-in-law, he declared, as I have read to you: "Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods."   
 
I can say, after nineteen years in the mission field: "Now I know that God is greater than all gods." I have seen the sick healed, the paraletic to leap with joy, the lame to walk, the eyes of the blind to see and the ears of the deaf have been opened, and angels have ministered to the sons of men. The prisoner has been visited and, when worthy, set free. The sick have been comforted, the dead have been properly cared for. The froward and untoward of our youth, and their elders, too, who have left the body of the Church and have drifted Sut to the Coast to get away from themselves, and people, have been felt after and constrained to follow again in the paths of virtue and truth, and God has wonderfully magnified the weak things of the earth, his servants, the brethren and sisters engaged in the ministry.  
  
I welcome the respite tendered me by my release. I have interests at heart that need my direction more than the affairs of the mission field. Therefore, I am glad to come home to my loved ones, to come home where the House of God is builded, that perhaps therein I may have the chance to labor for my sacred dead. I am glad to come here where I may sit under the droppings of the sanctuary and be chastened in judgment and instructed in words of life and salvation by those men whom God hath chosen, and set at our head to direct the activities of his people and to shape the destiny of his Church.  
  
I am grateful and thankful for him who has been appointed to succeed me in the mission field, a man whom I have loved so long, and unto whom God has given such a wondrous testimony that few ever stirred my soul as his testimony has moved it in times past. I feel that he will be kind to my faults, and that he will magnify what virtues I may have possessed in my presidency. It is delightful, it is gracious, my brethren and sisters, to be freed of the great responsibility that rested upon me, and to be one with you again. When I went into the field — and I may be pardoned perhaps for speaking half personally for once, as I am not wont to do it — but when I went into the mission field there were less than six hundred souls, about four hundred whom we knew and who were of record. I have had the privilege of seeing the work of God grow until there are five thousand enrolled; and from a few meager possessions, through the magnanimous generosity of the Trustee-in-Trust and the brethren at our head, and by the help of the faithful tithe payers among the mission Saints, and by donations that have come from goodly friends who have visited us, it has increased in properties to more than the sum of one hundred thousand dollars value. Many beautiful buildings have been erected, in which the name of God is named, and ground has been reclaimed for Zion, that the name of our Lord should be declared therein and the Saints be dealt the bread of life. So whilst there cannot help but be some heart pangs at parting with loved ones and a man's life work, still there is rich compensation in their love and confidence in their expressions of good will and blessing, as there is a recompense in the kindly words and deeds which have been shown to me and mine by those who preside over us.  
  
This is the Lord's work it does not depend on any one man. God is at the helm. He will direct our efforts. He will take care of his own; and although the sons of this generation, who know him not, may be wiser than the children of light, as the scriptures have said, God will magnify his people and their light shall shine; the Gentiles shall be brought to the gladness of its rising; and the day will come when every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus is the Christ.  
  
I have not only matured my faith in God but in his children, mankind at large. I love my Father's children. I confide in them, I trust them, many of them who are aliens to our faith and creed, but I find that they are truly the children of God. I have seen them under such conditions that evidenced this fact, that when brought to some dread extremity they realize, just as well as did Peter, when, some disciples left the Master, because of his saying of himself, that he was the bread of life, which had come down from heaven, and he turned to them and said: "Will ye also go away?" and Peter answered, "Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God." When earthquake and fire laid waste our great city of the Coast I saw not only the saint, the priest, and the nun, but the wanton with her paramour, bend on their knees and ask God to deliver them from that dread thing which they felt hung over them, which no other hand could stay. There was no comfort in the dram shop; there was no power in riches, there was no succor by the hand of man; and then for once, at least, they were all made to realize that God is over all and that aside from him there is no help and no salvation. He will speak by fire and earthquake, by pestilence and plague when necessary, and happy are they who, even when thus chastened, turn unto him and live. I admonish you, my brethren and sisters, to fight the good fight, to keep the faith, to finish the course, that henceforth for you and all those who love God's appearing, there shall be a crown of righteousness which he will bestow upon his faithful ones. I desire, above all else that I shall be found faithful and true with you; that my guerdon shall be the one of eternal life, in the presence of my Redeemer, my King, my Lord, and my Savior, Jesus Christ, and I ask it in his name. Amen. 