46
Morning
03 06 1919
Elder Nephi Jensen
215
117-119

None

None

(President of the Canadian Mission.)  
  
I hope I shall be pardoned if I tell a semi-humorous story to take the strain off my mind.  
  
A certain man, charged with a crime, presented himself at the bar of justice, and the court asked him if he had a lawyer. He said, "No, your honor." The court then said, "You are entitled to counsel, and if you cannot afford to employ an attorney, the court will appoint you one." The accused man said, "I don't think I shall need any lawyer, because I am going to tell the truth" (laughter). I think a great many of the men who have been my clients in the last ten years will have to tell the truth for a little while, or else employ other counsel.  
  
I am deeply grateful to my Heavenly Father for the confidence which the authorities of the Church have seen fit to repose in me; and I want to tell you, in the depths of humility, that I feel altogether inadequate to the task that has been assigned me. Never in my life have I been so deeply humbled. I recall that a few days after President Grant first spoke to me about this labor, a near relative of mine called me on the 'phone, and I asked her how she felt. "Well," she said, "I have got the grumbles." I told her:  "I have a burden on my shoulders now, so big, that it has crushed the grumbles all out of me.  
  
Today I feel like saying in my heart, as Elder Ballard has so frequently sung:  
  
"I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord,  
 
I'll say what you want me to say,  
 
I'll do what you want me to do."  
  
I know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. I have not obtained this knowledge from books. And yet I have lived with books for a quarter of a century. I stand here today and say with all candor that if I had to choose between forgetting the witnesses of the truth which have come to my heart through the Spirit of God, and what I have learned from books, I should gladly choose to remember that God has told my heart that this is the work of God, and forget what I have read in all the books.  
  
I was deeply impressed with the thought expressed by President Callis this morning, concerning the fact that the elders who go out to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ have been converted. I am an ardent believer in the doctrine of the conversion of the soul. A short time ago, out of curiosity, I read Ernest Haeckel's Riddle of the Universe, and I noted that in one of the closing chapters of that famous — I was about to say infamous — book the statement that one of the Greek philosophers, years before Christ ministered among the children of men, taught the Golden Rule. The skeptic, Ernest Haeckel, gave out the inference that this Greek philosopher was greater than Jesus Ghrist. I thought about it at the time, and have thought about it more since reading the book, and I have figured it out this way: The Greek philosopher, whom Ernest Haeckel mentioned, taught men how to think; Jesus Christ taught men how to pray. Thoughts may bring to us information, but prayer can lift the human heart so close to God that its evil and carnal nature will be destroyed. What this world today needs is men who fight less and pray more. What this world needs is not so much a political revolution as a heart revolution, and I believe with all my heart that there is only one thing that can put the pieces of this distracted world together, and that is the power of God.  
  
We need, in this world, what the Prophet Joseph Smith found in the grove ninety-nine years ago. On that memorable day that flaxen-haired boy stood in the presence of God and his son Jesus Christ; and when his prayer was answered, he stood forth among men a veritable king. He knew what the kings of the earth did not know. He knew what the philosophers did not know. He knew what the scientists did not know. He knew God, whom to know is life eternal!  
  
The faith that boy discovered that day is the only power that will heal this bruised world. The faith that he discovered that day is the power that will transform the human heart. The faith that he discovered that day will take out of a human heart its hatred, and put into the human heart the love of God, the one thing which will ennoble the human race and bring lasting civilization among the children of men.  
  
My brothers and my sisters, I rejoice with all my heart in the knowledge I have that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. Every time I think about the subject I am reminded of a conversation I had with one of the grandest men who ever lived. I refer to the late Jesse N. Smith, who happens to be my father-in-law. He was at my home a short time before he passed to the other side. One evening he became reminiscent. He talked about the things in this world that had made his heart glad. He spoke of Joseph Smith; and as he referred to that great man, tears came into his eyes.  
  
I said to him: "You become eloquent when you talk of the Prophet Joseph Smith." With a grandeur in his soul that I shall never forget, he said: "Why shouldn't I? It is the darling theme of my heart."  
  
God grant that it may be the darling theme of my heart and your hearts. For our greatest heritage is the faith and the truth that has come down to us from that prophet of God. God help us to appreciate this heritage — "lest we forget, lest we forget."  
  
God help us to bear the burdens which have been placed upon our shoulders. God make our hearts humble that we may have communion with his Spirit, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 