48
Morning
03 06 1919
Elder E. Wesley Smith.
216
120-124

None

None

(President of the Hawaiian Mission.)  
  
The desire of my heart is that I may have an interest in your faith and prayers while occupying this position. When President Grant informed me that I had been chosen to preside over the Hawaiian mission I was almost paralyzed; for I know my weakness, but I have faith in God, and I have a testimony that this is the work of God. I have faith and confidence in my brethren. I know that they have been called to these positions through revelation from God, and my faith tells me that God will not call any man to a position in his service and not sustain and assist him, if the man will put himself in a position to receive assitance from the Lord. I love the Lord and I love the work of the Lord. I delight in doing those things that may bring my fellow men, associates, and friends, to a knowledge of the gospel. It is my heart's purpose and desire to go into the mission field and accomplish all that is in my power to accomplish.  
  
In going out to that land, I go to a field of labor where I commenced this life. During the time when this Church was persecuted, when the leaders were under great distress on account of polygamy, my father was advised to depart from Zion together with my mother, and they went to the Hawaiian Islands. There they served in the work of the Lord with that people. They were there in distress, and it was well, under those circumstances, that I was sent to them. I appreciate the fact that I had been detained on the other side until that day when, during a time of grief and sorrow and distress, I could come into the world and gladden my father's heart. It so happened that when I came into the world I had red hair. This was something new to the Hawaiian people. As you know, they are a dark race, and when they viewed the little red head upon the pillow, they called that baby Kananiolaiekaweheweheolanihuli, which means that I was born in the home of Lanihuli at Laie on the island of Oahu; and they called me Kaweheweheolanihuli, which means the opening up or ushering in of the glory of Kananiolaie.  
  
My father was called as a missionary to the. Hawaiian Islands when he was an orphan boy, fifteen years of age, with little brothers and sisters. He departed for that journey in a company of nineteen others, riding his little pony from this valley as far as San Bernardino, California. There he labored in a mill, making shingles, sold his horse and obtained enough means to take him, with the other elders, as far as San Francisco. There they entered into an enterprise buying a boat, thinking they could rig out the same and depart for their field of labor. After they had worked for some time, and spent their means in preparing this boat, it was condemned as unseaworthy. They lost their means, they lost their time, and again they had to set about earning means to go over to the mission field.  
  
I have heard father relate many times how he labored as a carpenter in San Francisco, building homes on the sand hills there, and finally purchased passage in the hold of an old sailing vessel. The elders took straw from the manger, bedding from the mules that were being conveyed on the ship, and spread this forage upon the barrels and cargo, and that was their bed. When he arrived in the Hawaiian Islands, the natives there took kindly to him, and they adopted him. There was Napela, one of the great leaders among that nation. He called this boy to him and said: "Iosepa, my home is your home. This horse is your horse; use it." For four years he labored in that mission. He was humble and submissive. In one hundred days from the day he landed there, he commenced his mission work in earnest. He was able to converse in the Hawaiian tongue. Three months practically of this time was spent on a sick bed, suffering from break-bone fever. He learned to love that good people and they loved him. This love that was established in his heart, as a youth, continued to grow and develop until he was released from this life. It was his desire and ambition to live until he could see the completion of the temple there, and perhaps take part in its dedication, but it was not to be. Therefore, I feel honored in being called to that land, perhaps to represent him  
  
As the brethren have expressed themselves, I also feel to join in the sentiment of the song that Brother Ballard sings so well: "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, I'll do what you want me to do, and I'll say what what you want me to say."  
  
I might tell you a little concerning the Hawaiian people, among whom I expect soon to labor. Then you may understand why it was that father loved them so much. We read in John 10:16, that the Savior was preaching to the Jews, soon after he had performed a miracle in opening the eyes of the blind. They ridiculed him, made light of his teachings, and would not listen to them. He likened them unto his sheep. He told them that his sheep knew his voice; that he was the gate; that he was their shepherd. And when he saw that they hardened their hearts against him, and would not listen, for they thought they were the only chosen people in the world, the Savior told them: "And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." Then he said: "Therefore doth my Father love me because I lay down my life, that I might take it up again." "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again." When he told them: "This commandment I have received of my Father," they knew not what he meant. They had supposed that he meant the Gentiles when he said: "other sheep;" but he did not meant this. For after he had been crucified and risen and ascended to God on high, he appeared to the other sheep, whom he had mentioned — the Nephites on this continent. He displayed unto them the wounds in his hands, the wound in his side, and revealed unto them what he had said to the people in Jerusalem. He repeated unto them the words, and said: "Ye are the sheep. When I said, other sheep I have which are not of this fold, thy brothers at Jerusalem knew not what I meant."  
  
The Savior went on to relate incidents to them after the organization of the Church, after choosing his apostles in that land. Then he said: "Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; they also should hear my voice." In the 38th reign of the Judges, during the time that Zebulon was the historian, it is recorded there of a man named Hagoth, who was a curious and venturesome man, that he builded many boats, and these boats departed off into the mighty deep, and he said the people "heard not of them again." They supposed that they had been swallowed up in the deep.  
  
The Hawaiian people relate in their history a tradition that they came from Kaaina ka hiki, which means an eastern land, endeavoring evidently, as they did, to sail along the northern coast, having the ships embarked on the western coast of South America near the narrow neck of land, the isthmus of Panama. They were evidently carried by the trade winds and shipwrecked, so that they landed on the island of Hawaii. There they lived and grew and developed into a mighty people; but they dare not venture to go back again to their native land, for fear of destruction. In later years, however, they became more courageous; the Spirit of the Lord was poured out upon them, and they endeavored to return. But instead of finding themselves back upon the promised land, they again sailed westward and multiplied and populated the Pacific isles from Hawaii as far as New Zealand. The old tradition relates how the Savior appeared and ministered unto them; how he taught them righteousness and noble principles; how they saw the wounds in his hands and in his feet; that when he departed from them, it was with a promise that he would return again to rule and reign in righteousness upon the earth, to be their King and their God. They look forward to the coming of the Son of God, earnestly praying for the time when he shall rule and reign.  
  
We learn that Captain Cook, in his travels, came upon that land. He found a noble people. Though they had departed from Christianity, still they believed in God; they believed in the great God, Lono, and they thought that he, with his boat had sailed to them. They thought Captain Cook was that great God. They worshiped him and looked on him as a God, but he was guilty of wickedness and his people had the plan that had been handed down through tradition to them. His works were evil. He broke and desecrated their laws. When they saw that, they concluded that he was not the great God, Jesus, but that he was the being from the other world, the world of evil spirits. They thought he was Satan. Finally, during a parade on the isle of Hawaii, on the west coast, Captain Cook was accidentally injured, and as he uttered a shriek of pain, and they saw the blood from his arm, they knew that he could be hurt, that he was not God, and so fell upon him and slew him. We are told that they cut his heart from his body and offered it as a sacrifice.  
  
Later on, the gospel message was taken to that people. They accepted it because they knew it was true. The Lord had said : "My sheep know my voice, and when they hear my voice, they shall rejoice;" and when the Hawaiian people heard the voice of the true shepherd, sent there with the holy priesthood and the power of God, to preach unto them, they knew by that voice that it was the voice of the Shepherd. It sank into their hearts and they believed. Today you can travel over the Pacific isles from Hawaii to New Zealand, and you will find that they are all Cristians, they all believe in God. Our work now is to convert them to the true form of Christianity, and make them Latter-day Saints, that they might have a fulness of the gospel; that they might go on, learning day by day the principles of the gospel, until they shall be exalted in the kingdom of heaven.  
  
I rejoice in, the fact that a temple has been erected there, and I trust that the Lord will bless and magnify the elders laboring in that field so that they may be inspired to teach the people, to trace their genealogy, that they may be able to find their lineage, because it will be a difficult matter to do. But this work can be accomplished in the house of the Lord, and many shall rejoice and rise up and call the name of the Lord blessed.  
  
I have a testimony that this is the work of the Lord, and I rejoice to be in his service. I have labored three years in the Hawaiian Islands as a missionary. The past five years I have spent in the California mission, serving there under the direction of President Robinson. I love him; he has been a power and a strength to me. He has encouraged and blessed me. He has been to me as a father. I have been in his home and have been as welcome as if I belonged there. He has treated me as well as if I was his own flesh and blood, and he has blessed me. During time of sickness and sorrow, he has always been at my side, and I know that the Lord will bless him and honor and respect him now that he has been released, for he has made a splendid record in that field.  
 
Yesterday, in listening to the remarks of Brother McKay, when he upheld father's family as an example in the Church, I thought I would like to add a little to what he said for the benefit of parents in Zion. Sometimes I think it is a good thing for children to give counsel, for T have had good teachings all my life. I have had a father and a mother who would not permit me to go out at night, unless I would inform them where I was going and when I would return. I was not permitted to come into my home at will, at any hour of the night, but I had to give an account of myself. When I repaired to my bed, it was always after receiving a kiss from my father or my mother, and being tucked in mv bed. This was a safeguard over me and a protection. But I dare say there are many parents in Zion who fail to do this. Their children are a law unto themselves. They go here and there at will. They take automobiles, and go "joy" riding during half of the night, into the wee hours of the morning. They come in any time they desire, go to bed, and the parents never question them to ask where they have been, with whom they have been associating or what they have been doing. My father exercised a supervision over his children, and I think that is the reason why he attained the success that he did in rearing a family that respected him and loved him. It has been my privilege to associate with my father a great deal of my life. During the time I was in California I stayed with him, and was by his side. Since I was married he requested that I remain at the home, and be by his side, where I could assist him, and I have grown to love him not only because he was my father, but because I know that he was a prophet of God. I know that he was inspired of God, and I looked upon him as a prophet, and as my father. This is a little word of counsel from a boy who has had the experience of giving an accounting of himself.  
  
When this life's mission is completed, I expect to be able to meet my Father in heaven and there give an accounting of my labors in the flesh. I desire my Father in heaven to know where I am at night, and where I am in the daytime. I want him to know the company I choose. I want him to know my associates. I want him to watch me when I go to my sleep at night, and have his Holy Spirit to guide me that I may ever be found faithful, walking in the narrow path, seeking to know his will and praying for strength to do his wilt.  
  
May the Lord bless everyone of us in Zion that we may realize that the youth of Zion, our boys and girls who are growing up, will become the leaders of this Church, men and women upon whom the sponsibility will rest. Therefore, it is your duty to guide your children, to know where they are. Do not give them too much liberty. Make them give an accounting; kiss them when they go to bed at night. If your boy comes in to you with his mouth saturated with Honor or tobacco ,or with the stench of smoke upon his clothes, find out why, and cure the evil. This is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 