5
Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder J. Golden Kimball 
14
23-24

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

As stated, by President Seymour B. Young, it is desired that the First Council of the Seventy speak in memory of President Joseph F. Smith. I have known President Smith from my early youth, and have listened to his teachings, as an apostle and as the president of the Church during the greater part of my life.  
  
I remember, in the early days of my youth, of the people of this Church looking forward hopefully when the time should come that the prophecy made by the servants of God would be fulfilled, viz: that President Joseph F. Smith would become the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I can think of no man who has been president of the Church, who has had greater opportunities and advantages than he has had. President Smith was chosen and ordained an apostle in his youth. He was favored, as I remember it, by being sent on a mission to the Hawaiian Islands, when he was 15 years old. He was hedged about and privileged in associating with great men, and his life and labors were in the service of the Lord, as a special witness and an apostle of Jesus Christ. President Smith was trained, instructed, and prepared for this great appointment as prophet, seer and revelator by the greatest men who ever lived, in my judgment, in the history of the world.  
  
I am proud of the fact that I am a natural born heir, and was given birth in this land of liberty and freedom. We are not called upon to cry out, "All hail to the king." I thank God, I belong to a Church which is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It does not belong to President Joseph F. Smith, and he made no such claim, but it belongs to God the Father, and to his Son, Jesus Christ. There are no such things as earthly kings in Christ's Church. There never will be any king-men in Christ's Church. For when his disciples came to him, he tried to teach them the great lesson: whosoever will be greatest among you, let him be servant of all; and when these same apostles asked the Savior, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" he called a little child to him and said: "Except ye be converted, and become as little children ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." Joseph F. Smith was like that. He was a man of great integrity. Few men had greater integrity or greater faith. He loved God with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his might and that is all a man can do.  
  
Time will not permit me to say more. I have always honored and respected and sustained President Joseph F. Smith, and I am glad of it. But I discovered, in the time that I have labored in the Church, that he was human just like the rest of us. I want to learn the lesson, Cursed be the men who trust in man. You want to learn that lesson, if you are to be tested and meet difficulties, and you will not stumble and lose the faith. I place my trust in God, the eternal Father, and it is my business to get a clear and true conception of God, and of Jesus Christ, and to realize that these men whom we have sustained are servants of the people: they are servants of God, and we sustain them, and we uphold them. If there were no people, there would be no need of a Church, so that we all say — at least I do — God save the people. God bless you. Amen. 