53
Afternoon
03 06 1919
Elder Theodore Tobiason 
217
129-131

None

None

(President of the Swedish Mission.) 

Beloved brethren and sisters, I am pleased to have this opportunity to stand before you and bear my testimony concerning the great work in which we are engaged. It is only a short time since I came back from Sweden, and I am pleased with the opportunity of returning again, inasmuch as the servants of the Lord have seen fit to call me into the mission field. I trust that I shall be able to do some good while I am away, in bearing testimony to the restoration of the gospel of Christ, as we Latter-day Saints have received it. I am thankful for the gospel and for the Church of which you and I are members. I am thankful for the testimony which the Lord has implanted in my soul, and I know this is the work of the Lord. I know these, my brethren, whom we have had the privilege of sustaining at this conference are servants of God, called by him to stand at the head to direct his work in this dispensation and at this time. I can especially bear testimony, my brethren and sisters, concerning our beloved president. 
  
I wish to relate an incident of which I have spoken two or three times before; but I want to bear you my testimony that God has shown me that President Heber J. Grant is the right man in the right place. Some four weeks ago, in the temple of our God, at a fast meeting, the President was speaking. I was sitting on my seat, looking very intently upon him, as I do upon all speakers, desiring to hear all they say. All of a sudden, President Grant had disappeared; I did not see him, but I saw our beloved president, Joseph F. Smith, who departed this life a few months ago. I saw the mantle of the Prophet resting upon our beloved brother, and I thought that this was another testimony unto me that he was the right man in the right place. I had never doubted but what this was the case — never in the world. I know the order of the Church too well for that; but God made manifest unto me that the mantle of the Prophet had fallen upon President Grant, and he was indeed his legal and lawful successor. Several of my brethren and sisters have come to me, after I had spoken of this matter and even today, saying that they saw the same thing. I know this is true. I have heard some of the Saints tell, who were in Nauvoo at the time, or shortly after, the Prophet was martyred, how, when the Prophet Brigham Young was speaking, they saw the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith fall upon him, and they knew that he was the right man to stand at the head and lead Israel. I bear you my testimony, concerning our beloved president, that that is the case now: the mantle of the prophet has fallen upon him. The spirit of the prophet is in his soul and in the souls of those of my brethren whom we have sustained here. I can sustain them with all my heart.  
  
Some people say: "Why, you folks are foolish to spend so much of your time in the missionary field. You are imposed upon by those who preside over you." I will say this, that when the prophet of God speaks, I obey. I would not think for a moment of making any excuses or of trying to get out of any duty or work that may be placed upon me, when the Lord says so and so is the case; we desire you to do so and so.  
  
I know that the gospel is true and that it is the power of God unto salvation for all those who will live in harmony with it. I know that in the gospel is the only true freedom that can be enjoyed here on the earth. The Savior said, when many were finding fault with him, when many tried to catch him in his words, that there were some who believed in him, and he said to them: "If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." There is nothing under the heavens, nothing on the earth or anywhere else, nothing but the truth that can make men and women free. If they are made free in the truth and by the truth, they are free men indeed, and they are not slaves. It is because of this testimony that is within our souls that we know that God speaks through his servants, and we obey, not because we are slaves; no, but we are truly free men, and we know the voice of the Good Shepherd when we hear it, and strive to order our lives accordingly.  
  
May the Lord bless us, and help us all to be true and faithful. Let us never find fault, my brethren and sisters, with those whom the Lord has appointed, but let us sustain them with all our souls. If we hear anyone finding fault, let us take them to task and show them the way to go; and if we will sustain his chosen servants on earth, the Lord will sustain us; he will honor us. The Lord delights to honor those who serve him in righteousness and in truth unto the end. May this be our happy lot, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 