55
Afternoon
03 06 1919
Elder Charles W. Nibley 
24
134-138

None

None

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

I have very much enjoyed this conference and the spirit of it, and I know that the Saints will return from these gatherings with a feeling in their souls that the Lord is with his people, the Latter-day Saints, and he is still at the helm. I believe the Lord is pleased with his Church as a whole. I think that will be the opinion of the brethren and sisters who leave this conference, who have been attending faithfully at these meetings.  
  
There has run through the sermons, the addresses, the remarks of the brethren who have spoken, this thread of thought that there will soon be a great spiritual awakening in the world and a great missionary movement in the Church, which will go out from the Church and accomplish more than has ever hitherto been accomplished in its history. I believe in that thought. I have felt that spirit and influence from the day that President Grant was made President of the Church. The world begins to see what we have to give. If I were asked to state what is the greatest need of the world today, I would answer in these words: "The knowledge of God." There be lords many and gods many. Men have ideas of God and godliness in multitudinous forms; but to know the only true and living God — that is the greatest need of all the world today. It is he whom we worship; it is he whom we serve. Within this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — and only within this Church — is the key of the knowledge of God. Herein is salvation for you and me, and salvation for all the world. In this book, the Doctrine and Covenants, are covenants and commandments, doctrines and principles, which form the only league that will ever enforce peace in all the world. Herein we are told of the doctrine of obedience, and we try to follow it. We are told of the doctrine of community and social life, and we try to live according to those precepts. The government of the Church, the government of the people, the organization of the Church and of the priesthood quorums supplementing the work of the civil government, is far better and greater in every way than anything that man has ever yet known. There is salvation in it all. No man of himself can teach it. He must have the influence and the spirit of it, and there goes with this work, with these quorums of the priesthood, with these organizations in the wards and branches and stakes and missions, a spirit, an influence and a power that are of God, that man cannot give, that man cannot take away, and of which the world does not know. Therein is the key, as we are told in this book of revelation — the key of knowledge of God whom to know is life eternal.  
  
Organized under this league, this covenant, you have the true organization from the Lord which will bring peace. Oh what peace! A peace that passeth understanding. It is good for my soul; it is good for you and for all mankind. When this is established, we will have a society extending and growing where there will be no I. W. W. or labor troubles. Why? Because in this league and covenant, the doctrine is laid down that the idler shall not eat the bread of the laborer. Everyone shall work and labor according to his strength and his ability. Therein is salvation, and no salvation outside of that. We are told in this league and covenant how we shall conduct ourselves in our homes, as we heard from Elder McKay yesterday; what we shall eat, that is good for us, and what we shall drink or abstain from drinking. We are told that we shall retire early and rise early, and how we shall live, in order to prolong our lives and be strong and healthful. The Lord tells of this in this covenant; for, as the Lord says, it a man is faithful in receiving these priesthoods, and keeping the commandments of the Lord, his body shall be renewed; his strength will be renewed beyond his years, so that he shall live to be aged and strong like President Penrose and President Lund and many others that we have in our community. We are told how to regulate our family life, how to govern and control our children, and teach them how to pray. In all the affairs of life, in all the activities with which we have to do, we may turn to this book, and here find instruction. Here is guidance, here is direction, here is complete salvation, and nowhere else than here. The authority of the Holy Priesthood of the Son of God is here. The Lord whom he has chosen, and as Brother Joseph Fielding Smith said yesterday, a truth that we ought to know and remember always — that no man will ever come to the presidency, of this Church unless the Lord wants him to be there. Don't forget that.  
  
Now there is a great work to do. I ask myself: am I doing my share? In the olden times I know our parents went through great trials and made great sacrifices. In the days of the early apostles of this Church they made great sacrifices. Read of the time, in 1838 and '39, when the Lord told the Twelve to go over the great water, to go to England and establish missions. The conditions in which they left their families and the conditions under which they went, and stayed and returned, were all very trying. The sacrifice that our fathers and mothers made in the building up of this country were very great. But are you making any particular sacrifice now? Am I making any particular sacrifice? I do not know that I am. We go out to the conferences and preach here and there, we talk to the Saints; we are well cared for. We have good beds in which to sleep, and when we are hungry we are furnished the best that the land affords, for us to eat. I do not call that much of a sacrifice.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, let us ask ourselves the question, and members of this Church everywhere, how much of a sacrifice am I making for the work of the Lord today? Are you? Not very much, as a rule. There is a sister here and there, a widow woman perhaps, here and there, with her son out on a mission. She is working hard to sustain that son, she is making some sacrifice — a thousand times more than I am. Such as she are making sacrifices, but with you and me, and the rest of us, it is different, for we are not sacrificing very much. It is time that we should get it into our hearts that we, too, can make some sacrifice, we, too, can help to do something to build up the kingdom of God. There is a world to save, and herein I repeat, is the plan of salvation, and the only plan, the only salvation for the world is here in this league and covenant, which shall take in all the nations, in time. "For it shall come to pass," says one of old, "that every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess" — confess what? "Confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father." O, I hear it said sometimes: "We have warned the world." We have, have we? Why, since President Woodruff was out as missionary, and since President Penrose started as a missionary, don't you know there have been two generations of men and women who have risen and fallen since then? There is a new generation now, and freedom has come to rule the world instead of force. That is the principle that has been fought out in the Great War that is now happily closing — that freedom shall rule, and that the rule of force shah never again assert itself for any length of time in this world. The great German poet Goethe saw this clearly, for in his play, "Faust," I think it is, he states it in these words, as I recall the translation. "This ancient truth" — very ancient truth, remember, older than the world itself —  
  
"This ancient truth still holds its course:  
  
If you adopt the rule of force,  
 
And boldly seek your chosen goal,  
 
You risk your own, your all, your soul."  
  
So the rule of force, by which the German emperor sought to dominate the world, has been vanquished, whipped, destroyed; and freedom has come now to all the world. There are generations of men and women growing up who have never heard the sound of this gospel. Cannot you do something? Cannot I do something? Am I not willing to sacrifice something that they may hear this message? They are the children of my Father, my God. They are my brothers and sisters. Just consider what out Father says he sacrificed for you and for me : "God so loved the world" — do you love the world? Your son has been sent out, not voluntarily perhaps, some may have volunteered, but generally they were conscripted, but they have gone and they have offered their lives for their country. Wasn't it a sacrifice? It was, and a great one, even when they return with their lives; but God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son that mankind might not perish but have everlasting life. That is the sacrifice he made; that is the sacrifice his Son made. Are we willing, am I willing, are you and all of us willing to make any sacrifice further for this work, this great cause, this great missionary movement and effort that is upon the Church, or will be, whereby mankind may be saved and come to a knowledge of the Son of God? The key of that knowledge of God rests with you. Men may think they know him; men may try to understand him; but by and with the organizations of this Church and through the authority of the holy priesthood, the power of godliness is manifested to men in the flesh; but without this priesthood — so says this league and covenant — "without this priesthood and the ordinances of the gospel, the power of godliness is not made manifest to men in the flesh." You have that knowledge. Shall we not share it, shall we not do something and say something to spread this truth abroad? We sing and repeat the song, that we are willing to do; but how much am I doing? Not much. Doing may be according to my years and strength and ability, what I am called to do; but I am making no particular sacrifice, I don't count it so, for a moment. On the contrary, I have been greatly benefited because of my connection with the Church. The Church has helped me infinitely more than I will ever be able to help it. And I see presidents of stakes and leaders of the people in this Church everywhere who likewise have been benefited greatly because of the positions they have been called to fill in this Church. Who among us has the Church not helped? Who among us all can say that the Church has not been a foster father and a blessing in every way. So the Church has made me. Cannot I do something for the Church? The Lord has made us, and not we ourselves. Cannot we do something for him? We are not doing a great deal yet. The Lord help us to resolve anew in our hearts that by and with the help of his Spirit we will be willing to sacrifice if need be and show him that for mankind we will do something. We love his children because he loves them, even all the children of men. They are my brothers; they are your brothers; they are his children. God help us to appreciate that great fact and to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 