6
Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder Rulon S. Wells 
44
24-25

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

It is only natural that I should greatly love President Joseph F. Smith. I imbibed it from my father. He was very closely associated with my father, and my father with him in the ministry, in laboring in the house of the Lord and otherwise in the building up of the Church and kingdom of God on the earth. From my earliest, boyhood I have always loved Joseph F. Smith, and when his name was first presented no one voted more heartily than I did to sustain him as the prophet, seer and revelator of the Church and the president of it in all the world. And throughout my life I have been more or less familiar with his labors and ministry. But I will not undertake, my brethren and sisters, in the few moments that are allotted to me to speak of his great work among the children of men, but I think more of those particular labors that have had a direct influence and bearing upon me and upon my life, for I can truly say that there is no man in the Church that has exerted a greater and more powerful influence over me in my life than Joseph F. Smith. No man has so moved me from the bottom of my soul as he has done. Tears have welled up in my eyes, and my heart has been filled with joy and with the testimony of the truth under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord as it has been manifest in this great man. I have listened to him when it seemed to me that God was speaking to me direct, and the words he spoke sank so deeply into my heart that I have wondered why it was that all who heard him upon that occasion did not feel and know that the gospel is true, that they who heard it as it was proclaimed by this great man and restored from heaven through the instrumentality of his illustrious uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith, were not thoroughly converted and convinced as to the truth of it. The occasion to which I now refer was a funeral service held in honor of a dearly loved sister of mine, Emma Wells, who died in the year, 1877. He was the speaker upon that occasion. He spoke forth the words of eternal life. He explained the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There were many there, kindred and friends and outsiders, nonmembers of the Church, a goodly number; and I marveled that any one could go from that service without being convinced in their souls that he was a servant of God, and that he spoke the truth as it had been revealed from heaven. It was the plan of life and salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it has been restored in its purity. Upon various occasions he has thus filled my soul with the testimony of the truth and has exerted a power and influence over me which I hope will always remain with me.  
  
When I think of the influence his ministry has had upon me and upon my life, and then contemplate his extensive labors in this community, I have wondered how many thousands have been thus filled with joy and with the testimony of the truth. And if it be true that when a man labors all his life and succeeds in saving but one soul, great will be his joy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father, then what must be in store for this great man as he goes back into the kingdom of his Father, having labored nearly all his life in the ministry and brought so many souls unto the knowledge of the truth. I praise God for having sent such a noble spirit into the world. I thank him for his noble life, for his worthy example in this community. I thank the Lord for his labors among the people, for great good has been the results. I honor his memory today and join my brethren in tribute to this true servant of God for whom I have always had unbounded love and admiration. May his children, who have been so blessed and favored of the Lord in being born of such goodly parents, continue to enjoy the blessings pronounced upon the posterity of their martyred ancestor, Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 