7
Overflow
01 06 1919
Jos. W. McMurrin 
20
25-27

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

We have but one theme, my brethren and sisters, to dwell upon this morning. We were instructed by President Heber J. Grant, when we were appointed to come to this meeting, to devote our time and the remarks that we made to the memory of President Joseph F. Smith. I don't know just how my fellow laborers feel in approaching a task of this character. I feel that it is impossible for me to say anything quite up to the standard of the man.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, in my feelings, is one of the greatest men, if not the greatest man, with whom I have ever been acquainted. I have never been in his presence without being impressed with the feeling that he was indeed a servant of the living God, and that he was a prophet of the Lord. Thirty-eight years ago, when I was laboring as a boy missionary afar off, a brother related to me the prophecy that has been referred to by Elder J. Golden Kimball, that was delivered in the Ogden tabernacle forty or fifty years ago. I do not know just how long ago. President Woodruff declared in that prophecy that the time would come when Joseph F. Smith would stand as the mouthpiece of God. In making the declaration he invited the fathers and mothers in the congregation to write down the prediction, that their childen after the parents present were dead and gone, might read and know that God had spoken in relation to the future life of Joseph F. Smith. We are all witnesses to the fulfilment of the inspired prophecy. While listening to what has been said in this meeting, I have been impressed in much the same way as my brother, Elder Rulon S. Wells, has just stated. I have often felt, when listening to words spoken by President Joseph F. Smith, that the very word of God was being declared, and that the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost was resting upon the mouthpiece of God in a most remarkable and unusual manner.  
  
I had the very great pleasure, just about two years ago, of being one of a party invited by President Joseph F. Smith to make a journey to St. George. The brethren and sisters forming the party visited one line of settlements in going to St. George, and another line of settlements in returning to Salt Lake City. President Joseph F. Smith spoke in all of the meetings that were held, both going and returning, and notwithstanding the fact that he was under bodily ailment at the time, the spirit of his great calling rested upon him most marvelously, and he expounded the doctrines of the everlasting gospel in very great clearness. The hearts of thousands of people were made glad through his inspired teachings and testimony.  
  
I always felt in his presence that I was indeed in the presence of God's anointed servant, and always rejoiced in knowing that he was a man filled with prophetic power; and, above all else, that he was a man who had consecrated to the very uttermost his time, and talents, to the upbuilding of the kingdom of God.  
  
I believe that President Joseph F. Smith was just as true to the work of God, just as true to the Prophet Joseph Smith, just as true to his brethren in the holy priesthood as any man who' ever lived. I believe that President Joseph F. Smith accepted the wonderful mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, and understood that he was to be saved through the atoning blood of the Redeemer of the world by obedience to the doctrines of the gospel, just as fully and completely as any man that ever lived. President Joseph F. Smith, in my judgment, gave his time, and his thought, and his ability in the most unselfish manner for the benefit and blessing of the Latter-day Saints, and for the advancement of the work of God. I thank God that it was my privilege occasionally to be in his presence. I am grateful for the words of blessing that he has spoken to me individually. I thank the Lord for the impressions that have been made upon me by his splendid life. I believe those impressions are of an indelible character, and that they will be beneficial to me, and be a blessing to me as long as I live in mortality.  
  
I also thank God for the splendid family of President Joseph F. Smith. I have been very happy in my association with some of his boys, and know them to be true men. I am not closely acquainted with all of his sons. I believe, from what I know of them that they are all true men; I have had close companionship with Hyrum M. Smith, with Joseph Fielding Smith, with David A. Smith, with E. Wesley Smith. I am proud of their acquaintance. There are no better men in my judgment to be found among the people of the Latter-day Saints.  
  
God bless the family of our late President, and may the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that was always the greatest thing in the thought of President Smith, be the greatest thing in the affections of his sons and daughters, and their children, and their generations after them for ever and ever.  
  
My brethren and sisters, let us all be faithful. By good lives we can all honor our fathers. We have all had godly fathers, fathers that have been true to the work of God and to the great founders chosen to introduce it, they have ever been willing to lay down their lives if need be for the work revealed in this dispensation. I hope that not only the family of our great president will honor forever the name of their distinguished sire, but that we will all honor our good fathers, and our good mothers, and that we may all recognize and be sure of the fact that we are also enlisted in the cause of Christ, and that we will give to the full, allegiance to the Master.  
  
We are all called to be expounders of the faith of the gospel that made the men who have been our leaders as great and noble as they were. It was the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and living closely to the principles of that gospel, and consecrating their time and service to the advancement of the work of God, that made them ail mighty. God help every one of us to be true and steadfast to the same faith, that we also, when we have finished the race we are running, may have companionship with the great leader of Israel whose memory we honor this day. I pray the blessings of God upon every one in this congregation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 