8
Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder Charles H. Hart 
11
27-29

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy). 

It is fitting and proper that this special conference should be convened on the 1st day of June, the 89th anniversary of the holding of the first conference ever held by this Church.  
  
Of course, none of you will understand that Brother Roberts, in using the beautiful and appropriate illustration that he did in the opening of his remarks, meant to uphold kingcraft, because, as most of you know, Brother Roberts has just spent many months at the front, willing to go "over the top," in the contest of democracy against autocracy; but he meant to point out that the Church could say, as Tennyson has his brook say, that "Men may come and men may go, but I go on forever." And it is a very appropriate thing that as men go and men come in these leading positions that we should pause briefly to pay a just tribute to the memory of those who have gone.  
  
I feel it a great honor to say a few words in commemoration of that great character, Joseph F. Smith, the greatest preacher of righteousness, in my opinion, of this dispensation. I have been with his son Hyrum very much, and I think it is appropriate, in view of his recent demise, to mention his name. I have heard him deliver more than fifty sermons in succession, and after each of which I could say "that indeed is worthy of an apostle of our Lord and Savior." And yet the training of his father was such that I always placed his father first as a great preacher of righteousness.  
  
I may be pardoned if I relate a personal incident which will illustrate the effect of his preaching and his spirit upon myself. Under peculiar circumstances, I came into a meeting at Logan at which he spoke and at which he presided. I had taken a long trip by team through the mountains and held many meetings. It had taken, me through the mountains from Cache county to Rich county, from thence to Bear Lake county, and from thence to Wyoming and back to Gem Valley, as they call it now, and through Oneida county. We had held many meetings, and it was cold and there was much loss of sleep and much fatigue, so that when I came into that meeting I was thoroughly exhausted both in body and mind, and it was only by force of circumstances that I was induced to go into his company and the company of the Saints. But under the inspiration of his speaking as the Spirit of God seemed to flow from him to his audience and back again to him, the result upon me was such that at the close of the meeting I was as free from fatigue and weariness as I ever was in my life. I paid special attention to my condition, and could not detect the slightest weariness either in body or in mind. A veteran newspaper reporter who was in attendance to report the speaking, became so absorbed that he failed to take any notes of the inspired talk of President Smith.  
  
I think that the Prophet Joseph F. Smith, had more elements of greatness in him than any other man that it has been my privilege to know. He was great in a larger number of ways than any other man I ever knew. He was great in courage, and stern in righteousness, and yet there was a rare combination of kindness, meekness and gentleness. He was as kind and loving as a child. In fact it could be said of him that he had "the heart of childhood taken up and matured in the power of manhood." No man would have met death more willingly, in my judgment, for his convictions. He was a man great in his fidelity to his people and to the truth, and great in his testimony of the prophetic calling of the Prophet Joseph and of the divine mission of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He had elements of strength so combined that he was indeed a truly great man; the favor of God was upon him. I think he exemplified more than any other man I ever knew the fulfilment of the scriptural injunction and promise to "seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness," and all other things should be added thereto.  
  
Here are some lines that I think of, in connection with the life and character and ministry of our late lamented Prophet:  
  
"He was one who never turned his back, But marched breast forward; 
 
 Never doubted clouds would break;  
 
Never dreamed, though right were worsted, Wrong would triumph.  
 
He held, we fall to rise, are baffled To fight better, sleep to wake."  
  
He was such a man as Holland describes or asks for when he exclaims:  
  
"God give us men. The time demands  
 
Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and willing hands;  
  
Men whom the lust of office does not kill;  
  
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;  
  
Men who possess opinions and a will;  
 
Men who have honor; men who will not lie,  
  
Men who can stand before a demagogue  
  
And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking;  
 
Tall men, sun crowned, who live above the fog  
 
In public duty and private thinking!"  
  
I pray the Lord to bless the memory of President Joseph F. Smith and his posterity. His works will live after him. He has left an impression upon the Church that will be enduring. I had the deepest love and the greatest admiration for him during his life, and I regret that I did not let him know at least a fractional part of the love and admiration I had for him and his ministry and the things he accomplished. May the Lord bless his memory and bless us that we may follow the good example he set for us, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 