9
Overflow
01 06 1919
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
29

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy). 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that all that has been said this day in reference to the character of President Joseph F. Smith is quite true.  
  
I look upon a man as great when he stands for great principles; and that is the standard by which we should judge people. When people stand for principle, and know by their faith in God that the principle is true, it is always a mark of true greatness; and when a man links up his life with God, becomes one with God, and he and God are friends, you may depend upon it you, have the truest standard of greatness that can be possibly created.  
  
The glorious thing to me in the life of President Joseph F. Smith was not only his wonderful strength of character, his true conception of life, his splendid idealism of religion and his great faith in God; but his living the divine injunction "unless ye can become as a little child ye cannot enter the kingdom of heaven." He was great in his power to understand life and to see God. His faith was one of the most sublime things I ever knew. He never compromised with wrong or with evil in any form. Man to him is free, but free to do right, not free to do wrong. I remember a statement that he once made concerning the meaning of liberty which I shall never forget. Said he: "Liberty is obedience to just law." That to me is one of the most wonderful ideas concerning liberty and Americanism that I have ever heard. Obedience to law is liberty. What kind of law? Law that is founded, on truth. Law that is an expression of God's will to his people. Therefore, he was very democratic. He was very loving of his fellow man. How true it was that he showed his love for God because he loved his fellow men so much. He feared no man. He loved his God, and with his great linking of truth with God's truth, he lived a truly inspiring life. Standing upon the principle of right living, he truly entered the kingdom of heaven. "Unless ye become as a little child, ye cannot know God." To me he was very great, very courageous, very brave, very true, and above all, he was the child of God. He looked up, and with sublime faith made his life divine.  
  
May we see the beauty of his life, the truth of his words, the greatness of his soul, the magnanimity of his spirit, his great relationship to God. Amen. 