Morning
08 04 1934

Sunday, April 8. 

Long before the time arrived for commencing this service every seat and other available space in the Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied. The large Assembly Hall on the Temple Block was crowded with people who could not be accommodated in the Tabernacle and many hundreds of others assembled on the Tabernacle grounds, where amplifying equipment had been installed, by means of which they listened to the proceedings of the Conference as they were broadcast by radio from the Tabernacle. 

As a prelude to the fifth session of the Conference, a program of choral and organ music was rendered from 9 :30 to 10 :30 a. m., featuring the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, which was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada, over the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL. This program was as follows : 

"The morning breaks" (Careless) — Choir 

"Pilgrim's Song of Hope" (Batiste) — Organ. 

"They that Sow in Tears" (Parks) — Choir. 

"The Lost Chord" (Sullivan) — Organ. 

"Glorious Things are Sung of Zion" (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Nocturne" (Grieg) — Organ. 

"God is our Refuge" (46th Psalm) — Choir. 

"Awake" — Choral of the Reformation — (Wagner) — Choir. 

"Choral and Toccata" (Boellman) — Organ. 

"Easter Song" (Stephens) — Choir. 

"Offertory and Prayer" (Friml) — Organ. 

"O Great is the Depth" (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing of the Choir. Organ accompaniments and organ solo presentations were played by Professor Frank W. Asper. 

At the conclusion of the Choir and Organ concert President Heber J, Grant announced that the Choir and congregation would sing the hymn, "Praise to the Man who communed with Jehovah." 

After the singing of this hymn the opening prayer was offered by Elder Robert D. Young, President of the Manti Temple. 

A sacred duet, "The Morning Land," was sung by Jessie Evans and Dolores Seal. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, may the Lord move me and you with the spirit of truth during the time that I shall stand before you. 

COMPLIMENTS SINGERS AND MUSICIANS 

May I first renew my compliment to our great choir, the organist, the leader of the choir, and to Brother Richard Evans for the beautiful sermonettes, who Sunday by Sunday spread abroad over the whole earth, a message of love, of good-will, of righteousness. From the ends of the earth I personally have heard words of praise for their great work. I think I never heard them do better than they have done this morning. It was a wonderful tribute, I thought, to Brother Evan Stephens that the choir could begin with that great fiery challenge from Wagner and pass through that to the beautiful chaste and pure Easter song of Evan Stephens, and have it so completely in harmony. I am much impressed, as always, with the wonderful spirit which manifests itself among the singing people of Zion. 

AS A RESULT OF PURITY AND CHASTITY 

Only out of purity and chastity, only out of lives of righteousness could there come to us the beautiful singing which we have at all times and particularly at this conference. I hope that always they may continue their work. It must be from time to time_ a drudgery; I appreciate how they must prod themselves in order that they may do their work. But it is as sure as that they live that if they shall do it in a spirit of humility, if they shall work day by day and week by week, if they shall live lives of purity and chastity, they shall exert a power for good in the world which can not be measured. 

Brother George S. Romney has informed us of the broadcast which is being made in Chicago by one of our choirs; Brother Edward P. Kimball is making a broadcast in the city of Washington over another system. These are great missionary instrumentalities, and they call from us, the body of the Church, the fullest possible support. 

"THE TRUTH SHALL MAKE YOU FREE" 

I wish today to refer in what I shall have to say to one of the things to which President Grant referred in his opening address, and to that which others have referred to during the course of this conference. I mean the Truth. The Savior, speaking to the Jews who believed on him, after he had dispersed by a mere question those who accused the woman taken in adultery, said to the Jews : "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." 

As has been intimated already at this conference, there is creeping amongst us now as always, and probably no more now than always, error; and error is sin. We should be on our watch against error in whatever guise it may come. It would be easy to meet and overcome error if it came branded as such. The great body of the Church, I am grateful to the Lord to say, is able to detect error and sin no matter in what clothing it may come. There are a few, however, who need your assistance, and mine, and to them should always be open the arms of forgiveness, and to them should always be available kind words, admonition, kind thoughts, and sound advice. 

SHEEP WHO STRAY AWAY 

You remember the parable of the lost sheep, and you recall the conclusion of that as stated by the Savior when he said that there was more rejoicing in heaven over the one sinner that was saved than the ninety-nine who had already followed along in the paths of righteousness. That by no means, in my judgment, should be taken to indicate that more is thought of the one repentant sinner than of the ninety-nine righteous. But all of us have had enough experience in life to know the joy and the gratitude that come into our hearts when a friend or relative or member of the family, who has been somewhat wayward and gone astray, once more comes back into the fold of truth. And it is in that way that the parable is to be taken. 

In the few minutes which I have at my disposal I want to address my remarks primarily to those who are wandering away in the domain of error, those few sheep who seem to be getting away from the flock, so nearly beyond recall that they may become lost. It is to them I want to say a few words. 

SHOULD NOT CHALLENGE TRUTH 

There are a few truths to which I wish to refer, but first let me say let us not put ourselves in the attitude of challenging truth. How poor and weak are we, how ineffective are we, how limited in our knowledge are we, that we should ever presume to challenge truth. But truth, on the other hand, mighty and eternal in its nature, challenges positively, day by day and hour by hour, every one of us to live in accordance therewith. 

THE TRUTH THAT THERE IS TRUTH 

The first truth to which I wish to refer is the truth that truth is true. There is some dissemination of doctrine amongst us that all is relative and that we have no truth in the absolute. We may not have in all its fulness the ultimate truth; I doubt that if we had it, we could understand it. But, my brethren and sisters, what we do have is this : So far as the Lord has spoken he has given us the truth. He has not taught us error. So the first great truth to which I call your attention, the first truth that I want the youth of Zion to have burned into their hearts, is the truth that there is truth. 

THE ONLY SOURCE OF SALVATION 

The second truth that I want to call to your attention is the truth that salvation, exaltation, can come only by obedience to the laws and commandments of the Lord, can come only through the atonement of the Savior, and that he is the truth. 

Jesus speaking to the Pharisees, after freeing the woman taken in adultery, said : I am the light of the world; he that f olloweth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. (John 8:12.) 

To Martha — she of the almost full knowledge — Christ said : 

... I am the resurrection, and the life : he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live : 

And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou 

this? 

She said unto him, Yea, Lord : I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world. (John 11:25-27.) 

To the Apostles in the Passover Chamber, the Savior said : 

Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way? 

Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life : no man Cometh unto the Father, but by me. (John 14:5-6.) 

Peter, defending himself before the Sanhedrin, said : 

Neither is there salvation in any other : for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. (Acts 1 4:12.) 

The Lord has spoken in equally positive terms in our own time, repeating in the early days of the Church, over and over again, those expressions which he had used while upon the earth. 

THE GREAT TRUTH OF MODERN REVELATION 

Jesus is the Messiah, he is the Savior of the world. Through his atoning blood, his suffering, his death and his resurrection, we may become perfect beings, and in no other way and by no other means. That is the great truth which permeates everything which God has said to his children on this earth. Without that we would be as dead bodies and dead spirits, shut off from true salvation, from exaltation, from eternal progression, the great new truth of modem revelation. We must never forget that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. There is no escape from this, my brethren and sisters. Turn, twist, philosophize, mass sophistries as we will, this great truth remains. 

MEN WHO ARE NOT LEARNED 

For the third point that I want to make to you, I want to read you what the Savior said at the Feast of the Tabernacle, when he began teaching the people openly. The Jews had sought him, and the Jews had marvelled, saying: "How knoweth this man letters, having never learned ?" 

Let us pause here a moment, for this is the challenge of today. How can men teach the word of God who are not learned ? My brethren and sisters, some of the greatest achievements in pure thought (the nearest kin to pure religion) that have ever been made in the history of the world, have been made by men who did not know the chemical formula for water, nor the mathematical formula expressing the law which controls falling bodies. How difficult would have been the work of Christ himself had he had to depend upon the learned. The lowly only were his reliance; the learned sought him by night or not at all. 

"The glory of God is intelligence." Intelligence is given to us to use, to cultivate, and to develop. Knowledge is the handmaid of intelligence and priceless heyond all words, and knowledge implies within it not alone learning but experience. Mere learning without knowledge in the true sense is of no avail. The Pharisees who made this inquiry knew that the Savior had not attended the school of Gamaliel, but the Lord did not need to master any curriculum; the full truth does not lie in any one curriculum. Learning is beyond price if it be accompanied by the spirit which should follow it. But if the Gospel is only for the learned, how few there are of us who could have any use for it. 

MATERIAL AND SPIRITUAL LEARNING 

Now, I am not arguing against learning, I am only asking that the youth of Zion be relieved from the thought which is growing in their minds that a partial mastering of one curriculum is the full truth. There is spiritual learning just as there is material learning, and the one without the other is not complete; yet, speaking for myself, if I could have only one sort of learning, that which I would take would be the learning of the spirit, because in the hereafter I shall have opportunity in the eternities which are to come to get the other, and without spiritual learning here my handicaps in the hereafter would be all but overwhelming. 

Rut the Lord has so made it today that we and our children may have both, and that is one of the great glories and blessings which we have today, that we may be learned in the sciences and the arts, and we may also be learned in the spirit. In other words, we may have true knowledge. 

THE CHALLENGE OF EXPERIMENTATION 

Answering the Pharisees, the Lord said : "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

I call to the attention of the young people of the Church that this truth of the Master is the challenge of science — the challenge of experimentation. The Lord does not ask us to take his truths without trial. He asks us to test them. Just as a great scientist may announce a great discovery and just as that discovery must be proved, or disproved, by related experiments by the discoverer and by others before it may be wisely accepted or rejected, so the Son of God invites us to test his truths. So I plead with my young brethren and sisters to test the principles of the Gospel. Do not throw them over until you have tried them. No chemist ever is satisfied with one experiment, even though it give an affirmative result. Certainly he is never satisfied with one experiment if it gives a negative result. 

So to the youth of Zion I say, Try the Lord, experiment with his principles, nor may you be content with one experiment, particularly if it  not give an affirmative result. And just as a scientific experiment must be performed under proper conditions of heat and light and pressure and absolute cleanliness, so the spiritual experiment must be performed with a pure heart, with a desire to know the truth, with a clean body and a clean mind, in order that the one exerimenting may not shut himself off from the very things he desires to know. 

NO COMPROMISE WITH ERROR 

Allow me just one more word before closing, — a word of distinction and of admonition : The Church must always war on error. There can be no compromise on the part of the Church with error. To the repentant sinner the Church, and we individuals, have all forgiveness; to the repentant sinner we open our arms in welcome; but against the sin which he commits the Church must always war. 

PRAYS FOR UNDERSTANDING OF SPIRITUAL TRUTHS 

My brethren and sisters, my time is gone. I hope the Lord will give me knowledge, will increase my knowledge of the simple things, the simple spiritual truths. 

May the Lord give me his power and his spirit, let me understand as fully as I can with my finite mind, faith; let me understand as fully as that same mind can, repentance. May I measurably understand the Lord and the gifts of the Holy Ghost, may I understand my existence here, my existence before I came here, the existence which I am to have after I go hence. Give me, our Heavenly Father, some knowledge of these things, and I shall be content, for out of these truths I know, that with a life of righteousness, I may go back into thy presence. 

May the Lord bless us always, and ever may he teach us how to reach after those who are wandering from the flock. May he give us love and charity and forgiveness, may he fill our hearts with devotion to him, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

. PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Before commencing my remarks, my brethren and sisters, I desire as President Clark has done to express the gratitude I feel that the Lord has lengthened out my days to be present at this general conference of the Church. The things which have occurred here could not have occurred in any other place in the world. The music to which we have listened, the mothers' chorus which so splendidly rendered their parts, and the young men and young women representing the Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church, could not have been found in any other place. This Tabernacle choir, and this organ cannot be found in any other place in the world. 

The doctrines which have been expounded here you would not hear in any other congregation of people outside of the Church. These are the things which have impressed me, the things for which I feel grateful to my Father which is in heaven. 

SEES RAY OF HOPE 

During the sessions of the conference, various of those who have addressed us have referred to a convention of Protestant ministers recently held in Chicago. The report of that meeting indicates that a majority of them are said to have not believed in a heaven or a hell or a devil. That may sound extremely Godless to us, but after all I fancy I see in it a ray of hope. These men speak of heaven and of hell and of the devil as they have been taught to understand those things, a heaven inhabited by ethereal beings, wafting their way from place to place, without knowledge of the past or hope of the future, who surround the throne of a God without body, parts or passions, and sing anthems and play harps throughout eternity; a hell which is a lake of burning brimstone and of a devil who goes around with a pitchfork looking for victims to pitch into it, where they are to remain forever burning, but never consumed. This doctrine never has appealed to me. It seems rather hopeful to me that men professing to be teachers of the doctrine of Christ are getting away from those things. 

SATAN CAST OUT 

As an introduction to what I would like to say I want to read from the twelfth chapter of the Revelation of St. John, seventh verse: 

And there was war in heaven : Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels. 

And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven. 

And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world : he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. 

In the Bible the word devil is used interchangeably with Satan, the tempter, Beelzebub, the prince of this world, the old serpent, all of which appellations refer to the same personage. 

A SON OF THE MORNING 

The word devil is a contraction from the Greek word "diabolus" which interpreted means a malicious accuser, or demon, and is equivalent to the Hebrew word Satan, an enemy or adversary. 

The scripture which I quoted at the beginning of my remarks, and the context to which your attention is called, teach us that this personage to whom we commonly refer as the devil was Lucifer, a son of the morning, an angel in authority, who rebelled against the Father and the Son, because of which he was cast down to earth with those who followed after him, and became Perdition, the lost one over whom the heavens wept. Jesus, referring to his fall, says : "I saw Satan as lightning fall from heaven." 

Wherever mentioned in the scriptures the devil is referred to as the , the deceiver, the author of lies, the enemy of God, and the opposer of all that is good, but at the same time so adroit that the falsehoods which he utters appear to be truth. He may even appear as an angel of light. 

Shakespeare understood this characteristic of the Evil One when he makes Banquo say to Macbeth: "The earth hath bubbles as the water has and these are of them, but 'tis strange, and ofttimes to win us to our harm, the instruments of darkness tell us truths, win us with honest trifles to betray us in deepest consequence." 

HIS CHARACTER AND SUBTLE POWER 

How similar are these words of Shakespeare to the scripture which tells us that some of us he bribes with profit, and others he allures with pleasures which appear innocent in themselves, but lead us on to transgression, which is his sole desire. His great effort is to rob God of his glory and men of their souls. 

More than three hundred years ago, John Milton, referring to Satan, said : "He it was whose guile, stirred up with envy and revenge, deceived the mother of mankind." 

Milton pictures Satan in human form with a serpent with dripping fangs and forked tongue coiled about his feet. 

The scriptures contain many references to his subtle power. His malice is deadly. His activity and diligence are equal to his malice. He has a legion of those who fell with him, and have sold their souls to him to assist in carrying out his designs. 

In his parable of the sower, explaining its meaning, Jesus says that the seed sown is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they who hear. Then cometh the devil and taketh away the word from their hearts lest they believe and are saved. 

The devil entered into the heart of Judas and prompted him to betray the Son of God to those who were responsible for his death. 

The Apostle Peter warns us to be constantly vigilant because, he says, our enemy the devil, as a roaring lion is seeking whom he may devour. 

SEEKS DOMINION OVER THE EARTH 

, From the time of his fall Lucifer has sought to establish and maintain dominion over the earth and those who dwell upon it, and with few exceptions, and then for brief periods only, he has been successful. 

It was his power that interrupted and temporarily prevented the full fruition of the mission of the Savior in the meridian of time. His triumph, however, was only temporary. Knowing that his dominion over the people of the earth is to be broken, and that certain defeat awaits him, he arrays himself in the livery of Christ, and masquerading as his representative, in the words of Shakespeare, wins the hearts of men by honest trifles which are true, while he betrays them, and leads them away to deepest consequences. 

The character and mission of Satan is illustrated in the story in which he appears to our mother Eve, and by flattery and deception persuades her to disregard the command of God and partake of the forbidden fruit, declaring to her that she should not die, but become wise. She partakes and brings the heritage of death to her posterity. He thus proves that he is a deceiver and falsifier. 

DEVIL WORSHIP 

The character of Satan has been so powerfully manifested among men that in many countries he has been made an object of worship. It was through the serpent that he appeared to our mother Eve, and from that time to the present the serpent has been the symbol ' of the devil among those who worship him. 

Zoroaster, who is referred to in history as a great philosopher or legislator, who some students say lived 6000 B. C. while others place his death 500 B. C, was of Bactrian extraction, an ancient people of Asia. He was the founder of the Zoroastran or Zarathustrian religion. 

According to Edward B. Taylor, L.L.D., F.R.S., in his book, "Ancient Faiths and Modern Religions," the predominant idea in the teachings of Zoroaster was the existence of two spirits or governing powers, one of which constantly seeks to accomplish good, while the other strives to accomplish evil. The first of these powers is represented as light, life, law, order, and truth — all that is good and pure. 

The other power is his antithesis — he is darkness, filth, lawlessness, all that is evil in the world, he is Satan, he is death. Taylor says of this people: "While recognizing the good spirit, give their chief reverence to Satan, chief of the angelic hosts, who now has power to afflict mankind. Will not Satan then after death reward the Izedis, who have served him during their mortal lives ?" 

Only a few days ago a dispatch was published in the Salt Lake Tribune from Kurdistan, in Asia, referring to worship of the devil by these people. 

Where devil worship is practiced the serpent is always his symbol, and exorcism is resorted to in order that he may be placated and his anger abated. 

ONCE AN INTELLIGENT AND MIGHTY PEOPLE 

At the time of the discovery of America by Columbus two great empires or kingdoms existed, one the Aztec empire in Mexico, the other the kingdom of the Incas, in Peru, South America. The vast ruins which exist in both North and South America bear undeniable evidence of a once intelligent and mighty people. At one time, living under the code of ethics taught by Christ, their life had been happy and prosperous, as the following excerpts from their history show : 

And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts 1 of the people. 

And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God, 

There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God. 

What a change had come to these people when they were discovered by Columbus fourteen hundred years later! Satan had sown tares with the wheat, the result being, as it had been many times before, that the good seed had been choked out and destroyed. 

IMAGE OF THE SERPENT 

In every city and village the image of the serpent raised his head, with his forked tongue and dripping fangs exposed. Human sacrifices by thousands were offered to these idolatrous gods of stone, to which the people bowed down in worship. 

Dr. August LePlongeon in his book, "Sacred Mysteries Among the Mayas and Quiches," says : 

Chichen Itza may be termed the serpent city par excellence. The serpent may be found everywhere. It guards the stairways leading up to their temples and the doors of their homes. In a single structure recently uncovered near the City of Mexico at Xochitl the heads of 66 serpents protrude from the walls, guarding approach from all points of the compass. 

Pedro de Cieza de Leon, a Spanish soldier, who served under Francisco Pizarro, in the conquest of Peru, kept a careful record of the things which he saw and heard. His book is one of the most prized by scholars, of all the histories of the conquest. He says : 

All over Peru they call the devil Supay. I have been told that he has been seen by them many times. Very great is 1 the dominion that the devil, the enemy of mankind, is allowed to have over these people. These people hold it to be certain that the devil is false and wicked, and that they obey him more from fear than love. 

The condition of degradation to which devil worship has reduced the people of both Mexico and Peru is in many respects too shocking to be repeated. 

OPPOSED TO CHRIST AND HIS MISSION 

The malice and jealousy of Satan toward Christ our Lord and his mission are deadly. Failing in his plan to dethrone God and deprive Christ of his birthright, cast down to the earth with those who followed after him, forever banished from the presence of the Father, he loses no opportunity to thwart the redemption of man from death, the penalty which came to us through his wicked design. He sought the destruction of the infant Christ when he prompted Herod the Great to destroy the children of Bethlehem. He sought to destroy the purpose of the mission of Christ by bribery when he offered to surrender to him dominion over the earth on condition that the Redeemer would worship at his shrine. Failing in this he inspired the minds of men with malice and hatred, which led to the crucifixion. 

.The crucifixion of Christ, instead of accomplishing the purpose which Lucifer designed, had precisely the contrary effect. Endowed with GENERAL CONFERENCE  over death, Jesus, on the third day, rose from the tomb, thus robbing the grave of its victory and making possible redemption from the captivity in which Satan held the spirits of men. 

SATAN STILL LIVES 

To realize that Satan still lives and is busily engaged in his opposition to that which is good, one needs only to pause for a moment and contemplate conditions in this troubled world of ours. Long ago he declared that with gold and silver and armies and navies he would control the world. Any person who is familiar with the words of the prophets as they are contained in the scriptures knows that holy men in ages past, moved upon by the spirit of prophecy, foresaw and declared events which were to occur long after the age in which they lived. 

From the many declarations which refer to the activities of the Evil One at the time in which we live, I quote the following : 

For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish; 

For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts' of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good. 

And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say : All is well 

And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them : I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he Whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance. 

Wjhile Satan thus seeks to destroy the peace and happiness of mankind, Christ strives to draw them to him. The same controversy which resulted in the fall of Lucifer persists until the present moment. It is the question of the redemption of man from the fall, and the penalty of death which resulted from it. 

Lucifer offers redemption to man on condition that the recipient give him the honor and credit for that which he receives, and in return promises redemption regardless of the character of the applicant, the life he has lived, or the example set before others. 

MAN AN AGENT UNTO HIMSELF 

Christ adheres to the word of the Lord, spoken to Adam in the Garden of Eden : "This man has become one of us, knowing good and evil." He thus becomes an agent unto himself, to choose between good and evil, between right and wrong. If he has been a sinner, and repents of his evil way, and does that which is evil no more, he may be forgiven and inherit the blessings of the righteous when he stands before the bar of God, to be judged according to his works. If he wilfully turns to wickedness and repents not he shall receive the reward of the wicked and will go away with Lucifer and his hosts into everlasting condemnation, which will be remorse of conscience that he has allowed the day of his repentance to pass. 101 

The battle is being waged today as never before. It is the battle of right against might, of justice and mercy against greed, oppression, between armies and navies and the gold and the silver of the prince of this world and the lowly Nazarene, with the doctrine of his fraternity, equality and justice. And this time the Son of God will triumph. 

satan's power limited 

The one encouraging thing to which men of faith and confidence in this day of uncertainty and trial look forward is the fact that there are certain limits beyond which the power of the Evil One cannot pass. This power comes to us through faith in our Lord Jesus Christ and obedience to the law of righteousness which he taught, and the example of his life. 

First, he promises that if any one of us who may be in doubt will go to him he will manifest the truth to us by the power of the Holy Ghost. John the Baptist, who was the chosen agent of the Lord to administer the ordinance of baptism to Jesus Christ, said to those who accepted his teachings : 

I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear; he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire. 

Among other promises made by Christ to those whom he sent out to preach his Gospel was that in his name they should cast out devils. Upon their return they testified that this promise had been realized. They said to Jesus: "Even the devils are subject unto us through thy name." 

AN ARMOR AGAINST SATAN^S POWER 

This precious and indispensable gift, the Holy Ghost, comes to us by the laying on of hands by those who have authority to confer it. When the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John, and they laid their hands upon them and they received the Holy Ghost. Again Paul, finding certain converts at Ephesus, asked them if they had received the Holy Ghost. They answered that they had not so much as heard that there was such a gift, that they had been baptized unto John's baptism. Paul explained to them that John baptized with water unto repentance for the remission of their sins only. They were then baptized in the name of Christ, and as Paul laid his hands upon them and conferred the Holy Ghost they spake in tongues and prophesied. 

Authority to confer this precious gift is in the Church today. Every baptized member of the Church receives it, after which he is entitled to receive and forever retain a fulness of the Spirit of the Lord, and a fulness of the Spirit of the Lord leads us into all truth and provides an armor which the shafts of Satan cannot penetrate. 

MUST BE CULTIVATED 

While the Holy Ghost may be conferred upon us, and is designed to GENERAL CONFERENCE  our guide and support, it is only restrained and manifested in its fulness in our guidance and defense in proportion to the degree to which we cultivate it and listen to its promptings. We may lose it entirely through indifference or transgression, and once deprived of its presence we are left in darkness more dense than before its reception. Cultivate it, my brethren and sisters, and it will become in reality the iron rod, which is the word of God, and will lead us back to him. 

A SCRIPTURAL ANSWER 

This brief and very incomplete review is the answer of the scriptures to one of the questions raised at the Chicago convention. Another question raised is answered in the 20th chapter of the revelation to St. John. John says : 

I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the bocks were opened : and another book was opened, which is the book of life : and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. 

THE SAME WILY DECEIVER 

Now, brethren and sisters, I come to my concluding thought that I wish to leave with you. First I want you to understand thait the influence of Lucifer is not broken, that he is here to lead us astray, that he is the same wily deceiver that he has always been; that he tells us simple truths in order to lead us into error; that he clothes himself in the livery of Christ, and pretending to speak in his name, tells us simple truths to lead us to most serious consequences. 

Do not go away with the idea that Lucifer does not still live, this fallen angel who was a spirit of power. Do not forget that he was cast out from heaven. So there must be such a place. Do not forget that the pangs of hell will be the remorse of conscience which you will feel because of walking contrary to the light which you have had after having received it. Cultivate it. It is to you and to me the iron rod which is the word of God. Every man and woman that seizes upon it and holds steadfastly to it will find themselves back in that place which we call heaven, a very different heaven from what these men who renounce their faith in heaven have any conception of. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

This is a beautiful sight. At the conclusion of each meeting I have felt that it was good to be here, and have not our hearts burned within us as we have listened to these living oracles of God, as they have spoken and taught us the scripture? 

I am happy to bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters, from 5,511 members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who live in the Texas Mission. We have in the Texas Mission eight lady 103 , including Sister Rowan. We have fifteen Seventies, fifteen Elders, one High Priest, and one local missionary, making a total of forty full-time missionaries who are spending their entire time in trying to lead men and women to believe in God, their Father, in whose likeness we have been created. 

I am happy to say to you that of this number, nine are engaged in teaching school. I believe that one of the outstanding things that is being done today in America, in rural sociology and in country life, is being developed in the colonies in Texas. I was advised yesterday that our school is considered by Government officials in Washington as one of the outstanding schools of its kind in the United States. I am happy to say to you that we have been fortunate in having Elder Boyle in charge of this work during the past six years. He has accomplished a most wonderful mission. I have been told by several of the leading citizens of Gilmer, Texas, who have lived there for many years, thai no other man has done so much good for that country as has Elder Louis F. Boyle. This is gratifying to us, because we feel that the work he has done there is a "light on a hill." 

We are trying to teach men and women, boys and girls, how to live, how to enjoy the blessings of Almighty God, and I am happy to say that in the main the Saints who reside in the Texas Mission are happy. We have had an increase in our tithes this year. There was an increase in the tithing last year over the previous year, and many hundreds have paid tithing that had not paid any in the past. You who have been in the South realize that in the main those people believe in God; that in the main they believe in the Bible. 

Just a short time ago I traveled a long distance to attend a funeral. The Sunday School superintendent had met with the misfortune of losing a child by death. This was the third one he had lost. He and his good wife were grief-stricken because of this. His father, a very prominent man in the country, with a host of friends, had secured a quartet from one of the near-by cities to come and sing. Three of these gentlemen had never been in attendance at a Latter-day Saint funeral service nor had they heard the Elders of the Church speak. We had them sit on the rostrum. The quartet sang a beautiful song. The Spirit of the Lord was there in rich abundance. It didn't seem that we were in the presence of death. The Lord blessed the Elders, and they were able to portray the beauties of the Gospel, as it is understood by the Latter-day Saints, and to give those Saints comfort and consolation in that which seemed to have been a calamity in their lives. 

After the services two of these fine men who were excellent singers, one a doctor, the other a county commissioner, said they would like to purchase a copy of our song book. We sold each of them a copy of the song book. They invited us to come and visit with them. I sent the missionaries to call on them. On the 18th of last month one of these gentlemen, a doctor, drove a hundred and twenty miles to attend our conference in Houston. At the conclusion of the conference I shook his hand and welcomed him into our community. Our little new chapel, GENERAL CONFERENCE  we recently dedicated, when Brother Joseph Fielding visited our mission, was filled to its capacity. I took occasion to introduce this gentleman to a doctor who has fellowship in our Church, and I said: "Doctor, this doctor is a member of our Church;" and I said: "I hope this other good doctor will be led, through his serious, careful, prayerful investigation, to some time see the light." He said to me: "Brother Rowan, I already see the light. I was touched with the Spirit of Almighty God as I attended the funeral of that little boy, and I hope that I shall soon be a member of your Church." 

Oh, I rejoice in the testimony that I have. I bring you the message, brethren and sisters, that your sons and daughters are well and happy. They are enjoying the Spirit of the Lord. They are filled with the testimony of this work. One of our short-term missionaries recently returned from Houston. He said to me, as we were coming on the train : "I have been there five months and it has been my opportunity to attend a hundred and sixty-nine meetings." This is only an example of what the missionaries are doing. I do not say this in boasting, but because of the climatic condition the Elders can preach freely on the streets. Within the last three months one of the Elders has held sixtythree street meetings, a very fine accomplishment. 

Many of the Lord's people who live in that country are hearing and accepting the message of Mormonism. May I ask that you who have friends in Texas and Louisiana favor us with letters giving us their names and addresses. They are a fine people. 

We believe in these living Authorities. We are trying to follow their leadership. Our branches, with the exception of one, are all presided over by local people. Our Relief Society prganizations are doing a commendable work, as are the Sunday Schools and the Genealogical Society, all of them officered by men and women who, if it were necessary, would sacrifice their lives on the altar, because of the testimony of Almighty God that has been given to them. 

I know, as I know I am alive, my brethren and sisters, that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God. And oh, I am so happy in the testimony that has come to me, that these men who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph were indeed prophets, seers and revelators, and that in this day we have one of the greatest and most mighty men that God has ever chosen, a select and wonderful leader. May God bless him. May he bless all of us, and may you live in such a manner that you will be able to continue as you are doing, to make a favorable impression upon the tourists and those who come into your midst. 

We appreciate the good work that is being done by the Bureau of Information, and by these marvelous broadcasts that are given every Sunday by the Tabernacle Choir. 

May God bless us all. May we have your faith and prayers, above everything else. May we, as missionaries, have a vision of our great responsibility and our possibilities. May God, through your faith and 105 , and our humility, direct us to his children, the honest in heart, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Elders George F. Richards and Stephen L. Richards are absent on account of illness. Brother Joseph F. Merrill as you all know is absent in Europe, presiding over the European Mission. 

As near as we are able to judge, hundreds of thousands of people have listened to the broadcast this morning, and we appreciate very much their doing so. I wish to re-echo the fine compliments that have been paid to our choir. We appreciate very very much the good work that they are doing. 

As a closing number the Choir sang the anthem "Grant us Peace, O Lord," — soprano solo by Laurinda Brewerton. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The music to which we have just listened was composed by Evan Stephens. I wish that as far as possible we would get into the habit of singing our own music, that is, music composed by our own people. There are an inspiration and spirit which accompany the music of George Careless, Evan Stephens, Joseph J. Daynes and others of our own composers that I sometimes think we do not get from those not of our faith. 

Elder Henry H. Blood, President of the North Davis Stake, pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

THIRD DAY 


