Afternoon
07 04 1934

The fourth session of the Conference commenced at 2 o'clock. 

President Heber J. Grant, who presided, announced that the music for this meeting would be furnished by the Liberty Stake Mutual Improvement Association Chorus, under the leadership of Dr. David E. Smith. 

The Chorus sang as an opening number, "The heavens resound." The opening prayer was offered by Elder Joseph S. Peery, President of the Temple Block Mission. 

The song, "Carry on," was sung by the Chorus. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Fifty years ago this summer my soul was deeply stirred when, with groups of others, I went to the railroad station in Logan to receive home the body of Elder Gibbs, who with his companion, Elder Berry, had been assassinated while doing missionary work in the Southern States. I shall never forget the memory of that night, and the emotions that swelled through my soul in contemplation of the sacrifice of these noble missionaries. 

A MARVELOUS CHANGE 

I have heard since then the story of the whipping and the mobbing of many others. Since the last conference I paid my first visit to the Southern States Mission. In company with President Callis we were officially visiting that mission, and what a change in the fifty years! We held over thirty public meetings, attended by more than ten thousand people; not a bit of opposition anywhere. There were no newspapers, from the large city dailies to the country papers, that were not willing to carry all the space we asked, and they gave us notices and reports of our meetings that were as satisfactory as anything we could secure here at home. 

In one of the large cities of the South a public reception was held which was attended by the mayor of the largest city in that state, and he gave a eulogy on the Mormon people. Radios were offered to us. It did seem to me that the change was marvelous and I could not but thank God for it. The condition is similar elsewhere, so that we have indeed reached a new day. 

ENEMY SEEKING NEW MEANS 

What is the meaning and significance of all this ? There may be some  are disturbed because the world speaks well of us. I am not alarmed at that. I rejoice in it, because I do see a new day dawning for the Latter-day Saints. We had to have our struggles and fight for the right to exist. We have won and achieved our objectives up to this point, and now we look forward to a glorious day that is yet to come. 

I would not have you think, however, my brethren and sisters, that the enemy of all righteousness has quit the fight. By new means he is seeking to destroy that which mob violence and martyrdom, bonds and imprisonment and slander, could not destroy. Every means that has been heretofore successfully used in the destruction of God's work in the dispensations that have preceded ours, has failed to date. The old prophets saw it fail, for they declared that in the last days — I am quoting now from a prediction of Daniel — "In the days of these kings," — these latter kings — "shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other people. Rut it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

DAWNING OF A NEW DAY 

There was to be a new day. Nothing like it has happened heretofore, and so I am not alarmed that the kingdom is prosperous, and that at the end of an hundred years we discover it has achieved certain desirable goals. In the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, after having given us the fulness of the Gospel and established the Church with all the institutions and the doctrines necessary to perfect the lives of the people, he enjoins upon us to arise and shine and to become a light unto the nations. The old prophet saw this condition when he declared . 

In the last days the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of lacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths. 

All this indicates a change that will come over the hearts of the children of men toward the work of God. They shall not come to persecute, but they shall come to learn of the ways of the Lord and to walk in his paths. 

satan's allurements 

I said a moment ago, however, that the enemy of this Church has not quit the fight. Nephi saw — and you will find it recorded in the twentyeighth chapter of II Nephi — that in these days Satan would rage in the hearts of the children of men, and that one of the methods by which he would seek to destroy God's work would be to induce men who had entered into covenants to serve God to commit a little sin; to steal a little; to commit whoredoms a little; then he would assure them that they would be beaten with a few stripes, but that it would be all right. Thus he would deceive them and lure them away from their standards. Among other things Nephi said : "They have all gone astray save it be a few, who are the humble followers of Christ; nevertheless they are led, that in many instances they do err because they are taught by the precepts of men," — warning that the enemy, by new tactics, by new methods, would seek to destroy the work. I see the evidences of it. 

A CHANGING WORLD 

In this changing world — and we are in the midst of change — no standards are so sacred or so old but that they are being questioned today. I am not disturbed over this questioning age. I think it is the greatest age the truth has ever known, and that the truth could never grow as it should grow unless men are open-minded and are willing to ask questions and to receive light and information. Yet I recognize that there is great peril and danger that in the changes that are occurring we may discard many true, good, and beautiful things. So that there is need, as never before, to lift our standards in this changing world, and to rally our people to them. 

But we parents and teachers must be able to give a reason for everything we ask our children and our people to do. Thank the Lord there are good reasons for everything the Lord has asked us to do. I see danger, however, that in the desire for change many thoughtless ones will want to change stable, eternal practices and principles. I see the spirit of the enemy at work in seeking to destroy the standards of morality among men. From the time of my childhood, at my mother's knee, and in the Church, I was taught to keep myself as clean and as pure .as the girl I asked to be my wife, the mother of my children; that next to the crime of murder was the crime of adultery. Yet there are those who would have the thoughtless believe that improper sex relations are all right as long as one is not exposed. The devil surely has paved the way with promises of immunity to those who would follow after his standards. 

TRUE TO OUR STANDARDS 

But will the world come to learn of this people if we live like the world? Suppose they abandon their standards, shall we do so too? No; no, we will carry on, loyal and true to our standards. You young men, descendants of that Joseph who was sold into Egypt, think upon him in the hour of his temptation, how he stood for chastity and for virtue! 

Let us be, therefore, men and women who are standard makers, not like the world. Any man or any nation who imagines that one can depart from these standards that the Lord established when he uttered the Ten Commandments and find peace and the solution of human happiness is sadly mistaken. 

We are also in danger from the spirit of abandonment, having repealed the Eighteenth Amendment. Some folks may be of the notion that the Word of Wisdom is also repealed, but thank the Lord that this Church still has a high standard to guide it, and not by compulsion or by force, but by persuasion, by appeal, with precious promises. These  stand and will stand forever, and will continue to appeal to our people to live up to them. They are standards of honesty, standards of uprightness that will make any people great if they will only observe them. 

god's work shall triumph 

So, my brethren and sisters, we ought to be aware of the new menace. I am not afraid of it. If the Latter-day Saint teachers and parents and leaders will forewarn the youth, I feel sure they will be as loyal and true to the truth as their fathers and mothers were, and that this new manner of assault and attack made upon the membership of the Church will be no more successful in destroying this work than have been mob violence, bonds and imprisonment, because God has decreed that this work shall triumph and shall not be left to another people. It is true that Satan will give revelations to lead the people away from the truth — pretended revelations to lead them into open violation of the commandments of the Lord — but I have confidence in the outcome. We have been through this long period of struggle to secure certain rigrhts and privileges. We have been through the day of colonization, of migration and immigration; the settlement of the waste places; of building temples and tabernacles; of subduing the desert and securing the comforts and necessities of life, and the Lord has been with us in all these changing scenes. 

There are some who would be disturbed because they see no immediate objective before the Church. I grant you that where there is no vision the people will perish. But there is a vision before us if only our eyes are turned toward it, a vision of the most glorious things to be accomplished by this Church. We have reached a new day, and all these changes that have occurred, changing the attitude toward the Church, were necessary in order that we might be prepared for that new day that is before us. The day of demonstration has come to the Church, the day for it to arise and shine, in a world which has been crushed and humbled to the very dust — a world that is full of doubt and uncertainty and that is questioning and abandoning the creeds of men. 

Perhaps some of you have been reading articles such as "God save the Church," "What is Wrong with the Church ?" and other articles that have been appearing recently, measuring the institutions of man and finding them wanting. One author says : "We waited eighteen hundred years for Christianity to reach the zenith of its power, and then it was utterly helpless to save the world from one of the greatest catastrophes which have happened — the world war. Why wait for Christianity to help us out of our troubles?" 

CHURCH NOT FOUND WANTING 

But the Church of Christ has not been weighed in the balance and found wanting. I grant you that men have done the best they could during the ages that are past, with the small measure of light they have had. But never since the Lord Jesus Christ, in the sacred grove, said of the institutions of men, that they had the form of godliness but lacked the power thereof, have these words been more generally accepted as true. Without the power to accomplish what the Gospel of Jesus Christ was destined to do men did the best they could. Joseph Smith could have done no better had he not received divine authority and the perfect Gospel plan at the hands of divinely appointed messengers from God. 

Now, for the first time in the history of the world, the Church of Jesus Christ has an opportunity to demonstrate that it has indeed the power, the knowledge, and the strength to meet and solve the problems of this world, and the world is willing to listen. They have been humbled so that the wisdom of the wise has perished and the understanding of the prudent is hid,- and men are willing to listen today as they never have been heretofore. 

Oh, you Latter-day Saints, to your standards! Talk about abandoning the Word of Wisdom ? Now is the time to rally to it and then show the world a race of men and women of physical, mental, spiritual, and intellectual strength, the like of which we have not seen. And that will come if we shall adhere to these Gospel standards. 

Those of you who are anxious to see the Church move forward in the solution of the economic problems and the establishment of that vision which once was given to the Church, known as the United Order — then immediately afterwards the Lord saw the necessity for training us, preparing us, and he gave us the law of tithing, which he called a schoolmaster — if you want to see that other thing come, pay your tithes and offerings, be honest before the Lord, for no man can live the Order of Enoch who has not learned how to honestly live the law of tithing. If you want to promote that glorious day, live the law of tithing. If you want to see the realization of all these glorious things spoken of by the prophets of old, subscribe to these Gospel standards. 

The world will come up to the top of the mountains to learn of the ways of such a people. Our opportunity I say, therefore, is to demonstrate what we believe — not so much by what we say as by what we do, for that, after all, is the most effective argument we can present to the world. That opportunity is ours today. 

A GLORIOUS FUTURE 

I see the hand of the Lord moving rapidly in the events of the world. He is preparing for our mission to be carried on, not only among this small handful of people that we have been an hundred years gathering up —we have been an hundred years gathering up but one branch of the house of Israel — but the day for the rest of that favored house is at hand. God is preparing the way. The day is soon to dawn for those who are of our family and of other branches of it. Activity such as we have never dreamed of will presently be ours if we shall succeed in realizing the hope the Lord had in establishing this work. Missionaries? We will need ten where we have needed one. I see no diminution, I see no end, but I see a glorious future awaiting God's work. 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord hasn't  off and left the Church. He is working, preparing the way for it to function, to fill its mission, to come out of its isolation, to arise and shine. God is not retarding the work but there are some of us who are not living up to our covenants and our privileges. We might speed it on. Do not worry about the Church. The good ship is sailing on in the charted course God marked for it. The light is in the ship. The captain is not asleep. 

I bear witness to you that no man has ever presided over this Church who has been more willing to do what the Lord wants him to do than the man who presides today. God bless him and God bless the people, and help men to see the new highways that are ready for our feet, the new deceptions that will be offered, that we may escape the pitfalls that would lure us from our standards, that we may continue to be loyal and true, and go marching on victoriously with God's work, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I am impressed, my brethren and sisters, with this wonderful congregation, and with the spirit of this meeting, as well as those that have preceded it. This is a representative congregation of the Latter-day Saints. Here are represented practically all of the officers of the Church and a goodly number of the members thereof. I am happy to be with you. Yet I feel keenly the difficulty of speaking in the midst of this vast gathering. 

LABORS OF PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

I desire briefly to report to you my stewardship in the position that I fill, as a servant of this people and as one of the servants of the Lord. The labors and duties of the Presiding Bishopric are varied and extensive. I desire to state to you that we are doing our best to fulfil the duties and responsibilities thereof, to exercise judgment, accuracy and economy in all the matters entrusted to our care; and to see that honesty and integrity are maintained in every department of the work. While the duties and labors are many and diverse, we are endeavoring to so organize and systematize the affairs that you may be assured that every phase of the work with which we have to do is being carried forward promptly and thoroughly, and the most effective results possible obtained in every division thereof. I rejoice in this duty. I may say to you that I have never worked so hard in my life as during the time that I have been in, this place; and I have never enjoyed work so greatly as I have in this department. I realize that the Lord has blessed me more than I have been justified in receiving. I desire to carry on under the direction of my brethren of the First Presidency, and to do my best to advance the purposes of the Lord. 

PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH 

In addition to what has been presented in the financial and statistical report of the progress of this work during 1933, and since the last conference, I call your attention to the fact that in general there is an increase in the activities, and as far as can be determined, in the faith of the people. Notwithstanding the very seriously unfavorable economic conditions of the past year, there was a slight increase in the tithes of the people of the Church. There was quite a material increase in the number who paid tithing, which indicates the faith of those who have taken upon them these covenants. Unfortunately, there was not an increase in the fast offerings. Why that should be I cannot quite understand; because of the need of donations that should come through the fasting of the people, and their willingness to give for those who are in need. In other respects the activities have generally increased. There was a slight increase in the attendance at sacrament meetings and at ward Priesthood meetings. 

GROWTH OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

There was an increase in the number who bear the Priesthood of the Church, both in the Melchizedek and the Aaronic Priesthoods. The Aaronic Priesthood members now total, over 90,000. I believe that those who have the responsibility of these young men throughout the Church, in the stakes and wards and missions, are appreciating more and more the importance of training these young men and giving them personal consideration, so that they may become imbued with the spirit and power of their Priesthood, and be prepared for the responsibilities that will come to them in the future. 

GREAT MISSION OF THE CHURCH 

About a year before the Church was organized various men received revelations from the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith in some of which a particular expression was used. In the revelation given to David Whitmer the following words occur: "Seek to bring forth and establish my Zion." Now, I appreciate the fact that this work, which was declared to them in a prospective way, before the Church was organized, and which was revealed, at the time of the organization of the Church, as a great and marvelous work that was about to come forth — I realize that this work has a great destiny and a great mission before it. It has already been expressed in our hearing during these gatherings. That mission is especially to promulgate the Gospel to all mankind— to bring those who desire to know the truth to a knowledge and acceptance of the same; to promote generally the welfare and progress of mankind; to build better communities in which to live; and to prepare the way for the coming of the reign of peace. 

GREAT MISSIONARY WORK OF THE PAST 

Consider for a moment the fact that during the one hundred years that have elapsed since the Church was organized a marvelous work has been accomplished. The leadership of the Church, and all the officers and members thereof, in the past hundred years, have done a great pioneer work, first in the promulgation of the Gospel; second in colonization and empire building; and third, in cultural growth. Consider the tremendous effort that was put forth to open the doors of the many nations to the Gospel in those times when they were lacking in means and in men, with the unfavorable means of transportation and communication! What a wonderful achievement in the spread of the Gospel message in that hundred years! 

PIONEERING AND EMPIRE BUILDING 

Again, in the building of the settlements and the advancement of the people in a temporal way, what a splendid pace they set! We follow them from New York, through Ohio, Missouri, Illinois and Iowa; and then out to the Rocky Mountains; and we remember the growth and development that has occurred throughout the intermountain empire in the meantime. It is marvelous to appreciate! They were real pioneers. These men and women were not daunted by any unfavorable conditions. They carried on under the most adverse circumstances. They had persecutions to meet. Yet new communities were built and the borders of the Church extended. Here they were taught to build and beautify homes, farms, towns and cities, and to promote their local interests. 

SPIRITUAL AND CULTURAL GROWTH 

Then, in addition to the material growth, the Church members were being given spiritual and cultural development through the facilities of the Priesthood, the schools that were organized, the auxiliary associations, and through musical, dramatic and social features, even in the midst of frontier hardships such as we can scarcely appreciate. So the work has gone on, and the way has been prepared, in a measure at least, for the coming of the reign of peace. 

ANOTHER ERA 

Now we stand at the beginning of another hundred years — another era. What shall be the achievements of this people during that era ? We are one hundred years nearer the reign of peace and the millennium. The results will depend largely upon our initiative — individual and collective. Conditions at the present time — men's thoughts and ideas — are changing rapidly. We realize to some extent from past experience how the thoughts and sentiments of mankind can be changed, but we also realize what remarkable changes must occur in human nature before mankind can be prepared for universal peace. 

FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES 

As has been expressed here, there are certain things that are fundamental, — that do not change so far as the Gospel of Jesus Christ is concerned. Among others the law of morality does not change in any age. The ordinance of baptism, as a means of bringing people into the fold of Christ, does not change at any time. And so with other eternal principles. Only by obedience thereto will promised blessings follow. It has been said that there is nothing so constant as change. There are policies that may change, habits and customs that may change, in the progress of civilization, to which men must adapt themselves. The Latter-day Saints are most progressive in adopting and adapting conditions to the situations under which we live, and that without sacrificing anything that is fundamentally important in the Gospel. We accept these changing temporal conditions. But the nature of these conditions which affect our temporal welfare must conform in principle to our spiritual ideals. 

THE CHALLENGE TO US 

Now, in what respects can we, as Latter-day Saints today, looking forward, carry on just as effectively as have those who have carried on this work from the beginning ? It seems to me that there are three ways in which we should particularly direct our thought and effort not only toward ourselves as a people, but to the welfare and progress of men generally, and toward the preparation for the coming of the reign of peace. These three ways are similar to those referred to in the past history of this people. 

BUILD FAITH AND RIGHTEOUSNESS 

First, we should seek to establish the cause of Zion more firmly in the hearts and lives of the younger members of the Church. We should continue to build a structure of faith upon the solid foundations already laid. It is our obligation to increase the courage and determination such as has been evidenced by those who have led the people throughout the history of the Church. The establishment of Zion now justifies and demands even more whole-hearted effort. The entire freedom from persecution which we now enjoy should cause us to put forth our energies in larger measure to the solution of various problems which confront us, and which interfere with our progress. We should be thankful that we are now enjoying the friendliness and consideration of men generally. But we do not need in any way to sacrifice any principle in which w« believe, in order to enjoy that respect and regard. Being free from persecution, we should not be lulled to sleep, nor in any way slacken our efforts in behalf of the cause of truth. The development of greater faith will lead to a fuller observance of all Gospel principles and to greater unity. Likewise, in these perilous times we should, as a people, teach more extensively and practice the highest standards of virtue and morality. If we enjoy the spirit of the Gospel it will produce greater tolerance and consideration on the part of everyone of us toward our fellowmen everywhere. In the same manner we should be willing to forgive and have the desire to be forgiven of our shortcomings which will be the means of producing finer lives by all who practice such principles. 

ADVANCEMENT OF MISSIONARY WORK 

In the missionary work, just as has been done in the hundred years that have passed, it seems to me that there is a tremendous opportunity  responsibility. We have new means of transportation and communication, whereby time can be saved and the Gospel can be spread in wider circles than ever before. I think those means need to be adopted as fully as possible. It would appear that every appropriate facility for the spreading of the Gospel should be carefully considered and applied in the most effective way. There is a fine opportunity for initiative on the part of those who have the direction of the missionary work, to do it in such a way that it shall be advanced most profitably. Yet there is a fundamental feature of missionary work which we cannot neglect. That is the teaching of the Savior, both in the time when he was upon the earth, and in these days by revelation from the Lord, that we should preach the Gospel as nearly as .possible without purse and scrip. Experience has everywhere proven, I think, that generally the missionaries who spend the least do the best work and have the greatest success among the people. The personal contact and conversations of the missionary with those who may be interested in the Gospel message is the important thing for which to strive. The personal testimony of the man who goes out in the power and spirit of his calling is most effective. Therefore, it seems to me that the distribution of literature and other efforts should be a means to the important end which is to get Gospel conversations with the people. 

DEVELOPMENT OF FINER CIVILIZATION 

The second way, I think, in which we can help to establish Zion is through the development of a finer civilization than has ever previously existed in the world. Wjhat makes a good civilization? I conceive it to be that condition of society in which every man, woman and child enjoys in fairness, equity and justice, the opportunity for steady progress in material, cultural and spiritual things, and protection against tyranny, oppression and evils of every nature. It is a condition where everyone is willing to do his or her part, and where good will and mutual helpfulness prevail. To the extent that any or all of these conditions are lacking today it is our opportunity to work together to endeavor to bring them about. The Church stands for the progress and welfare of humanity. Let us, therefore, apply the Gospel teachings to the improvement oi social conditions. 

IMPROVEMENT IN EDUCATION 

We should strive to promote even better general education for our young people, wherein will be inculcated in larger measure an appreciation of moral and ethical principles and practices. We need to provide also for the application of theoretical instruction, to the problems which prevail in our various communities. There should be more vocational and applied courses suited to the conditions in the different localities, so that the young people may have the opportunity to fit into the local situations, and not have to drift away to other places and probably lose opportunities that might be theirs. It is to be expected that the teachers in all schools shall have characters above reproach and temperaments and habits such that their lives will prove a powerful stimulus for good with their students in their preparation for life's activities. 

IMPROVEMENT IN EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS 

Again, there is much room for improvement in employment conditions. It is important to strive to provide for every worker, first, gainful occupation; second, opportunities for recreation; and third, opportunities for religious activities. There should be worked out a basis of fair dealing applicable to all relations affecting employers and employees. There should be adequate means of conciliation and arbitration in all industrial disputes, in order to avoid the strife which results from failure to do this. I think we should work for conditions which will promote better protection for old age and for those who are incapacitated. 

WELFARE OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN 

Considerable is being done for the welfare of mothers. There can be still better care and protection provided for them. Those who pass through the shadow of the valley of death to bring forth life are entitled to enjoy safeguards to their health and that of their children. There should be suitable regulation of working conditions for women in order to insure the physical and moral health of the community. There should be assurance of the fullest positive development of every child. All children should be protected against unreasonable labor conditions and exploitation. But we must also remember the importance of training children under proper conditions to learn the value of work and the danger of idleness. I am not convinced of the desirability of the proposed federal child labor amendment, as it is drawn, which is now before the various states. It provides that "Congress shall have power to limit, regulate, and prohibit the labor of persons under eighteen years of age." I think those provisions are extreme. As former President Lowell of Harvard has wisely said : "We all want to stop the exploitation of children in factories, mines and industries of that nature. But we do not want interference with the home, or with the healthy and improving occupations of youth. Some people have no objection to confer such a power on the national government, trusting it will not be used. Some of us feel that to do so would be a mistake that we might hereafter greatly regret." 

BETTER COMMUNITY BUILDING 

A third way in which I think we can help materially to "establish Zion" is by the promotion of better community building, following up what the pioneers so splendidly started. There are so many ways in which we can work with all of our neighbors and fellow citizens to bring about better conditions. For instance, water is the very life blood in the growth of these intermountain communities. Therefore we should undertake as rapidly as conditions will permit to save every drop of waste water by possible storage. This present dry season only emphasizes this necessity. Careful geologic study should be given to possible sources of under water. The conservation of water supplies from year to year is very important. Further, there needs to be greater care and economy in the use of irrigation, power and municipal water supplies, to avoid, as far as possible, losses by seepage, evaporation and waste. Again, greater conservation of soil moisture in the maintenance of fertility spells the continued welfare and progress of our various communities. 

DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL INDUSTRIES AND RESOURCES 

The progress of every community depends upon the opportunities for employment either in agriculture, industry or business. Notwithstanding the fact that the manufacturing industries are not as general in our communities as in some other sections, every possible product that can be manufactured locally and sold profitably should be undertaken. Everyone in our local communities should undertake to thoroughly support our local industries by using their products. This is a very essential requirement for growth. Also we need to promote more real cooperative enterprises in this territory among producers as well as among consumers so that local people shall get the most direct benefit. The State of Utah, for example, is one of the richest in natural resources. Other surrounding states are, in many ways, similarly blessed. These resources should be developed, as far as possible, for the benefit of the citizens thereof and for the general progress of this commonwealth. 

MAKE OUR COMMUNITIES ATTRACTIVE 

I think we should continue the pioneering plans of the early settlers in the building of desirable communities. The planning should be toward providing for the welfare and opportunities of the. local people rather than toward increasing the population, with consequently greater unemployment. We should exercise care in the planning of tree-planting so as to provide pleasing effects through the proper location of trees on the streets and surrounding the homes, and through the selection of the proper hardwood trees to produce the best results. Setting apart of suitable property for natural parks and recreation grounds under conditions which will permit of very little cost for maintenance would mean much to the inhabitants and prove attractive to visitors. Much can be done by the united effort of all the residents in promoting public health, securing good water supplies, installing sewer facilities, maintaining sanitary conditions and preventing nuisances. 

BETTER HOMES MORE NEIGHBOURLINESS 

The future welfare of this people as church members and as citizens of this nation depends upon the spirit manifested in our homes. Irrespective of the cost or the extent of comforts in our homes, the important thing is that there should be love, kindly consideration and mutual confidence among all members of the household. No matter how humble the cottage may be, only the desire of improvement and attractiveness therein will produce the growth and unity necessary for the greatest joy and' welfare of the family. In like manner, as love and kindliness produce peace and unity among the members of the family, so the practice of these same qualities in our relations with our neighbors and all those among whom we live will help to produce the same results in the community. As we learn to live in good will under these conditions we shall be spreading the spirit of peace in ever-widening circles. 

May our efforts constantly be to strive in all possible ways to help to "establish Zion," is my earnest prayer, Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

In one of the large rooms of the Dresden Art Gallery in Germany hang two pictures. One is of the Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte, and the painting bears the legend : "Napoleon, The Greatest Man of War." On the opposite wall is that of Jesus the Master, which has this inscription : "Jesus Christ, The Greatest Man of Peace." Those two pictures are suggestive of the two great forces that mankind is confronted with today. The world is at war; and the world is at peace. Wrong is contending against right for the mastery of the souls of men; and our problems are greater now than they ever were before. This is a congregation of peace, joy, and sunshine, because we have come up to the tabernacle of God to hear the word of life and salvation. This is truly a house of God. 

An ancient psalmist once asked: "Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle ? who shall dwell in thy holy hill ?" Jehovah answered and said : "He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh truth in his heart." What a power the world would have for right, if these principles as taught to the psalmist were lodged deeply in our hearts to influence our lives every day. Such a thing can be if we begin to teach our children properly in the home. I fear that we are leaving the teaching of our children too much to the school and church, and that parents are not careful enough what they say and how they teach their children within the precincts of the home. It is the home that is the center of our social lives; it is the cathedral of our religious lives, where the Lord has imparted to us the knowledge of the immortality of his spiritual values : It is character that we must build; and in Jesus as in no other soul, humanity has found its ideal of character before which the noblest of the sons of men in all generations since his day have bowed their heads in reverence. 

The Old and New Testaments are full of the spirit of joy and thanksgiving which comes into the hearts of the people who are seeking to do the ways of Jehovah. I am always impressed with the thought when I stand before you good people that you are living upright lives, and in the battle of life you are playing your parts well. The great need today is that we teach our children the finer truths of life, and impress them with the ideal that each and every one must perfect himself in his spiritual power. Each one must perfect oneself in the sphere in which  is working. One must be taught the glorious words of the Master : "Be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect." Wle parents are learning from day to day, and as we learn we are able to impart knowledge to our children. It is in the home that God makes his covenant with us, and we have always new opportunities and new duties. When Jesus bade his disciples to receive the kingdom as little children, he meant that they should place their faith in God as children place their faith in him, because of their conscious helplessness. 

I am reminded here of a character in history who to me stands next to the Master in power, faith, and understanding. I refer to John the Baptist. John had been in the wilderness of Judea teaching repentance and the kingdom of God. "Repent ye," said he, "for the kingdom of God is at hand." John was speaking to living Jews, delivering to them for all time a message from their God. "Let us prepare our souls," Baruch said, "that we may have hope and be not put to shame, that we may reap with our fathers, and be not punished with our foes." Now the time had come. A prophet had risen once more in Israel. "Prepare ye the way of the Lord." John had given all; he had won all. One day while he was teaching his people on the banks of the river Jordan, he saw someone coming towards him. John turned to his congregation, and said : "Behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world." John knew the Master the minute he saw him. And why? Because he had the spirit of truth and faith which manifests all things divine. Jesus was baptized by John, and then retired into the wilderness. The time was fulfilled, the kingdom of God was at hand. This kingdom could come to earth only through souls that hungered and thirsted after righteousness. 

Jesus began his work among humanity to build it into a civilization the like of which the world has never known. That work we are continuing today. That fine truth that we may know God only by the spirit of the Master is the truth that I fear we forget today. This truth, however, is an eternal verity. Jesus told us to be "Perfect even as our Father in Heaven is perfect." 

We speak of the great changes that have come about in the world. It is an ever-changing world; and there will be more changes. Our great problem will be whether or not our moral and spiritual lives will grow as the world moves on. 

Yes, the world will change for the best, spiritually and morally, as we come to know that God has laid his hand on souls to whom the Gospel has become a burning fire within them, and they speak the word of the Lord which has been entrusted to them. In other words, the finer spiritual life will be brought about by men of faith. They will go forth with the spirit of the eternal truths of morality as expressed in the Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount. These moral truths are eternal. They will teach that the "pure in heart shall see God," and that Jesus died for the sins of the world. 

You and I, my brethren and sisters, have come up to this tabernacle and to this holy altar to hear the word of God and to hear about the spiritual truths that live forever. .We wish to show Jehovah that we walk uprightly, and speak truth in our hearts. My faith is that the world is growing better, and that mankind will be more closely united in divine faith. Truth will prevail, and the kingdom of God will come. 

There is a beautiful lesson in a part of the German writer's play called "Nathan the Wise." It was written by Lessing, a celebrated Jew of the days of Goethe. There is a conversation between a Christian and ^a Jew. The Jew says in substance, "I know, O Christian, by the spirit of Jehovah that the message of Christ to the world is one of fatherhood and brotherhood, of spirit and truth." The Christian replies to the Jew and says : "And I know by the same spirit that the Jew has borne the same great message to the world! We will be brought together by the same illumination, by the same spirit." 

So we realize that truth and goodness can inspire in men an affection infinitely more creative and unconquerable than anything else in life. The transcendance of the human spirit can conquer all things. 

May God bless us all. May the world understand the word of truth. May we all come closer together by the illumination of truth and the spirit of Jehovah, and walk uprightly and speak truth in our hearts, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 

A selection, "Calm as the night," was sung by a ladies chorus. 

ELDER WILLARD L. SMITH 

Former President of the Samoan Mission 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have your faith and prayers during the few moments I shall stand in your presence to report, briefly, the labors in the Samoan Mission. I bring greetings to you from the members of the Church in Samoa. I believe I am safe in saying that they are one of the finest groups of people we have anywhere, in any of the mission fields in the Church. Naturally, they are a different type from the people we have here in Zion. They are, however, at heart one of the finest races of people, as far as they have an understanding of the things required at their hands by our Father in Heaven. My little stay here in Zion, since returning, has caused me to feel far prouder of them as a race than I did during my association with them. 

I thank the Lord that I have had the opportunity of bearing my testimony to the sons and daughters of Lehi, who I firmly believe were led into that land by divine providence. It is my firm belief that the native peoples in the islands of the sea are direct descendants of Father Lehi, who left Jerusalem six hundred years before Christ. I realize that it is impossible to find external evidence sufficient to prove that this is the case. In spirit, however, I think we all agree with this thought. 

We read in the appendix of the Doctrine and Covenants that it is necessary to carry the Gospel even to the islands of the sea. It has fallen to my lot to labor and preside twice in the islands of the sea. I  at one time over the Tongan Mission and returned home not very strong physically. I was there during the World War. I returned to Canada, and while laboring there, trying to make a living for myself and family, word came to President Wood that we were asked to return, not to Tonga but to Samoa. This, of course, was a very great surprise to me. I thought that if I ever should return again to those lands it would possibly be to the islands where I was best acquainted. 

After I had consented to go I asked President Wood if he had forgotten that I returned home unable to carry my suitcase from the station. He said he had forgotten all about it. I returned home, however, this time perfectly well. 

I thank the Lord, from the bottom of my heart for the testimonies which have come to me and my family while laboring among that people. We have in the land of Samoa at this time more than four thousand members on our records. We have baptized, during the time that I have been there, 1,231 souls. So we have been somewhat successful, so far. as performing baptisms is concerned. They find it very difficult, however, under the trying conditions in that land, to always live the Gospel as we would have them do. . 

I wish to report this, however, that those who have received the Aaronic and the Melchizedek Priesthood, are functioning with a great deal of efficiency. While there I undertook to labor with the Priesthood. I felt that was necessary. Now we have only three branches in all that land that are directed by our Elders. We are operating now in some forty-two villages, and all the work in these villages can be carried on and supervised and directed by our native brethren. 

We also use the young men in the Aaronic Priesthood to teach schools, where the government of that land is not able to carry on the secular education as is required. I feel now that I was directed, in a sense, to labor with these brethren bearing the Priesthood, that they might be able to discharge the responsibilities which have come to them. We have not as yet sufficient capable men in that land to meet the requirements, but I feel that we have made progress there, although it may have been slow. Although we have been far away, we have been directed by the same good spirit that has directed the work here in Zion. 

It is not my purpose to take up more of your time, but I bear my witness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this is the true Gospel and that it shall never again be taken from the earth. My prayer is that my household and I may be able to remain firm and Steadfast and support those who preside over us. I ask it in the name of Jestis Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I have been deeply interested in the teachings of the Gospel during this conference, and I am grateful for the privilege of being present. During troublesome times like the present, I believe we draw nearer to our Father in heaven and to each other. This thought has been expressed to me a number of times when visiting stakes of Zion. I have also heard many expressions of appreciation for the blessings which we are enjoying. While we may be poor in the things of the world, after all we still have with us the most worthwhile things of life — the Gospel, our testimonies of its divinity, our loved ones, and our associations in the Church. We have much to be thankful for. Henry Van Dyke has said these words : 

We should be glad to live because it gives us a chance to love and to work . ... to be satisfied, but net content, until we have made the best of our opportunities; to despise nothing in the world except falsehood and meanness', and to fear nothing except cowardice; to covet nothing of our neighbors except their kindness of heart and gentleness of manner; to think seldom of our enemies and often of our friends. 

I believe that the teaching of the Gospel is essential in our homes. Here there should be implanted in the hearts of our children a love of God, a love of fellow men, a love of service in this church, and loyalty to those who preside over us. The statement that "example is better than precept" is good, but example is not enough, for the teaching of the Gospel is vital for the development of the lives of our young people. 

Quite recently I heard the following remark by a young man who was reared in a Latter-day Saint home. He said, "I wish I were converted to the principle of tithing." He was reminded that he had before him always the example of his parents. Their example was not sufficient. There may be many young people in the Church who feel as did this young man. As parents, we have long since learned that the Lord requires of all those who earn or acquire means, one-tenth of their interest to be used for the maintenance of the Church in its various departments and for the support of the poor and needy; that it is a voluntary offering; that the payment of tithing should accomplish two things : By it we honor the Lord as the giver of all, and we subject our will to his law. As parents we are familiar with the law of tithing, but are we teaching it to our children and training them to observe it? 

The auxiliary organizations and quorums of the Priesthood are assisting us in our family life in teaching the Gospel to our children, but the responsibility of training a child "in the way he should go" is the duty of his parents. Some people consider that they have done their full duty to their children when they have fed and clothed them, given them shelter and education, and have put away money for them to inherit. More than this is required of Latter-day Saint parents. 

Children were regarded by the Hebrews as "gifts from God." At the age of five years, the Hebrew boy was placed under the special care of the father and was taught not only the duties of life, but was carefully instructed in the law and in religious obligations and devotions. We Latter-day Saints consider that our children are "an heritage from the Lord." 

Let us consider the word of the Lord pertaining to the responsibility  parents, as given in Section 68 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. 

After baptism the duty of the parents is continued : 

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

The late President Joseph F. Smith expressed himself in these words : 

A. great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children from their cradle until they become men and women every principle of the Gospel; to endeavor as 1 far as it lies in the power of parents to instill into their hearts a love for God, for truth, virtue, honesty, honor, and integrity. It does not need argument to convince our minds that our children will be just about what we make them. The little one begins to learn after it is born, and all that it knows depends upon its environment and the influences under which it is reared. 

Too great emphasis cannot be placed upon the early training of the child. It is the duty of parents to fit and qualify him for life. Habits are acquired and come from repetition. Doing a thing over and over again tends to make it a habit. Horace Mann says, "Habit is a cable; we weave a thread of it every day, and at last we cannot break it." This thought is emphasized in the following : 

I took a piece of plastic clay, 

And idly fashioned it one day, 

And, as my fingers pressed it still, 

It moved and yielded to my will. 

I came again when days were past, 

This bit of clay was hard at last, 

The form I gave it, still it bore, 

And I could change that form no more. 

I took a piece of living clay, And gently fashioned day by day And moulded with my power and art, A young child's soft and tender heart. I came again when years were gone — 'Twas now a man I looked upon; He still that early impress bore, And I could change him nevermore. 

Faith in this great latter-day work and a knowledge of the principles of the Gospel should be instilled in the hearts of the boys and girls in their homes. 

While visiting in one of the stakes within the past few months, a mother of a family of four boys and two girls gave me her experiences in teaching tithing in the home. She was left a widow and had the responsibility or rearing this family of six children. On the day of each child's baptism the mother provided a small box into which the child was trained to deposit as tithing one-tenth of its gifts or earnings. She made it a point to see that the child received small sums of money for work about the farm, and whether ten cents or more, the mother was prepared to change the money so that the proper amount, one-tenth, could be placed in the box by her child as the Lord's tenth. This training, she said, has had a lasting effect upon the lives of her children. They are now grown; all are married; several have filled missions; all are active in the Church; and all are full tithepayers. She testified that this early training in the principle of tithing and its strict observance by her children has developed in them a living faith. Is not this method applicable in the home of every Latter-day Saint family? 

Through our example and teachings in the home can we not make this principle a habit in the lives of our boys and girls? If the child commences to pay tithing on its small earnings or income, it will not be difficult for it to pay on larger earnings. Parents should encourage their children to pay their tithing regularly to the bishop, and he should give the child who makes the small payment the same courteous attention and consideration that he would give to those who pay him on larger incomes. 

To be a tithepayer will strengthen the child's faith in God, for faith grows by works. It will increase his interest in the Gospel. He will feel a partnership in this great Latter-day work when he contributes of his means for the purpose of supporting the Church. It will develop in the child honesty, integrity, loyalty, and an appreciation of his parents and of the Gospel, and from this training there will come happier and better and more devoted men and women. 

Let us be diligent in teaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the home. Let us with kindness and patience train our young people in the payment of their tithes and offerings, so they will be fully converted to this principle and enjoy the lasting benefits and blessings that come through obedience to this law. May we not only teach the principle of tithing by example in the home, but also by precept. This is one of the principles of the Gospel with which I am familiar. I know its blessings in my own life. 

I am happy to testify that I know this great latter-day work of Mormonism is the work of God, brought forth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was ordained and appointed in the Celestial world to this great work of establishing the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, preparatory to the coming of the Savior to rule and reign on the earth. Amen. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I have no words at my command to adequately express my appreciation for the honor that has come to me in being considered worthy to preside over the great Southern States 

Mission of this Church, to succeed President Charles A. Callis, who has been called to labor as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. 

I have always enjoyed missionary work. This is the fourth time I have had the privilege of going into the mission field, and I have loved that work, and love it dearly. 

During this conference, reference has been made to the great work which has been established in these latter days, and especially to the mission of the Prophet Elijah, who came to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers; and the work of Moses, the prophet, who visited the Prophet Joseph Smith and brought the keys of the gathering of Israel in these the latter days. Reference has been made to the establishment of the Church here in the valleys of the mountains, demonstrating how the spirit of Moses has moved upon the membership of this Church when they have heeded the testimony of the Elders in foreign lands. Many of those who are here today have been gathered from the lands of the earth, through the call of the missionaries. 

Testimony has been given showing how marvelously those in the world, not only members of the Church, but men and women everywhere, have contributed of their means for the gathering of genealogy, and genealogical societies have been organized and records kept, all through the spirit that came by the restoration of the keys brought byElijah the prophet. This great revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith was given in the Kirtland temple ninety-eight years ago last Tuesday, at which time the Prophet Elias who conferred upon him and Oliver Cowdery the keys, of the Gospel of Abraham, and told them that through them and their seed all generations after them should be blessed. As I understand it, the mission of Elias, the prophet, relates to the missionary work of the Church, to cry repentance to the world, and prepare the way for the coming of the Lord. 

During the last three months that I have spent in the Southern States Mission it has been a great joy to me to meet the missionaries who are laboring there, to hear their experiences, to feel of their faith, and to listen to their testimonies. I have gone into the various districts of that mission and have brought together the missionaries, told them to unburden their hearts and let me know their feelings toward the Church, even from their very youth. I want to bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that if the fathers and mothers of those missionaries could have attended our meetings and listened to the testimonies of their boys and girls, they would have been grateful to the Lord for the manner in which this spirit of Elias, the prophet, of preaching the gospel of preparation, is in their hearts. 

I have in mind, at the present time, the testimony given by one of the young men in South Carolina, who bore a beautiful testimony of the Gospel. After the meeting was over he drew from his pocket the picture of a man sitting in a wheel chair, a cripple. He said he was a boy of a large family at home, and that he could see no opportunity of going into the mission field. One day this brother approached him and asked him if he would be willing to go on a mission, if the bishop would call him, and he would pay the expenses. He said : "That man will never know the feeling of gratitude I have in my heart toward him, that he has made it possible for me to have this wonderful experience." This good brother is laboring at home here in Zion, working as a tailor, and has chosen this course of gathering up "treasures in heaven, where moth and rust doth not corrupt, nor thieves break through and steal." 

This spirit of missionary work, I believe, has penetrated into every home of the Latter-day Saints, and almost into every heart. From the day we carry our little ones up to be blessed in the sacrament meetings, we rejoice when the Elders of the Church pray for our boys and girls, that they might grow up to become ambassadors of truth in the earth. 

I met another young man presiding over one of the districts, who related this incident: He said there was a good Scandinavian sister in his town, who wanted to send a missionary into the mission field, so she came to him and asked him if he would be willing to go and represent her. He is a wonderful missionary, and after he arrived in the field this good sister passed away, but before doing so, she left enough money in the bank for him to complete his mission. When I heard him bear witness to the Saints that his missionary work had been the very happiest time of all his life, I could not help but wonder if this good sister might not be aware of the wonderful contribution she had made, in making this great experience possible for him. 

This spirit of sacrifice for missionary work is not confined to the older members of the Church. One young man stated that when he was attending college, he and his young lady discussed the advisability of getting married, since he had a brother in the mission field in Europe, and felt that it would not be possible for him to go on a mission for years. This young lady said : "You go on your mission and I will earn the money to keep you in the mission field." I believe that young lady is laying away treasures in heaven. 

I met a young lady here yesterday who has the spirit of this missionary work. She was preparing to go on a mission, and the bishop spoke to her married brother about going, but he didn't see how he could go without help. So this young woman not only agreed to help him on his mission, but also to help his wife and little babies while he is away. 

One lady missionary bore witness that when she was called to go into the mission field she was in the beauty parlor business with her sister, and that they owed $2000. The sister said: "You go," and she went. She said that her sister had not only been able to keep her, but had also paid off the $2000 while she had been in the mission field. 

One young man said that his mother died when he was a very small boy. Before she passed away she called him to her bedside. She said : "My boy, I will never leave you;" and he bore witness that he was convinced that his mother had been with him during all his missionary labors. He said : "The greatest hope I have in my life" — and tears flowed  his eyes as he said it — "is that I might return home and have my father put his arms around me and say : 'Well done'." 

Another boy said that all his life he had wanted to go on a mission. His father had wanted him to go, but his father died recently. He said when he received his call he had a dream in which he saw his father, and he said : "My son, I will share this mission with you." 

This spirit of missionary work is not only felt in the mission field, but one of our young men testified that after he had gone into the mission field, two of his older brothers had become active in the Church because of the letters he had written home. 

Another young man said his bishop called him to bear his testimony, before leaving. He told the bishop he had no testimony. When he finally wrote a letter home and said he had received a testimony of the Gospel, his brother, who had been inactive in the Church said: "The Gospel must be true or he would never say it is." 

Now my time is up. I rejoice in the marvelous spirit of this missionary work. I know this work is true, and I thank God, from the bottom of my heart, for the privilege of laboring with these fine young men and women, your sons and daughters, in the Southern States Mission. God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER NEWEL J. CUTLER 

Former President of the Tongan Mission 

My brethren and sisters, this is a surprise to me, to be asked to address an audience of this kind. I suppose there are one-third as many people in this building as there are in the mission that I presided over. The Tongan islands are somewhat scattered. They are composed of about two hundred units, or two hundred small islands, and most of our missionary work is done on the sea, you might say, or traveling to different parts of the islands. 

I feel that I am somewhat out of place, talking in English, because most of my mature life has been spent in the Tongan islands. I labored as a missionary under the direction of President Willard L. Smith in the Samoan Mission, for nearly six years, and then went back as the presiding elder over the Tongan Mission for a little better than four years. 

The Tongan people are a very good class of people. They resemble very much the Samoans, as they have been described here by President Smith. There is no question but that they are descendants of Father Lehi. Their characteristics resemble those of the Lamanites of this continent, or what we call the American Indians. 

I am thankful that I have had the privilege of laboring as a missionary. It has been the happiest time of my life. I did enjoy my labors among those people. 

I have a testimony of the Gospel. I know it is true. I feel as Job of old, when he said : 

Oh that my words . . . were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever! 'For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth : 

And though after my skin worms' destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God : 

'Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another. 

I am thankful that those who preside in this Church have had confidence in me. I am thankful for my parentage, for those who have reared me in the Church of Jesus Christ. This Church means all to me, and I hope and pray that I shall remain true and faithful to the covenants I have made with God the Eternal Father. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may attend us at all times, that our desires for good may increase, and that our determination to spread the Gospel of Christ may grow. I bear you this testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER HAROLD W. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I deem it a great privilege to stand here before you, and I feel very humble and very weak in accepting the responsibility of occupying a few moments of your time, for I know that, if computed, those few moments multiplied by the number of persons here present, would run into a great deal of human time, for which I am responsible. 

I feel very humble, also, my brethren and sisters, in accepting the call that has come to me. I feel weak, incapable, of myself, of discharging the responsibilities depending upon me in the Mexican Mission. But I do have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony of the truthfulness of the words of Nephi, referred to by President Grant yesterday. I know that our Father makes no call on any of us without he himself prepares and opens the way for the fulfilment and the discharge of that call. It is only in this testimony and in my testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that I have the courage to accept the call that has been made of me. 

I have also to my advantage a very deep respect and love for the Mexican people. It has been my pleasure and my privilege to be raised among them, to live among them practically all of my life. As has been described to you this afternoon in regard to the natives of the islands, the Mexicans, who are also of the house of Lehi — the Lamanites — are a good people. They come nearer to living up to their ideals than any other people with whom it has been my pleasure to associate. 

I regard it a great honor to work among the Mexican people in the Mexican Mission. I feel almost that it is a family heritage. My grandfather was a member of the first party of missionaries to the Lamanite people. My father, in company with President Ivins, was a member of the first missionary party to the Republic of Mexico, and later was associated with the Mexican Mission directly and indirectly all his life. My brother, the late President Rey L. Pratt, spent more than a quarter of  century laboring among the Mexican people. I feel that it is my privilege and my responsibility to continue the work that they have, up to this date, so nobly carried on. 

I feel it an honor to succeed President Antoine R. Ivins as president. I am sure that he has established a precedent that it will take my utmost efforts and the blessings of my Heavenly Father to live up to. I wish to take this opportunity to thank him for his kindly help and cooperation and the encouragement he has given me in taking over the mission. 

I wish to bear my testimony before closing, that I know the Gospel is true. I know as I know that I stand here before you today that Christ lives. I know that he is the Savior of the world. I know that this Gospel, established by him while here upon the earth, was taken from the world, and that it has now been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith and has been carried down to us. 

I testify unto you that the officers, the presiding authorities, President Grant, and those associated with him today, are in very deed, as we sustained them yesterday, prophets, seers and revelators, representatives of our Father in heaven here upon the earth. I beseech each and every one of you to give heed always to the counsel, to the direction of these brethren, that in the last days we shall not be found wanting. 

I pray the blessings of the Father upon you all, and beseech an interest in your faith and prayers, that I may be blessed in the discharge of my responsibilities. I do it in Jesus' name, Amen. 

The Liberty Stake Mutual Improvement Association Chorus sang The Hallelujah Chorus from "The Messiah." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Edgar B. Brossard, President of the Washington, D. C. branch of the Eastern States Mission. 


