Morning
06 04 1934


The large auditorium and galleries of the great Tabernacle were filled almost to capacity with men and women from the stakes and missions of the Church. 

The opening session of the Conference commenced promptly at 10 o'clock, Friday morning, October '6, 1934, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." 

Elder John B. Reed, President of the San Luis Stake, offered the invocation. 

A soprano solo, "Fear not ye, O Israel," was sung by Jessie Williams. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, who were unanimously sustained, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Stephen L. Richards 

Reed Smoot Richard R. Lyman 

George Albert Smith Melvin J. Ballard 

George F. Richards John A. Widtsoe 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Levi Edgar Young 

Rulon S. Wells Antoine R. Ivins 

Charles H. Hart Samuel O. Bennion 

John H. Taylor 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

David O. McKay Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman John A. Widtsoe Adam S. Bennion Franklin S Harris 

Heber J. Grant Anthony W. Ivins J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Willard Young Rudger Clawson Joseph F. Merrill Joseph Fielding Smith 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper Wade M. Stephens, Assistant 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT 

At the request of President Heber J. Grant, Elder David O. McKay read the financial and statistical report of the Church as follows : 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1933 : Stake and Ward Purposes: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for the construction of ward and stake meeting 

houses $ 123,458.48 

For ward maintenance expenses 646,408.44 

For stake maintenance expenses 189,296.04 

$ 959,162.96 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school system. .$ 530,243.19 Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of temples. .$ 136,457.70 Charities : 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment $ 157,208.88 

Missionary Work : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions $ 597,577.42 

Total $2,380,650.15 

which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities, and assistance rendered by the Relief Society, in the sum of $355,566.71, which amount, added to the $157,208.88 paid from the tithes, makes * the total charity assistance rendered by the Church. .$ 512,775.59 

Expended for the maintenance of missionaries: 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church 

and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance . $ 43,799.02 

Average cost per missionary in the missions during the year 1933, $29.77 per month, or a total of $357.24 per year per missionary. There was an average of 1,016 missionaries in the various missions during 1933, making a total average expense for the year, ($357.24 x 1,016) $ 362,955.84 

Estimated average earnings per missionary $900.00 per year x 1,016, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have 

earned if at home of $ 914,400.00 

making a total estimated contribution of missionaries and their families to the Church for the preaching of the Gospel $1,321,154.86 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR 

THE YEAR 1933 

There are at the present time: 105 stakes of Zion; 935 wards; 79 independent branches; 36 dependent branches, or a total of 1,050 wards and branches in the stakes of Zion. There are 31 missions (including the European Mission), 875 mission branches, and 206 districts. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the 

stakes and missions 19,528 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 15,480 Converts baptized in the stakes and missions 7,889 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, Dec. 31, 1933. . . . 971 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, Dec. 31, 1933 . . 31 

Number of local missionaries 61 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 1,063 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 1,585 

Total Missionaries 2,648 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary 

Home 409 

Persons recommended to the temples from the stakes 74,357 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 27.3 per thousand 

Marriage rate, 15.5 per thousand 

Death rate, 6.7 per thousand 

Families owning their own homes, 62 per cent. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

Mission Presidents Appointed : 

Joseph J. Daynes appointed President of the Western States Mission to succeed Elias S. Woodruff. 

LeGrand Richards appointed President of the Southern States Mission to succeed Charles A. Callis. 

Reuben M. Wiberg appointed President of the Tongan Mission to succeed Verl L. Stubbs (who was acting-president). 

Harold W. Pratt appointed President of the Mexican Mission to succeed Antoine R. Ivins 

William G. Sears appointed President of the Samoan Mission to succeed Willard L. Smith. Temple President Appointed : 

Robert D. Young appointed President of the Manti Temple to succeed Lewis Anderson who passed away. New Stake Organized : 

Wells Stake organized, formerly part of Grant Stake. Stake Presidents Appointed : 

Thomas E. Towler appointed President of Wells Stake. 

Charles W. Fagg appointed President of the Grant Stake to succeed Joseph J. Daynes. 

Claudius Bowman appointed President of the Juarez Stake to succeed Ralph B. Keeler. 

David H. Cannon appointed President of the Hollywood Stake to succeed LeGrand Richards. 

Charles C. Heaton appointed President of the Kanab Stake to succeed Heber J. Meeks. 

Wallace Eugene Poulson appointed President of the Sevier Stake to succeed Robert D. Young. Stake President who has died : 

Heber J. Meeks of the Kanab Stake. New Wards Organized:' 

Fairfield Ward, Blaine Stake (formerly an independent branch). 

Springfield Ward, Blackfoot Stake (formerly an independent branch). 

N ew Branch Organized : 

Morgan Independent Branch, San Luis Stake. Wards and Branch Disorganized : 

Manard Ward, Blaine Stake. 

Cedarview Ward, Roosevelt Stake. 

Hollister Branch. Twin Falls Stake. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is a source of great pleasure to me to meet this vast audience. I think that this is the largest audience that I recall having seen in this house at a Friday conference meeting. It is very gratifying to me to see the interest that the people have in our conferences. 

I appreciate the remarkable and wonderful growth of the Church. When I look back fifty-one years ago this coming October conference, to the time when I became one of the General Authorities of the Church — at which time as I recall it we had less than thirty stakes, and now we have one hundred and five — I am grateful for the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

RECALLS EARLY TRIP 

I recall my first trip fifty years ago this coming May up into the Rexburg country. Rexburg at that time was a branch of one of the wards in Cache Valley, and there were fewer than 1300 people belonging to the Church residing north of the Oneida Stake of Zion. Today we have more than 100,000 I am sure, if we go north and west, and up into Canada. 

I also recall that just before I was made a member of the Council of the Twelve, I visited Oakley and other towns in the vicinity of Oakley. One year previous to that time I visited Oakley when it was a branch of the Grantsville Ward of the Tooele Stake of Zion. I had to travel to Salt Lake City, through the Salt Lake, the Davis, the Weber and the Box Elder stakes to Brigham City, and then two days and a fraction westward to get to a branch of the Grantsville Ward of the Tooele Stake of Zion. We now have about half a dozen stakes between Brigham City and that section. 

DIVINE AUTHORITY RESTORED 

Each and every year the Church is stronger than it was the year before. The Church is progressing, it is not going backward. Men may make mistakes, but the Church stands firm. The Gospel is in very deed the plan of life and salvation. God has spoken again from the heavens. God himself has introduced his Son Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, to the boy Joseph Smith. John the Baptist has laid his hands upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and given them the authority to baptize, then commanding them to baptize each other. 

Peter, James, and John, the Apostles of Jesus Christ during his ministry and after his death, have laid their hands upon the heads of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and restored again the apostleship to earth. Every gift, every grace, every endowment, every privilege, and every authority that was enjoyed in early days by the Saints of God during the administration of Jesus Christ and following his crucifixion belong to and are enjoyed today by the Latter-day Saints. 

CHAPELS DEDICATED 

Nearly every Sunday during the past six months I have dedicated a meeting house or met with various branches in the missions of the Church. During the past six months we have dedicated a magnificent chapel in Washington, D. C, a credit to the Latter-day Saints and a credit to that great city, acknowledged by all with whom I have talked — although not so expensive as some other church buildings which cost perhaps two, three or four times as much — to be a building equal in beauty and construction, for its size, to any of the fine buildings in Washington. At the first meeting of the branch some years ago in Washington there were five in attendance. More than two thousand people attended the dedication of our chapel — of course some of them came a second time, and perhaps a third, but people were requested to attend but one meeting. It is a matter of satisfaction, to realize that we have one of the very finest churches in our chief city, the capital of our nation. 

HAVE TRUTH TO GIVE 

It is a source of satisfaction that I can say that I believe that every true Latter-day Saint, or every Latter-day Saint who is actually living his or her religion, sustains in his or her heart, with prayers and good works, the General Authorities of the Church. I am very grateful for the truth. 

I remember distributing some pamphlets — in fact several thousand — during the Christmas season, entitled, "The Power of Truth." We have the truth to give to the world, and no other people has the truth, the actual Gospel of Jesus Christ, established by Him. This little pamphlet says regarding truth : 

Truth is the rock foundation of every great character. 

And truth is the rock foundation of the Church of Christ, and you and I have been blessed with a testimony of the divinity of it. 

It is loyalty to the right as we see it; it is courageous living of our lives in harmony with our ideals; it is always — power. 

TESTIMONY REMAINS 

When we live in harmony with our high ideals we never lose the" testimony of the Gospel. We are ever ready and willing to sustain those who in the providence of the Lord have been called upon to preside over the Church. Those who fail to keep the commandments of the Lord and who indulge in fault-finding and criticism are the only ones who lose their faith. 

From my childhood until the present time I have no recollection of any individual with whom I have been acquainted, who was an honest, conscientious tithe-payer, who was listening to and obeying the instructions given by the president of the Church, and by the various presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, having lost his or her faith. On the contrary I have seen many lose their faith who have failed to live up to Latter-day Saint ideals and their Gospel knowledge. Some one has said that "knowledge without practice is like a glass eye, all for show and nothing for use." 

Truth ever defies full definition. Like electricity it can only be explained by noting its manifestation. It is the compass of the soul, the guardian of conscience, the final touchstone of right. Truth is the revelation of the ideal; but it is also an inspiration to realize that ideal, a constant impulse to live it. 

MISSIONARIES HAPPY 

In no part of the work of God here upon the earth at the present time is there such a band of happy, contented, peaceful people as those who are engaged in missionary service. Service is the real key to joy. When one is giving service for the advancement of humanity, when one is working without money and without price, with no hope of earthly reward, there comes a real, genuine joy into the human heart that I am convinced only those who have experienced the inspiration » of the Holy Ghost which comes to them in the mission field know anything about. 

I can testify in all humility that the three years that stand out most prominently in my life are the three years when I was laboring as the president of the European Mission. 

LYING SCORED 

Lying is one of the oldest vices in the world — it made its debut in the first recorded conversation in history, in a famous interview in the garden of Eden. Lying is the sacrifice of honor to create a wrong impression. It is masquerading in misfit virtues. Truth can stand alone, for it needs no chaperone or escort. Lies are cowardly, fearsome things that must travel in battalions. They are like a lot of drunken men, one vainly seeking to support another. Lying is' the partner and accomplice of all other vices. It is the cancer of moral degeneracy in an individual life. 

Truth is the oldest of all virtues; it antedated man, it lived before there was man to perceive it or to accept it. It is the unchangeable, the constant. Law is the eternal truth of nature — the unity that always produces identical results under identical conditions. When a man discovers a great truth in nature he has' the key to the understanding of a million phenomena; when he grasps a great truth in morals he has in it the key to his spiritual re-creation. For the individual, there is no such thing as theoretic truth; a great truth that is not absorbed by our whole mind and life, and has not become an inseparable part of our living, is not a real truth to us. If we know the truth and do not live ift, our life is — a lie. 

May the Lord help each and every one of us to live the truth is my humble prayer. 

CHURCH MAKES NO MISTAKES 

I am very happy indeed to feel that the Church does not make mistakes; that the Church has been true to its divine commission from the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, and in fact from the time of the organization of the Church until the present. 

I have heard quite frequently of the inability of your humble servant, not having sufficient knowledge and ability, to preside over the Church. 

PRESIDENT SMITH'S LAST MESSAGE 

I will read the following statement — and have no recollection of having done so before — written at my request, by Bishop David A. Smith, Nov. 19, 1918: 

President Grant came into the Beehive House yesterday afternoon to inquire as to father's condition, and I suggested that he go in and speak to him, but he said he did not want to disturb him. I said, "You had better wait and see him, as it may be your last chance to speak to him." 

Father being awake, I told him Brother Grant was there, and he directed me to tell Brother Grant that he wanted to see him, and when Brother Grant entered the room he took him by the hand and said : 

"The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you, you have got a great responsibility. Always remember this is the Lord's work, and not man's. The Lord is greater than any man. He knows whom he wants to lead his Church, and never makes any mistake. The Lord bless you." 

This was the last message that President Smith delivered to any one. 

(Signed) DAVID A. SMITH. 

WHILE PRESIDING IN TOOELE 

It fell to my lot before I was twenty-four years of age to be called to preside over the Tooele Stake of Zion. I had never made a speech of ten minutes in a Church meeting up to that time. I felt then my own weakness, but look back with pleasure to having fulfilled the pledge made in the short speech delivered in seven and a half minutes. I ran out of ideas at the end of that time. That night in the dark I) heard a man say in a contemptuous way, "It is a pity that if the Authorities of the Church had to send a boy out here to preside over our stake, they could not have found one with sense enough to talk for ten minutes." 

They were correct, I lacked the knowledge to talk ten minutes. I ran out of ideas in seven and a half minutes by the watch, having timed myself. 

We find recorded in the twenty-ninth chapter of Alma that the Lord granteth unto men according to their desires, whether they be unto  or death, joy or remorse of conscience. I desired to do my duty. I pledged myself there and then to keep the Word of Wisdom to the best of my ability; to labor as diligently as any man in Tooele; to donate of my means as liberally as any man; and to the best of my ability to fulfil the duties and obligations devolving upon me. The man who criticized me was looking for an opportunity to find fault, and found it. 

GROWTH THROUGH OBSERVANCE OF DUTY 

I know nothing in the Church that is more serious than faultfinding; and on the contrary nothing that inspires men so much as to be observers of the Word of Wisdom, to be honest and conscientious with God in the payment of their tithes, and to be honest with their fellow men. I have seen men grow and increase in light, knowledge and intelligence when they do their duty. 

I was astounded when one as weak as myself was called to be an apostle. It seemed almost beyond anything believable that I could become the president of the Church. But I am very thankful indeed today at being able to sleep with a clear conscience. I am very thankful that I have no fault to find except with my lack of ability and my lack of knowledge, but not with my lack of energy, or my lack of determination and willingness to labor. I am grateful for the little that I have accomplished, and rejoice that in all my labors I have found nothing that has in the slightest degree weakened my faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

POSSESSES KNOWLEDGE 

I do not need to say faith, for I can say knowledge. I know that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and that Mormonism, so-called, is in very deed the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation, revealed again from heaven, and that all authority existing on the earth at any time has been bestowed again upon men by messengers from heaven. 

I rejoice in the marvelous work that is being accomplished in our temples, in the restoration to the earth of the privilege of baptizing, by the authority of the living God, in behalf of those who have passed away, and of performing ordinances which if accepted, will lead the dead to life eternal and to salvation, although they may have died without a knowledge of the Gospel. 

THE LORD PREPARES THE WAY 

I rejoice that as a young man I fell in love with Nephi, and more than any other character — of course excepting always the Savior — his life, his example, his teachings have been the guiding stars of my life. 

I have believed, accepted, and preached the following : 

And it came to pass that I Nephi, said unto ray father, I will go and cflo the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord givefth no commandment unto the children of men save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them. 

I have no fear but that I can, with the help of the remarkable and wonderful men who are associated with me, fulfil every duty and obligation, every requirement, and commandment that God may give to me. 

THANKFUL FOR WISE COUNSELORS 

I thank God for Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose — men who had a marvelous and wonderful store of knowledge; marvelous knowledge of the scriptures, wonderful comprehension of the plan of life and salvation; men who had ability to write about and to teach the Gospel such as I do not possess. But they gave me all they had; they gave me the best that was in them. 

I rejoice in having for my counselor, my cousin, Anthony W. Ivins. I rejoice in his wisdom and his devotion; I rejoice in the remarkable mind and ability that was possessed by Brother Charles W. Nibley. I rejoice in the wonderful ability of Brother J. Reuben Clark, Jr., who is now one of my counselors. I am grateful for these men, for their stores of knowledge far beyond my own. 

CONFIDENT CHURCH WILL TRIUMPH 

I acknowledge my own lack of great ability, but I do not lack confidence in God. I do not lack in the blessing given to me by President Joseph F. Smith. I do not fear that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will fail to go on, and on, and on, as it has 'been doing, and prosper; while all those who fail to do their duty will fall by the wayside. 

AN EARLY EXPERIENCE WITH PLANCHETTES 

I recall that when I was a child there was a great apostasy in the Church, known as the Godbeite movement, called the New Move. I remember that my dear sainted mother had to sew with needle and thread for a living, and finally she did a great deal of sewing in homes of people who were rich enough to have sewing machines. When she would go to one of these homes to operate a sewing machine and spend the day, often late into the night, I was always invited to go there to have dinner. Upon one occasion I was in William Godbe's home, known as the Octagon House — located on the corner of Second South and Second East — which has since disappeared and where there is now a large, fine gas station. 

These people were having a glorious time, laughing and screeching, in the room in the center of the house which was surrounded by eight rooms. They had a planchette, and were receiving messages. They came into the bedroom where mother was sewing and said : "Come in Rachel, and have a fine time." 

She said, "No, President Brigham Young said that any person who would fool with one of those planchettes would be led into spiritualism;  spiritualism was, of course, apostasy; and the fruits of spiritualism were insanity and suicide. I will not go in." 

Finally they came into the bedroom and brought the machine with them, but it did not work. Later they came back again and said : "Come in, Rachel." They had gone back into the other room and were laughing and screeching. To my utter astonishment she went in. 

You know children occasionally criticize their parents, as was the case with a certain good man. One of his little children spoke up one day and said: "Papa, we never have prayers, do we, unless we have company ?" As we were walking home that night I said to my mother : "What did you go into that room for when Brother Brigham told you not to have anything to do with such things ?" 

She laughed and said, "My boy, did you notice that the machine did not work in the bedroom when they brought it there?" I said, "Yes." 

"I want to tell you the reason it did not work. I told the Lord that I could not prevent their bringing it in there, but to please shut it up, and he did. When they asked me to go into the parlor I told the Lord that if he would give me the impression in my heart that I could go in there and shut up their machine, that it could not work in my presence, I would go in. And I received the impression, so I went in, and it did not work." 

RESULT OF GODBEITE MOVEMENT 

What was the result of the Godbeite movement? The final result was spiritualism on the part of those who remained with it. I was told — I do not know how true it is — that William Godbe's wife lost her mind — the wife with whom he lived. Of course he had a manifestation that he should not live with the other woman whom he had married. William Godbe received a revelation that his brother-in-law, my cousin-in-law, Ben Hampton, was to be an apostle of the Church. He went up to the toll-bridge over the Bear river, where Ben had a fine large adobe house, and served meals. It was the outfitting place for people who were going up into Montana. 

Godbe read this revelation to Ben. You know that some people say that "damn" is not swearing, it is only emphasis; well, with emphasis Ben said : 

If all the rest of your revelations — with emphasis — are as big lies as that, you ought to go right down to Brother Brigham and make peace with him, because you are getting revelations from the devil. 

The idea of you, a hard-headed business 1 man, who built the first three-story rock building ever built in Salt Lake City, who has built smelters and engaged in mining and other business, thinking that the Lord would call me to be an apostle — a man who never paid any attention to religion, a man who drinks when he wants to, smokes when he wants to, and chews tobacco when he wants to, a man who gets mad and swears occasionally — he lived a clean life otherwise — Billie, go right down to Salt Lake and have it out with Brother Brigham. You are getting revelation from the wrong source. 

Years later I was in the Williams hotel in Mil ford, upon the hill there, having been over to Beaver as I remember it attending a conference, and William Godbe and his son and others were stopping at that hotel that night. They were on their way from Salt Lake to Bullionville, as I remember it, or coming from Bullionville where they had mining interests. The next morning we could not find his son, and we hunted all over for him. Finally we found his body about 1,500 feet away from the hotel. He had gone out there and committed suicide. 

RECALLS OTHER INSTANCES 

I remember preaching in Los Angeles on one occasion the same as I am doing here now, and after the meeting a woman came to Brother Joseph W. McMurrin and said she had an ouija board — that is what they call it now, it used to be called a planchette — and she thought it was very remarkable, but she would never use it again. He tried to get her to let him have it and burn it. Oh no, she did not want to burn it. She later commenced using it again. She was in Los Angeles on a visit from Arizona at the time I made this talk. She finally landed in the insane asylum in Arizona. 

The fruits of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are health and vigor of body and of mind and of spirit, and the fruits of spiritualism are insanity and suicide. 

I remember that some of the Elders over in England had rented a hall on one floor of a building where spiritualistic mediums had their seances. They kept inviting the boys to come to their meetings. I told them to stay away, saying, "You cannot handle a nasty dirty stovepipe without soiling your hands, and you have no business, to be on the devil's ground, so stay away. You know you have the truth; go on proclaiming and living it, and let them alone." 

Finally the boys pleaded with me to let them go. I said: "All right, you can go on one condition" — it was a night meeting — "that is that you do not eat anything that day, and that you go there fasting and praying to the Lord to prevent them from carrying on their spiritualistic operations." 

They went to the meeting, and the spiritualists were unable to have any seance that night. 

THE TESTIMONY OF WILFORD WOODRUFF 

I rejoice in the testimony of President Wilford Woodruff. One night he was at a meeting where they had been having remarkable spiritualistic manifestations. Brother Woodruff went there and rebuked the spirits and commanded them not to operate through this medium. Finally, after they had been assembled for some time and had a Quaker meeting, the man who was the medium came down off the platform, walked through the audience to where Brother Woodruff was, shook his fist in his face and said: "You are the man who is olpposing me and preventing me from doing anything here tonight." 

Brother Woodruff said : "Yes, T have the Priesthood of God and have rebuked the evil spirits." 

They pleaded with Brother Woodruff to please leave, and he did so, and they had the devil's own time, all right. 

A TRIBUTE TO MOTHERS 

I rejoice in the remarkable meeting held here yesterday by our sisters, the faithful and diligent mothers of the Church. I happened to pick up a book this morning before getting out of bed, and read from it a tribute to mothers — to your mother, to every fine Latter-day Saint mother : 

The sweetest word in the Language of Languages is that of — Mother. There is in each letter of this word a wealth of music so divine — there are vibrating chords of Love so Angelic — that the whole world often pays homage to Mothers whom it honors. 

Nancy Hanks — the mother of Lincoln; Frances Willard and Jane Addams 1 — mothers of the motherless; Queen Victoria — the mother of a nation of mothers. 

You — whoever you are — your greatest asset is your mother. You — bankrupt, discouraged, failure-riddled, hope-wasted, heart-wrenched, self-estranged — there remains still a day, glorious in sunsets for you if you will but get back again, in thought, or heart, or person — to your, mother. 

The most wonderful event in the history of the world was when the first woman became — a mother. Human life has become a beautiful thing because the world has had its mothers. 

HONORED BY CHURCH 

No other Church has ever honored mothers as has the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by establishing the female Relief Society. 

The greatest men in any community are those who render the highest tribute to motherhood. No one ever has surpassed, or ever will surpass the achievement of a woman when she becomes a mother. When did you last write to your mother? If she has gone from you, how often do you think of her? Do you realize that all you are or ever hope to be started back in the years when your mother, her whole being pulsating with pride, held you tight, with eyes lustered and watered with love, watched your every breath, and kept pace, over the hours, with your faintest heart throbs? Think of how, all through these days she wrapped you in her unselfishness and her sacrifices. 

The measure of your success will be the degree of honor you pay to your mothers and to motherhood. 

PRAISES OWN MOTHER 

I stand here today as one whose mother was all to him. She was both father and mother to me; she set an example of integrity, of devotion and love, of determination, and honor second to none. I stand here today as the president of the Church because I have followed the advice and counsel and the burning testimony of the divinity of the work of God, which came to me from my mother. 

There came into my home when I was a child a great man of the world, a man of great importance, a man who once offered me a magnificent position carrying $40,000 a year as salary, and who thought I was very foolish not to take it when the Church at that time did not allow me a tithing of that amount. This man wrote me from London; he was at that time manager for the entire United Kingdom of the great New York Life Insurance Company. He said, "What has become of your cousin? I often said to my wife" . . (and by the way this man came into our home when he was a young unmarried man, he came here on the overland stage; later he came with his wife, and finally his first child was born in our home. He became one of the dearest and best friends the Latter-day Saints ever had.) 

INQUIRED FOR ELDER IVINS 

He said: "I often said to my wife, Mrs. Hawes" (this man was Col. Alexander G. Hawes) "that those two boys, Anthony W. Ivins and Heber J. Grant, will some day stand right at the top of the 'Mormon' Church, it is in them. Here you are, an apostle, and president of a bank, and I haven't heard of your cousin. What has become of him ?" I answered, "Colonel, he has. gone to Mexico. He has filled two missions in Mexico, and if there is any place in the world he did not want to go, it was Mexico. But he has gone — why? Because he has been called to go there, and he will stay there and live and die there unless he is called back." 

THANKFUL FOR TESTIMONY 

I thank God for a testimony that came to me, the eternal part of me, the day Brother Ivins was called to Mexico. Brother George Q. Cannon made the remark, "I do not want Brother Ivins to go to Mexico, we need him here. He is the outstanding man in his party in Utah, but I believe the Lord wants him there." When he was called I felt a little sad, and while thinking about it, the Lord saw fit to give me this word : "You need not feel bad, he is going where the Lord wants him to go and you shall have the exquisite joy of welcoming him back into this room as one of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ." I was in the Apostles' room in the temple at the time. I turned my head and wept for joy. 

COLONEL HAWES' TRIBUTE 

I rejoice that Brother Ivins had such a wonderful mother — my own mother's sister. Two women more true, two women with greater serenity, two women who lived finer lives, always speaking well of every one or keeping still, I have never known. This same Col. Hawes wrote to me when my mother died — he was agnostic — and said : "If the God of nature ever did stamp peace, nobility, and serenity upon any human countenance, he did upon the face of dear Aunt Rachel." My cousin Caddie Ivins waited on the table at the time of Col. Hawes' visit and she balled mother "Aunt Rachel," and the boarders adopted that title. The Colonel told the president of that great insurance company with which he was associated, that of all the women he had ever known in his life, barring only his sister, his mother and his wife, he had never met a woman that he admired and loved so much as he did my mother. The  of the company told me this, and extended his sympathy to me when I met him after the death of my mother. 

Talk about sacrifice! Why, the sacrifice of the women of this Church and their devotion are beyond the power of pen and tongue of man to pay proper tribute. 

May God help us to follow the teaching and example of our mothers who are true Latter-day Saints, and there will be an eternity of joy and an exaltation in store for each and every one of us; and that we may receive it is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior, our Redeemer, even so. Amen. 

At the request of President Heber J. Grant the congregation arose and sang the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I appreciate very much the excellent testimony that has been given to us this morning and the wonderful tribute paid by President Grant to his mother. So I also can pay a tribute to my mother, and I treasure in my heart her teachings, which have helped me so wonderfully and have been a guide to my path, and I think that most of us could testify likewise. 

This morning I would like to address my remarks more particularly to the presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, and all presiding officers, and the clerks who are called upon to keep the records in the stakes and wards and missions of the Church. 

IMPORTANCE OF RECORD-KEEPING 

Record-keeping is very important. When the Church was organized one of the first revelations that the Lord gave was to the effect that records should be kept, a record of the members, a record of events, everything of importance, and one of the brethren was chosen to be the recorder. He was Oliver Cowdery. Later, because of other duties, this responsibility was placed upon the shoulders of another. But the Lord has emphasized from the beginning the need of keeping records in the Church. In fact we read in the marvelous records that have come to us through revelation that in the beginning the Lord gave this commandment to men. 

I want to read a verse from the Pearl of Great Price, perhaps more than one : 

And then began these men to call upon the name of the Lord, and the Lord blessed them 

This was in the days of Adam and his immediate posterity. 

And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration; And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled. 

Now this same priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also. 

Now this prophecy Adam spake, as he was moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and a genealogy was kept of the children of God. And this was the book of the generations of Adam, saying: In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him; 

In the image of his own body, male and female, created he them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created and became living souls in the land upon the footstool of God. 

Abraham has also given, in the writings that have come to us from _ him, a statement that I also want to read : 

But the records of the fathers, even the patriarchs, concerning the right of Priesthood, the Lord my God preserved in mine own hands; therefore a knowledge of the beginning of the creation, and also of the planets, and of the stars, as they were made known unto the fathers, have I kept even unto this day, and I shall endeavor to write some of these things upon this record for the benefit of my posterity that shall come after me. 

We are very fortunate in the fact that these worthies who held the Priesthood and were in communication with God in those ancient times did receive inspiration and revelation, and recorded the word of the Lord to them which has come down to us, much of it of course in a corrupted form, but nevertheless the word of the Lord, and we have profited because of it. 

Today the Lord has spoken and has again given revelations to the Church, and is now giving revelations to the Church; in fact we have received more apparently than we are willing to keep, and yet the Lord is willing and ready to bless us with inspiration and knowledge and truth. 

In section fifty-nine of the Doctrine and Covenants he says that he will give us commandments not a few when we are ready to receive them. 

Now I want to impress upon those who are keeping records in this Church the importance of record-keeping. We are trying to get the clerks to follow the instruction which has been given them and send to us a detailed history of the stakes, and we want the clerks in the wards to keep a detailed history of the wards, and furnish information to us quarterly, that we may file it in the archives of the Church. We are asking presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, also mission presidents, to carefully supervise and scrutinize these prepared histories of the missions and stakes and wards, and then sign with their own names the history before it comes to be filed in the archives of the Church, stating that to their best knowledge and understanding that which is written is correct. We want them to see that everything of importance is recorded. We are under the necessity very frequently of sending letters out to a great many of the stakes and some of the missions and asking them to see that the history which is delinquent is forwarded. We would like to have these records sent to us on time. 

INFORMATION FURNISHED BY HISTORIAN 

Frequently, yes, hardly a week passes that people do not write  us or come into the office seeking information concerning themselves. They want to know when they were baptized, they want to know when they were ordained, and sometimes they want to know when they were born — that isn't a joke, it is an actual fact. We receive communications from the Government sometimes asking us to verify records of this kind. I think that every member of the Church ought to keep a record of vital things for himself. When a man is baptized he should make a record of it. When he is confirmed, when he is ordained, when other duty or responsibility or call comes to him he should make a record of it and keep it himself; but it is also the duty of the clerk in the ward or in the stake, as the case may be, to also make a record of this and have it put into the history of the ward or stake, where it can be preserved. 

We can furnish a great deal of information for people if they do not want us to go back too far. The early records of the Church were not kept as thoroughly as they should have been. We have learned a great many things by experience. Today our records are kept in a much better way, and yet at times things escape the notice of those who are called to make the records. 

Now this is a vital problem. We should not depend solely upon the Church to keep our individual records, and yet the individual record of each member of the Church today is kept. The Presiding Bishop's office is working in full harmony with the Historian's office in regard to matters of this kind and through them we are enabled to keep in better touch with these officers who are appointed to keep the records than we would be if we did not have the machinery of the bishops often at our command. 

recorder's office an important one 

Now, brethren, I am appealing to the presidents of stakes and bishops to see that these records are properly kept. Let me say further that the choosing of a clerk and recorder is a very important thing. Sometimes we think that anybody can keep a record. It requires intelligence to do so. A man ought to have keen discernment, he ought to be able to segregate facts, he ought to be able to choose and record the things that are important and separate them from the things that are perhaps unimportant, and make a record of them. Our custom in recording is to take more than we need rather than less. We can always eliminate if something is recorded that we do not need, but it is sometimes a very difficult thing to find something that we have overlooked. 

INDIVIDUAL RECORDS 

And so I am making this appeal at this general conference of the Church to all the members of the Church to keep their records, the records of their families, to look after the interests of their families in regard to their temple work as well as to their individual records. The Lord has called upon us to look after our dead, to seek out their genealogy. This spirit has gone forth, the keys that were bestowed by Elijah are here, and the hearts of the children have turned to their fathers. One of the greatest evidences of the truth of the story told by the Prophet Joseph Smith that Elijah came to him and Oliver Cowdery is the fact that people who are not connected with this Church, who have no sympathy perhaps with the Church, are gathering the records of the dead. Their hearts have turned to the fathers. Our duty of course is to seek after our dead. We have a department in the Church, the Genealogical Society of Utah, where we are gathering in these records for the benefit of the members of the Church, where we can receive information, and are able to give help and encouragement in relation to these matters that pertain to the salvation of our families. 

PATRIARCHAL RECORDS AND PRIVATE JOURNALS 

All patriarchal records belong to the Church and not to the patriarchs who gave the blessings. Neither do they belong to the families of the patriarchs. When a patriarch has completed his record, or when he dies, the record should be sent to the Historian's office to be filed. Many of these records have not been received, and in some instances the descendants of the patriarchs have claimed them as personal property, and this is wrong. Moreover, there are many important private journals scattered about which we would like to obtain for preservation and for historical purposes. We discover that when these are left in the keeping of the descendants of the pioneers, they frequently are lost, or lose their value by the time they reach the third or fourth generation, and are thrown away. If they are given to us we will file them away where they will be preserved. 

May the Lord bless and guide us in these things. They are important. We sometimes look upon them as being trivial. The Lord expects us to keep records and to put in permanent form all things that pertain to our welfare in relation to our history, individually as well as the history of the Church. May we be guided in it, I pray, in the name of 'Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is just twenty-eight years since I was called into the Council of the Twelve. As I listened to President Grant this morning I looked introspectively into my own soul, and thought this : 

"Never before in my life have I felt so grateful for my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Never before have I felt more intensively how beneficial the Church has been to me and my loved ones. Never before has my testimony been stronger. Never have I felt so deeply in every fiber of my being that this Church was established by God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and that the men who have guided its destiny have been inspired by the revelations of God to them." 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO OFFICERS AND TEACHERS 

I desire to say a word this morning about the Church and the opportunity it offers to the young people of the Church. I should like to pay a tribute to these bishops and to other ward officers who are working so unselfishly and conscientiously for the establishment of truth in the hearts of men. I should like to express a word of appreciation to the officers and teachers of the auxiliary associations who are rallying around them the army of young people and instilling into the hearts of the youth faith in the Church of Jesus Christ. I want to express also a word of appreciation to the leaders in Priesthood quorums. I think that never before has there been such a quorum consciousness manifested as is manifested at the present time. 

SUCCESSFUL CONVENTIONS 

Since January 1st, 1934, the General Board of the Sunday Schools has held a number of conventions. In the stakes of Zion we havte approximately 21,000 officers and teachers enrolled. Of these 21,000 invited to attend the conventions already held we have had an average attendance of eighty-three per cent. That is a good response. Seven stakes, comprising eighty-four wards, have been in attendance one hundred per cent. That is not counting the presidencies of stakes, high councilors, bishoprics, and members of Priesthood quorums who were invited and in many cases were in attendance with a perfect record. We have had a total of 172 wards who have had a perfect attendance at these conventions. Estimating an average of about fifteen officers and teachers to a ward, these conventions have been attended by more than two thousand five hundred young people. Most of these people who have been attending these meetings are young men and young women between the ages of eighteen and twenty-seven. 

More gratifying even than this outstanding record of attendance, is the attitude of these young people towards the theme presented and expounded in the various sessions. This theme is expressed in the first article of the "Children's Charter" — "For every child spiritual and moral training to help him to stand firm under the pressure of life." 

SEEKING AND DESIROUS OF LIVING THE TRUTH 

We hear a good deal of talk about our young people these days. Some say that they are indifferent, that they are losing their interest in the Church. I do not agree with this accusation. My experience with the young leads me to believe that there was never a time when youth more sincerely sought the truth,, when they were more responsive to assignments made in the Church, when they were more observant of the ideals for which this Church stands. 

Oh, I am not blind to the fact that there are those who are wavering. I also know that there were young people during our youth who wavered. I realize that there are those who stand on the side lines, and arrogating to themselves superior wisdom which they do not possess, would fain guide and dictate, but there have always been such. The great majority of our young people are desirous of living the truth. 

WIELDING AN INFLUENCE FOR GOOD 

I realize that temptations were never stronger than they are today; but the young people who resist these temptations deserve all the greater credit. We hear about young boys and young girls who indulge in things contrary to the teachings of their parents and the officers of the Church, and contrary to the ideals of the Gospel, but we too seldom hear about the much larger group who are exerting an influence for good upon their fellow-workers and upon their associates. 

If time permitted I might narrate several specific instances in which our girls have wielded an influence upon their associates and led not only members of the Church but people outside of the Church to lay aside violations of the Word of Wisdom, and to conform to the ideals and principles of purity of life. 

AS A RESULT OF RELIGIOUS CONVICTIONS 

Religion is the most potent power in life. Spiritual development and moral integrity are fundamental in the lives not only of the Latterday Saints but of all who would build a community that will contribute to the safety and advancement of our republic or of any other nation. President Calvin Coolidge truly said that "the government of a country never gets ahead of the religion of a country. There is no way by which we can substitute the authority of law for the virtue of man. Of course we can help to restrain the vicious and furnish a fair degree of security and protection by legislation and police control, but the real reforms which society in these days is seeking will come as a result of our religious convictions, or they will not come at all. Peace, justice, humanity, charity — these cannot be legislated into being. They are the results of a Divine Grace." 

LATTER-DAY SAINT STANDARDS 

I have observed during the past few months a most hearty response by the young people of our Church to spiritual ideals. Generally speaking youth are anchored. Sometimes they seem to waver and digress from the standards. Some of them it is true lose their virtue, the most benighting and cankering condition that can contaminate young people's lives. I know that there is a looseness in sexual morality which is dangerous, which indeed is threatening. I know too that such breaking down of moral standards is manifested not alone among the young people, and I warn the Church to guard against unchastity. Keep yourselves unspotted from the world, the fundamental element in pure religion. 

No, we are not shutting our eyes to the dangers, but I want to tell you we must not shut our eyes to the virtues of the tens of thousands of those who are true and valiant. 

Spirituality and morality as taught by the Latter-day Saints are firmly anchored in fundamental principles, principles from which the world can never escape even if it would, and the first fundamental is a  — with Latter-day Saints a knowledge — in the existence of a personal God. Latter-day Saint children have been taught to recognize him, and to pray to him as one who can listen and hear and feel just as an earthly father can listen, hear and feel, and they have absorbed into their very beings, from their mothers and their fathers, the real testimony that this personal God has spoken in this dispensation. There is a reality about it. 

THE PERSONALITY OF GOD 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, but a youth, did not argue upon the personality of God, he did not speculate upon that eternal source of energy, and intelligence from which all life gets its being, he merely stated the truth. Nearly a hundred years later another man through thought and reason confirmed this truth as follows : 

Religion standing on the known experience of the race, makes one bold and glorious affirmation. She asserts that this power that makes for truth, for beauty, for goodness 1 , is not less personal than we. This leap of faith is justified because God cannot be less than the greatest of his works; the cause must be adequate to the effect. When therefore, we call God personal, we have interpreted him by the loftiest symbol we have. He may be infinitely moral, he cannot be less. When we call God a spirit, we use the clearest lens we have to look at the everlasting. As Herbert Spencer has well said, "The choice is not between a personal God and something lower, but between a personal God and something higher." 

Thus anchored in the faith, our young people have the foundation of spirituality and the teachings of materialistic philosophy cannot dislodge them. Next to this belief in a Supreme Being is the testimony they have that God is revealed through his Son Jesus Christ, the one perfect being who is the light and life of the world. 

A MEANS OF CONSUMMATING GOD J S PURPOSES 

The third anchor of the young people is in the realization that the Church is established as a means of consummating God's purposes; and they realize too, even if they have not thought it out as they will some day, that there is nothing in the world to compare with the Church of Jesus Christ as an effective organization in alleviating the ills of mankind. 

And now, young people, thus anchored in the faith, and thus organized, we ask you to join the organizations in your wards, to heed the advice of the President of the Church, to affiliate with your quorums, with your auxiliary organizations, in your fast meetings, and there in these local groups express your thoughts, express your doubts, seek after the truth, apply measures that will appeal to those of your associates, and when you prove those measures to be effective and satisfying to the soul, then can the central organizations take those measures and adapt them to the whole as a universal benefit. In that way, and in that way only, will progress and efficiency be fostered. Don't stand out on the side lines, and say "This quorum is not doing its work," but get into the quorum and help it do its work. That 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

is the way which God intends people to work in this Church, and it offers to you one of the best opportunities in the world. 

AS A MEANS OF ACCOMPLISHING SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES 

Finally the consummation of God's purposes is put in these words : "My work and my glory is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man." This divine purpose may be achieved by using the Church as a means of accomplishing the following specific objectives in the achievement of which lies a sufficient challenge for the brightest minds in the world : 

First, physical strength, virility, cleanliness. When therefore you hear carping critics say that the Church Authorities over-emphasize the Word of Wisdom, you may know that they have not studied very deeply the significance of the Word of Wisdom. Fundamentally, physical strength and virility are essential factors in the progress of humanity. 

Secondly, economic security. When you hear a young man say we lay too much stress on tithing, you may know he does not realize the relation of tithing and fast offerings to the economic security of every man, woman and child in the Church. 

Thirdly, social justice. Go into any quorum and see who are meeting there — your lawyers, your doctors, your farmers, all meeting on a social plane. In the Chruch of God every man and woman has equal privileges to every other man and woman. 

Fourthly, spiritual enlightenment. Cultivating the fruits of the Spirit which are love, joy, peace, kindness, long-suffering, gentleness, etc. 

THE PRINCIPLES OF TRUE CHRISTIANITY 

In conclusion, let me say that now, if ever, is the time to make practical the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to strive to live up to the principles of true Christianity. Wm. P. King in "The Practice of the Principles of Jesus" says : 

Mankind has tried everything except Christianity. The world has tried hatred, greed, impurity, graft, self-interest, and has been brought to the brink of perdition. It is curious that we must stand up in the twentieth century and plead with the people who bear his name, that Jesus Christ was not a foolish ruler, a visionary leader, that His word is the illuminating word; that His way is the living way; that it is only safe to trust and follow Him. The church must liepent of her lukewarmness and rebuke with prophetic wrath the selfishness of men and break her cowardly silence and say to the world, "We have let you run affairs after selfish pagan methods until you have come unto the brink of ruin. Unless you Christianize your industrial system it cannot last. Unless you Christianize your institutions they cannot endure. Other foundations can no man lay than that is laid which is Jesus Christ." Too long have we imagined that the principles of Christ were for some other world. We have put the kingdom He came to establish beyond the stars, but this was not the purpose of His mission, this is not the meaning of His gospel. His laws are to be followed in the world in which we live, now and here, in street and market and factory. It will only be through obedience to moral law, the Sermon on the Mount and the Golden Rule and wholehearted response to the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of man and a suffering love of Jesus Christ that there can ever be frictionless society in our world. 

God be thanked and praised for his Church, for the authority of the Priesthood, for the opportunity it offers to young people of the Church to obtain happiness through service. May they have power and interest to take advantage of these opportunities, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Charles Wl Fagg, President of the Grant Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


