Afternoon
07 10 1900



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

The redemption of Zion Many Saints now livingwill go to Jackson County — Testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and an honora'ile aid iro al man- A reformation in progress — Consecration will be established. 

Brethren and sisters, I will read a few verses embraced in the sixty-third sec of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And now, behold, this is the will of the Lord your God concerning His Saints, that they should assemble themselves together unto the land of Zion, not in haste, lest there should be confusion, which bringeth pestilence. 

"Behold, the land of Zion, I, the Lord, holdeth it in mine own hand; 

"Nevertheless, I, the Lord, rendereth unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; 

"Wherefore, I, the Lord, willeth that you should purchase the lands that you may have advantage of the world, that you may have claim on the world, that they may not be stirred up unto anger; 

"For Satan putteth it into their hearts to anger against you, and to the shedding of blood; 

"Wherefore, the land of Zion shall not be obtained but by purchase or by blood, otherwise there is none inheritance for you. 

"And if by purchase, behold you are blessed; 

"And if by blood, as you are forbidden to shed blood, lo, your enemies are upon you, and ye shall be scourged from city to city, and from synagogue to synagogue; and but few shall stand to receive an inheritance." 

These words were spoken of the Lord to Joseph the Prophet in 1831. 

Now the time is fast approaching when a large portion of the people that I am now addressing will go back to Jackson county. A great many people that are now dwelling in the State of Utah will have this privilege. Whether I, President Cannon, President Smith, or all the brethren of the Twelve will go back I know not. But a large portion of the Latter-day Saints that now dwell in these valleys will go back to Jackson county to build a holy city to the Lord, as was decreed by Jehovah and revealed through Joseph Smith. 

A word or two about Joseph Smith. Perhaps there are very few men now Uving who were so well acquainted with Joseph Smith the Prophet as I was. I was with him oftentimes. I visited him in his family, sat at his table, associated with him under various circumstances, and had private interviews with him for counsel. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of Cod; I know that he was an honorable man, a moral man, and that he had the respect of those who were acquainted  him. The Lord has shown me most clearly and completely that he was a Prophet of God, and that he held the Holy Priesthood and the authority to baptize people for the remission of their sins and to lay hands upon them for the reception of the Holy Ghost, that they might receive a knowledge themselves in relation to these things. I am one that has received from the Lord the strongest revelation concerning the truth of this work. That manifestation was with me powerfully for hours and hours; and whatever circumstances may occur in my life, as long as memory lasts this perfect knowledge will remain with me. I shall never forget the first time I saw Joseph Smith. It was in Father Johnson's house, in the township of Hiram, in the State of Ohio, about twenty-five miles from Kirtland. It was near Father Johnson's where the mob tarred and feathered him. When I saw him he was standing in the doorway. Before him was a small bowery occupied by about a hundred and fifty or two hundred men and women. There for the first time I heard his voice. When I heard his testimony in regard to what the Lord had revealed to him, it seemed to me that he must be an honest man. He talked and looked like an honest man. He was an honest man. 

Through this man, Joseph Smith, the Lord has said to us what I have been reading. As some of the brethren stated in their addresses here, I think that there was need of a reformation among the Latter-day Saints. I believo that that reformation has already commenced. One of the evidences of this to me is that the Latter-day Saints throughout all the Stakes of Zion have done that which they never did before in regard to paying their tithing. They have paid twice the amount of tithing this year and last year than they paid two years ago. It is wonderful how the Saints have reformed in this duty especially in view of the fact that the Latter-day Saints have always had trouble to reform themselves in money matters. They could not do it in the day in which this revelation was given. Joseph tried to develop them so that they would conform to the law of consecration, which is in advance of the law of tithing, and is a principle which, as sure as I am speaking, you and I will one day have to conform to. When that day comes we will be prepared to go to Zion. We will not take possession of the land of Zion by force. If we should do, it would turn out to us as it did with the people who were upon the land of Zion when this revelation was given. As the Lord here tells us, there are only two ways in which we can come into possession of that land. One way is by purchase, "and if by purchase, behold you are blessed." The other way is by blood, "and if by blood, as you are forbidden to shed blood, lo, your enemies are upon you, and ye shall be scourged from city to city, and from synagogue to synagogue, and but few shall stand to receive an inheritance." These are the words of God. They did not come to us today, nor yesterday, nor last year, but they did come to the people of God some years ago. They came to the Latter-day Saints who were upon the land of Zion at that time. I do not know that it would be right to say that they are of more importance to us than they were to them. But there is this about it: The Latterday Saints in these valleys have had an experience that the Saints then did not have. We have learned that which they did not learn. They were badly persecuted and driven forth from the land of Zion, and as the revelation says, "but few shall stand to receive an inheritance." There are some perhaps within the sound of my voice who will receive an inheritance in Jackson county before they pass into the next life. 

I have not heard at any previous conference such talk as has been given to the Latter-day Saints at this conference. It is talk that bears upon it reformation and preparation. When we think of the wonderful reformation that has been accomplished in the matter of tithing, it is a manifestation that a grand preparation is coming. Do you suppose that the Lord would ever send you and me back to Jackson county until He could feel perfectly assured that we would do thoFe things which the people of 

Jackson county failed to do for lack of experience and faith? Jackson county is the place, the point that we should have continually in view. A brother the other day said that he had a thousand dollars and he was keeping it to purchase land in Jackson county, as soon as it would be proper to do so. 

We cannot consider ourselves prepared, however, to go back to Jackson county when we fail to pay our tithing. I do not wish to say very much about tithing, for I think I have said enough. In the settlements that we traveled through coming from St. George, I talked very strongly about it, because I knew it was a command of the Lord that the people should repent and reform from the great neglect that we had all been guilty of more or less. I felt determined about it then with all my heart and soul, and I did not know but that the Saints might think I was going a little too far. To ease their minds upon this I told them that I should never come again to talk to them as I talked at that time. But I said they must do what they had been told if they calculated to be Latterday Saints. The reformation in this line has been effectual. There are some, I am told, that do not think it is right to pay tithing. That need not surprise anybody. But the great mass of the people are doing well in relation to this. 

Let us all exercise faith for the Lord to open the way that we may go back to Jackson county. A short time ago something occurred in this connection that was a little extraordinary. Two men came here — good, honest men, as I have every reason to believe — and to our surprise they wanted to establish a union between the Latter-day Saints and the Josephites. We asked them to explain themselves. They said they had received a revelation that the time had now come to build a Temple in Jackson county, and in order that this might be accomplished, they had felt it was their duty to go to the Josephites. They do not believe in the Josephites any more than we do; but they went there and had a conversation with the president and counsel of the Josephites. It was proposed that they  four of their elders, that we send four of our Elders.and that the Hedrick. ites (to which body these two men belonged) have four of their elders, and that all these Elders should meet on the land of Zion and see if they could not make some arrangement by which the Temple could be built. Of course, we could see very well that there was no use trying in that direction; but they seemed to have faith that it could be effected. In part these men may have had a manifestation. I believe that they were about right on the point that the time had arrived to build a Temple; at least, the time is arriving when that Temple should be built; but it will not be built by that class of people. It will be built by the Latter-day Saints in connection with the Lamanites. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and let us try and be as perfect as we possibly can be from day to day. No religion has in it such prospects as has the religion of the Latter-day Saints. Nothing was ever introduced to man equal to it in its grand and glorious advantages. We ought to enjoy our religion to such an extent as to be happy most all the time. We should never allow ourselves to get into a position where we cannot secure some happiness. The prospects that have been opened up to us are grand. In the next life we will have our bodies glorified and free from sickness and death. Nothing is so beautiful as a person in a resurrected and glorified condition. There is nothing more lovely than to be in this condition and have our wives and children and friends with us. So long as we are faithful, nothing can prevent us from getting all the enjoyment that can be secured through prospects of this kind. Whether we are in prison, or whether we are in poverty, these prospects are always before us, if we live our religion. Now, brethren and sisters, be faithful, keep the commandments of God, and do not forget the teachings that you have had during the three days of this conference. Amen. 

"Jerusalem" was sung by Horace S. Ensign. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Coming of Christ is near— Preparation needed for the event — The Church lead continuously by revelation— Work of warning the nations— Benefits oi prosecuting the Ministry withont purse or. script— The Gospel should be carried to many nations not yet warned. 

In looking at this congregation and thinking that I might have to speak to it, a great fear has come over me, and I feel as though I never was weaker in my life or had more dread of speaking. The spirit of God has been here and has rested upon the brethren who have spoken, and it seems as if everything has been said that is necessary to enlighten, to strengthen and to build up the members of this Church. In the remarks that I shall make I trust that I shall have the Spirit of God also, as well as your faith and prayers, that what I say may be dictated by the Spirit and be of profit to all of us. In my public ministry I have never felt satisfied unless I was instructed and edified myself in the remarks which I made, and generally I have been more strengthened and edified by my own remarks than perhaps any member of the congregation has. I think this should be the case. I believe all speakers, when they speak by the Spirit of God, are edified by the Spirit of God which rests upon them. 

I have had resting upon my mind now for some time a feeling to call upon the Latter-day Saints and tell them that the coming of the Lord is near, even at our doors. I have been greatly impressed with this feeling. I know that Jesus is coming, and I feel that, as a people and as individuals, we ought to prepare for His coming. It ought to be our study every day how we can best prepare for His coming. While the angels themselves do not know when He will come, yet they do know, and we know also, —for God has revealed it to us,— that Jesus will come. He will come suddenly, when the world is unprepared for Him, and when He will be least expected by the inhabitants of the earth, and perhaps by us. He commands us to be "looking forth for the coming of the Son of Man, for He cometh in an hour you think not." There may be many of us, and I hope there will be, who will be prepared for that great and glorious event. 

In view of the certainty of His coming, I think it is our duty to prepare for it by every means in our power. The Lord has revealed unto us that which He wants us to do, and though we do not receive written revelations (the men who have held the keys have not always felt led to write revelatioas as the Prophet Joseph did), the servants of the Lord do receive revelations, and they are as binding upon the people as though they were printed and published throughout all the Stakes of Zion. The oracles of God are here, and He speaks through His servant whom He has chosen to hold the keys. He gives revelations to others also concerning many matters, but it is reserved for one man, and one man alone at a time, to give revelations to the Church. "We have been blessed as a people with an abundance of revelation. Some have deceived themselves with the idea that because revelations have not been written and published,therefore there has been a lessening of power in the Church of Christ. This is a very great mistake, as we will find out sooner or later. This Church has been continually led by the spirit of revelation. The spirit of revelation has been here in our conference. The addresses that have been delivered have been made under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and they are the word of God unto this people, binding upon them, and they will be judged by these words that we have heard. If we do not listen to these instructions and counsels and abide by the word of God as it is given to us from time to time, we shall be held to a strict accountability. 

If it be true, as I testify it is, that the coming of the Lord is not far distant, ought we not as a people and as individuals to prepare ourselves by listening to the instructions that we receive, and putting our households and all our affairs in such a condition that if the Lord should come suddenly upon us we should be prepared for His coming? We should see to it that nothing is left undone by us, no commandment unfulfilled, no counsel or instruction disregarded; but that our lives and the lives of our families as far as we can  them, are brought into such a condition as to be prepared for that glorious event; that we shall have oil in our lamps, and the lamps be trimmed and burning, that when we lay down at night, if the Lord should come, as He has said he would, like a thief in the night, we would not be unprepared for His coming. 

Many who are now within the sound of my voice have been promised that they shall live, if they have faith, to behold the second coming of the Lord. The Lord has also promised that certain events shall take place while men that are standing in the generation in which these promises were made will yet be alive. All these promises go to show that it is not wise for us to put off the day of preparation and to think, "Oh! the Lord delayeth His coming. He may come while my children, or my grandchildren, or some of my posterity are living, but he will not come in my day." 

I know there is a great work to be done before the coming of the Lord, and for one I want to do all in my power to perform the part that is allotted to me. I desire, my brethren and sisters, that when the Lord comes our garments ?hall be clean and unspotted from the blood of this generation; that we shall not have left undone anything that God has commanded us to do in connection with the generation in which we live. 

"We have been laboring as a people and as individuals with a good deal of zeal and devotion. Elders have gone forth and have spent the best years of their lives in proclaiming the word of the Lord to the people. We have sent to foreign lands and have brought those who have embraced the Gospel to Zion. When I think of the labors of this people in this direction, I am amazed at what they have done. How willing the Elders have been to go and spend their means to save the inhabitants of the earth! There is nothing like it in history, that I know anything about. In this respect we have been indefatigable. Nevertheless, there is a great deal to be done. I believe many of the Latter-day Saints have shown more of a disposition to save other people than they have to save themselves. This class has been more willing to do that which is necessary to save the souls of the children of men than they have been to save their  souls. They have been careless and indifferent concerning the salvation of themselves and their families. President Young used to say that there were many men that were willing to die for their religion who would not live it. So there are many men willing to make great sacrifices for the salvation of others who are apparently indifferent about that which is necessary for their own salvation. This is not right. It is a personal matter with us as to whether we are preparing ourselves and our families for the coming of the Lord. Are we doing all that we can to prepare ourselves and our households, so that when He comes we shall not be caught unprepared? 

This talk that we have heard so much of concerning tithing is a preparatory step. I believe President Snow has been moved upon by the power of God to stir this people up to diligence upon this point. There are other things contingent upon the payment of tithing. President Snow has told us this afternoon what one thing is, and that we should prepare ourselves for it. We are not groping as blind men to find the path, for the Lord has made the path plain before us. We are not in the dark; but it is necessary that we should exercise faith in God and beseech Him continually to give unto us the strength and grace necessary to perform the labors that have to be done in order to prepare ourselves as we should do. 

There is one labor that has rested upon my mind with great weight for some time. I have looked at the nations of the earth and have examined somewhat into the labors of our Elders. We have about eighteen hundred Elders preaching the Gospel in various places, and they are doing the work most thoroughly. Men and women have gone forth and have spent their time with the greatest pleasure, forsaking home, leaving business, and devoting themselves for years to the warning of the people concerning the calamities that the Lord is about to pour out upon the nations of the earth. Both men and women are doing this work with all diligence and faithfulness. I was told a day or two ago concerning a young lady who is out in the ministry. Her brother has just returned from a mission. In coming  his mission he had called upon her and they had visited some places together. I asked her parents why she did not return with her brother. They said she did not want to return. She has only been out eighteen months, she is busily engaged in the work of the Lord, and she feels desirous to complete her mission before she returns home. This spirit is on our sisters, as well as on our Elders, and they do all in their power to warn the people, until in some lands and some cities there is scarcely a house that has not been visited or that has not had a tract delivered to it. 

According to the last report received from Great Britain, two hundred and seventy-four Elders are laboring in that land, with faithfulness and assiduity, spending time and means and in a certain sense wearing themselves out in order to deliver the message of salvation that God has committed to them. This work has now been going on for upwards of sixty years, and there is scarcely an ear that has not heard the message. 

Concerning the missions in this country, this land has been warned now for seventy years. God commanded the Elders in early days to warn the people, and away back in Kirtland and Missouri He said that the leading Elders of the Church had done their duty, and there was none of the blood of this generation on their garments; but those who had not labored as they had done were to continue in the field until it could also be said of them that their garments were clean from the blood of this generation. In that early day the Lord spoke in this manner. On one occasion He said: "Behold, I sent you out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned, to warn his neighbor. 

"Therefore they are left without excuse, and their sins are upon their own heads." 

The Lord appeared to be determined to cut his work short in righteousness. I do not wish to detract from the labors of the Elders in our own land; but this land has been warned. I feel that we can stand before the judgment seat of our great Creator free from the blood of this generation in these United States. It is true, we have not told every man, woman and child about these things. God requires us to preach His Gospel and to warn the inhabitants of all lands, and then if they do not take warning and warn their neighbors, their sins rest upon their own heads, and our garments are clean. 

How long has this great work which God has established been a theme for newspaper writers? Ever since we came to these valleys they have known about us; they have had thousands of testimonies borne to them concerning this work; they have seen it grow and spread; they have seen and heard of our Elders traveling through their cities and visiting foreign lands; and now the warning voice of the judgments of God is following the testimony of the Elders. As far back as December, 1832, the Lord said: 

'And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people; 

"For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground, and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." 

The Lord's judgments are following the warning voice that has be.\;n raised by the Elders of this Church. If another Elder did not lift his voice, and if another tract were not distributed in this land of ours, the Elders have done their duty, and this nation cannot in the day of judgment rise up against the Elders of this Church and say that they did not bear testimony to them concerning this work. I am now telling you my own views. Our Elders spend two years or more in the missionary field and they baptize on an average not exceeding four souls, or about two a year. I would not dare to tell you how much money is spent as well as time to do this. 

I will tell you another thing connected with this, inasmuch as it occurs to my mind. Many of those who are brought into the Church under the present system of preaching with purse and with scrip, instead of without purse and  scrip, have not the faith to stand as they would have if they entertained L he Elders and furnished them with what they needed, as God has commanded. I do not believe we are getting so good a class of converts under this system as under the old system which was followed by the early Elders of this Church. Our converts showed their faith by feeding and clothing the Elders and by giving them money when necessary. By taking this course they proved themselves to be the disciples of the Son of God, for the Lord says: 

"Whoso receiveth you receiveth me, and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money. 

"And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in no wise lose his reward: 

"And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples." (Doc. and Gov. 84: 89—91.) 

But now our Elders go and spend their own money, and people in some cases will not feed and entertain them. Of course, I believe there are many places where the people, but especially the Saints, are exceedingly kind to the Elders, and while there may be some exceptions, there are very good people being gathered out now. 

In this land of ours, what warnings there have been! The blood of the martyrs shed upon this soil is crying to God. The expulsion of the Saints from Ohio, the expulsion from Jackson county, from Clay county, from Caldwell county, in Missouri, and from Illinoisare they not testimonies? I take it that they are, and God will hold them as testimonies against the guilty men and women who have done these things, as well as against those who have never lifted their hands or their voices to redress any wrong that has been practiced upon the Latter-day Saints. Then since we came to these mountains, this whole nation has been almost convulsed by this Mormon question. It has agitated the people everywhere. All the newspapers in the land have discussed it in all its phases. Is not this a warning? What more can we do than we have done in this direction? Or shall we all go out and allow ourselves to be martyred. Hundreds of Elders now in the mis fields might leave this nation, and go to peoples who have never heard the sound of the Gospel; I would carry the tidings of salvation to lands that are now locked in tyranny, where the people cannot breathe the air of freedom; and I would risk imprisonment, and even death, in order that these peoples might be warned. No doubt thousands of them are praying to our heavenly Father to send them the truth of heaven; for there are other souls who want the truth besides those who have received it. When this Gospel was first carried to Europe thousands were praying for God to send the truth to them. When they heard the message they received it gladly. So in other places where the Elders have gone. But there are many nations yet to be warned, and we have this work to do. I will not say that we ought to do it before the Lord comes, for I do not know when He will come. But this duty is incumbent upon us; for by people out of every nation under heaven Zion is to be built up. Every land and every nationality will have to contribute of its strength and numbers, in greater or less degree, to fulfill the words of God concerning the building up of Zion. Oriental lands now untouched by the Elders of the Church have to be penetrated and the honest souls sought out. In this work God will precede His Elders. He will send His angels before them, as He has done, to prepare the people to receive them and to listen to their message. 

My feeling is that we should withdraw our efforts to a great extent from the countries where we have been spending so much time and means with so little fruits. Let the Gospel be sent to lands afar off, where tyranny reigns; and when the Gospel goes there. God will soften the hearts of the rulers, and greater freedom will follow. It has been so in Germany; it will be so in Russia, in the Latin countries, and in the countries of eastern Europe. God is working with the nations, and He will work with us if we will do our duty. Then we can stand before our Father with our skirts clean from the blood of this generation, having- done our whole duty. 

If it should cost us our liberty, as it may do at times; if it should cost us our , as it may do, to carry this Gospel to every land, it would be no more than others have suffered in the same cause. God has said in this Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find it again, even life eternal: 

"Therefore be not afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in my heart, saith the Lord, that I will prove you in all things, whether you will abide in my covenant, even unto death, that you may be found worthy." 

And again He says: 

"And all they who suffer persecution for my name, and endure in faith, though they are called to lay down their lives for my sake, yet shall they partake of all this glory. 

"Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full." 

In another revelation the Lord tells us: 

"Let no man be afraid to lay down his life for my sake, for whoso layeth down his life for my sake shall find it again; 

"And whoso is not willing to lay down his life for my sake, is not my disciple." 

It is a test by which His disciples may be known. But while we should not shrink from complying with every requirement, we ought to avoid persecution and death by every means in our power that would be honorable and consistent with our duties and obligations. But in preaching this Gospel to the nations of the earth, we ought not to be afraid of our liberty or our lives. It has cost the liberties of Elders in Austria, Norway and other places already; but it has been followed by greater freedom. The efforts of the Elders have been crowned with success in this respect. It has seemed as though the preaching of the Gospel has had a loosening effect in many places upon the people. 

In this connection I think we should teach our young men all the languages of the earth. Let them seek by study, by faith, by the gift of tongues and by the gift of interpretation to understand the languages of men. Our Mutual Improvement associations should devote themselves to the study of languages, that we may have a people here familiar with every language spoken under heaven. What was the gift of tongues given for if not for this? Was it given for the brethren and sisters to get up and talk in tongues in fast meeting? That is a small thing, very good in its place; but what we want is to have men that can go to any nation and speak the language of that nation by the power of God, first having sought by faith and by study to obtain the language and the gift of interpretation. I talk this way because I know that the gift of tongues and the gift of interpretation can be obtained, to enable an Elder to speak to the people and to understand them when they speak to him. We should utilize these gifts that God has given for this purpose. Many of our Elders who go out into foreign lands do acquire the language by that gift and are able to speak it with a facility that surprises other people. On the Sandwich Islands I know that the people were astonished by the facility by which the language was acquired by our Elders and the correctness with which it was spoken by them. So it has been in Germany. I have had sons there who, in a very few weeks were able to express their thoughts in the German language. Other men have had sons there whose efforts have been attended with the same results. So it will be if we send our Elders to any land — to France, to Spain, to Protugal, Italy and all along the Mediterranean, to the isles of Greece, up to the Danubian principalities, and into Austria with its numerous nationalities, to Hungary, Poland, and to Russia. Almost all these lands are sealed against us at the present time. We have not made any great effort to enter some of them. What has been done has been done in a spasmodic way. Now I believe with all my heart that the time has come for us to break forth and lay siege, so to speak, to these lands, whereby an entrance may be effected and the Gospel be preached to the people. If the time has come for Elders to go to Japan, let Japan be penetrated. After a while perhaps an opening may be made in Corea, And in Manchuria, and in China, and these lands be penetrated by the Elders with this message of salvation, as soldiers of Christ. Our young men go to the Philippines and to Cuba, and they have been willing to lay down their lives for their country. Young men from this State have done so, and have  shown their patriotism. Let us in like manner show our patriotism to the kingdom of God and for the salvation of Jesus Christ, our great leader. Now is the time for us to do this, and we shall be blessed in doing it. God will be with us and will bless us, as He has done in every effort that we have made to do His will. It is His will that this Gospel of the kingdom should be preached, that every ear mav hear the sound of it; not, perhaps, by direct contact with every individual, but by the signs that accompany the kingdom of God and the wonderful events that are taking place. 

The Spirit of God is moving upon the people in all lands, and in many countries they are waiting in solemn anticipation of what is going to happen. All the nations of the earth feel that something remarkable is likely to happen, but they do not know what. The honest in heart in those lands, when they hear the glad tidings that God has provided a refuge to which thev can flee as He did in the days of Noah, will be led co rejoice. God has founded this land and the government for the express purpose that Zion might be built upon this land, and that the people of all nations might come here singing His praises and thanking Him that from the darkness and the threatening evils by which they are surrounded He has provided a way of escape, a safe place, that when calamities and judgments come upon the inhabitants of the earth, they can stand in holy places and be secure by keeping the commandments of God. What a glorious theme this is for the Elders to carry to the down-trodden of the nations of the earth who groan in darkness and who see no way of deliverance! Nor will it be the down-trodden alone who will listen to these tidings. Men in high places and of commanding positions will yet listen to them, and they will take note of this extraordinary people who have done such a remarkable work and who are now traversing the globe to bring from every land all who will listen to their message; to bring them with all their traditions to this place which we call Zion, where they can, by the fusing power of the Spirit of God, be consolidated into one united people. It is already the most wonderful thing  has ever taken place upon the earth; but if we will do our duty on the lines that I have been speaking, how much more influence will we have and how much more will our God be glorified! The world will see and wonder at what is done by those who are laboring in the Lord's name, without taking any credit to themselves, but ascribing all power and success to Him and His Holy Spirit. These will be additional testimonies to the inhabitants of the earth that God is in this great movement, and that he is preparing the way, as the prophets have predicted, for the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

Before closing, I wish to say, my brethren and sisters, I hope you will take these things to heart and prepare yourselves. If you are not living as you should do, regulate your households and strive to live according to the commandments of God and the counsels of His servants. Bring your lives into complete subjection to the will of God. If there is anything in you or in your families that is not in accordance with the laws of God, divest yourselves of it as fast as you can by faith and prayer. Let us be a holy people. Oh! when I hear the brethren spending time talking about the Word of Wisdom, I feel to say, are we still little children that we have to be talked to in this way meeting after meeting? It is disgraceful that a people who know as much as we do should have to be talked to about those little habits concerning which 

God has spoken so plainly. The law of tithing ought to be so understood that every man, woman and child would obey it gladly, for it is accompanied by great promises, and it will prepare the way for greater things, as President Snow has told us. 

I pray God that that which has been said during this conference may sink deep into all our hearts. I pray God to bless you all, to be with you, to fill you with the Holy Ghost, to preserve your lives, to preserve your generations, that you yourselves or some of your posterity, if you should happen to pass away before that time, may be numbered among the Saints of God who shall enter into that millennial glory which is prepared for the faithful, and that none of us may ever be destitute of a man or men to stand before the Lord, bearing the Holy Priesthood, throughout all the generations to come, until time shall be no more, which is my prayer for you all and for myself, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward and the choir sang the anthem, 'When Thou Comest." 

The final benediction was pronounced by Elder Francis M. Lyman. 

Conference then adjourned for six months. 

The stenographic work in taking the account of the proceedings was done by Arthur Winter, 

JOHN NICHOLSON, 

Clerk of Conference. Its Semi-Annual General Conference. 

The general semi-annual conference of the Sunday schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held at the Tabernacle Salt Lake City, Sunday evening, Oct. 7, 1900, at 7 o'clock. General Superintendent Geo. Q. Cannon presiding. There were present of the general superintendency, Geo. Q. Cannon and Karl G. Maeser; most of the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board, several of the Apostles, and a number of Stake superintendents, ward officers and Sunday school workers. The conference was opened by the Tabernacle choir, conducted by Prof. Evan Stephens, singing, "For the Strength of the Hills We Bless Thee." 

Prayer was offered by Elder John W. Taylor. The choir and congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

General Secretary Horace S. Ensign called the roll, which was responded to by thirty-two Stakes and the Iosepa colony. 

GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

We desire whatever may be said this evening by those who shall speak to be said briefly and to the point. There are several subjects that will be brought before the meeting, and we desire to get through with our business so that we can dismiss at the proper time. 

It is very gratifying to see such a large congregation here this evening. It is an evidence of the interest that is taken in the great work of training our children in the principles that belong to our religion and of preparing them by proper instruction for the duties of life as Latter-day Saints. We have every reason to be encouraged. Every man and woman that Is engaged in  work throughout the Church has great cause to be encouraged at the results of their labors. The Sunday school work is prospering, and, it is enlisting, as it should do, the energy, the talent and the skill of a great many people who labor in this cause, prompted entirely by motives of love— love for the salvation of their fellows. 

I pray that while we are together this evening, we may have the Spirit of God resting upon us, and if there are any here who have any subject that they would like talked about, we would be glad to get hints from them, or have them come to the stand and mention it, so that the subject, if deemed worthy of attention, may receive some comment from the brethren of the Board. I ask God to bless us in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. MILLS. 

My brethren and sisters: As Latterday Saints we are all striving to the same end. Our duty here upon earth is to live in such a way that when we have finished our work here, we may go back into the presence of God. We have various organizations +o help us to this end, above all, we have a story to tell that no other people can tell; and unless we are ready and willing to tell that story, we are not doing our duty. We should not be of that class of people that Rousseau spoke of when he said, "Some men live to be a hundred years old who die at their birth." We ought always to be alive to do our duty; and if we do this we shall find that our work will be well accomplished and we shall reach the end we seek. 

The aim in a Sunday school is to make Latter-day Saints. If we are going to make Latter-day Saints of the children, we certainly ought to be Latter-day Saints ourselves. Teachers ought to live up to the minor duties. They should not delve into the mysteries. These minor duties form a good foundation for our characters; and if we work harmoniously in this respect, we shall be able to accomplish that which we desire. In our Stake conferences, which are held annually, it is necessary that all officers participate in that work; that representatives be sent from every Sunday school to the annual stake conference, in order that they may get the instructions that are given there, and take them back to the various districts from which they come. But even in this case, not all of the people in the Stake can go to the annual Stake conferences; and for that reason, in some Stakes, particularly in the Sanpete Stake, the Weber Stake, and the Utah Stake of Zion, there have been district conferences appointed, and in these district conferences the same work, largely, is taken up that is taken up in the Stake conferences. In these district conferences more people can be enlisted. All of the people of the district in which the conference is held, can attend, making comparisons and witnessing the exercises. The exercises to be rendered here are the best to be found in all of the schools of the district, and the superintendents, seeing these, may introduce many things which will improve their own schools. And a'lways only the best of the exercises of all the districts ought to be brought before the Saints in the Stake conference, and then the Stake officers, visiting all the district conferences, are enabled to see the work that is done in the various parts of their Stakes better than they can see it in the Stake annual conference; and the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board who visit the district conferences can see the work that is done in these various districts. In the central Stakes the work done in the district conferences has been very effective in rousing people to their duties, and this work would be even more effective in the outlying Stakes, if district conferences were held regularly. The general board would therefore urge the holding of such conferences. We have found in our visits to Stake conferences that in some cases there is a very poor representation from remote sections of the Stake. In some cases people have to come  fifty to a hundred miles to attend Stake conferences; and there are usually enough people in these remote parts to form good district conferences. Now if we will all be energetic in our work in the Stake conferences, and in the district conferences, and in our ward Sunday schools, we shall see unparalleled improvement in our Sunday school work. If we will live up to the minutest duties, there is no doubt that we will reach the great end in view. But although this is our duty; although we are expected to do all this work; although we are expected to go through this life and perform all our duties, still we have our own free agency. As officers and teachers we can do as we please. We should not stand in the road of the progress of the children placed under our charge. If we can't keep pace with the work of God, we should step aside, and let the great work go on. If we do wrong we shall have to meet the consequences of our wrong doing. If we do right we shall have our reward. 

"Know this, that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. 

He'll call, persuade, direct aright — Bless him with wisdom, love and light — In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human wind. 

Freedom and reason make us men; Take these away, what are we then? Mere animals, and just as well The beasts may think of heaven or hell." 

Let us, then, brethren and sisters, be energetic in the great work the Lord has called us to perform through the authorities of the Church, and always be ready to work. I ask that the Lord will bless us in our endeavors, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ASSISTANT SUPT. KARL G. MAESER. 

My dear fellow laborers, among the many features in the Sunday school work, the importance of concert recitation is, in some of our Sunday schools, not sufficiently appreciated, and I have been instructed by President Cannon to lay this matter before this conference. 

It is desired by the Sunday School Union Board that concert recitation be practiced in every Sunday school throughout our Union every Sunday, for five minutes or so, before the different departments disperse for their recitations, that all may be together, the theological, second intermediate, first intermediate and primary, and all have the benefit of the training of that particular feature. Many of our Sunday school superintendents do not appreciate the importance of this feature. A concert recitation has the tendency of photographing, so to speak, the subject on the minds of the scholars, so that they do not forget it. They are carried along with it, but it is not desirable to make the exercise monotonous by a too frequent repetition of the same subject. The Sunday School Union Board have recommended six subjects, to start with: The Lord's Prayer, the Ten Commandment, the Articles of Faith, the words by which the bread and the water of the Sacrament are consecrated, the Testimony of the Three Witnesses and the presentation of the Authorities of the Church as published in the Supplement to the Leaflets. These are six subjects giving material for six weeks in succession, one subject each Sunday. Then they can all be repeated three or four times without becoming monotonous and wearisome to the pupils. In regard to the Ten Commandments and the Articles of Faith, the Sunday School Board desires that the number of each of the Commandments and of the Articles of Faith should be repeated by the school — the "first" commandment, the "second," the "third," and so also, the "first" article, the "second," and the "third," and so on. It would be well if our teachers conducting the concert exercises would first familiarize themselves with the subjects. Do not stand before the class and make mistakes. As long as you cannot trust yourself, keep your card before you; but let the teacher try as soon as he can to stand before the class without a note, a book, or a card, so that he may set an example to the pupils. That is— what we want them to learn and know, we want to first learn and to know ourselves. There is this further benefit to be derived, a concert recitation harmonizes the minds of the 

 of the whole school, about in the same way as the singing does. It is a means of disciplining, harmonizing, and subduing the restless heterogenous spirits of which a school is composed. 

Objections have been made by many of our professional teachers to this concert recitation. They think that it is too mechanical. Let it be so. If we should not teach any religious prin-^ ciple to the children until they are capable of understanding it — if that principle should be adopted, there would be a danger of it leading our children away from the Lord. "We could not teach them to pray. We should not have the little child, three or four years old, kneeling at its mother's knee, saying its evening prayer. We do not catechise the child; we do not analyze the meaning of that prayer. We teach the child to repeat it, although it does not understand it thoroughly. If we should wait until the children understand all the prayer, we should not teach them to pray.nor teach them anything about God, nor the Ten Commandments, nor anything of the Divine nature, until they are fourteen or fifteen years old, when they would be weaned away and have no taste for Divine things. This is a wrong principle altogether. Teach them from the beginning. I could bear my testimony in regard to these matters, from my own experience. But keep concert recitations up, my fellow teachers, from one Sunday to another. Commence with those six subjects which the Sunday School Union has recommended. Perhaps a passage from the scriptures may be judiciously introduced by the superintendent once in a while. A passage of scripture, a short one, of two or three lines — not more — will occasionally answer for a concert recitation. Make your school familiar with good passages of scripture, with the sayings of wise men, of servants of God. These are the subjects suggested for concert recitation, and the more you practice these, the more good you will find growing out of it. 

A auestion is asked: "Is it preferable to repeat the same exercise in concert three or four times consecutively, or change the subject each Sunday?" If I have not been perfectly plain on that subject, I repeat what I wanted to say. Change the subject from one Sunday to another; otherwise it would be monotonous. One Sunday recite in concert the Lord's Prayer, the following Sunday the Ten Commandments, the next the Articles of Faith, and so on. There are subjects for six Sundays for them, and then take them over again two or three times, in order not to become monotonous. The children will thus be made quite familiar with them. Any superintendent may introduce other subjects, as for instance extracts from the Sermon on the Mount, verses from standard hymns of the Church, etc. 

APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

I will say that six months azo I tried to sing "O, My Father," and failed. I am going to try again, and if I fail tonight, I will try again each six months from now. (Brother Grant then sang the hymn, "O, My Father," through, with organ accompaniment by Prof. Stephens.) 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

I think Brother Grant's perserverance in learning to sing is something very admirable. I suppose if some of us who have met with him in council and heard him join with us in singing had been asked if it would be possible for him ever to be able to do what he has done tonight, I think the universal reply would have been in the negative. But he has persevered, and I think it is as good an illustration of the success of perserverance as I ever met with or heard of in this Church; and I trust he will continue, for he takes great enjoyment in singing, and he certainly has made very wonderful improvement considering the difficulties he has had to contend with. 

APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

It is said in the Book of Doctrine & Covenants, that the Lord delights in the song of the heart, "yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." I love the hymn, "O, My Father." I love the hymns, "Come, come ye Saints," and "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet;" and if I lack the ability to sing them well, I do not lack the abil to appreciate and love the words, and I am determined to learn to pray to the Lord in the songs of Zion. My determination to learn is such that I have sung some of our hymns 115 times in one day. 

I have been appointed tonight to speak on Cottage Sunday schools. I wish to say to the Latter-day Saints that wherever there is opportunity to have cottage Sunday schools, and get our young people to attend, who are not now attending our regular Sunday schools, we want them organized. We want all the young people to have the benefits of attending school. We don't want a single, solitary one of our children neglected. We understand that people who are not of us are establishing schools in private homes. It is said that the Catholics boast that if they can have the children to educate until they are thirteen years of age, they will defy the world to turn them away from Catholicism. If they can make this boast, then if we as fathers and mothers and teachers in the Sabbath schools do our duty, we can defy the world to turn our little ones away from the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Even' missionary who is sent out into the world is instructed by the Apostles that, under no circumstances are they to baptize a man's wife without the consent of her husband, and under no circumstances are they to baptize children without the consent of the parents. We do not send men abroad to steal children from the people of the world; but the missionaries from the world come here, and they say, there is no need of getting after these old hard headed "Mormons," as we can do nothing with them, we will have to work with their children. Let the Latter-day Saints be alive and looking after every one of their children, and then there will be no danger of their being stolen; and one of the best ways is to have these cottage Sunday schools where there is no opportunity for our children to get to the regular Sunday schools. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. SUMMERHAYS. 

Last Friday evening there was quite an important meeting held in this city. At that meeting there were very many topics discussed in regard to Sunday school work; and. by the way, the  was composed of the Deseret Sunday School Union board, the superintendents of stakes and their assistants and aids. 

Before the close of the meeting, a question came up as to the advisability of buying out the Juvenile Instructor, that the Sunday School Union board might own it. Of course you understand that George Q. Cannon & Sons have sold out their publishing business to the Deseret News. Some of the brethren at this meeting in question, thought the time opportune to buy out the Juvenile Instructor, that it might be owned by the Union. The question was discussed, and we had already bought it without asking President Cannon anything about it. But finally he talked to the meeting, and he said that he thought, too, that the time was ripe for the Sunday School Union to own the Juvenile Instructor. And upon the motion of one of the brethren, a committee was appointed to confer with President Cannon, and see if terms could be made looking to its purchase. This committee desire me to say tonight that since that meeting on Friday evening, they have been working looking to the end that the Juvenile Instructor might become the property of the Union. We cannot report in full tonight as to the outcome of our labors; but we are quite sure that the deal will be consummated, and we hope to have all our plans matured so that we can report to you at the coming convention, and perhaps the deal will be consummated then. President George Q. Cannon has met us more than half way as far as we have gone, and he has told us he is not a hard man to deal with, and I think we will be able to consummate this arrangement. If we do, then I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that we want you to support that paper as loyally in the future as you have in the past. We would have you bear in mind that the Deseret Sunday School board is not the Sunday School Union. If this paper is bought and we continue to publish it. it will be published by the Deseret Sunday School Union, and every superintendent and every teacher and every boy and every girl conected with the Sunday schools of the Church belong to that union, and therefore we expect  support. Also, while we haven't got President Cannon's consent yet, we expect he will consent to remain the editor of the paper. We will report further on this at the coming convention. 

The committee on convention also desire me to report that everything is working along harmoniously, and we believe that we will have a good time. We expect to welcome you just as heartily, we expect to feed you just as well, we expect to have just as good a program, and I want to say to you, if you will each come with as much of the Spirit of God with you this time as you did last — and I am quite sure you will — you will enjoy yourselves individually and collectively, and the convention will be a great success. We feel on behalf of the committee to say this to you. 

Elder John Robinson sang in his usual sweet style, "Grant us Thy peace." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Here is a question: "We have but one baptizing day in each year in our Stake. Thus we nearly always have children over eight years old in our schools that are not baptized." This I think to be a very great mistake. I believe in this Stake of Zion there is a baptizing day in each month, and all the children that reach the age of eight years, and all others who desire it, may be baptized, without waiting any longer than one month. We think it is all wrong that children should be kept for nearly a year after they are eight years of age before they are permitted to be baptized, and we would recommend to all the Bishops and to the presidents of all the Stakes, to institute the practice of baptizing once in each month in all the Stakes, and as far as possible in all the wards, so that all the children may be baptized, when they are eight years old, according to the commandment that is given to us in the revelation. We think that the parents as well as the Bishops should take very great pains in carrying out the instructions that are given us in the revelations respecting the proper teaching of their children in the first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in faith in God, and in His Son, so that they may be prepared for baptism when they are eight years old. Amen. 

APOSTLE JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

My brethren and sisters, I am requested to soeak for a moment or two upon the question of Sunday school concerts, that is, having Sunday evening concerts under the auspices of the Sunday school for the purpose of raising funds for defraying expenses of various kinds. I would say that it is the desire of the First Presidency of the Church and of President Cannon, who presides over this organization, that you do not hold what are called sacred concerts upon the Sabbath day and make a charge for the same. 

There is a custom in several of the Stakes of Zion for members of the brass band to get together upon the Sabbath day for the purpose of practicing, claiming that it is the only time when they can get together; but this is not approved of by the brethren. We, therefore, recommend to you — to the musical fraternity — that you do not get together and practice brass bands upon the Sabbath day. I may say the same as to secular songs in the Sunday schools. The idea is, brethren and sisters, that they do not wish you to zet up schemes to make merchandise out of the people on the Sabbath day, in any way, shape or form. 

May the Lord bless us, that we may understand our duties in these and all other respects, and comply with them. In the name of Jesus. Amen. 

APOSTLE FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

It is delightful to meet with so many people who are interested in the Sunday school cause. I do not know of a better cause in connection with the work of the Lord, and it embraces, directly or indirectly, all the Latter-day Saints. There are none so aged, nor hardly any £»o young, but they are interested in the Sunday school cause. It has become popular, because everybody favors the work, and everybody seems willing to do their part. This cause has been very materially benefited by the organ spoken of here by our brother, the Juvenile Instructor, and I don't know but what we have come to feel as though it was our organ already. It  always been the organ of the Sunday schools, and it has always seemed to ' me as though it was ours; and whatever it lacks of being ours, it will come to be fully ours in the future, under the same management or control, sofar as its editorial department is concerned, as it has been in the past. "We are well agreed, I believe, all that have heard the subject mooted, that it is very desirable that the organ should belong to us, that we should own it, if we are able to make the terms to suit President Cannon, and I have no doubt we can. There are 120,000 people who are workers, teachers or pupils, in this organization; that is, about one-third of all the Latter-day Saints are included in this great movement. It has its branches and departments in every ward and in every mission everywhere— except the cottages, and now the proposition is to take it into the cottages, that is, to the homes of the people— some of their homes— so that the Sunday school is so accommodating that if you cannot go to the Sunday school, we'll take the Sunday school to you, just as has been done with conferences. The general conferences, stake conferences, ward conferences, and all other kinds of conferences among the people are taken to the people in order that all the people may be benefited. And in the Sunday school is embraced all mutual improvement work, all the primary classes, all the religion class members, everybody is included. That is the reason the house is full here tonight. It takes everybody in. And those that it has not already taken in, it is willing to take in in the future. We are determined to have it so arranged that everybody shall be interested: that parents shall be interested in their children, by their own attendance also, and the benefits of the Sunday school cause will be found on every hand. We bespeak, as we have done in the past, for the Sunday schools the" right of way (if that is the proper term), for the Sunday morning:, that all Sunday mornings shall be devoted to the Sunday school cause, and that nothing shall interfere, or at least as rarely as can be arranged. President Cannon has been as jealous for the Sunday School Union, and more so, than he ever has  the Juvenile Instructor. He has always stood up and guarded the cause, and he has been listened to, and the Presidency of the Church, the general authorities, have always been willing that the Sunday schools should have the Sunday morning, and then other times for conferences, such as are needed, so that every encouragement is given that can be given by the general authorities. I believe, too, that the Bishops are very attentive as a rule to the Sunday schools. We hear of nothing hardly placed in the way of the Sunday school cause at the present time. Since the schools have been graded and departments established, we do not need auite as many teachers as we used to, and we find the schools well supplied with able men and women. The Sunday school is taken care of very much by the single sisters in the Church. They are very devoted and faithful. I do not know of any class of people that can possibly be more attentive and faithful than the young ladies have been throughout the Church. And the young men are laboring, and the Sunday school cause is popular because everybody takes hold of it and gives it encouragement. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters. There is no one that needs to feel that the work is not great enough, good enough and important enough for his missionary service; and we want, to see the cause advocated until every child in Zion that belongs to Latter-day Saint parents, and every child that is not otherwise occupied by other people, in other Sunday schools is welcomed as a scholar to our schools. And our schools are converting. They are converting and they are baptizing, not without the consent of the parents at all, but they are baptizing and bringing members into this Church, and they have been doing it for twenty-five years. When I was in England, I remember, quite a number of people were baptized in the Nottingham branch, through the Sunday schools; and this cause is accomplishing a wonderful work in Zion. It is accomplishing a wonderful work throughout the world; and there is no people, I think I may safely say, that has made the start,  that are so firmly and fully established in the Sunday school cause as the Latter-day Saints. I think there is nothing in the world to compare with it. We challenge the world to show us anything to compare with what we have accomplished. May the Lord bless and sustain us in the future as He has done in the past, that our cause may be altogether successful. 

President Smith wants to know if I want to say something in regard to secular songs in the Sunday school. I have never heard of them, brethren; I have never heard of them in the Sunday school. They do not have them in the Sunday school; and I believe I never heard of but one sacred concert for the benefit of Sunday schools. And that was the last one; there will never be another. I did hear a sacred concert proposed for Sunday evening, in order to raise means for the missionaries who were in the field abroad. But when it was suggested that it would be better to hold it on another night, the brethren and sisters all took to it in a moment, and it was well advertised and made a very great success, and made money; but it was on Monday night instead of Sunday night. We cannot be too careful to instil into the minds of the young people the sacredness of the Sabbath day, that it should be kept holy, and that they may appreciate the sacrament that the Lord has commanded to be administered on the Sabbath day; that they may appreciate it and enjoy it, and realize the value of partaking of it, and keep the Sabbath day holy. That is one of the very important parts of our Sunday school work, and I believe it is accomplishing its purpose in that regard. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Lizzie Thomas-Edwards sang beautifully the solo, "The Angel's Call," violin obligato by Bro. Geo. E. Skelton and accompaniment by Prof. John J. McClellan. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

At the meeting to which Brother Summerhays referred, a decision was reached with regard to the publication of the Sunday school leaflets next year. It was found by the reports of the brethren, that the leaflets that we have published of late have been so lengthy, so important, containing so much matter, that most of the schools are a long way behind, and are not prepared to take up new ones; and consequently it was decided that at the end of the present year, when the forty numbers promised on the Articles of Faith are published, we would cease for a time to publish any more leaflets. But we have on hand a large number of those already published, and it was suggested that they be bound together according to their subjects; that is, those on the Life of Christ be bound together, those on Old Testament history be bound together, those on the Book of Mormon be bound together, those on the Articles of Faith be bound together, so that they can be advantageously used in the various departments where most suitable to the intellectual advancement of the pupils. I would add we have numbers still on hand for sale of nearly all the leaflets that nave been published since the commencement. 

Another subject of which, as treasurer of the Union, I wish to remind the brethren, is that of the nickel donation. You all know that we ask but one nickel once a year for the Sunday school cause, and the day the collection is taken up, is the last Sunday in this month — the last Sunday of each October. What I wish to ask this evening is, that treasurers and superintendents who forward moneys to me will please do so promptly. Last year's donation I have had dribbling in until two or three weeks ago, when I received another remittance on last year's account. As you are aware, the Sunday schools are increasing in numbers, and the total number of teachers and pupils is also increasing at a rapid rate. This means that our expenses are increasing. Therefore, it is very desirable that the funds collected should not be .scattered all over the country, but be in the hands of the treasurer for the necessary expenses for which the nickel fund is used. Those brethren who do not send in all they have collected before the Convention— which, I take It, will be the greater portion — may bring or send it in at the time of our convention at the middle of November. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

I would not like to let this subject of the leaflets pass without making some remarks upon them. I consider the leaflets the finest kind of literature for our children. The only objection— if it can be called an objection— that I have heard mentioned in connection with them, is that they are not graded, and that they are too long for one Sunday's exercises. But I have been greatly impressed with their value. They contain an amount of information in a condensed space that must be of exceeding value to everyone who is a student. "When speaking of students, I may include all who are pupils in our Sunday schools up to the mature man. I consider them excellent, and they should be read, and they should be taught to our children. We have concluded to suspend the further publication of them for the time being- in order that the schools may catch up, that we may not have a mass of literature on our hands that is not used and waste our means in that way. I think this is a subject that ought to receive the attention of all the superintendents; and if there are leaflets on hand in any Sunday school they should be used, and the classes given the instructions that are contained in the leaflets. There is a great deal of information to be gained from them, and I am sure they will be valuable not only to the children of the Sunday school but to all who will devote time to their perusal. 

Now in regard to the "Nickel" fund I may say that I have been, from the very beginning, opposed to levying any serious burden on Sunday schools, and it was a long time before my consent could be obtained to even making a nickel donation, for I hoped that we would be able to sustain our Sunday schools without anything of that kind. Hut the necessity for some funds to do work that we thought necessary for the schools and for their advancement compelled us to take into consideration the idea of making a small collection such as a nickel once a year, and I do hope that all the superintendents will appreciate the spirit of the Sunday School Union board in this respect, and will at least do their part in bringing about and in collecting this small  at the time that is appointed. You may depend upon it that every cent is used in the most economical and careful manner. 

A question has been presented to us, sent up to the stand, of this character: "There are children who attend our Sunday schools whose parents are opposed to the children being- baptized although the children desire to be baptized. They have refused their consent to the present time, and the question is asked, What shall be done with those children in administering the Sacrament? Shall they be deprived of the Sacrament because of their nonbaptism. We have considered this question, and President Smith and Brother Lyman and myself being now on the stand here, have decided that children who are desirous to be baptized and who are prevented by those who have, them in charge, their parents or guardians, from complying with this ordinance, that they should have the sacrament administered to them; and this will apply to all cases of this kind in our Sunday schools. Where the children— mark you, I want you to mark this — where the children are desirous to obey this law and are prevented from doing so, that they shall receive the Sacrament or have it administered to them. 

Now I would like to make a few remarks upon another subject that has been mentioned here, the "Juvenile Instructor." You have heard from Brother Summerhays concerning it. When I was spoken to the other evening in relation to this, I expressed myself, after I had heard a good many remarks, as favorable to the sale to the Sunday School Union. I have felt for some time that this would probably be a better arrangement. I have, I may say, looked upon the Juvenile Instructor as a pet. It is the only publication that has existed for the long time in the Church that it has, that has not received support outside of its subscription. The means it has required to sustain it have come out of my private funds. I have published it now for thirty-five years. It is the oldest publication now existing in the Church excepting the Millennial Star and the Deseret News It has been a labor of love Willi me, because I have felt that it was  with the Sunday school cause; and at the commencement of its publication I felt (I had just returned from long missions I had filled) that there was a great field in our State for the improvement of our little children in the organization of Sunday schools among them, and the Juvenile Instructor has done its part, no doubt, in maintaining this idea and contributing to the success of the Sunday schools, and I feel that there is a great mission yet for it to perform. I am willing, under the circumstances, that it should go as the brethren desire. It has been remarked, so I have been told, that it is a private institution. Well, it has been. Fortunately it has been so. It could not have lived if it had not been sustained by private funds. There have been many times during the thirty-five years that have passed that its publication could not have continued without such aid. Other magazines have tried and have failed because of causes which, if they had operated upon it, would have caused it to be suspended. I was very glad, indeed, to feel the spirit that was manifested the other evening in relation to this before I expressed myself in that meeting — expressed my willingness to have the publication transferred. I thought these few words from me were due this assembly this evening. 

Before sitting down, there is another subject that I think has been touched upon by Brother Lyman and others in relation to the Sabbath day, that I wish to say a word upon. Brethren and sisters, we ought, with all our energies, with all the powers we have, to endeavor to have our children, and the rising generation among us, respect the Sabbath day. I was greatly pleased in Canada to find how strict they were in enforcing the law against violators of the Sabbath. I feel that there ought to be some ordinance, or some rule or law put in force that will stop these public and private violations of the Sabbath day. Its desecration is shocking to the sense of those who believe in the sacredness of that day, and who believe that God has actually commanded us to meet together and make our offerings on that day, to keep it holy and to avoid, as much as possible, all kinds of work on that holy day. Even cooking and household work, all such labor, ought to be as much as possible lessened. For many years in my own family, it was agreed that we would do nothing on the Sabbath day that could be avoided, and we provided beforehand our food, so that we would not be under the necessity of breaking the Sabbath in cooking it. I believe that is a good rule. And we should not allow, if we can prevent it. the gangs of young men and boys that we see around the street corners on the Sabbath evenings. Let us, as a united people, as united Sunday school workers, use our personal influence to check this tendency that is so painfully apparent among us. We are a religious people, and when we contrast Salt Lake City in these respects with the manner in which the Sabbath is observed in communities that do not make the professions that we do, it brings the blush of shame to us to see how much behind we are in this respect; and I hope that our united influence will be used in the right direction, to check these violations of the holy day that God has set apart for worship and for the rest of His people. 

APOSTLE GEORGE TEASDALE. 

There is always a question as to what are the best means to raise money, to meet the local expenses of our Sabbath schools. Sometimes we have had a committee go round to beg, to ask for contributions for the Sabbath school. Now I have found that the way that gave the greatest amount of satisfaction and did most to develop the talent that we have in our Sunday schools, was to give an entertainment, inviting the parents, and the people generally, to attend, and charging so much admission, giving them the worth of their money in the entertainment that was provided. It is not very pleasant to ask our teachers in the Sunday school to go around and beg, to take up a subscription or anything of that kind. It gives a great deal more satisfaction when we h fr.-e one of the best entertainments that we can get. I am reminded now of the sacramental set that was presented to the North ward of Nenhi by the Primary association. It had upon it: "Presented by the Primary Association." The means was raised bv entertainments. People were well naid that attended those entertainments, and had an opportunity of developing the talent that was in the Primary association. I thought of this while nve were speaking upon having Sunday evening concerts. It had been suggested, some one reported, at one  our metings, that they have a Sunday school concert and pay so much for admittance. There is no occasion for anything of the kind. I think our children should be taught that the Sabbath is the day of rest and recuperation If we could only understand this we would find there was philosophy in doing as little as we possibly could on the Sabbath day. I have heard of contractors in building railroads and hav. ing a great many teams, making them work every day, Sunday included, and they found that they made a mistake, that they could do more by resting on the Sabbath day. Every principle of the GosDel is a natural principle, and it is natural we should rest one day in seven. We would live longer, feel happier and brighter, if we would only listen to the kindly suggestions that we call the commandments of our beloved Father in heaven. 

ELDER J. W. SUMMERHAYS. 

The committee on convention would like to give notice to the Stake surjerintendencics that they would like them to report immediately to our general scretary in regard to the number of delegates they expect to send to our coming convention. We would also like to say to the superintendents of Sunday schools, that we expect you to send two delegates from each school, at least. We would like this information immediately — within the next two weeks. You can imagine what would be the result if we provided for two delr^ates from each school and you sent us four. Our committee on entertainment would simply be overwhelmed, and therefore we would like this information right away. The date of our convention is the 12th and 13th of November. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

There has not been so much traveling backward and forward in the galleries this evening: as I have sometimes witnessed, but I think there has been entirely too much, and it is a very great breach of good manners for people to come to meetings of this kind and be traveling backward and forward and be disturbing those who have come to hear and enjoy; and I hope that in our future meetings our ushers will take the necessary steps to prevent this conduct. 

The choir then sang, "From afar gracious Lord Thou didst gather Thy flock." 

Benediction by Elder Brigham Young. 

HORACE S. ENSIGN, F. E. BARKER, Gen. Sec'yReporter. 

New 

Publications 

NOW ON SALE BY THE RISE AND FALL OF NAUVOO, 

By B. H. Roberts. Ready November 10th. Cloth, $1.25. 

MISSOURI PERSECUTIONS, 

By B. H. Roberts. Cloth, $l.£k 

SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD, 

1 Liberality of the Mormon Faith), by Charles W. Penrose, a pamphlet of 13 pages. Priee 3 cents! 

2 for 5 cents. By Capt. James S. Brown, 520 pages, bound in cloth. Price $2.00. 116 pages, embossed Princess covers, by Dr. James E. Taimage. Price 25 cents. By L. A. Wilson, 7* pages, bound in board. Price 20 cents. 

AND "THE 

ARTICLES OF FAITH." 

Written by appointment by Dr. James 15. Talmage. Cloth $1.00, leather $1 50, Morocco. f2.50> 

SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO DEALERS AND AGENTS, To aid Missionaries in their fields of labor the 

Semi- Weekly News 

Will be sent to subscribers sent in by them at 

ONE DOLLAR A YEAR . 

This offer applies only to subscribers in the missionary field. 





