Afternoon
05 10 1900



ELDER A. O. WOODRUFF. 
Individual Re=ponsibtiity of the Saints— Neglect of duties of the Priesthood deprecated— Baneful effects of bad example— Officers should be wisely selected— Saints . should not take their hands from the plow. My beloved brethren and sisters: I feel very grateful this afternoon that the Lord is mindful of his people. I thank him for the prosperity that is attending the Latter-day Saints, for the liberty that we enjoy, and for the marvelous way in which he has operated upon the people in many sections of the earth to bring about the freedom that his servants enjoy today. In standing before you this afternoon I feel very humble, and I pray that the power and inspiration of God may rest upon me that I may be led to give forth the words that he would have me speak on this occasion; for he knows the hearts of this people and the teachings that will be best adapted to their needs. I have greatly enjoyed the instructions that have been given here today. I do not know that I ever heard President Snow speak when his voice sounded clearer or more forceful than it did this morning, and this reminded me of the change that ofttimes comes over men when they are called of God to certain positions. In many instances their bodies and their minds seem to be renovated and renewed by the power of God within them. I felt in listening to President Snow's words to glorify the name of our Eternal Father for his goodness and for the abundant manifestations of his approval of this people. 

There is a matter that I have thought of a great deal of late in connection with the work of our Heavenly Father, and that is the individual responsibility which the Latter-day Saints are under. I doubt very much if in our different callings we appreciate this as we ought  do. There is too great a tendency on the part of those who bear the Holy Priesthood to try to shift responsibility onto the presiding officers of the wards or the Stakes or the Church. Did we ever think of the fact that every one of us should be as interested in the work of God as our brother or our sister? We ought not to try to shift responsibility onto some one else; but we ought to secure a clear conscience before God by faithfully discharging the duty whereunto we have been called, be that duty ever so humble. 

Every quorum of the Priesthood is necessary in the Church of Christ. If it were not, it never would have been given to us. I have been alarmed at the disregard of duty shown by many men who have been honored with the Priesthood of the Son of God. Especially is this the case in the Lesser Priesthood, and in many instances it is to be found among the Elders and Seventies. This ought not to be. I feel that we will never arrive at the condition which we would like to attain until there is a renewal of interest in all the quorums of the Priesthood. Our heavenly Father has placed each quorum in the Church to perform an especial labor. The duty of the Deacon is different from that of .he Teacher, the duty of the Teacher is different from that of the Priest, the duty of the Priest is different from that of the Elder, the duty of the Elder from that of the Seventy, the Seventy from that of the High Priest, and the High Priest from that of the Apostle. In some of the Stakes we discover that such an officer as a Priest has not been heard of; the homes of the people have never been visited by Priests, and they have never heard of a quorum of Priests in their Stake. The quorum of Teachers is almost as badly neglected in some quarters; as also is the quorum of Deacons. 

Now there is a great and a grand work for the Deacons, the Teachers and the Priests to perform, as well as for the Elders and the Seventies. If we are not faithful in the Lesser Priesthood, how can we expect to advance? If we do not fulfill the duties whereunto God has called us, how can we expect him to honor us with greater things. There is no young man in this Church who has been honored with the Priesthood of the Dea<^r> and has been faithful in discharging the duties of that calling, hut what has been honored with some higher calling and Priesthood. This is true also of the Teachers and Priests. There is always room for advancement in the Priesthood of the Son of God. Our Eternal Father will always honor those who honor Him and His authority. 

I feel that there are officers of Stakes and wards who have taken upon themselves a grave responsibility in maintaining men and women in positions in this Church who have not magnified or even appreciated the callings whereunto the Lord has called them. And I fear that in some instances whole Stakes have suffered by the example of some member of the Stake Presidency, of the High Council, or of some other organization of the Priesthood. Men have pointed to a brother who perhaps has been retained as a High Councilor or as a Stake President, who has not honored the Priesthood that has been conferred upon him, and whose example has not been a £ood one before the youth of Zion,' and they have justified themselves in evil conduct by reason of such examples. The presiding officers in Stakes and wards have been lenient in many instances. People have been tolerated who have not observed the Word of Wisdom; others have been tolerated who have not paid tithing-, and still others who have violated other laws of God; and this course has been followed in some instances because of the desire of the brethren to keep these people in the Church and save their souls. The question is, is it better to maintain officers in the Church under these conditions, for the sake of their own feeling's, than to make changes which would benefit the people in general? And is it not a fact that those who do retain officers in the Church who do not prize the Priesthood and have no interest in the work, are assuming a great responsibility? President Snow, President Cannon or President Smith cannot go into all the Stakes and wards in Zion. They therefore send the Apostles; and the Apostles never go except  are sent by the Presidency. They go into these Stakes authorized to perform certain labor, and if they, on account of leniency, retain men in office whose example they know is bad, are they not shouldering upon themselves the responsibility of the unsatisfactory conditions found in those Stakes. If this be true of the general authorities of the Church, it is also true of the Stake authorities, when they retain in office Bishops or officers in any of the different associations who are not doing- their duty? Do you believe, my brethren and sisters, that Stake Presidents will be justified in whose Stakes we have never heard tell of a Priests' quorum or a Teacher's quorum, and if we have heard tell of a Teachers' quorum, those Teachers were not doing their duty? And where Bishops allow this condition to exist, they as well as the Stake Presidents are taking upon themselves responsibilities I should not like to assume. 

Stake Presidents and Counselors, High Councilors. Bishops and Counselors ought to have the guidance and the inspiration of the Spirit of God in the selection of men to fill offices. Because a man holds a certain degree of priesthood, it does not follow that he will make a good Teacher or a good Priest, or that he will make a good man to instruct the people on the Sabbath day. Bishops and counselors and Stake officers should study this matter. They ought not to send Teachers into the homes of the people who will visit for two or three hours and never do any teaching. They ought to send men out who are filled with the Spirit of God, who will go into the homes of the Saints and pray with them, and who will make a study of the people under their watchcare. Such brethren, when they see a member of a family who is not a tithepayer, will labor with that member upon that point; and if there is a member who is not an observer of the Word of Wisdom, they will labor with that one upon that particular point, and so on. They will find all the defects and weaknesses, and in the spirit of love and kindness they will labor with those brethren and sisters who are delinquent and will try to reform them. 

We send out many Elders into the missionary field and spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to carry the Gospel abroad. Is it not just as important that these quorums of the Priesthood should be active and alive to their duty, and that the members of those quorums should prize the office they hold sufficiently to keep the commandments which God has given them, in order that their example may be good before the people? We find Stake officers and ward officers who do not observe the Word of Wisdom. They have their cup of tea or their cup of coffee, or they are given to smoking, and perhaps in some instances to drinking, and yet they are tolerated. 

My brethren and sisters, in speaking this way I do so with the feeling that I would expect to be dealt with if I did not honor the Priesthood that God has conferred upon me sufficiently to let tobacco, whisky and other things that God has forbidden alone. I feel that any officer in this Church who will persist in indulging in these things and setting a bad example before the people ought to have at least sufficient interest in the work of the Lord to give up his position to some one who will prize and magnify the position that God has called him to. I do not believe that men who are living in open violation of the commandments of God prize their calling. They may think they do; they may think that they love the work of the Lord; but their very acts show that they do not. When it comes to laying aside their little cup of tea as Relief Society workers or as other workers in the Stakes of Zion, some cannot do it, not even for the sake of the example. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that this is an important matter. Every Deacon, every Teacher and every Priest ought to ask himself the question whether or not he is magnifying the Priesthood that God has honored him with. For it is an honor to be a Deacon in the Church of Christ. It is a greater honor than any that can be conferred upon men in the political world, because this work that we are engaged in is God's work, not the work of man, and God will honor those who honor the positions that are given to them in His Church. Now, where 

Teachers are not doing their duty, shall the President of the Church be held responsible? Would it be manly for the Bishop of a Ward to say that the President of the Church is responsible because his ward is not up to the mark m fulfilling the obligations that the Lord has placed upon them? It appears to me that this is not the spirit of the Gospel. The spirit of the Gospel is for every man to do his duty and not try to shift any responsibility onto somebody else. We are told that we are agents unto ourselv.es, and that we ought to be engaged in bringing to pass much righteousness. When we are placed to preside over a Ward it is not necessary to go to the President of the Church to ask about every little matter, but we are entitled to the spirit of God and to the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ in our calling. If we are energetic and are working in the calling whereunto the Lord has called us, he will reveal many great and important things unto us, and he will bring to our minds many suggestions and ideas with regard to the government of our Ward. So with presidents of Stakes and High Councils and other officers of the Church. 

I am interested in the work of the Lord. I would like to see these quorums of the Lesser Priesthood in a good active condition. It is thought by some that we have concentrated our energies too much upon Sunday school work or upon Mutual Improvement work, and we have not given that attention which we ought to do to the quorums of the Priesthood. If we have erred in this direction, we ought to correct it and labor diligently to see that every quorum is in good live condition. No Stake of Zion can be up to the mark whose quorums of the Priesthood are inactive. Inactivity is death, and there are too many dead members in the Priesthood. The man who will grow in this Priesthood and come to the front is the man who labors. And as with the man, so with the quorum. The Stake President who will develop himself and his Stake is the one who is actively engaged in his calling. If he is not thus engaged, instead of growing he will wither up, and his Stake will suffer. Now it appeara to me that the progress of the work of God in the wards and in the Stakes is of greater importance than the feeling of any man or woman; and it would seem to me that Latter-day Saints who actually believe that this is the work of the Lord, when they know that changes can be made which will benefit the work of God, they will not feel hurt or that an injustice is being done by such changes. I believe that some censure has been merited by some Stake officers for not making changes that ought to have been made. I believe that if they had made these changes manfully and under the influence of the spirit of God, and explained to those affected why they were necessary, the brethren would not have felt half as bad as it has been supposed they would. 

I thank the Lord for his goodness and for the blessings which this people are enjoying at the present time. The thing for us to do is to hold on to the end; not simply to go part of the way, but to go all the way, doing the will of our Father from day to day so far as it is made clear to us. 

Our labor for salvation reminds me very much of an experience that was brought to my attention this season by a colony of our people going into Wyoming. I heard of one or two of them who became discouraged before they got to the Summit in Parley's canyon, and one or two more became discouraged when they got to some other summit; while others turned back as they' were going or after they got there. Now those people did not receive any reward. Their time was thrown away. Others, after they got there and engaged in the toil which was necessary to settle up any new country, became discouraged and they also left. And others will leave. This has been the history of the settlement of all our new countries. I am told that at least onehalf of the people that went to Cache Valley in early days returned because they did not think they could live there. In listening to Brother Judd Brother Ricks, Brother Card and other brethren who are having experience in this same line, I can sympathize with them, for our experience is similar to theirs. There are some people who turn back all along the way. So it is  on our journey and search for salva. Some are afraid of the water; they dare not go into the water to be baptized. Then there are others who after they are baptized are afraid of something else. They cannot make the sacrifice, as they consider it, of paying their tithing. They cannot keep the Word of Wisdom. They cannot be honest, or virtuous, or truthful. The result is, we find one turning off here, and another there, and leaving the ship Zion. Now, only those are benefitted who continue in their search for salvation, and in their journey toward eternal life. Only those receive a reward who pass through the hardships and* the discouraging conditions arid continue in the way of life unto the end. If we turn back any time before then, our labors have been in vain and we will not receive the reward. We are told that blessed is the man who endureth temptation, for he shall receive a crown of life which the Lord has promised. 

My brethern and sisters, whatever position we have been called to occupy in this Church, or whatever quorum of Priesthood we are members of, the only way we can receive the promised reward is to labor constantly and to keep the Spirit of God. If we will do this, we will love the work - of God more every day of our lives. I thank God that this has been my experience. I have felt better every day in the labors which the Lord has called me to perform, and my pleasure in them increases. I know this is the case with all men and women that work to bring about righteousness. Those who endure trials and temptations, those who are full of zeal and of the Spirit of God from morn until night, you will always know just where to find them. Great and glorious will be their reward. 

I thank the Lord for the testimony I have that this is his work. I receive new testimonies every day of my life. I know that God is with this people, and I know that He will bless everything that is undertaken as indicated through the Pr^>w of God. It is enough for us to know that the Lord has indicated through His mouthpiece what should be done, and it is for us to give heed unto it. May God  that we may have His Spirit in all our labors; that we may be true to the testimonies we have received; that we may love the work of the Lord, and not be jealous of any department that is thriving; but that we may desire, as Bishops and Stake Presidents, to concentrate our efforts upon the part of the work which is a little delinquent, and see to it that it is brought to the front, in order that every department of the Priesthood may be united. If it is possible for the Presidency of this Church and the Apostles to be united to a man, that the president of the quorum of the Apostles can say to the Presidency of the Church that nothing in righteousness can be required of these men that will not be done, so it is possible for this to be said of the Seventies, and of the High Priests, and of the Elders, and of every department of the Priesthood, if all men will labor to bring this result about. God grant that this may be the case; that we may be encouraged, and that the blessings of God may attend every effort which we put forth toward the upbuilding of His kingdom. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"The Holy City" was sung by Horace S. Ensign. 

ELDER M. F. COWLEY. 

Patrick Henry's eloquent plea for freedom— Regard of the Saints for the Constitution— Work of the Adversary — How to obtain the mind and will of the Lord— The duty to sustain the Government — The redemption of Zion — Striking experience at Galveston. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel grateful for another conference, and for the opportunity of being associated with you. It is our duty to obtain the word of the Lord, and it does not depend solely upon the authority of the Church. There is a responsibility, as stated by Elder Woodruff, resting upon every member. It is not confined to those who bear the respective offices in the Priesthood, but it extends to all Saints, male and female. As I view it, there ought to be some advancement on the part of the Latter-day Saints as a whole, and on the part of the Priesthood, during the time that intervenes between our general conferences. I always feel impressed when listening to my brethren,  matter what the subject may be which suggests itself to their mieds. The one thing that is always obligatory upon every Saint is to do the duty that devolves upon him at the moment. We have heard Brother Ensign sing about Jerusalem, the beautiful city. We sometimes read in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, 84th section, a beautiful song which the Lord said should be sung in the last days. He says: 

"For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness: 

"And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work which shall be cut short in righteousness, 

"Until all shall know me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, and shall see eye to eye." 

President Snow, Elder Smoot and Elder Clawson testified this morning that the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve Apostles are united and see "eye to eye." I wish to say that this ought to be the status of the Presiding Council of Seventies, and I presume it is. It ought to be the condition of every council of Seventies throughout the Church. It ought to be the condition of the Presiding Bishopric of this Church, and I suppose it is. It ought to be the condition of the presiding authorities of every quorum in the Holy Priesthood down to the presidency of the last quorum of Deacons, which has been established in the Church. It ought to be the condition of every Stake presidency, of every High Council, of every Bishopric, of the presiding authority of every branch, of every Elder, of the presidency of every mission, of every conference president and of every Elder in every mission on the face of the earth. There should be an absolute unity throughout the Church. And this unity can only be brought about by a common enjoyment of the Holy Ghost. It is tho only thine: on this earth or in the heavons that will brinir people to a unity of the faith. It was this spirit which led us in the first place to embrace the Gospel, and when we were baptiz ed w e received a title to the corapambnship" or tne jnoly GftostT, and we were promised that he should guide us into all truth. I would like to impress upon the Latter-day Saints that we ought to be guided by the Spirit of the Lord in eveverything that affects the welfare of this people. No Latter-day Saint bearing the Holy Priesthood ought to go to any place without the companionship of the Holy Ghost. I do not care whether it is a dance, to enjoy a little innocent recreation, or whether it is a political meeting, to consider the great questions ot the day, he ought to take the Priesthood of God with him and enjoy the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in what he says and does. By that I do not mean that we ought to use our Priesthood in any manner that is not justifiable, but I do mean to say that we ought always to remember that we are Latter-day Saints, and that there is no consideration affecting the welfare of this people in which we are justified in separating ourselves from the thought that we are Latter-day Saints, and that the highest responsibility that rests upon this people is to establish the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth. I feel that we have broken away to a great extent from the old fashioned spirit of the Gospel, if you will allow me to use that expression. I think ^sometimes that we have not so much faith in God as had the patriots who founded this country. When they prepared the Declaration of Independence they invoked the inspiration of the supreme God to guide them in the framing of that document. And they secured that inspiration. It was guided by the Spirit of the Lord, and the Lord had a hand in it. You remember, perhaps, reading what purports to be a speech delivered by Patrick Henry in the Congress at Philadelphia, at a time when men were afraid to stand up for what they considered to be the rights of the colonists of this country and to establish upon this land a government that should be free from allegiance to every other government. In that memorable address he made this statement: 

"It is not given to our poor human intellect to climb the skies, to pierce the councils of the Almighty One. But methinks I stand among the awful clouds which veil the brightness of Jehovah's throne. Methinks I see the 

Recording Angel— pale as angel is pale, weeping as an angel can weep— come trembling up to the throne, and speaking his dread message: 

" 'Father! The Old World is baptized in blood. Father! It is drenched with the blood of millions, butchered in war in persecution, in slow and grinding oppression. Father, look! With one glance of Thine eternal eye, look over Europe, Asia, Africa, and behold everywhere a terrible sight— men trodden down beneath the oppressor's feet, nations lost in blood, murder and superstition walking hand in hand over the graves of their victims, and not a single voice to whisper hope to man.' 

"He stands there (the angel), his hand trembling with the black record of human guilt. But hark! The voice of Jehovah speaks out from the awful cloud: Let there be light again. Let there be a New World. Tell my people the poor, downtrodden millions, to go out from the Old World. Tell them to go out from wrong, oppression and blood. Tell them to go out from the Old World, to build my altar in the New." 

In the closing words of the speech, he made this significant remark: 

"As God lives, my friends, I believe that to be His voice. Yes, were my soul trembling on the wing of eternity, were this hand freezing in death, were my voice choking with the last struggle, I would still, with the last gasp of that voice, implore you to remember the truth God has given America to be free." 

This was the spirit of Nephi. Nephi declared in the name of the Lord that God had decreed that this land should be a land of liberty, and that there should not occupy it any people that would hold in servitude any other class of people. So that when in ^he history of this great country the question arose regarding the slavery of the black race, it was a foregone conclusion that that section of the nation which espoused their freedom, would gain the victory over those who sought to maintain slavery, because God had decreed that the people of this land should be free. 

What I desire to call your attention to is the fact that the hand of Almighty God is in all these things, and when I see Latter-day Saints breaking away and feeling that they ought to be free from any considerations that would benefit the work, I feel that they are not true to the history of the country in which we dwell and to that pa which God decreed the Latter-day Saints should exhibit. For I say that in this land there are no people that have so great a respect for the Constitution of the United States as have the Latter-day Saints. There are no people that can have the respect for it that they can. I do not wish to impeach the respect of other people for that glorious instrument, but the depth of the respect that is entertained by the Latter-day Saints is based upon their knowledge of the purposes of God concerning this land and the institutions which God inspired the people to found. The Roman empire prior to the coming of the Savior tolerated all classes of religions, no matter what dogmas they 

taught, and this policy was maintained until the Son of God came and established His Church. His Church, however, came in contact with the institutions of men, but it did not seek to injure any of these men. It was established for the salvation of the human. family, to lift them upon a higher plane, and to point them the way to eternal life. It was the only plan of salvation, devised in the heavens above. Because of the freedom granted to all religions by the Roman empire, Jesus was enabled to establish His Church upon the earth. So in these last days God inspired the founders of this country for the same purpose. They sought the inspiration of the Almighty when they framed the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. We read in the book of Doctrine and Covenants that God raised up men and inspired them to frame the constitution of this land, and many of these men laid down their lives in defense of human liberty and to lay the foundation of a government upon this land which should be a palladium of human rights, unequalled by any other civil government upon the face of the earth! ~~ God says He inspired the Constitution; and every law made in pursuance thereto He declares to be a righteous law, and every law not in pursuance thereto an unrighteous law: 'And whatsoever is more or less than these cometh of evil." He further states that the Saints of God are justified in upholding the institutions of this coun;^and_in thos e days when the Constitution had not been infringed and trampled upon by ungodly men, he said that no man had occasion to break the laws of the land in keeping the laws of God. He also said that righteousmen should be selected to administer the affairs of government, men who  would uphold the Constitution of the country and who would maintain the-' rights of the people in every State. 

I want to tell you, Latter-day Saints, that we have not got out of the woods: yet. No circumstances will arise in this country that will affect the welfare of' this people, either from a religious, a' political, a financial, a social, business,, scientific, or any other standpoint, butt what Almighty God is bound to have something to say in regard to them. He may not come out and say it through the voice of the Prophet of.. God; but it is expected that every Lat- ter-day Saint is a prophet of God, and that he will get the will of the Lord to  Guide him in all these matters. Whatdid Moses say to those who sought his^ rebuke of some persons that tea* prophesied in Israel? Why, said he, "E would to God that all the Lord's people were prophets." We ought to be prophets, and we ought to seek the mind and will of the Lord on every subject that arises. If we will do this, we shall know for ourselves. Unless we feel this way I believe I am justified in saying: that it will be a long time before we shall be able to sing this song contained in the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. In all affairs, in whatever arises, we ought to seek the mind and will of God thereon, and try to understand what will be for the best, interests of the Latter-day Saints. We are justified in so doing. There is not: one principle of the Gospel that will\ lead me to entrench upon the right of a: Methodist, a Baptist, a Catholic, an infidel or any other man, no matter what his religion or his politics may be. Thereis not one covenant of the Holy Priesthood that will lead me to do this. I; have read the secret oaths and covenants of some of the combinations that exist in this land, and I want to raise my voice against the Latter-day Saints identifying themselves with these "tares," which are being bound in bundiet prepared for the burning. Their covenants are the cords that bind them. I say that every Latter-day Saint who J keeps his covenants made in the waters of baptism or elsewhere will be a good citizen and will never infringe upon the rights of any people; but he will take a course that will exalt the people and that will tend to the maintenance of fret-dom ux>on this land. We are interested in this country. This is the land of Zion. This is the land where Adam dwelt. This is the land where he built his altar and offered sacrifice to God. This is the land where the Gospel was first revealed to the children of men. This is the land where the ordinance of baptism was first performed upon this earth. This is the land where the Holy Ghost was first given to man. This is the land that God has always led people to when He wanted to secure unto them the best of freedom. He led people from Jerusalem at different times, and he established them upon this land. He gave them Prophets and Apostles and inspired men, and He bes^owea upon them the inspiration of the Almighty to guide them in all walks Of life. 

I feel impressed upon this subject. It seems to me that the Latter-day Saints are not controlled as they ought to be . by the Spirit of the Gospel in some of the walks of life. It is the risrht of everv man and woman in this Church to have a testimony of the Holy Spirit as to how to act in all these matters. I have sought the Lord in regard to these things long ago and this is how I feel. Let me remind you that the devil is not dead. The adversary of righteousness is working his leaven among the Latter-day Saints. He is trying to destroy the youth of this people by seducing them from the paths of chastity and virtue; by filling their minds with skepticism, and by establishing in their hearts the idea that there are some things connected with the people of God concerning which the servants of God ousht to keep their mouths shut. Now, I know the men that founded this commonwealth and the enterprises of this land. They came here when it was a howling wilderness and laid the foundations of material prosperity in these mountain valleys. They established  institutions of learning. They have built the Temples of God from Cache Valley on the north to St. George on the south. And I know that they have been men of God, every one of them, from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to President Lorenzo Snow. I know that the servants of God have His mind and will; and the Latter-day Saints can have it too. I want to tell you how you can get it. As I started out to say, it is by the daily performance of every duty that devolves upon us. You show me a man who is constantly engaged in prayer and supplication, and I will point to you a man that does not have to be preached to in regard to the subject of tithing; he does not have to be urged to send his children to Sunday school, and to get his boys into the quorums of the Lesser Priesthood. He is so full of the Spirit of the living God that he wants them there all the time. The man who attends to his family prayers and to his secret prayers, the man who pays his tithes and offerings, the man who shows his willingness, when called upon, to carry the Gospel to the nations of the earth or to act in the capacity of a Deacon at home, that is the man who will obtain the mind and the will of the Lord. I have seen not only the hand of the Lord, but the hand of the adversary working its way among the Latter-day Saints. Satan is seeking to divide them and to poison their minds in regard to the authorities of the Church and the leaders in the various Stakes of Zion. Men have said that they must not seek for counsel, and at the same time they have sought counsel from men who possess the spirit of apostasy. They have sought counsel from men who to my personal knowledge have secured their livelihood from the Latter-day Saints and have spent their nights playing cards and talking against the Authorities of this Church. You can seek counsel from that class of men, but if you seek counsel from President Snow or from Apostle Merrill, who presides over the Cache Valley Stake, or from some of the brethren who preside over the Stakes in Idaho— I say if you seek counsel .from these men as to what would be for the best interests of the people in this inter211  region, oh, you are going to the wrong kind of men! Now, I want to say that I am going to these men for my counsel. I propose, God being my helper, (I do not say this boastingly, for I feel that I am the weakest among my brethren) to know the mind and will of the Lord on all subjects; and whether in casting a political vote or in lifting my hand to support the Prophet of God, I propose that the chief consideration in my heart shall be, what is the will of the Lord? I want to know His will. Are we the people of God, or are we not? Has God changed? No. Has the everlasting Gospel changed? No, and it never will. It is the same yesterday, today and forever. 

There are a certain class of pious men among us that I call hypocrites. They are "too good" to do anything that is not considered just right by the world, whether it is right in the sight of God or not. They are after the order of the men who, in the days of Jesus, sought to bring Him into disrepute, and even impeached the honor of His birth, because they did not understand it. They are the kind of men that condemned Rahab, the harlot, because she hid the spies. Why did she hide the spies? Was it to infringe upon the rights of the people of Jericho that she hid them and preserved them from those miserable minions of the law? No, she did it for righteousness sake, to protect innocent men in their liberties. What does the Apostle Paul say about that woman? He said it should be accounted unto her for righteousness. God commanded Abraham to offer up his son Isaac, and yet it had been written. Thou shalt not kill. Abraham withheld not his son. He took him to the altar. He prepared the kindling wood, and proposed to sacrifice his son upon the altar, in obedience to the command of God. He did not know that God would provide a ram in the thicket, or that he would send an angel to say. "Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him for now I know that thou fearest God. seeing- that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me." 

Brethren and sisters, we do not want to be hypocrites., and we do not want to be so cowardly that we are afraid  ask God for His Holy Spirit and for that inspiration which has been sought for by men of this country from the days of George Washington down to the present. There are no people in these United States who have been more patriotic to the institutions of our country than the Latter-day Saints^ Have they ever lifted their hands against the Stars and Stripes? No. Have they ever lifted their voice against the institutions of this country?' No. And I wish we had no men that would raise their voice against the administration of our country, but would uphold and sustain it, no matter what might be the politics thereof, and treat the men who are elected to office in our country with that respect which is due to them by virtue of their high position and the trust committed to them by the franchise of the American people. But the Latter-day Saints have been true to their country. They have furnished soldiers to fight its battles, some of whom have laid down their lives in defense of the Stars and Stripes on the soil of Cuba and in the Philippine Islands. Whenever this people have taken issue with any enactment, it has been in a lawful manner. They have tested the constitutionality of laws passed by the Congress of the United States directed against them. When there has been a ruling in the courts of our Territory that has been esteemed unconstitutional, it has been appealed to the highest court in the Territory. When that body has sustained the lower court they have appealed it to the Supreme Court of the United States, but they have never lifted the hand of violence; thev have never resorted to mobocracy cr to anything of that kind. When the Sunreme Court has given its decision the Saints of God have rendered obedience to that decision. I say that we have made more sacrifices in the interest of respect to our country than any other class of people in it. My advice is to sustain those men who will sustain the enterprises which have been established by sacrifice among the people of God. I want to see men sustained in this coui.try to administer the affairs of the government who will not turn aside the citizens of any State when they are oppressed by mobocracy by saying "Your cause is just, but we can do nothing for you." I want to see men sustained in this land who will uphold the Constitution of our country, and who will dare defend its citizens in e\ery State and every Territory. 

I want to encourage you, brethren -and sisters, to do your duty, to pay your tithing, and to say your prayers, and to sustain the quorums of the Priest.hood. I wish that our Lesser Priesthood quorums would take up such a program as we have in the Mutual Improvement Associations. I wish that all the members of the Priesthood would exalt their quorum and make it the chief consideration in the Church, "because God has founded it. He founded the Deacon's quorum, the Teacher's quorum and the Priest's quorum. All these other associations outside of the quorums of the Holy Priesthood are 3ielps in government, and good ones too, and ought to be sustained in their place. If we will seek the mind and will of the Lord on all subjects the Lord will bless us; He will advance us; and the words of the Prophet Lorenzo Snow will be fulfilled in the not far distant future by steps being taken looking to the redemption of Zion and planting the feet of the people of God on that land. Why were they driven from this land? Well, I believe that they were driven from the land of their inheritance because they became like the world. They would not accept the XJnited Order; they would not listen to the counsels of the Prophet of God upon all subjects, which they could liave done without interfering with the welfare or interests of any people upon the face of this land. Let us not forget that we are Latter-day Saints. We are not narrow-minded, either. Do not we send the Gosnel to the nations of the earth and ask the Elders to preach it without money and without price? Are we not willing to make any sacrifice for their salvation? When they Slave smitten us on the one cheek, have we ever knocked them down? When they have mobbed our Elders and slain them, have we ever returned the compliment in the same way? No, our course has been one constant chain of devotion to principle and to human liberty upon this land. 

Let us do our duty, and then some day we will sing this song that I am about to read; and there will be more in it than there is in a great many songs we sing. Some of the songs we sing do not amount to much, because we do not exemplify them in our lives. I have helped to sing 'We thank the, O God, for a Prophet," when I knew we hardly meant it, especially if anything outside of religious matters came from the Prophet of God. Lots of times we sing "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." But after a while we will sing this song which eame to my mind when I first arose. 

"And plagues shall go forth." 

That reminds me of Brother W. T. Jack and myself in Galveston last spring. I shall always remember it, for as we entered that city I said to Brother Jack, "I would like to lift up my voice in this city and say that the judgments of God are coming upon the people." But we only had a few hours there and not much money to hire a hall, so we let it go, and we left upon the train for Houston. I had a feeling of sadness in my heart that I had not lifted my voice in that city and warned the people of the judgments that were coming upon the earth. Brother Jack will remember our conversation. There was an editor there, Mr. Clarence Ousley, who entertained us kindly, and who wrote a column and a half regarding the Latter-day Saints and what he had seen in Salt Lake City. He came here and looked around the city, and though he came with prejudice, he left with a feeling that these were a good people, and he wrote a column and a half in our favor. What occurred to him during the flood at Galveston? He gathered the neighbors into his house, and he and his family and every soul in the house were saved. The judgments of God went all around them, but they were spared. Now we want to warn the nations. I was down in Chicago a year ago with President Kelsch. I had been down in the Southern States and in the Southwestern States also. I am glad that in Chicago and in other cities in our land the Elders are not afraid to stand up and defend every principle of the Gospel. We are living in a land 2:)  liberty. It is a land upon whic God has decreed to establish and maintain His government forever. I am glad therefore. that these Elders dare to defend the truth, no matter what it is. God bless them. The more the truth is assailed the more of the Holy Ghost they enjoy in defending it. After a while God wijl rule upon this land. He said that Jesus Christ should be the king of this land and no human king should reign here. It was a foregone conclusion that Maximilian could not remain Emperor of Mexico, for this is a land of freedom. God laid the foundations of it that He might bring forth His Church and establish His Priesthood upon this land. Therefore, I say do not forget that you are Latter-dav Saints. At the same time we can remember the injunction of Jesus. He said: "Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness." If you will follow His counsel you won't forget that, and you can make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness without being unrighteous yourself. 

I am going to read to you this beautiful song and then sit down. If I have said anything wrong, I am willing to be corrected by President Snow or any of the brethren. I want to learn the truth. I want to be controlled by the truth. I want my heart to be in the work of God. I do not want to have  political or financial interests which would make the work of God secondary. 

'And they shall lift up their voice, and with the voice together sing this new song, saying: 

"The Lord hath brought again Zion. The Lord hath redeemed His people, Israel, 

According to the election of grace, Which was brought to pass by the faith And covenant of their fathers. The Lord hath redeemed His people, And Satan is bound and time is no longer; 

The Lord hath gathered all things in one; 

The Lord hath brought down Zion from above. 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

"The earth hath travailed and brought 

forth her strength; And truth is established in her bowels; And the heavens have smiled upon her; And she is clothed with the glory of her 

God; 

For He stands in the midst of His oeople. 

"Glory, and honor and power and might, Be ascribed to our God; for He is full 

of mercy, Justice, grace and truth and Deace, For ever and ever, amen." 

Brethren and sisters, respect the Prophet of God, listen to his counsel and do not seek to give him counsel. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy." 