Afternoon
05 04 1914

In the tabernacle. Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The Tabernacle choir sang . the anthem, "Judge me, O God, and plead by cause." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Charles H. Hyde. 

The choir sang the anthem, "When the Son of Man shall come." Solos rendered by Esther S. Davis and- Horace S. Ensign . 

ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

"The religion worth having" — -A religion that fits men for the life struggle — An army of over 100,000 teachers in the Church — Qualifications necessary to success in teaching — Powerful influence of the teacher's personality. 

It is written that "he who governs well leads the blind, but he that teaches gives them eyes." I should like to say a word this afternoon to the Church teachers who are supposed to be giving "eyes to the blind." I pray that the same inspiration that has actuated this conference thus far may be present with us this afternoon in rich abundance.  

In a thoughtful little work entitled "The Religion Worth Having," Thomas Nixon Carver has given several sociological marks of what he considers the true church. Among other things I find this comparison : 

"Everyone is familiar with the intense struggle for existence that is carried on among the trees of the forest. It is asserted that the struggle is so intense and the issue of life and death is so sharply drawn among the young pines of a thicket, that the cutting of an inch from the top of one of them will doom it to ultimate extinction. Even that slight difference puts it at a disadvantage, and it never regains what was lost, but falls farther and farther behind and is eventually killed by its less unfortunate rivals. Now let us imagine," he continues, "that these trees were conscious beings and capable of having a religion. Let us suppose farther that one set of trees possessed a religion which stimulated growth and helped them in the struggle for soil and light, while another possessed a religion which retarded growth and hindered in the struggle, is there any doubt as to which of these religions would ultimately dominate the forest? Those trees which happen to possess the religion which helped them would survive, and those which happen to possess the kind of religion  hinders them would perish, and their religion would perish with them." "The issues of life and death," he continues, "is never so sharply drawn among human beings as among the trees of the forest, but in the long run the results appear to be very much the same," and then "If that be true it will follow that the religion which best fits men for the struggle with the forces of the world, which enables them to survive in this struggle, will event ually be left in possession of the world." 

I am grateful for membership in a church whose religion fits men for the struggle with the forces of the world, and which enables them to survive in this struggle. One of these acting forces is the responsibility of teaching, and the opportunity afforded for so many to share this responsibility. There are others, too, just as effective. For example, much might be said about the accomplishment of the Church in enabling men to get dominion over the forces of nature, in other words, the efficiency . of the Church to supply the material needs of mankind. Though this phase of our religion is glorious to contemplate, and will establish in the minds of thinking men the superiority of this divine organization over the man-made organizations, I shall merely mention it as one of the many commendable features which fit our men in the struggle with nature's forces. Neither shall I dwell upon the social efficiency nor the opportunities which the men and women in the various organizations have of exerting an influence upon the young people and upon their associates. I might say, however, in passing, that since I came into this building this afternoon, my attention has been called to an illustration of the efficiency of the stake organization in reaching the young people. A note was passed to me just as I entered,  a new plan adopted in one of our leading stakes of controlling the exercises and the amusements of all the young people in that stake. All organizations have agreed to close evening entertainments at an early hour in the night, that nothing in that stake should be in operation after 10 o clock. One young man who first rebelled against the rule, but later favored it, said in answer to the question, "Well, what do you think of this new rule?" "Why," he replied, "I have this to say, all my meanness in the past was done after 10 o'clock at night." But of the social, efficiency I am not going to say anything this afternoon, merely mention it and suggest that anybody who will give thought to it, and examine the divine organization, and the opportunity that men and women have of controlling their young people as social beings, will be convinced of the efficacy and superiority of the Church in this regard. But I said I would like to draw attention to the teaching force of the Church. 

Luther once said : "Count it one of the highest virtues upon earth to educate faithfully the children of others which so few, and scarcely any, do their own." The obligation of teaching is placed by the Church first upon the parents. Fathers and mothers are accepted absolutely as teachers and the responsibility thereof has been placed upon them by divine command. But beside these there is an army of men and women, and boys and girls, who have accepted the responsibility of teaching. In the priesthood quorums alone the number runs into the thousands. Among these there are selected not a few thousand to act as instructors of the youth. There are, approximately, six thousand such officers and teachers in the quorums; over one thousand teaching the high priests; over fifteen hundred teaching the seventies; over fifteen hundred teaching the elders, and so on to the priests, teachers and deacons, making a total of over six thousand officers and teachers. With them should be numbered the thousands of young men and young women associated with the mothers of the Relief Society who, too, have joined the ranks of teachers. Indeed the last report shows that there are over fifty-six thousand officers and teachers in the various auxiliary organizations of the Church, not including the ward teachers. Of course, some of these teachers of the quorums are also ward teachers, so the latter cannot be counted without duplication. Neither does the number 56,000 include the vast army of all the men and boys who have been ordained to the priesthood, every one of whom has the responsibility of teaching his fellowmen. If you include all who hold the priesthood, and to that number add mothers and young men and young women in the Relief Socity, the Sunday Schools, the Mutuals,,the Primary, and the Religion Class, you have an army of over one hundred thousand teachers who have the privilege of working or taking upon themselves what Luther calls "the highest virtue upon earth." Several years ago while attending a conference such as this, I heard President Smith deliver a sermon bearing on the importance of the office of teacher, in which he, too, emphasized the responsibility and virtue of this great calling. "The church needs," he concluded in substance, "efficient men and women who will be teachers of our children." 

Now I ask you — for I have the time merely to make the suggestion — in furnishing opportunity for so many to get the development that comes to the true teacher, think what the Church is doing in enabling this army of teachers as individuals to become strong in the battle against the forces of the world? First, it places upon them the obligation of teaching their fellow men by example; and there is no better safe-guard placed upon an honest man or a sincere woman. Second, it develops the divine attribute of love for others. Jesus said to one of His apostles, "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou Me more than these?" "Yea Lord, Thou knowest I love Thee." "Feed my lambs." Before He gave the divine injunction to Peter and the others to teach, He preceded it by the necessary qualification of love, "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou Me more than these ?" We shall not discuss now, what "these" signifies, but the significance is deeper than some of us think. But love should precede the responsibility of feeding those lambs. These hundred thousand must have in their hearts the love of teaching, the love of fellow men; and these officers who sit before me who call the young men and young women into this service, should ask them their willingness, their acceptance of this responsibility, impressing upon those so called the necessity of developing the divine attribute of love. 

Then there is a third requirement; viz., purity of life. I cannot imagine a boy who has soiled himself teaching, successfully, purity to boys. I cannot imagine a man who has doubt in his mind about the existence of God, teaching impressively the existence of a Deity to young  and girls. He cannot do it. If he act the hypocrite and attempt so to teach, what he is will speak louder than- what he says; and that is the danger, fathers and mothers, of getting doubting men as teachers of your children. The poison sinks into the little beings, and unconsciously they become sick in spirit, because of the poison which the man in whom they have confidence has insiduously instilled into their souls. But the thought of any of this army's attempting to teach the youth faith in God, when they haven't it is irreconcilable with consistency, if not indeed unthinkable. So the third qualification is purity of life and faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Finally, it gives them an opportunity to serve their fellow men, therein magnify the calling which has come to them, and indeed prove that they are real disciples of Christ. "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these my children, ye have done it unto Me." Thus the principle, the divine principle of service, is instilled in their minds. 

Now I ask you to think of the effect upon society, if every one of these teachers, every one, will succeed in influencing only one other to love, to have that same purity of life, and that same desire to serve fellow men as he has. It means, at once, that there would be two hundred thousand such men and women in this community. And such a consummation is not idealistic or imaginative; it is a condition that can come, that ought to be. One hundred thousand men and women who keep the word of wisdom as faithfully as the three times sixty-six stake presidencies keep it or the three times seven hundred twentyfour bishoprics, just as faithfully as the members of the general boards,  as faithfully as the officers throughout the Church. That is what it means; think what it contemplates! 

God help our teachers to feel the responsibility that comes to them, and to remember that responsibility is not measured alone by what they do, but by the opportunities that have come to them to know good from evil. Oh, how mighty then becomes the responsibility of a teacher. 

Not long ago I noticed a young girl in her teens put forth a special effort to accost the little boy that was by my side. I did not know her, cannot call her name today, but I could see she wanted to recognize that boy, and I noticed that he was glad when he saw her to reciprocate or to return her salutation. As we passed I said, "Who is she?" "She is my religion class teacher." "What is her name ?" "I don't know what her name is, but oh, she is a dandy!" He used an incorrect word, evidently did not know its true meaning, but the significance he gave the word I knew, and the expression on his face I read, and in my heart I thanked the young girl for the influence she has over that boy. Only in her teens, but what that girl will say to him in his religion class he will accept as gospel truth; what she does in her life he will emulate; and that young girl carries the responsibility, in a way, of molding my boy's character; and the one hundred thousand in this Church carry the same responsibility. 

Well might the prophet say then : 

"Oh ye that embark in the seivice of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, .that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day; for behold the field is white all ready to harvest and lo! he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity, and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, chanty, humility, diligence." 

May these things be in you and abound, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

Example of faithful men and women an inspiration to others— Progression evident, but opportunity for further improvement — Saints should not need to be admonished to live aright. 

In my travels in the various stakes of Zion, meeting with the people in their conferences, and _m talking and discussing matters with presidents of stakes, I think I have discovered, to a very large degree, the truth of the remarks made at this conference regarding the o-rowth and development of the Church I believe, most sincerely, that we are today better prepared to serve the Lord and keep His commandments in the spirit and understanding thereof, than ever- before in the -history of the Church. 1 believe this condition is due to many causes, chief among them the fact that we are led and directed by the Spirit of the Lord. It is due also to the fact that we have the experience of the past to profit by, and the inspiration of those who have gone before, to direct us. It is due largely as we have heard, to the efficiency of those who are called and appointed to stand as presidents of stakes and counselors, members of  councils, bishops and bishops' counselors,' and in various other callings in the priesthood, and in the various organizations of the Church. These men and women — for we have organizations for our sisters — are presided over by those who have faith, who are true to the gospel principles, who have within them the spirit of the Gospel and a testimony of the truth. They are imparting these principles to the people and encouraging them in keeping the commandments of the Lord. I also feel that the visits that are made by the presiding brethren in the various stakes and wards aid to a large degree in this direction of development and growth among the people. 

We are advancing, we are gaining in knowledge, in wisdom, and in power. This is as it should be, and as it will always be in the church and kingdom of our Father; for there must be progression, there must be advancement. Knowledge will be poured down upon this people and the Lord will make known unto us from time to time, through revelation, and the spirit of inspiration, many things that are for our good, when we are prepared and ready to receive them. I speak generally of the Church; but notwithstanding all our advancement, increase of faith and diligence, there is still great room for improvement. There are many among us who are not living up to their duties, accepting their callings and magnifying them as they should do. There are many among us who fall short and fail in various ways in keeping the commandments of the Lord to that extent of which they are capable. It is of this class that I desire to speak, and to say something this afternoon that will perhaps be helpful to them. 

I desire to read a few verses from section fifty-eight of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the twenty-sixth verse : 

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are asrents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anvthing until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned." 

I consider this a very important passage of scripture. While we have among us, as we have heard, one hundred thousand teachers who are instructing the people and directing them in the Gospel, nevertheless we should keep in mind this truth, that there is much that we can do individually as members of the Church without the necessity of being taught by our instructors. The Lord expects it of us. Tt ought not be necessary for the teachers to rorae into my home to teach me the law of tithing. It should not be necessary for them to come to me and mv family and teach us the word of wisdom. ' It should not be necessary for them to call upon us to teach us the necessity of prayer, or of fasting, or any other of these simple and fundamental principles of the Gospel. We ought to know enough from what we have constantly been taught and the knowledge we have from our natural understanding of the scriptures as we are guided by the Spirit of the Lord, to  these things without being taught or commanded more than to follow the general commandment as it is written in the scriptures. While it is necessary, of course, that the teachers visit in the homes of the people, to see that there is no iniquity in the Church, no back-biting, fault finding, no envy, no strife, and that all the members do their duty, yet I say we should so live that when they come to us to teach us, we can tell them with a clear conscience that we are performing these labors and accepting these principles with an eye single to the glory of God. I feel this to be our duty as members in the Church. It should not be necessary that we be continually taught and admonished in these simple truths in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We ought to so prepare ourselves through study and through faith, through observance of the law of the Gospel, through attendance at meetings and the magnifying of our callings generally, to know what the Lord expects at our hands without the necessity of someone telling us. 

The Lord has promised that the time shall come when every man shall be his own teacher, that is, he will know because of righteous living what to do. He will be so filled with the Spirit of the Lord that he will be guided and directed in doing right without the necessity of someone coming into his home to set it in order. Now is a good time for us to begin. Let every man set his house in order, and see that his family is taught the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that they keep the word of wisdom; that they abstain from the use of strong drink, from the use of tea, from the use of coffee, tobacco and other stimulants and narcotics which tend to destroy and to break down rather than to build up the system. Let them teach in their homes faith in God — for we all know it is necessary that faith should be taught among the people. I believe, of course, that in this regard we are far ahead of any other people in the world. We have greater faith because we have a better understanding of the truth, and because we are to a greater extent striving to keep the commandments of the Lord. But I am impressed with an expression of the Savior's. I think it is found in the eighteenth chapter of Luke. Speaking of the latter times, in one of His discourses He said to the people : "When the Son of man cometh shall He find faith on the earth?" I think the proper answer to the question is that if He finds faith on the earth it will not be to any great extent; and I believe that the condition in the world today proves that this is what He had in mind. But we should be faithful, we should have knowledge, we should have understanding and be prepared to give a reason for the hope that is within us, and walk uprightly and justly before the Lord, and keep the commandments as they have been given to us. This is our duty as it is recorded here in the fifty-ninth section : "Wherefore I give unto them [that is the people] a commandment, saying thus : Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all they might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve Him." This is our duty as Latterday Saints. This is the great com* mandment and if we will put into practice this commandment which has been reiterated unto us in this dispensation, and love our neighbors  ourselves, we need have no fear regarding our salvation. 

I pray that when we go to our homes we will remember the things we have heard and put into practice the teachings that have been imparted and will yet be imparted here during the conference. I hope we will also carry these instructions to those who are not so fortunate as we are, and are not here to be fed the words of eternal life, and teach them, that faith may abound in the hearts of the people, and truth prevail among them, that we may stand united as one body, worshiping the Lord and keeping His commandments, because we love to do so. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the conclusion of his remarks Elder Smith read the report of the auditing committee, so that those unable to attend the session on Monday, the 6th, at the time of transaction of other business, should have the privilege of hearing it. The report appears in full in statement of proceedings on April 6th. 

A soprano solo, from Stephens' "Ode to the Pioneers," was sung by Edna Anderson. 

ELDER JAMES E. TA1MAGE. 

Phenomenal nature of these great Conferences — Simplicity of our teachings — Oratory and eloquence — People who tire of sound doctrine — Vagaries of higher criticism — The Latter-day Saints accept the Bible as the word of God— The Philosophical Society of Great Britain, a Christian organization — The miracles of the Bible believed in by leaders among men — Not unscientific to accept the simple Gospel of Christ. 

These great gatherings of the Church have come to be looked upon  a very remarkable phenomenon. It is indeed something to be wondered at, that men and women in such great numbers will leave their employment and at very considerable sacrifice of time and money come up from the stakes both near and afar off, twice a year, to this appointed place, the block upon which stands the great house of the Lord, and remain in session for three or more days, receiving instructions and admonition, and occasionally good and well intended rebuke, in order that they may be the better fitted for their duties as professing Latter-day Saints. It cannot be that curiosity brings them here, for the many decades through which this custom has continued must have abolished the element of novelty. Nor do I think the people come to be entertained, certainly not to be amused. It is true we have the privilege of listening to music of the very highest order — music of prayer and praise; and great shall be the blessing that shall come to every one of our talented singers and musicians who are so ready and willing to use their God-given gift in praise and worship. We do not come to be impressed by pulpit oratory. There is none of the attractiveness of oratorical display about the addresses that are delivered from this stand. I have rejoiced many times and do now rejoice, that our public speaking in the Church of Jesus Christ is devoid of those characteristics usually classed under the name of oratory. Oratory too often means little more than the sounding of brass and the tinkling of cymbals to tickle the ears. I do rejoice, however, in the eloquence of those who speak under the influence of the Spirit of God. Oratory is addressed to the ears; eloquence given of God,  the heart. I cannot conclude otherwise than that our people thus come together so willingly and so eagerly because they receive something worth the coming. They find it pays them to come; they go away satisfied. If they went otherwise they would be less inclined to come back again, and we know that every recurrence of the conference, both at the April and at the October season is marked by the gathering of these great concourses of people who have come up from all parts of the land of Israel. I feel that they come to hear the word of God, proclaimed in its simplicity; and it is the simplicity of the word that pleases the people, and that carries it home to their hearts. I call to mind that it was predicted by the inspired apostle of old that the day would come when people would tire of simplicity, and would look for something other than the eloquence of truth. Paul in writing to his beloved son in Christ, as he called him, Timothy, admonished him as to his duties; and as I read in the fourth chapter of the second epistle that passed between these two worthy ministers of Christ, Paul said : 

"I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at His appearing and His kingdom, Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. 

"For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears; 

''And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto f ciblcs 

"But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, and make full proof of thy ministry." 

Who can doubt that this prediction has seen fulfillment and that the fact of its fulfillment is apparent today? Many there be who will no longer endure sound doctrine, but turn away after fables that tickle their ears and please their fancy, and demand of them none of that selfdenial, sacrifice and earnest effort so characteristic of the requirements made of those who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ. 

Our attention was called in the opening session of this conference to the dangers of our being led astray by those who would make believe that the very word of God itself is a fable, a collection of myths and legends, meaning not what it says but what men may fancy or would suppose. There be men who have arrogated to themselves the claim of superiority, who pronounce themselves higher critics of the scriptures of Almighty God, and proclaim that the scriptures mean not what they say. Right glad am I that my people are pleased with sound doctrine; that the wholesome food of the Gospel is still sweet in their mouths. There are some who would make it appear that it is today an evidence of inferior perception to accept the word of God for just what it professes to be, and that one is not up with the times unless he can read between the lines and unless he can perceive the metaphorical and the figurative in the Holy Scriptures. There are parts of the Bible that are plainly figurative; but no one who can read can be in doubt as to when a figure is used, and as to when the plain truth is declared in the simplest of language. Parables there are, and of great value are the lessons set forth thereby. But there is no parable, there is no metaphor in the plain declarations of the scriptures as to  is the price of salvation. 

I don't believe the Latter-day Saints are influenced by these vagaries of the so-called higher criticism of the sriptures. I believe our people stand upon the platform of the word of God as it has been delievered unto them through the mouths of men who have been empowered and directed to declare it unto them. But there are some, particularly of our younger people, who perhaps are inclined to believe that it is a little superior to profess doubt as to the truth and plain meaning of the Holy Scriptures. To them let me say, it is not the leaders in thought in the world today who are doubting the scriptures, and reading into them a meaning that was never intended. The majority of the really great men, great thinkers, men who have influence amongst their fellows, accept the scriptures in their literalness and simplicity. 

There is now in existence a society known as the Philosophical Society of Great Britain. It embraces not only subjects of the King of England, but men in many other nations. It is known also by another name, given in honor of the late Empress Queen who was its patron for many years, The Victoria Institute. Upon its rolls you will find the names of many of the leading scientists of the world, philosophers, literary men, theologians. The conditions attendant upon membership in that great association are precise. The first is that the candidate shall be a man or woman of recognized ability. The second is that he shall be without reservation a Christian, believing that Jesus Christ was in very truth the Son of God, that He was born of the Virgin Mary, that He lived as the scriptures declare He did, that 

He did suffer death and that He did literally come forth from the tomb, an immortalized Being. And that society whose president today is the Lord Chancellor of England, whose honorary president and patron is the King, declares that it has no time to go over the ground again and thresh the old straw and winnow the old chaff of infidelity, or of questions that arise respecting the integrity of the Holy Scriptures. Men who will not accept Christ as the Redeemer of mankind can have no place there; and yet I am told that it belittles one in the eyes of learned men to accept the plain and simple declarations of the scriptures with respect to the mission of the divine Son of God. 

I have been told that no really great mind can believe for a moment in the actuality of the miracles recorded in the New Testament, particularly those attributed to the Christ Himself. Yet that body of men, amongst whom are some of the most prominent of the leaders of men in the world, have but recently put themselves upon record. The subject of the miracles of the New Testament has been investigated scientifically, and according to the accepted canons of analysis, and the report unanimously adopted and put upon record by the Philosophical Society of Great Britain, is that the miracles of the Testament from that of Cana in Galilee to the greatest miracle of all, the coming forth of the Christ from the tomb on the resurrection morn, are attested by evidence that is as trustworthy and in every way as acceptable as the evidence attesting any event of past history; and the Philosophical Society of Great Britain declares its acceptance of the miracles of the Bible as the very manifestation of  power of God. Those men are not above saying that because they can't perform such miracles, no such miracles were ever performed; but they proclaim that to say they cannot understand them is no argument that they did not take place. I am inclined to accept the opinions of such men as those before the opinions of little-great men who seek to stir up doubt in the minds of those who believe in God and in His Son Jesus Christ. Most pernicious is the effect that such have upon children and young people of immature l^owers who cannot analyze for themselves and who follow their teachers and are impressed by those who instruct them in more things than the mere subjects which are set down on the program. 

Young Latter-day Saints, I say unto you as I have said before, it is not unscientific to believe in God, the very Eternal Father, nor in Jesus Christ as the one and only Redeemer of mankind, ft is not unphilosophical to accept the scriptural record of His birth, of His life, of His death, of His resurrection. I have met men of science and philosophy in many lands, and have discussed the scriptures with them, and I testify to you I never yet have had to take a back seat nor to bow my head because of the principles which I profess to believe, nor because I was a Latter-day Saint. I have found the teachings of my Church, which is your Church and the Church of Jesus Christ, to be abreast of the very best of scientific conception, discovery and teaching of the day. Beware of these who come telling you that you are behind the times in accepting the faith of your fathers. 

I am most happy to add my testimony to those to which we have lis- m tened in the course of this conference, most grateful that the Lord has been with us in these meetings, and I recognize in it a fulfillment of His glorious promise while He lived in the flesh when He declared : "Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in their midst." He has been in the congregations of the Saints who have assembled here, and the result is inspiration in the words of those who have spoken and who have instructed us. While perchance we have heard nothing that is strictly novel or new, nothing that we may not have heard before, we have been reminded of those things that are most precious pertaining to the duties that shall save — the neglect of which shall condemn. I rejoice with my brethren who have already expresse_d their joy that the Gospel revealed unto man fits man to his environment and enables him to meet the exigencies of the present day. Its scriptures are not alone the scriptures of the past but those of the very day in which we live. 

Is it not strange that this people who a few years ago were severely arraigned and criticized because in their declaration of faith they said, "We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly," should now be criticized because of their literal acceptance of that volume of holy writ. We accept it for what it is. We believe  other scriptures are necessary, and we affirm that other scriptures have been written, and that yet others shall be written; but the Church of Jesus Christ stands for the integrity of the Holy Bible, and defends it against the attacks and the assaults of those who would make you believe that it is but a compilation of fairy stories that pleased the people in by-gone centuries, but that are not adapted to the greater and higher development of the present day. The Bible and other scriptures given of God will always be up to date in their fundamental principles, and other scriptures will be given as occasion may require, to meet the condition of the advancing years. Let us go hence with the spirit of the conference burning in our hearts, that we may shed light and warmth in our homes and impart it unto those who have not been privileged to meet with us here. We are simple minded enough, child-like enough, thank God, to believe that He meant what He said when He spoke of old, and that He means what He says when He speaks today. God be with you. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Oh, beauty of holiness." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph E. Cardon. 


