Afternoon
04 04 1914

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The combined choirs and congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way; Tho' hard to you this journey may - appear. Grace shall be as your day. 

Prayer was offered by Elder John F. Tolton. 

The combined choirs sang the hymn : 

Shall the youth of Zion falter In defending truth and right? 

While the enemy assaileth, 

Shall we shrink or shun the fight? 

No! 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Afflictions beneficial — Growth of " Mormonism " — " Go-to-MeetingSunday" movement — Religion of Christ both spiritual and temporal — Figurative sayings of the Savior —  Actual realities of divine manifestations and miracles — Disposition of the tithes — The Lord is with His Church. 

I am very grateful for the privilege of attending this conference. I always have had thankfulness in my heart at every conference that I have ever attended. I have very little to boast about, but a great deal to be thankful for, and today I feel more than ever my dependence on the Lord, upon His providences and mercies for my daily life and health and for the exercise of my calling in the holy priesthood. I prize my standing in the Church and the authority bestowed upon me to minister in the things of the kingdom more than anything else. The Lord has indeed been good to me all my days, and recently, in the afflictions that I have passed through in consequence of some accidents that befell me, if that is a proper term to use, I felt my dependence upon the Lord and I recognize more than ever His kindness to me. It is good to know that we can draw near to the Lord, and sometimes afflictions are needful that we may feel our dependence upon our heavenly Father fully, and be made to feel grateful in our souls for His kindness and mercies to us. 

I can say, this afternoon, that I  feel grateful indeed to my heavenly Father that I am able to be here today to listen to the voices of His servants, to mingle with the Saints, and to feel the sacred influence that attends us in our gathering. For I did feel this morning that the Spirit and power of God were with us, and I enjoyed immensely the address that we heard from our President. The information that was imparted, as well as his own instructions were of very great value to us. I am glad that the report which he read will be printed so that we all can read it if we will. I hope we are all readers of the Deseret News, as well as other periodicals that are published, because in that paper we will be likely to receive a full report of the address that was given to us this morning, with the very valuable statistics that were read and the instructions that were imparted in connection with them. 

It is very clear from what we heard this morning that Zion is growing, and that the work of the Lord is spreading throughout the world; that that which is called "Mormonism" is not going backward but is marching forward, and not only our numbers are increasing but the faithfulness of the members of the Church is made more prominent. I believe that the Church is better organized now than ever. Our President said the conditions are better than ever before, and I am sure that what he said is correct, and that there is a feeling growing in the hearts of the members of this Church, that it is necessary to their happiness and well being and their salvation, to adhere strictly to the principles and teachings of the Church of which they are members. It is different with us than with people in other denominations, not that I wish to say anything deprecatory of them, but in our Church the members are expected to be religious all the time, not merely on Sunday but every day of the week, and every moment of their lives; and that while they may not be able to live up fully to the standard which is set before them, they are working up in that direction. They are not going backward; they are growing in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, end this is very cheering. They are growing in the duties that belong to them in a family capacity. They are growing in their attendance at places of worship. They are growing in the daily practice of the principles that conduce to bodily health and to spiritual advancement. This is evident from the reports that are received from time to time; and notwithstanding the many failures on the part of some people and the departures from the truth which occasionally occur, yet in the main, in the mass, the people called Latterday Saints are advancing. 

They are progressing truly. Not in the sense in which some people claim the title of "Progressives;" not going back to old, discarded and obsolete things, but reaching forward on a firm foundation, having planted their feet firmly on the rock of Truth. They are reaching up to the higher powers, and the Lord is with them and their progress is sure and steady in an upward direction. You can progress downward as well as progress upward, but our prize, the prize and mark of our high calling is in Christ Jesus; in His doctrine, in His principles, in His glorious example. He is the great exemplar, and while we lay hold upon the  which He has revealed, both in former and in latter days, we can imitate, we can emulate and walk up to the life and character of our Redeemer, that we may indeed be like Him, and so by and by become fit to dwell in His presence. 

There is a movement on foot in the world to try to get people to go to church on Sunday. Notice will be seen in the Deseret News this evening in regard to that matter, which is desirable to be made statewide, not only to occur in a few places but throughout the state, that people will go to church on a certain Sunday designated. That is a very good movement, so far as it goes, and we are in accord with it, because we believe in going to church every Sunday; not only one particular Sunday in one particular month in one particular year, but, according to the commandment given to us by the Lord Jesus Christ in latter days — I am not speaking of the old scripture but the revelation of God to us through Jesus Christ in the last days — which will be found in the fiftyninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and in which we are told to serve the Lord and worship Him at all times, under all circumstances; but on His holy day — He claims this seventh day or first day — it depends upon where you start from, to make it the first or seventh — one day out of seven at any rate, on His day, the day on which He rose from the dead, Sunday as we call it, the new Sabbath, the Christian Sabbath, on that day we are to do none other thing but devote ourselves to divine worship and service. We may partake of food, prepared with singleness of heart, but we are not to perform our usual labors but to go up to the Lord's  on this, His holy day and worship Him in the spirit of holiness, to offer up our sacraments and pay our devotions to the Most High, to forgive one another if there be differences in our feelings with each other, to feel in our hearts that we want to bless mankind and to serve the Lord and become sanctified unto Him. 

To be truly His people we have to "seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness," and all other things will be added to us in the due time of the Lord. Though we set our hearts sometimes upon the things of this world, they will perish with the using and pass away like the dream of a night vision; but that which abides and remains are the eternal verities, the things of God, the principles that go to make up His kingdom and the righteousness that makes up His character. If we serve the Lord with all our hearts, and place His work first in our souls, and practise righteousness according to the pattern that God reveals, everything that is of worth in all the eternities, throughout all the regions of space, everything that is good and beautiful and glorious and happif ying, that makes for progress, for intelligence, for light, for wisdom, for power and for dominion will be ours. All things will be ours, and we shall be Christ's and Christ will be the Father's. Now that is the kind of religion that we have. This Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints embodies these principles and it finds rules for our action in every department of life. It goes down to the commonest and socalled lowest things, and it rises to the highest. 

Some of our good friends, if I may call them such, try to make it  that the Latter-day Saints' religion is a mere religion of temporalities and grosser things. That is where they make one of their big mistakes. While the Church of Christ reaches down to every department of life, here on the earth, in the flesh, and takes hold of what are called temporal things, yet it reaches up to the very highest. We are told that the priesthood after the order of Melchizedek reaches up not only to the ministration of angels and to the beings that are spiritual and to the heavenly Jerusalem, but to Christ, the Redeemer, and to God, who is the Father of all. Rising up to the highest and reaching down to the lowest, the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ takes it all in and gives us rules and regulations for our conduct day by day and hour by hour, that we may be His people and that we may enjoy all there is to be enjoyed, both temporal and spiritual, and finally be. prepared for the immediate society and presence of our Eternal Father and Jesus Christ, His beloved Son, our elder Brother in the spirit, and all the good and true and the just and the pure from God's creations; to mingle with them, to be in their company, to be one with them. That is our destiny, and in order to reach it, we have to bring ourselves in subjection to righteous laws and principles and orders and rules and ordinances, which are all, in their place, necessary to bring us to the great ultimatum and fulness of glory and of power and of dominion and of joy which shall be eternal. 

So we want to observe the Sunday services every Sunday. Brethren and sisters, you that have come here to conference today, do not forget that. You have heard that told a great many times, to carry away with you a determination that you will not only go to meeting now and then, but that you will observe the Sunday law that God has revealed. Not of going to Church for one day or one Sunday in the year, but regularly on the Lord's day, you will consecrate yourselves to His service; go up to His holy house, be in unison with the Saints, partake of the holy sacrament in remembrance of His body and of His blood shed for the remission of sins, and receiving a renewal of His Spirit, you may be able to serve Him during the coming week, every day, and be under the influence and direction of His Spirit; and in that you will have joy and peace. We want to establish peace in our homes. We want to have this Sunday spirit where we dwell. We want to be neighborly and kind, and have that good Spirit in our hearts spoken of by our President this morning, that Jesus Christ taught in that grand sermon on the mount. Not that we want to carry out literally, perhaps, everything that He said; some sayings of Jesus Christ are figurative in their nature. In the parables that He gave there are figures of speech, but right behind them all are facts and truths that we want to lay hold of and understand. 

President Smith spoke this morning of the injunction of the Savior, "If a man smite thee on the one cheek, turn to him the other." We may not be able to come up to that yet fully in the literal sense, but we can live in the spirit of it, and we can forgive one another for injuries, and we' can say, "I will not seek to do evil to that man that did evil to me, or that woman who tried to do evil to me, but I will do good  evil, and if I can do a good turn to the person who injured me, I will do it;" that is the spirit we should manifest. I remember once that back in London we had an old veteran of the army who was a member of the Church; he was ordained a priest, and used to go out and preach on the street. One Sunday he was preaching and a man came up and slapped him in the face. "Now," he cried, "if you are a Christian, turn the other cheek." So he turned it, but exclaimed, extending his clenched fist, "Hit again and down you go." Well, I suppose many of us have that kind of spirit, but he was willing to -comply with the rule, and if the man had slapped him on the other cheek I think he would have gone down. So, as I said, many of the sayings of Jesus Christ are couched in figurative language. 

For instance, "If thy right hand offend thee, cut it off." But He did not mean that to apply literally to the physical hand. It was the spirit of it that was intended. If we have anybody in the Church who will not obey the laws of the Church, who will transgress the commandments of God, though that person may be one with authority and power, having done a great deal of good and with a great deal of influence, even if we should regard him as the right hand of the ward or stake where he belongs, yet if he will not be obedient to the laws of Christ, he has to be severed from the Church. The same idea in regard to the saying, "If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out." He did not mean for you to pull your eye out because it does not do its duty properly; but there was a great principle lying behind these figures of speech. When we read the scriptures we should seek  understand the sense, spirit and meaning of the phrases that are used. But we have to be very cautious in regard to that other matter that the President was speaking of this morning; that some people want to make it appear that iaz statements in the scriptures concerning the revelations of God, His personal manifestations and those events that are called miraculous, are only imaginary; that the narration of them is only figurative. Let us be cautious about that. We must understand that when it is stated in these latter days that the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith when he was a boy, the account is literally true, that they really appeared. He did not imagine it; he did not dream it; they manifested themselves to him, and what he received was a message from the eternal worlds, and all the communications to him by angelic ministers; all those administrations of John the Baptist and of Peter, James and John, and of Elijah, and Moses, and all those worthies spoken of as having visited the prophet in the Kirtland temple, that these were realities. He saw them, he heard them. He did not evolve the ideas out of his own inner consciousness or mind. They were not imaginary. And so in regard to these manifestations in ancient times. When Moses went up into the mount, and we are told that "he' saw the God of Israel," the writer narrated a fact. When "Moses and Aaron, and Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the elders of Israel went up into the mount and saw the God of Israel," and described Him, what was under His feet and told about His hand not being laid upon them, they narrated what they saw and heard, and the  that is written by Moses is a statement of fact, not something imaginary. 

These great truths that have come from the manifestations of God to the human family, abide; they are for our benefit. It is good for us to listen to the voice of inspiration and of instruction concerning them. And in these last days let us understand fully that the Church to which we belong is not founded upon any mere imagination or the thoughts and ideas and notions of men. It has come down out of heaven to the earth. The authority of the holy priesthood was not here. It did not continue from the days of the Savior down to the present time, through any of the denominations claiming succession. The world fell into darkness and into corruption and abomination, and went astray from the Lord. While many good men and good women existed on the earth, serving the Lord to the best of their ability, all authority and power in the holy priesthood were taken away from the earth, and the world was left to itself, and to the notions and opinions of men, and hence the confusion among the jarring sects and contending organizations of the latter times. 

But the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has come from God to man. It was not evolved out of the ideas and opinions of men. It has not been organized by the wisdom of men, but every principle, every ordinance, every doctrine, every form of authority has been sent clown in the last days from the heavens to the earth, and these are all embodied in the splendid organization which is called by the name of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is Christ's Church. He made it. He built it up. Through Him came all the revelations from God to the Church, and He is with the Church now. And the Holy Ghost, the "personage of spirit," who bears witness of the Father and of the Son, is with this Church. That divine spirit which proceeds from the presence of God throughout the immensity of space, by which God created all things, spiritual as well as temporal, is in this Church, and is enjoyed by the members thereof, according to their faithfulness and diligence in seeking after it, and after these inspirations and gifts and manifestations. The Trinity — God — the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, making one Trinity and Deity, are with this Church, and they have built it up and they are going to stay with it, because a majority of the people of this Church are going to stay by these glorious truths that have been revealed, and live them in their lives, and train up their children in the way they should go, so that a purer and better and stronger and mightier generation will grow up to carry on the work of this kingdom. I rejoice in looking forward to the prospects of this Church, to its future. It will be great and glorious, and the time will come when the kingdoms of this world will become the kingdom of our God and His Christ, and He will rule and reign from the rivers to the ends of the earth, as the ancient prophets predicted. 

I thank the Lord for the good things we heard this morning in regard to the progress of this work, and I bear testimony that they are true. One thing I hope will be impressed upon the minds of our brethren and sisters from the different parts of Zion, and that is the  that was read this morning by the President, that the tithes they pay — some of them — that the tithes that are collected in the various parts of Zion are expended right within the stakes to the extent of at least sixty per cent. If I were to express my own opinion, I would say the percentage is greater, and I think it will so be found when we get our statistics entirely and fully compiled; but the great bulk of the tithing is expended right in the stakes where the funds are collected. There are applications made every day to the Trustee-in-Trust for means to use in the erection or improvement of meeting houses and amusement halls, and so forth; so that there is a constant drain on the resources of the Church for the building up of the different stakes and wards of Zion. These things may be called temporal, but they are absolutely essential and they are a part of our great work, for the Lord has established Zion temporally as well as spiritually. His power is in it and His providences are over it, and He will be with it and with every individual in it, according to their faith and diligence in seeking after Him. 

We believe in the spiritual things as well as the temporal things. Part of our baptism is spiritual. We are baptized in water by burial and raising up again for the remission of sins, and then we receive the Holy Ghost as a gift from God to us. It has various manifestations, but is the same Spirit. It is the light of the Lord. It is the witness for God. It enlightens; it comforts; it heals; it strengthens, it leads us on to progress, to comprehend truth as God sees it, and to walk in the light thereof, and to become sanctified unto Him. By the power of that Spirit our souls can reach up to the highest. Don't I know that this is a fact? I do. In my career in this Church I have been placed many times, especially when on foreign missions, in positions where I needed to know the mind of the Lord, and by faith and prayer it has come to me, and I rejoice in bearing testimony of it. I do not think that I should feel that I lived really, if I could not be in communion with the higher powers by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost. The Spirit of God is for us all. We are baptized in it when we are confirmed, and it is our privilege to be guided by it always and to walk in its light and to have its joy and comfort and inspiration, and this can be our continual lot day by day. If we will observe the laws and commandments and rules and regulations given to us in this Church, the Lord will be with us; all things will work together for our good as individuals. Our very trials and difficulties, and the pains that we pass through sometimes, will inure to our experience and growth and benefit, and some day we will recognize that "all things have been done in the wisdom of Him that knoweth all things." 

I feel full of joy and peace this afternoon to be in the midst of the Saints. I thank God for His goodness to me. I hope to live for the truth while my remaining days shall be upon the earth, and then when my time of departure comes I hope to mingle with the blest and labor behind the veil, no matter in what capacity. As the President showed this morning, we are willing to labor as teachers, or deacons, or do anything for the building up of the kingdom, either in the body or out of the body, wherever we are, wher we go. We want to live up to our Father and our God, to walk in His ways, and observe the laws of His righteousness and to prepare ourselves eventually for a glorious resurrection into His divine presence. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful and true, keep our covenants and preserve ourselves from the evils of this world. May peace be in the homes of the Saints. May the power of God rest upon these good brethren who are here — the Presidents of Stakes and their counselors, the Bishops of wards and their counselors, and the teachers and laborers in the vineyard of the Lord at home and abroad; that they may carry with them a sacred and holy influence, and be able to give counsel and instruction to the people, and answer the numerous questions that are arising, many of which come up to the First Presidency and need not come there, but could go to these brethren who preside in the wards and stakes of Zion. God bless you, my brethren, with wisdom and understanding and inspiration, and may the light and blessings of the Lord which we are enjoying here in conference, spread abroad to the uttermost parts of the earth wherever there is a Saint of God desiring His blessing. May the work continue to increase and spread forth and prevail, unto the great consummation, when the earth shall be redeemed and Christ shall be our King, and God, the Father, will come and visit His people, and be their God, wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall no more be any sorrow or mourning or death, but all things shall be light and life and blessing and praise and glory, through Jesus Christ. Amen. A soprano solo, "The Lord is my Light," was sung by Retta S. Payne, of Clearfield. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

To speak or minister in God's name a serious responsibility. — Meaning and importance of "the new and everlasting covenant." — Marriage designed by God to be an eternal relationship. — God's law of marriage changed by men, who limit it to this life. 

Brethren and sisters, I will read a few words from the Doctrine and Covenants, section 132: 

"Behold! mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. 

"Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name! 

"Or, will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed! 

"And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as I and my Father ordained unto you, before the world was! 

"I am the Lord thy God, and I give unto you this commandment, that no man shall come unto the Father but by me, or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord; 

"And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me, or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God; 

"For whatsoever things remain, are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me, shall be shaken and destroyed." 

These very remarkable words were given by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and through them we are distinctly given to understand that the Lord's house is a house of order and that He gov by law and not by chance. The Lord practically states that it is His law, and this might very well be applied to the law of the Gospel, for that is the law which God has given us, and by which He governs His people, and builds up and establishes His work upon the earth. Those who administer in the name of the Lord ought to be very careful and know of a surety that they enjoy divine authority. It is a very serious thing to speak in the name of the Lord. You will remember what Paul the Apostle said upon this subject. He said, "If any man preach any other gospel than that which I have preached unto you, let him be accursed." You see from this that it is truly a serious and a dangerous thing to preach and minister in the name of the Lord, without authority. The Prophet Isaiah, looking down through the centuries, saw a very peculiar condition of the people, and he used language something like this :  

"The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant." 

We know something about the laws of God; they are set forth very clearly in the scriptures and also by modern revelation, and we know also something about the ordinances of the Gospel; but what is this new and everlasting covenant, that is spoken of? Surely it must be an interesting question to the world to know what that covenant is. It is something at least of an enduring nature. An everlasting covenant must be an eternal covenant, something that goes beyond this life, but does the world really know what it is? In order to understand clearly  Isaiah meant when he said that it had been broken, it is only necessary to consult modern revelation. In speaking upon this subject, the Lord said to Joseph Smith the Prophet : 

"For behold! I reveal unto you a new and an everlasting covenant; and if ye abide not that covenant, then are ye damned; for no one can reject this covenant, and be permitted to enter into my glory; 

"For all who will have a blessing at my hands, shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world: 

"And as pertaining to the new and everlasting covenant, it was instituted for the fulness of my glory; and he that receiveth a fulness thereof, must and shall abide the law, or he shall be damned, saith the Lord God." 

It is plain from this that the everlasting covenant has again been revealed to the world in our time; and it involves a fulness of the glory of God. So it will be seen that the world is in a very serious condition if they have violated that covenant. Well, now, what is the nature of this Covenant? It is nothing more nor less, brethren and sisters, than the covenant of marriage, and it is explained very fully, very beautifully in the revelation of God, for the Lord said unto Joseph : 

"Verily I say unto you, that the conditions of this law are these: — All covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, vows, performances, connections, associations, or exnectations, that are not made, and entered into, and sealed, by the Holy Spirit of promise, of him who is anointed, both as well for time and for all eternity, and that too most holy, by revelation and commandment through the medium of mine anointed, whom I have appointed on the earth to hold this power, (and I have appointed unto my servant Joseph to hold this  in the last days, and there is never but one on the earth at a time, on whom this power and the keys of this Priesthood are conferred,) are of no efficacy, virtue or force, in and after the resurrection from the dead; for all contracts that are not made unto this end, have an end when men are dead." 

Hear it, oh Israel! That all contracts, and all engagements that are not entered into by appointment of God, have an end when men are dead. 

"Therefore," said the Lord, "if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me, nor by my word; and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world, and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound by any law when they are out of the world; 

"Therefore, when they are out of the world, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven, which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory; 

"For these angels did not abide my law, therefore they cannot be enlarged, but remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity, and from henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God, for ever and ever." 

This, then, is the new and everlasting covenant which God has revealed to His people, in our day, a covenant that binds men and women in marriage to all eternity. We are confronted with two covenants, the new and everlasting covenant and the covenant which is made by man. These two covenants are before us — and every Latter-day Saint who contemplates marriage has the choice of two covenants, but strange to say that while very many of the Latter-day Saints choose the everlasting covenant of the Lord, there are others who appear to be satisfied with the lesser covenant, which is only temporary in its character. 

Brethren and sisters, this question is not determined by love alone. Because a man falls in love with a woman, and a woman with the man, and they agree to join hands and become united in marriage, it does not follow that the marriage will continue and be of force in the eternal worlds, and it will not be unless it is solemnized for those worlds. People have said to me: "Look at that couple; look at that man and woman; what a beautiful picture it is! Don't you see that the man loves the woman; that the woman loves the man; that they are truly husband and wife; and that they have a family of beautiful children ? Surely, when death comes God will not separate that couple, God will not part the husband and wife from each other and from their children, although they were united by an earthly covenant." We should take the right point of view. We cannot, surely we cannot attribute it to the Lord if they are separated. The Lord is not responsible. The Lord says, "My house is a house of order." This is the law. If you obey the law you will receive the blessing. If you reject the law you will be damned. Then, if people reject the law, though they may love one another, if people reject the law, though they may be married one to another; if people reject the law, though they may have had children in that marriage, they cannot blame the Lord. If in the resurrection they are separated from each other, from their loved oiies, it is their own fault. They had their choice. We have our choice. We must remember always that the Lord gov by law, and we must give obedience to His word and to His law, else we lose the blessing. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I greatly rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I rejoice exceedingly in this everlasting covenant that God has given to His people. In it there is beauty, there is power, there is glory, there is exaltation and eternal life. 

I know that this Gospel is true; I know that Jesus is the Christ; that this is His work, and that He was crucified for the sins of the world. I know that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and the revelations which he has given, and his predictions which have been fulfilled, amply prove this; but I know it by the testimony and power of the Holy Ghost. God bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The East Bountiful First Ward choir rendered the anthem, "In Our Redeemer's Name." 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Sunday desecration denounced. — A strong plea for state-wide prohibition. — Commendable efforts of the Anti-Saloon League. — A prohibition amendment to U. S. Constitution advocated. — Gratifying increase in prohibition sentiment in nation. — All faithful members of the Church staunch prohibitionists. 

I am always pleased when I have the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in any of their gatherings. I never attend any of our meetings, in the wards or stakes or at the general conferences, that I am not blessed, instructed and encouraged in the faith of the Gospel; that I do not hear something that in very deed feeds me the bread of life. I have been pleased and grate to be present at our conference meetings thus far. 

It is said that out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. My heart has been set for many years firmly and steadfastly upon the accomplishment of certain results in our fair state. One result which I would like to see accomplished is the doing away with amusements upon the Sabbath day. I feel that it is a reproach to the Latterday Saints that we should have amusements in our towns and cities on the day of the Lord. As the years come and go, and young men and young women go to their ruin because of losing their respect for the Sabbath, and the sacredness of ' the day, I 'feel that the men who have sat in the legislature, and who have failed to protect us against this evil, will have much to answer for. 

If the whole of Utah should go "dry!" it would be the one great thing above all others, to my mind, which would be beneficial to this fair state of ours, and would add more to the health and longevity of its people, and would cause a more wonderful increase for good in the excellent vital statistics which we heard read here today, than anything I can possibly think of. I believe absolutely in the prohibition of the manufacture and the sale of liquor, and I hope and pray, with all the energy with which God has endowed me, that this great blessing for the uplift and for the betterment of the people of our fair state may come to us at no far distant day. 

A few months ago it fell to my lot to have the privilege of attending some of the meetings of a very wonderful convention of a number of organizations which are engaged in the fight against liquor. These were  meetings Of the Anti-Saloon League, and other temperance organizations, at Columbus, Ohio. The meetings of the convention lasted for several days, sessions being held morning, noon and night. It was to me a very inspiring sight to witness the enthusiasm, the earnestness and the determination, as manifested by the assembled multitude, running into the thousands, who attended those gatherings. I listened with a great deal of pleasure to nearly all of the very many inspiring speeches which were made upon that occasion. 

Since coming into the meeting this afternoon, I have been glancing over one of those speeches to mark a few passages to read to you, and I find myself almost at a loss to pick out which passages I would like to read. To be perfectly frank with you, I would like to read the entire speech, as it is such a splendid one, but time will not permit. The speech was made by ExGovernor J. Frank Hanly, who for many years was the governor of Indiana. He says, in part, referring to the fight for a constitutional amendment : 

"It is not partisan, it is civic. It is not sectarian, it is catholic. It is not sectional, it is national.* * *It has been said that the things we seek — an amendment to the national constitution prohibiting throughout the United States the manufacture, sale, importation, exportation and transportation of intoxicating liquors to be used as a beverage — is contrary to the genius and the spirit of our government, as the constitution gives only limited powers to the national government.* * * This I deny. I believe in the federal constitution, believe in it profoundly.* * * Five times I have solemnly sworn to preserve, protect and defend it, and I would not change in the slightest measure a single one of its great fundamental provisions.* * * First. Its representative or Republican character. Second. Its trinity of departments with their co-ordinate and independent powers. Third. Its dual form, or system of separate sovereign states within a sovereign whole. Fourth. The authority of the judiciary to interpret the constitution and decide the constitutionality of laws, state and national." 

"Henceforth we will know this cause only. For it, whenever necessary, men shall be set aside and parties abandoned. * * * Slavery had become a national evil, too vast and powerful for state control, affecting the nation as a whole and imperiling the life of the government itself, and the nation struck it down, writing its epitaph in the blood" of a hundred tragic battle fields. As it was with slavery before the adoption of the thirteenth amendment to the constitution, so it is now with the liquor traffic. It has outgrown state boundaries and become a national evil amounting to a menace, too powerful for state regulation or control, affecting the nation as a whole and requiring national jurisdiction and treatment. It accomplishes by insidious means what slavery sought in the open, doing by corruption and shameless misuse of wealth all slavery sought by force of arms. It beggars the individual, burdens the state and impoverishes the nation. It capitalizes human weakness and commercializes human vice. It impairs the public health, breaks the public peace and debauches the public morals. _ It makes cowards of public men, intimidating political parties, bribes, badgers and dominates the makers, interpreters and administrators of the law, and suborns the public press. It claims for itself a special right and privilege asserted by no other interest in all the land — the right and privilege to violate municipal ordinances at will, to infract legislative resolves and enactments, and to set aside the most solemn and sacred provisions of constitutions framed and adopted bv free peoples." 

With the intelligence with which God has endowed me, I believe, beyond the peradventure of a doubt.  more evil, suffering and crime has come into the world by the use of intoxicating liquors, and more misery has been brought into homes of the people, many, many times over, than was ever caused by slavery. I believe that the greatest financial, the greatest moral problem that is before the people of the United States today is this liquor problem. I regret exceedingly that the first state-wide "white" spot upon the map of the United States was not made by the State of Utah. However, I rejoice in knowing that in every town, in every county, when the matter of local option came up at the election a couple of years ago, that where the Latterday Saints were in the majority, with the exception of one town, liquor had to go. I rejoice in this record made. I rejoice in knowing that today the majority of all the people in the United States are living in "dry" territory. There are ninety-one millions of people in the United States, and fortysix millions — one million more than half are living in "dry" territory. Of the area of the United States there are two million nine hundred and seventy-three thousand square miles, and two million one hundred and thirty-two thousand square miles are in "dry" territory and only a little over eight hundred thousand in "wet" territory. The battle is on and I feel assured that it will be won. Why? Because I am convinced beyond a doubt that our fight is right, and right is bound to prevail. I agree with Governor Hanly that we, who are converted to the benefits of prohibition, shall dedicate ourselves to this cause; shall labor for it; shall pledge our honor, and also pledge our means to accomplish it. 

I endorse William Jennings Bryan's words: 

"A Christianity that does not make a man a better citizen would be difficult to defend. I shall not attempt to lay down rules to cover every phase of the liquor question that must be met by legislation, but I will venture to suggest a principle that is universale its application and that cannot be ignored at any time, at any^ place or under any circumstances, viz.: That the liquor question is a moral question which must be dealt with as a question of conscience and not as a question of profit." 

I have heard Latter-day Saints say that we need the saloon to help pay our taxes. God pity the- men whose consciences have become so elastic. President Smith says, "They are 'Mormons,' not Latter-day Saints." 

Quoting again from Secretary Bryan : 

"Whatever decision one reaches as to the position he should take on any legislative phase of the liquor question he must be able to defend it before the bar of his conscience. No advantage that he could secure in business, no money that he can take out of his decision, directly or indirectly, and no advantage that he can secure for his party can be allowed to weigh in the balance. Any unit, however small or large, should be permitted to rid itself of the saloon or place restrictions upon the sale of liquor, according to the will of the majority." 

And I believe, beyond the peradventure of a doubt, that a majority of the citizens of the State of Utah is, has always been, and always will be, as long as the Latter-day Saints are in the majority, against liquor. Therefore, I claim, let us have a state wide vote and we will have prohibition; because then the men who are trafficking and dealing in  damnable stuff in our cities will no longer control our majority. We are citizens of the United States where the majority should rule, and all we ask is a fair battle and we are sure to win because we are right. 

I rejoice in knowing that the Church of Jesus Christ df Latterday Saints has taken a positive stand on the liquor question. I rejoice in knowing that the Lord, Himself, has given us a revelation, and that every Latter-day Saint in his daily life, in his walk, in his conversation, if he lives up to the commandments of God, is in very deed not only a prohibitionist so far as liquor is concerned, but every true Latter-day Saint who does not violate his conscience, who does not fail to live according to the commandments of God, not only leaves liquor alone, but he also leaves alone tobacco, tea and coffee. I rejoice in knowing that the Church, as a Church, has set up for us a shining standard, and that the very best of us, those who live for the highest ideals possible, can only hope to come somewhere near the standard set up by the Church. 

I thank the Lord that out of over six thousand men who are today representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — two thousand as missionaries in the world and over four thousand as general authorities of the Church, — as presidents of stakes and counselors, stake clerks, high counselors and alternates, bishops and bishops' counselors — over six thousand men — standing as promulgators of the Gospel at home and abroad, — no one of them is ever put in office or sent on a mission who is not pledged upon his honor to obey the "Word of Wisdom.' The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as I say, has a standard, and it behooves each and every one of us to live up to that standard. May God help us to do so is my prayer, and I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The combined choirs sang the anthem, "Star of Descending Night." 

President Smith, in behalf of the congregation, heartily thanked the combined choirs of Davis County for the splendid musical service rendered by them during the two meetings of the Conference today. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph H. Grant. 


