Afternoon
06 04 1914

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Redeemer of Israel, our only delight, 

On whom for a blessing we call, Our shadow by day, and our pillar by night, 

Our King, our Deliv'rer, our all! 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wm. H. Richards. 

A bass solo, "Within this sacred dwelling," was sung by A. L. Newberg. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel my dependence upon the Lord this afternoon, more than I ever did before, it seems to me, and I sincerely hope that the Lord will favor me with His Spirit to say a few beneficial words while I stand before you. 

T have rejoiced exceedingly in the snirit of this conference. Tt has been to me faith-promoting. When President Smith was speaking at the opening session, I recognized the  of inspiration which rested upon him. The high standard, that has been raised up in this dispensation of the Lord's providences unto His people, is something worthy of consideration by all the peoples of the earth. It seems to me that in the life of our Redeemer the example was set for all mankind, and whereas we may fall short of those perfections which were illustrated in His divine life, nevertheless we have a standard raised up by which we are to be measured. In order that we may approach His perfections, the Gospel has been delivered to the children of men, and in it we have been admonished to be perfect even as our Father in heaven is perfect. No one realizes more than I do myself the weaknesses by which we are beset at every hand. Sometimes we hear one say that we ought not to preach anything that we do not practice. It seems to me that that is not altogether correct, but I do endorse the doctrine that we ought not to preach anything that we do not try to do, even though we may not completely succeed in coming to that degree of excellence. We should preach Christ and Him crucified. We should preach the excellence of His life, whether or not we are able to come up to His standard completely. We are living in a world of sin. We are exposed to the temptations of the world. We have our weaknesses and our imperfections. Nevertheless we have delivered unto us the power of God unto salvation, and that power of God is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and obedience to that will perfect us in our lives. Nevertheless there is sin in the world, and none of us are perfect. We have our weaknesses and our imperfections, but we ought not to glory in GENERAL CONFERENCE. . We ought not to think that they are justified, or that we are justified in doing anything that is wrong. We are only in the right attitude when we are engaged in the fight against sin. 

It is a great warfare that is being carried on in this world. It is the power of God versus the power of the adversary. It is truth versus error. It is righteousness against sin; and only he has his feet planted in the straight and narrow way that is striving and endeavoring to overcome his weaknesses and imperfections. Neither ought we to judge one another, and think because some one may not be as near perfect as we consider ourselves to be, that he is therefore lost. Each man and each woman, each child of God has his own battle to fight. They have their own environment in which they move. They have the particular training that they have received from their parents. Some have had greater advantages than others; and we are not in a position to judge any one. We are scarcely able to judge even ourselves. But we ought to be engaged in fighting sin, at the same time being full of love and charity towards all men, whether they be sinners or not. All men are to a certain degree sinners; and this question of sin is to be regarded pretty much in the same light as we regard sicknetes and disease. We may loathe and hate sin and yet be full of love and charity towards the sinner, just as we may loathe and despise disease and pain, and at the same time be full of love and charity towards those who are afflicted; and our purpose should be to bring relief both to the sinner and to the afflicted. 

There is an analogy between these two propositions, between sin and . In each case, in both cases, it is required that they should have proper treatment. In the case of a man or a woman who has been afflicted with some bodily ailment, what a splendid thing it is to call someone in who is skilled in the art of bringing relief, some physician or doctor who can bring relief to suffering humanity. It is also essential and requisite that those who are afflicted with sin should have relief brought to them; and what a blessed service it is when we can render relief, bring restoration unto a state of righteousness to him that is afflicted with sin. There are a great many maladies both physical and spiritual. The Lord, however, has given a remedy for every evil, for every affliction. The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is a panacea for every affliction of the soul of man. We ought to practice and obey that Gospel, apply it to everything in our lives, that we may be healed from the afflictions of sin. The whole world lieth in sin, under the bondage of sin, and we are not relieved from that bondage until we shall overcome evil, even the sins with which we are afflicted. If the Gospel be applied to each and every one of us, and we obey its principles, its precepts, it will heal us spiritually, and finally bring us back into the presence of God, sound and whole, and free every whit from all the contagions and diseases of sin that are found in the world today. 

My brethren and sisters, I realize that the moments here are very precious so I will close, and in conclusion let me 1 bear my testimony that I know that this Gospel, which has been restored in the day and age in which we live,- through the instrumentality of the prophet Jo113  Smith, has within it the power of God to heal the sick, to heal the afflicted, whether it be from sin or from . sickness. I pray the Lord that He will guide us by His Holy Spirit, and finally bring us back into His presence, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MTJERIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the few words I utter upon this occasion, may be directed by the same good spirit that has been so abundantly manifest in the remarks that have been made by the brethren who have been called to speak to the people, in the various sessions of this general conference. 

As I was coming up Main Street on Saturday morning, on my way to attend the opening session of the conference, I joined a brother who was also wending his way towards this Tabernacle. He smilingly said to me, "Well, brother Joseph, I suppose we are going to have the very best conference that has ever been held." These words of the brother referred to, brought to my mind remarks that were made in my hearing, by one of the counselors in a stake presidency, at a stake conference that I attended a few months ago. He declared in that meeting that he felt the stake conference, then convened, was one of the best they had ever held. After making this statement, he said that when he returned from Salt Lake City after attending the October conference last year, his family wanted to know what kind of a conference had been held, and how he had enjoyed himself. His answer was, "It was the best conference I have ever attended." Then the young peo in the home laughed and said, "Why, father, you have made that statement after every conference you have ever attended." I was made glad, my brethren and sisters, when I listened to that declaration. This man was a man of years and of long experience. He was engaged in teaching the Gospel when I was a little child, a man under whose direction I had come in my Sunday School studies in the days of my boyhood; I was made glad in my soul that after all the years of experience which -he had had in the Church, that the doctrines of the Gospel were still so sweet that he could say, after more than a half a century of experience, and after being in attendance again and again at conference meetings for about that length of time — for he has been in regular attendance at these conferences, and he is sitting in this congregation this afternoon — that this last conference was the best one in his experience. I would not be at all surprised if he were to report when he has opportunity that he has again attended the best conference he had ever attended. I do not know that one conference is really better than another; but there is something to be very grateful for, that at every conference we always have a spirit of joy and always feel that we have reason for great happiness. We feel fully satisfied with the sound of the Gospel, the principles and doctrines of the Gospel that are expounded in our hearing at these gatherings and at other times even though we may have heard them frequently before, they are always fresh, they are always satisfying, and always fill us with gratitude, thanksgiving and praise. 

I attended a conference recently, my brethren and sisters, where the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  president reported that an earnest effort had been made by the ward teachers within the confines of that stake during the nine months of the year that had then passed away, to carry the Gospel to the homes of the people resident within the stake. The brethren engaged in this labor had been instructed to visit all the people, not only the Latter-day Saints but to visit the people who were not of our faith. If non-members of the Church cared to hear anything in relation to the principles of the Gospel, the teachers were to expound the Gospel to them. If they did not want the Gospel, but desired to unite with the people in civic movements, or in other good directions in which all the- people unite, to talk with them in relation to such matters. The president reported that these teachers were well received and as a result of their ministry in thus visiting the homes of the people, there had been over forty adult baptisms in that stake during nine months. I thought that was a very remarkable and commendable report; it was something for the brethren who had engaged in the labor to feel exceedingly proud of. You know it has been written in the revelations that have come from our Father in heaven in this latter dispensation, that if a man were to spend his entire lifetime in the preaching of the word of the Lord, and the result of his ministry should be the salvation of one soul, how great would be his joy with that soul in the kingdom of God. I believe in this doctrine. I have had some experience in the preaching of the Gospel, and now and then have discovered that the Lord has so used me in teaching the way of salvation, that the hearts  men have been touched, and a few have been brought to investigate the great message that has been revealed from on high for the salvation of the human family.  I know whenever such information has come to me it has filled my soul with that joy that passes all understanding. 

At another conference that I attended not long ago I heard the stake president report the labors of missionaries something after the manner of the report that was made by President Smith, regarding these Church activities. This president reported that in the stake of Zion over which he presided they had been utilizing the Seventies and the Elders in the preaching of the Gospel, and that an earnest home missionary labor had been accomplished. These missionaries had gone among the people much in the same manner as our missionaries go abroad in the various missions of the world. They had literature to deliver to the people. They held cottage meetings, and other meetings, as they had opportunity. They taught the principles of the Gospel at the fireside, and wherever they could make an opening, and in that stake of Zion the report was made that there had been between forty and fifty baptisms of adult persons, individuals that were actual converts from indifference, from the religious follies that are in theworld, to the truth as it has been revealed. 

I mention these matters for the purpose, my brethren and sisters, of drawing the attention of men who hold responsible and presiding positions in the quorums of the Holy Priesthood, and particularly to those who preside in the quorums of the seventy, to the possibility of iving souls here at home, that they 1 15  be alive to the opportunity that abounds on every hand for missionary labor in the stakes of Zion. We have a great missionary field right here at our doors. Men and women in large numbers have been drawn from the various nations of the earth by the mysterious providences of our Father in heaven, and have located in the wards and stakes of Zion. We should feel that we are under responsibility to carry the principles of the Gospel to all these people who are not of the faith. We should be constantly on the alert and anxious to formulate plans, under proper direction, and proper authority, for the spreading of the word of the Lord, that those who are here within our gates may hear the sound of the Gospel and have no opportunity in the future, either in this time, or in the life that is to come, to rise up in judgment against us and say, that nothwithstanding the precious truth that had been committed into our care, and the nearness of these men to many who hold the priesthood, no effort had been made to convert them. I heard a stake president say that a neighbor, a man resident within his stake, who was visited when upon his death-bed by elders of the Church and heard something in relation to the principles of the Gospel, he wanted, then, to know how it was — if the story relative to the restoration of the Gospel that was being told was true, if the heavens had been opened, if holy angels had come with divine authority and had conferred that authority upon men, and his neighbors held that authority — how it was that they had not exerted themselves long before to make him acquainted with that fact. He atmeared, according to the report of this president, to be con about the matter. He seemed to feel that possibly the story was true, that God had revealed Himself; that the message of the everlasting Gospel had been committed to men upon the earth; and he was in distress because he was conscious of the fact that he would not have opportunity to receive that message, as he was then upon his death-bed. Of course we do not know what his feelings migh have been under other circumstances; but we really ought to know that the giving of the authority of the Holy Priesthood is most precious, and that with that authority is a very grave responsibility. Men should be earnestly engaged in seeking to bring to pass righteousness, of their own volition, by virtue of the agency with which God has blessed them, acting and laboring always under the authority of those who preside in the local subdivisions of the Church. I am very glad to know that there has been an unusual effort, during recent years, to utilize more fully the labors of the Seventies and other men who hold this precious authority in the preaching of the word of the Lord at home. I trust that there is a disposition on the part of all these men to recognize local authority; that there are none of them graduates in the sense that has been spoken of during this conference, but that they are all students, that they are all ambitious to learn the things of God, that they are all anxious to utilize the information that may come to them as the result of research and study for the advantage and well being of their fellows. For it is for this purpose that we have been given authority. For this purpose God has called us to His ministry, and He GENERAL CONFERENCE.  laid upon our shoulders the responsibility of carrying the message of the Gospel to all men. 

I pray that the priesthood may feel this obligation more and more right here at home, and that there may not be found in any ward, or in any stake of Zion, any person not a member of the Church who can justly say, now or hereafter, that we have not appreciated our responsibility, and that we have not sought to magnify our calling in seeking after the souls of men in the fear of the Lord. May we so utilize our time and powers that have been committed unto us, that all men shall be left without excuse, and that we ourselves shall be received in due time by our Father in heaven with the plaudit, "Well done thou good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord." God bless us, and help us to be faithful and true to the covenants we have made, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. , 

A soprano solo, "Thy will be done," was sung by Sister Josie Hinckley. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have enjoyed very much, and I have no doubt you have also, the timely instructions of this conference, and I trust that we appreciate the importance of the many valuable things already given unto us. Yesterday, at one of the overflow meetings, I made the assertion without argument that we had in our missionary system one of the best sustained efforts of altruism upon a large scale, considering the number of people that the world in all its history has ever seen. I thank 

Brother Roberts for making the argument supporting today, the statement thus made yesterday. 

Some one has said that the kingdom of heaven is not for the most learned but for the best, and that the best is the most unselfish; that loving, constant, continuous and voluntary self-sacrifice for the good of others is the glory of man. 

We might emphasize for a moment another phase of that splendid chapter of service that was so ably reviewed today by Elder B. H. Roberts, and that is the effect which that service has had upon the individuals participating therein, and also upon their posterity as well as upon those whom they served. The result of the efforts of the brethren in making that sacrifice in going from Kirtland to Missouri in Zion's camp but enabled them and others to perform in a better way that other sacrifice, that other great journey which they were to make from Missouri to Illionis; and their experience in making that migration enabled them to perform in a better way the higher sacrifice which they were to later make in moving from Illinois to the Rocky Mountains. And the experiences of the brethren in making that journey across the wilderness of a thousand miles enabled them to perform in a splendid way that service of colonization which was so well performed up and down this chain of mountain valleys, and which has made of the "Mormon" people, the world's foremost colonizers. In looking over the audience today and seeing here and there individuals whom I know have made a sublime sacrifice for the good of the Church and for the good of others, I felt how insignificant is anything that I have performed for the Church. 117 

The Lord, in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, said: "Wherefore be not weary in well doing, for you are laying the foundation of a great work; and behold, from things that are small proceedeth that which is great." I am a great believer in the truth that none of these acts of loving service and sacrifice can be performed without there being a permanent reward, permanent results left. 

In enumerating today, the effort put forth in driving the oxen, I thought also of that other service where men really performed the part of oxen in hitching themselves to the hand-carts and making the same journey across the plains. Perhaps they thought in making that -wonderful sacrifice that there would be no results except their passage to the mountains and yet an impress has been left upon their children and upon their children's children that time will not efface. I have heard strong men and strong women say that when they contemplated the grand sacrifice of their father or mother, in making that hand-cart journey across the plains, they felt that there was no sacrifice too great for them to make for the Church; that if they were to live many years, and be able to crowd into each day a hundred times more good than they were now accomplishing that still they would be unworthy of that father and mother who had the faith and the courage to perform that wonderful work. Many of these acts of heroism, the fruitage of this wonderful service for others, have never been written. Occasionally we hear of some of these instances. I was with our state superintendent of schools, who was recently called home, in the last journey that he made to St. 

George, and heard his last speech and testimony. He told of his father, a convert from that same Scandinavian country to which Brother Erastus Snow was called, indeed his people were converts of the preaching of brother Erastus Snow. Superintendent Nelson told the story of how his father waded the Sevier river during high water, having for his protection a rope tied about his body, and held for his protection by one of his sons upon the shore; in order to carry a letter containing the money for the education of his son to the postoffice. upon the other side of the river, 

I was impressed as a boy in reading of how Leonidas, at the pass of Thermopolae with his little band of Spartans, had withstood a whole army and how he probably would have succeeded permanently had it not been for a traitor in showing the enemy a secret pass around the one guarded. I was likewise impressed with the legendary hero Horatius who, at the bridge, kept back the Etruscan hordes; but I have been more thrilled in reading of some of the heroic services of our own boys in connection with this pioneer work, of the sublime service performed by those three boys who carried across the Sweetwater those same hand-cart people who were too emaciated, who were too much enfeebled by starvation and who were too poorly clad to venture into the ice cold water. Those boys carried, one by one, that large company of hand-cart people across that freezing river with its ice floes. There are only a few of these heroic acts that have been put into print. Many of the things performed by the pioneer fathers and by their pioneer children have not yet been written; but an impress has been left upon the world by these services of self-sacrifice, and from thing's which are small proceedeth that which is great. It has been particularly true in this missionary service. The tracts, in the wrecked vessel, have not been permanently destroyed, but they have been washed upon the shore to dry, and have been read by the inhabitants of the land, preparing them for other Gospel messages to come. The text announced before the meeting was broken up, the chance text announced has found root and has borne fruitage. The scrap. of paper, containing a portion of a sermon, rolling upon the desert, has been picked up and converts made to the Church. The missionaries have not been able to reap the harvest in the evening of their morning's planting, and generally they have not expected it. We should not be impatient of results nor expect to find, at once, the fruitage, of our labors. If we had the history of those who have been converted to the Church, we would have in almost each instance a sublime story reading almost like a romance, of how a single word struck home and brought them into the Church, and of the sacrifices they made in order to live their religion and to gather to Zion. Those examples in the lives of the people have been impressed upon their children and will be upon their children's children. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to appreciate the importance of serving in this cause, of realizing, with the revelation, that indeed we are laying the foundation of a great work, and that it is an honor to take part in this work, and that from things that are small proceedeth that which is great, or as the great  has expressed it, "Behold, on what a slender thread hang everlasting things." That has been true with the Gospel in the past, and no doubt will be in the future. These examples of patience and endurance and of devotion for the good of others will not be lost to the world by any means. I have heard great men testify as to the impression that a very small but faithful act had upon them. The constant offering of the fast day donation, a very small offering taken to the fast meeting yet the constancy of some faithful devoted brother in making, in his poverty, the simple offering, not once or twice but each succeeding fast day, year after year, has left an impression upon strong men. 

May the Lord bless us and help us in our work of devoting our time, our lives if necessary, for the welfare and good of others, I pray in the names of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

This has been a magnificent conference and I am grateful that I have been able to hear almost every sermon delivered from this stand. I have been impressed with the words of every servant of God who has spoken, and my testimony is that the Lord has been with this people in the past, and has been with them in this conference, and is with them today. ' 

I have just finished the reading of a book which is to me one of the marvelous works of the twentieth century, namely, "The Truth of Religion," by Adolph Eucken, of the University of Jena in Germany. It is a work for which Professor Eucken was awarded the Nobel prize in 119 

1908, and has been pronounced by leading universities of Germany, as well as the Imperial Scientific Society of Germany, as one of the most marvelous contributions to religious thought in the history of the race. In this book Professor Eucken has made a marvelous deduction to the effect that the world, during the twentieth century, will wend its way back to a belief in Jesus the Christ, and that, when the purer Gospel of Christ comes again to the hearts of men, that Gospel will express itself through a magnificent co-operative institution, which shall be known as a church of the Most High. In other words, Professor Eucken has, unconsciously, given us the great thought that we have been bearing testimony to for nearly one hundred years, namely, that the principles of Jesus Christ, and that th? great plan of God for His children, will find expression through a splendid organization of men who are acting harmoniously with one another, and are keeping their souls tuned to God and the infinite. 

During this conference the great theme, seemingly, has been the testimony that Jesus the Christ has lived, and has brought life to the world, salvation, and redemption, through the Gospel plan of salvation, and I have rejoiced in this great message. It was only recently declared by a fellow worker of mine, and a classmate at Columbia University, that if Dr. William James, of Harvard College, had come to Utah before he died, he would have found a society that, above all other human societies, illustrates better the theory of prag* matism, brought out by that great psychologist than any other society on the earth today. William James before he died, — and he is recog as the greatest American philosopher that we have had — declared that there must be a splendid belief in God, that this idea of man's relationship to Deity must come back again, as it is after all the most potential and the greatest influence for morality that has ever been given to the human race. When men learn that their institutions —  their economic, civic, political, social and ethical institutions — must be in accord with some divine belief in man's power and his relationship to God, then men will have a truer religion, a better outlook on life, and men will begin to grow into their greater power of intellectual and ethical development. 

This book, in a sense, has been an exposition of great fundamentals of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, although unconsciously done. It is my firm belief and testimony that the intelligent of the world are today turning their faces to the light, by virtue of the hunger of their souls. Philosophy of man will never satisfy the longing that is natural to the human being, will never satisfiy that longing for God, 'and for a knowledge of man's relationship to his Creator. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the most magnificent example — I mean the Gospel of Jesus Christ as we understand it, and as we know it to be true — is the most magnificent example of what modern sociologists in their philosophy declare to be high-minded and critical intellectual type of philosophy. Professor Franklin Henry Gidding, who over a year ago spoke from this pulpit, declared that he believes that the American people will yet raise up a fine tvpe of critical intellectual mind. By this he means men who GENERAL CONFERENCE.  life, men who understand life in its bigness and its gloriousness, and by understanding it live life according to the majesty of their divine beings. 

It is my testimony, and I take always the deepest pleasure in giving it, that the Prophet Joseph was a type of the critical, intellectual mind which is the dream of some philosophers; that type of mind, that wishes truth and works for truth, and is open to truth, knowing that truth is power and that power is intelligence. I say this here because I do not wish the Prophet Joseph Smith misunderstood, though he had no formal schooling. That is why I believe he rose to be such a magnificent character before the world. His mind was never injured by some little or petty pedagogical principle that would have warped his being. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ stands for truth in its reality; it stands for truth in its ideality, and takes that stand which Professor Eucken has announced, in that book which received the world's prize, that for a religion to become permanent it must make for righteousness, and righteousness in religion will come when every man, woman and child shall realize his own personal responsibility to his God, and will place himself before his Maker as one who believes in the divinty of his own soul. Therefore I believe the time will come when there will be a monument, a gracious and great monument, reared to the Prophet Joseph Smith; and on that monument a sentence something like this will be inscribed: "To the memory of Joseph Smith, who was the agent of God to open the heavens to the children of men and give the mean of the Godhead and man's relationship to his God." Amen. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIB1EY. 

"Mormonism" not an "easy" religion. — Obedience and endurance requisites of Christ's followers. — A sensible communism, the United Order. 

Our conference has been one, I know, that all who have attended have had occasion to thoroughly enjoy. The world has been looking in years past for an easy religion, and wherever religion has been made easy enough it has usually found some converts, although as a rule that kind of religion does not hold converts very long. But "Mormonism" is not that kind of religion. We have heard, and in a very splendid manner too, of the amount of service that is extended by the members and officers of the Church in the way of helping one another and helping mankind. All of this is true. The Gospel is something that partakes of the spirit of helpfulness, rendering assistance in some way or other, even though it be through sacrifice, to those whom w e are associated with, and to those to whom we are sent; but we ought not to forget this further fact that this Gospel is an exacting religion. It demands of me and you that we shall prepare ourselves, and that we shall work out our salvation. In the scheme of things, it is not appointed in the principles of the Gospel that man can be saved except by his own exertion. The tendency today in the world is to make religion easy for everybody. 

I rejoice in the thought that the world is growing better in so many ways; that we have good hospitals, good schools; that we have so many things that are helpful and 121  go to assist, especially the poorer classes. All that is good; we have more of that as a people in proportion to our numbers, far more than any other people in the world; but I want to impress upon your minds, in the moment or two that I stand before you, this fact: That this is not an easy religion. "Blessed and holy are they who come up out of much tribulation." Don't forget that. And they did not do it themselves; the honor and glory of it was not to themselves, but they had washed their robes white in the blood of the lamb. He was their Savior. He it was they had held to, as to the iron rod; and it was through the trouble and trial, the sweat, and experience in every form that they gained knowledge, and added line upon line and precept upon precept. Every day and every year they so lived that they became molded a little more into the  likeness of the Son of God Himself; We may think that we can vote and by passing laws, by the initiative or referendum or some other way, vote this' man and the other man into beds of ease and into flowery places, and all will come without his effort. If it should, he would not be fit tp receive it. You can't bless your own son and help him unless he is willing to help himself. It can't be done. You can't bless a body of people unless they are willing to help themselves. The Lord helps those, and only those, who help themselves. He can't help a man who won't help himself. A man who will not say, "Yes, I am willing to go down into the waters of baptism," but refuses to go, the Lord can't help that man any further on that principle. He must help himself. You must work out your own salvation in fear and trembling before the Lord. 

Let us remember that we have got a whole lot to do ourselves, every individual for himself — not only to help others, but to help ourselves as well. 

I know people think that we are advancing, and we are advancing, until ultimately the United Order will be realized. There are at work influences in the world — and they are appointed of the Lord, I believe, — which are making for righteousness, and which will make for a communism, for a building up of a society that will make it easier for the Lord's plan to be established, namely, the United Order. We are not ready for that yet, but it will come; but remember this, that when it does come, the individual man, the individual woman, must save himself or herself, must develop and grow and become like unto the Master. There is no other way, except only through hard, bitter, and sore experience. You will not get it any other way; it will not come so easy. 

I remember hearing a story told of a brother down in St. George, when they tried, in a small way, the United Order there. Some of the people had taken care of their grapes and made a little home made wine; but this brother had not. He had been careless and negligent. When the Order came, the wine was shared out, passed around, and each one took his share; and I remember the story of him saying : "Hey! This order is a fine thing" — he was an English brother; he says, "I tell you, I could wish this were come twenty years since." Of course he would have been drinking somebody else's wine and living off of somebody else's labor twenty years before that, if it had come. Salvation does not come GENERAL CONFERENCE.  way. The United Order will not bring things that way. It does not mean a long table and every one eating the same kind of food, and every one living in the same kind of house. The United Order when it does come, I think, will mean individuality, personal effort, personal salvation, with you in your stewardship, me in mine, every man appointed in his place to work in his stewardship. Then the surplus will go for those who are not so well situated, and who need help. They will be taken and directed, "Here, my brother, you take this little plot of ground," or "You take this little part of business. Here is means enough for- you and you develop it, make it grow, keep it out of debt, and work at it." And then he will develop it, don't you see? But if, according to the idea of some of our friends, that all you need to do is to divide and to keep on dividing, why of course they could wish that kind of a thing were here a long while before. 

Lay not that flattering unction to your souls that there is any other way to gain salvation, in the kingdom of God, except by rising, when you fall. You stumble, of course; we all do; but rise up again, my brother, press on, persevere in labor, in toil, in earnestness, in diligence, in the sweat of thy face, doing thy part, toiling, persevering; press on and on; add line upon line, and precept upon precept; gain intellligence and knowledge, and making this person — you, me, the individual person, year by year, a little more like unto the Master, the Son of God. So shall we progress and become like Him; and only so, whether in the United Order or any other way. God bless you. Amen. 

PATRIARCH HYRTJM G. SMITH. 

I, too, my brethren and sisters, rejoice in the spirit of this conference, in the instructions that have been given; and can bear my testimony that I know the Lord has been with us, by His Holy Spirit, to indite the same. I know that the Lord is pleased "with those who work, not only for themselves but for others. I rejoice in having the privilege to do my part in the work of salvation. I rejoice in the testimonies that have come to me, concerning the means and opportunity for salvation. I believe in the plan of redemption that has been made known in these last days unto the Latter-day Saints. I know from my experience, and from the testimony that has come to me, through the promptings of the Holy Spirit, that it is the true plan of life and salvation, and all of those who will accept the same, and obey the principles thereof, will gain that eternal salvation which we are all working for. That is my testimony. 

I rejoice in the privilege of associating with the men whom the Lord has called in this present time, to stand at the head of this great work. I pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with them; and may His blessings be with all Israel, and those especially who are called to responsible places in the work of the Lord. 

I have rejoiced in the songs of praise that have been sung in this conference. I have rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne. My heart has been touched with the words of kindness concerning those who have devotedly labored for our welfare; and that the young and rising generation are receiving °-zh splendid opportunities for 123  in this present time. I would like to exhort the youth of Zion to follow more closely in the footsteps of these men and women who have gone before us, who have diligently labored, and truly have eaten their bread by the sweat of their brow, who have incessantly toiled in these valleys of the mountains, and have cleared away the roughness thereof, so that their children are now rejoicing in the productive gardens, and beauties of these valleys, and the fruits of the land. I would like to exhort the younger people that when we are gathering and garnering the fruits that we are now enjoying, that we will not forget the Lord, nor our parents, — those who have so toiled for us that these blessings have been made comparatively easy. I believe, as our beloved bishop has said, that only those who do work, are entitled to receive the blessing, and that we ought not to think of gaining a salvation in ease. 

I am grateful to have the privilege of going about in the stakes of Zion, visiting and getting acquainted with those whom the Lord has called into responsible places in the midst of His people. My particular mission has called me to associate with men who are the fathers of this people, who have won their places and standing in the Church through constant and persistent labor. They are the men whom the Lord has chosen, whom He has honored with responsibility, who. after their labors ar° almost at an end, have been allowed to step up and take seats of honor and comparative ease. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that w r e have men in our midst who can stand up in the congregations of Tsrael and testify that, through all these  of toil and labor, the Lord has been with them, and that the honor and glory is not theirs, but is the glory and the work of the Lord. 

May His Spirit be with these honorable men and women; sustain them in their callings and responsibilities; that in the end they may triumph in the glory of the Lord. May His work in the earth triumph; and when He comes in His glory, I trust He will be pleased with us, and that He will not put off that glorious day upon our account; but that we, through the inspiration, received in the lessons of life that He has given to us, will be accepted as His chosen children, that we may not turn away from that responsibility but live up to it, keeping every precept, accepting every truth and living in very deed as His children. 

The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters; may you take to your homes the admonitions and exhortations imparted at this conference; that you parents may teach your children the truths of the Gospel, and not come under condemnation for neglect thereof. May the youth of Israel, the young and rising generation of today, listen to the teachings of their parents, and heed the admonitions of those who are called into responsible places in the Holy Priesthood. May the blessings of heaven attend you all, my brethren and sisters, especially! those to whom responsibility has come, that the work of the Lord may triumph, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUDITORS' REPORT. 

The annual report of the Auditing" Committee of the Church was read by Elder Anthony W. Ivins. a<= follows : GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The undersigned Church Auditing Committee, having completed their 1913 audit of the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust and of the Presiding Bishopric, hereby beg leave to report that we have made a careful and searching examination of the receipts and disbursements of the funds of the Church as disclosed by the books of the respective offices and find them in a most excellent condition. They not only disclose a full, frank and intelligent statement of every item of receipt and expenditure, but they also manifest the exercise of careful business methods, coupled with a broad, charitable, Christian-like spirit in the management of the tithing and other income of the Church. It therefore affords us much pleasure to certify to you and to the Latter-day Saints that we have nothing but commendation for the integrity and ability with which these trust funds have been handled by the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric. 

Very respectfully submitted, W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft, Auditing Committee. 

After the reading, Elder John W. Hart moved to accept and file the report. Embodied in the motion was also a vote of thanks for the committee who do this work of auditing, without compensation. Elder Seymour B. Young seconded the motion, which was thereupon put by Elder Ivins and unanimously carried. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Author of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the, Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as PresidingBishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General 125 

Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, Willard Young, and C. N. Jensen. 

Auditing committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Joseph S. Wells. 

Tabernacle choir : Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt,, librarian; and all the members. 

Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

EliDEE ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

My brethren and sisters : I rejoice in the blessings of this conference. I thank the Lord that now that we are about to conclude its meetings, another chapter in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been written, gone into history. We can never live the past six months over again. Our works, individual, and collectively, as individuals and a Church have been performed, and we now begin a new era. Six months hence we shall meet together again; I pray the Lord that when that time comes it may be said, as it has been truthfully said, now, that we have continued on the road of progression in which the Church has been traveling from the day of its inception in 1830, until now. So, my brethren and sisters, may the work of the Lord grow. May it continue to spread. May the voice of the elders of Israel be heard in every land and clime, bearing witness of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph, and the restoration of the Gospel in this dispensation for the redemption of the covenant people of the Lord. May the blessing of the Lord go with you to your homes, be with you in your avocations; may it be with your families and all that pertains to you, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

I feel quite certain that the spirit and feeling and earnest desires which have been made manifest during the meetings of this conference, are all pleasing and acceptable to the Lord. I am satisfied that He has approved the words that have been spoken, the counsels that have been given, and the admonitions that have been offered to the people of the Lord. In conclusion, I desire simply to say : God bless all Israel, and may the Lord especially bless those on whom rests the responsibility of presiding in the various organizaGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the Church, and especially those on whom rests the very great responsibility of presiding over the stakes of Zion, the presidents and their counselors, and the members of the various high councils of the sixty-five stakes of Zion; all the bishops and their counselors, in the seven hundred and twenty-four wards organized in the Church, as well as those who are presiding over the various branches of the Church and over all the missions in the world. The Lord bless them; give them wisdom, judgment, discernment, purity of heart, and power of government and of counsel, that they may be potent in the guiding of the affairs of the Church in all the departments of the Church in which they are concerned and over which they are called to preside. The Lord bless our auxiliary organizations, and those who stand as presidents and directors in them, that they may also accomplish very much in the direction of their labors for the good of the youth of Zion and of the children of the Saints. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Announcement was made that the daily organ recitals will be resumed on May 1st. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles F. Middleton. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, except as noted, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom and Frederick E. Barker; Gladys Barker, and Clarence Cramer. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and Published by the Church 

Six Volumes Now Ready 

COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per vol $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per vol 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, vol. . . . 4.00 

Deseret News Book Store 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

The Restoration of the Gospel 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, A. M., Principal of the Latter-day Saints' High School. With an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. 

Adopted by all L. D. S. Church Schools. Bound in cloth, 75c postpaid. 

Two Books that Every L. D. S. Family Should Have 

The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record; approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. 

Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead, $1.25 and upward. 

Joseph Smith's Teachings 

This book contains the Prophets' sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, postpaid, 75c. 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







