Outdoor
05 04 1914

A meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information, at 2 p. m. Elder Benjamin Goddard presided. 

The Thirty-first ward choir rendered the musical selections; H. E. Dewsnup, conductor. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come ye Saints." 

Elder James T. Simpkins offered the opening prayer. 

The choir and congregation sang" the hymn, "Oh! ye mountains high." 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(President of Bureau of Information.) 

My brethren and sisters, I do not think any of us anticipated this morning that the weather would permit of an open-air meeting. The Lord, however, has been very good to us, especially in view of the fact that it is impossible to accomodate you in the Tabernacle or in the Assembly Hall, and other available halls are too far distant. 

We are very glad that you are willing to come here, and to stand and enjoy the service that has been appointed for your benefit by President Smith. Our brethren who have been called to address you, come before you in all humility and meekness, relying upon your faith and sustaining influence, and prayers that the Lord will bless us in our gathering together. 

I suggest to you one thought, in connection with our meeting here, and the other assemblies that are being held on this block. The work of the Lord in the latter days had a very small beginning. The Church was organized in 1830, with six members. The growth has been steady and sure since then. The work spread from city to city, from state to state, until subsequently the Gospel was carried to distant lands, and now, in fulfillment of prophecy, our elders are going forth, carrying the message unto all nations, in accordance with the Master's injunction that "this Gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached as a witness  all nations, and then shall the end come." The growth of our work in other lands has also been slow, but just as sure, and our membership has increased year by year, until today we are assured that the Church is permanently established in the earth. 

God has indeed fulfilled His word. I desire to read one passage from Daniel 2nd chap., with reference to the work of the Lord in the latter day, "And in the days of these kings, shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other people." Having this in mind, permit me to impress upon you the permanency of this work. I had the honor last evening of attending a mission reunion. When that particular mission was first opened, one elder labored alone in that land for several years, proclaiming the Gospel, bearing his testimony, but finding none to accept the truth. Afterwards, two elders labored there, but years passed before the truth entered permanently into the hearts of the people. At the present time, on that little island of the sea, we have a membership of five thousand people. Elders have continued laboring there, year after year, and last evening in the gathering referred to, when elders who had labored in that land amongst the natives were asked to join in song, they met on the stand, fifty strong, young men and old men, filled with faith, earnest in the work, having a testimony of the truth, and as they stood there, singing the songs of Zion, the remark was made, "If, in the Providence of the Almighty, it were necessary for every elder now in that missionary field to be removed, here is a force of men strong enough to  the mission, who would readily respond to the call, and, in an exigency, would take hold of the work in that far distant land." 

This is but an illustration of all other missions that have been established under the inspiration of the Almighty. I, therefore, rejoice with you in these evidences of the permanency of this work. God has established it and will sustain it. It "shall never be destroyed, nor be given to another people." We are engaged in this work, it belongs to the Saints, and the Lord has raised up prophets to direct it and has given unto them the inspiration of His Spirit. In this audience, are men of almost every nationality, women almost from every country, who are here by virtue of the work that has been done in their respective lands by elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I pray that God will bless us in this gathering. I ask you to join in praying that the Lord will bless these speakers, and sustain them, for they have not come of their own will, but because a servant of God has said, "the people on the outside cannot be taught this afternoon, unless you go out to them, the buildings being 'crowded to their utmost capacity." They are here in response to that call, and I bespeak for them your kind attention and your prayerful assistance. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Historian.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends, outdoor preaching, is not my forte, but I will do the best I can. I have a reputation of being a rapid speaker, but rapidity is scarcely what is needed on this occasion. What I desire just now is the Spirit of God to assist me, and a frill volume of voice, in order that I may make those hear who stand far in the rear. I also trust that the elements will favor us, and that the rain will not pour down upon us from the clouds hanging at this moment so threatening overhead. 

I was deeply impressed when we sang our opening hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints," as it reminded me of an event that took place 48 years ago. I crossed the plains and mountains in 1866 with an ox train, which brought me together with a number of other emigrants from the Missouri river to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. I feel thankful to the Lord now that I came to Utah in 1866. Had my coming been delayed till the following year, I would not have had the experience of traveling all the way across the plains with ox teams, for in 1867 the Union Pacific Railroad had been built for a distance of 300 miles westward from the Missouri river. The next year (1868) that road had been built two-thirds of the way across the plains and mountains, and overland travel with ox teams was abandoned altogether in 1869. Since, then, immigrants have come to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in railway trains. 

But this song, "Come, come ye Saints," as well as the other one we sang today, "O, ye mountains high," we sang again and again on the plains in 1866 as we trudged along on our weary way toward this city, living part of the time on half rations. We longed for Zion, and we sang these songs of Zion with great earnestness and feeling. I do not think the late William Clayton, who composed the song, "Come, come ye Saint," could have had more of the spirit of it than we , who sang it nineteen years later. 

I have often reflected upon what God has done for this people — the Latter-day Saints — not only in the growth of the community, as was referred to by Brother Goddard in his opening speech, but upon the experiences they have had in the countries or places in which they have dwelt since the Church was first organized. I have often explained: "How marvelous are the works of the Almighty!" 

The Lord in the beginning wanted His people to become closely associated together as a community or a religious body. The Church was only a few months old when a commandment was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith for the Saints to gather together, and the Lord gave a promise by revelation that He would give them a land which they could call their own, a land of inheritance. This was nothing new. The Children of Israel many centuries ago, were likewise given such a land, a land of promise. We even are told in the Holy Scripture that Abraham, when living childless in Chaldea, was commanded to leave his native country and journey to a strange land, which the Lord would give him and his posterity. Abraham had no son at that time; his son, Isaac, the child of promise, being born afterwards. 

I refer to this for the purpose of showing you that the gathering together of the people of God is an old doctrine. We also have the City of Enoch as an example. But in the dispensation in which we live we find this recorded that the Lord, in 1831, pointed out Jackson County, Missouri, as a gathering place for His Saints. Western Missouri  at that time almost uninhabited, but it was -a beautiful country, abounding with meadows and woodland, and fertile as any lands in the great West, and when Sidney Rigdon was commanded by revelation to make a description of it, he utterly failed. The land was so beautiful that the pen picture he attempted to draw of it did not begin to do justice to it. The Latter-day Saints settled in that country, and everything looked promising with them for two or three years. About 1500 members of the Church gathered into Jackson County during the years 1831, 4832 and 1833, and began to cultivate the soil; they also established a printing office, opened a store, built mills, and made other improvements, and conditions seemed to indicate that they would flourish and prosper. But in the midst of their prosperity the Lord predicted for them through the Prophet Joseph Smith "much tribulation," and when this prophecy commenced to be fulfilled, the Saints began to move into less desirable and poorer counties. 

I pass over the short sojourn of our people in Clay County, on the opposite side of the Missouri river, into which they were driven in 1833 by the Jackson County mob. The Saints had not lived there very long when prospects for trouble were again in plain sight. The Missourians told the Saints substantially this : "You cannot live here. We do not want you to stay in Clay County." "But," said they, pointing to a country lying about 60 miles in a northeasterly direction, "yonder is a prairie country. If you are willing to go out there and settle by yourselves, you are welcome; there we will not molest ." To accept of this offer was apparently the best the Saints could do under the circumstances. The country suggested was a naked prairie, and the Missourians did not think at that time that the prairies of Missouri could produce much. Nevertheless, the Saints went in and settled what soon became Caldwell County. And what happened? Of course these things are recorded in Church history, and are not altogether new to you; suffice it to say, that in two or three years the Saints numbered as many thousands in Caldwell County, and the adjoining county of Daviess, as they had numbered hundreds in Jackson County; and lo and behold, the prairies of Caldwell County seemed to become even more productive than the rich, fertile lands in Jackson County, or Clay County. This was one of the Saints' early experiences; ,in trusting the Lord. They learned this lesson, that when God chooses to pour down the blessings of heaven upon His people, He can do so anywhere, no matter where they live — in a timber country, a prairie country, or a desert. 

You know what happened after the Saints began to prosper in Caldwell County. When the Missourians saw how our people progressed, how they had built up the beautiful little city of Far West, and even commenced the erection of a Temple there, Gov. Boggs took sides with the mob against the "Mormons," which resulted in their expulsion from Missouri in 1838 and 1839. 

What happened next? The Latter-day Saints, now numbering nearly 15,000 people in Missouri alone, had to seek a new home. But where could they go? They had scarcely anything but their bare hands to depend upon. Many of them were indeed glad to escape ' from Missouri with nothing but the clothes they wore on their backs, and many of them had to trudge on foot for 200 miles, some nearly 300 miles, before they could reach the border of the State and cross over the Mississippi river into Illinois. The people of the town of Quincy were kind to our people. Their hearts were touched because of the sufferings the exiles had endured. They called meetings and contributed clothing and food for the sufferers. But the Saints did not want to live on charity, or remain in this helpless condition. The authorities of the Church, the spiritual and temporal leaders of the people, therefore, cast their eyes around to find a country where they could locate a new Stake of Zion. About fifty miles above Quincy there was a little, struggling village called Commerce. Several attempts had been made to settle the place, but they had failed, though the people who tried it came from the East well supplied with everything necessary to establish a colony; they had plenty of teams, agricultural implements, and everything that was necessary for founding a settlement. But instead of building up the contemplated city of Commerce on the banks of the river, they built up a grave yard, in fact, an extensive cemetery, on the side hill. The place was so unhealthful, that malarial diseases broke out, and laid the people low; hence they had become discouraged and wanted to move away. And when the Latter-day Saints sent a committee to look at the country, these older settlers were perfectly willing to sell out for a song; their great de was to get away from the unhealthful place. 

What could the Saints naturally expect in Commerce? If healthy, well-to-do people could not make a success there, what would become of the poor exiles who came from Missouri bleeding and povertystricken? But the Saints relied upon God Almighty; the same God who had sustained them in Caldwell, and changed that country from a naked prairie to well cultivated fields, still ruled and controlled the elements; our brethren had confidence in Him and knew that He could remove the curse from Commerce and make it habitable for His Saints, if He chose to do so. I shall not enter into details, but simply remind you of the fact that where these people from the East, well provided with everything needed, could not build a village, the Saints in six years built up a beautiful city which, at one time, had nearly 20,000 inhabitants. .In the midst of that city they built a beautiful Temple and erected many other good and substantial buildings. Those who visit Nauvoo today will find that the best buildings there now are those erected by the Latter-day Saints seventy years ago. 

I refer to these things, my brethren and sisters, to show what wonders God has wrought. Although He allows the sun to shine upon the wicked and good alike, and permits the rain to fall all over the earth, there is a difference, a signal difference, between a people who disobey God's will, and a peoDle who will serve Him and keep His commandments. He can lead them into any country, poor or fertile, and bless that country for their sake, and make it fit for their habitation. 

Continuing my story, let me direct your attention to more recent events. The Saints lived in Nauvoo six or seven years. While there, the mob killed our Prophet and Patriarch; and when the wicked saw that the death of these men had not destroyed the work of God, they became more furious than ever, and did not rest until they had driven about 20,000 Saints into the wilderness, far beyond the borders of civilization The people of Illinois witnessed the exiled Saints disappear on the prairies of Iowa, going toward the land of the setting sun. 

Those were perilous times, my brethren and sisters. The exodus of the Latter-day Saints from Nauvoo, and their experiences in the wilderness for a number of years before they arrived in this Valley, forms one of the most interesting chapters in the history of the world. With tears in their eyes the Saints, as they went westward, frequently looked back toward their beautiful Nauvoo. Some of them wept like the Children of Israel, when Nebuchednezzar took them captives into Babylon. The Latter-day Saints were not captives, but they had been despoiled of their homes, like the Israelites were in the days of their captivity. 

What happened next? The Latter-day Saints came into the wilderness, into the Great American Desert. It was not even the prairies of Caldwell now. It was not even an unhealthful Commerce. The soil in their eastern homes was comparatively fertile, but in this Great American Desert, to which they now had come, everything was absolutely barren and forbidding. Before the pioneers of 1847 arrived here, a few mountaineers, acquaint with the valleys of the Great Salt Lake, told President Brigham Young that it was folly for him to think for one moment of locating white people in this valley, where a few straggling bands of Indians of the lowest grade could not get a living from the soil. Were it not for the fish' found in the Utah Lake, the Timpanogas river, and other mountain streams, and what game they could find in the mountains, these natives would perish through starvation. And of course white people could not subsist on that kind of fare. The mountaineers were united in saying that nothing that would sustain life could grow in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. One of the trappers who heard that President Brigham Young was coming to this desert country with a colony of whites, promptly informed him that it did not rain in the regions of the Great Salt Lake between April and October, and consequently breadstuffs could not be raised. 

But the pioneers of 1847, relying upon the Lord, sang with cheerful hearts, "Come, come ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way." * * * We'll find the place which God for us prepared, far away in the West." 

The first thing the pioneers did after their arrival on this ground upon which we now stand, was to raise their hands toward heaven and dedicate the land for the gathering of the Saints. They, no doubt, remembered when praying, how they had been driven from their homes in Jackson County; how they had been robbed of their possessions in Clay, Caldwell and Daviess counties, Missouri, and how they had been driven from their homes in Hancock County, Illinois, into the wilderness, into the desert; and now they importuned at the throne of grace for special blessings upon the desert lands. 

From the little beginning by the "'Mormon" pioneers in 1847, we have now these valleys filled with Latter-day Saints. I have traveled in many parts of the world and seen many countries, but I will say this to you, that this valley is one of the prettiest spots on earth. A greater transfiguration than that which has taken place in this valley since the pioneer days can scarcely be imagined; in fact, I think it has no equal in any part of the world . I know of«no other place where you 'can ascend to a certain height, as you can here, as for instance to the top of Ensign Peak, or perhaps to the top of the Capitol building now being erected, and behold such a beautiful city, with such lovely surroundings as here. Behold the valley as it lies stretched out before you surrounded with grand and picturesque mountains and with the Great Salt Lake on the west; and I defy any one who has traveled to mention a landscape more beautiful and delightful, or a valley more fertile than the one we have here, which until recently was a part of the Great American desert. 

What has the Lord wrought? A miracle! It is not altogether the water. It is true we have learned the art of irrigation here, something that our people did not need on the prairies of Caldwell or in Illinois. But we believe that our Father in heaven had compassion, upon His persecuted 'people. In connection with the work of the pioneers in their home-making, irrigating, planting and building, God was kind to them and commanded the earth by His power to yield  in abundance to sustain the lives of His persecuted people. From the little handful that came here in 1847, we have grown to nearly half a million, in Utah, Idaho and the surrounding country. The 724 wards or settlements, which are now (inhabited by (the Latter-day Saints, represent in part the result of the little beginning made by those persecuted people who were not permitted to possess their homes in the States of Illinois or Missouri. 

We who came here later, and those who have been born here, discover, as we open our eyes to take in the situation, that we are located in one of the most desirable lands upon the face of the earth, and our hearts are filled with thanksgiving to God and to our parents, who "builded better than they knew." I was a little white-haired boy when I first came to this valley with my parents, they having embraced the Gospel in a foreign land and brought their family here. And what does this mean to me. Happiness, prosperity and possibilities. I have also been the means of bringing into the world a family of children, sons and daughters, who when they opened their eyes in the world, here, found themselves with their parents in a goodly land, in a land of Prophets and Apostles, in the midst of a God-fearing people, and in a land that is blessed above all other lands upon the face of the earth. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I shall simply refer to one point more in proof of what I am saying, and then I am through. I visited Palestine a few years ago, and you know Palestine is the country known at one time as a land flowing with milk and honey, figuratively speaking. I traveled through  country from the heights of Galilee down to the lower regions around the Dead Sea; I visited most of the little valleys of Jndea and Samaria, and I know pretty well the location of the most interesting points in that country. But Palestine is not a country today about which you can say it flows with milk and honey. What has happened? What has caused the change when that land is no longer a blessed country; it cannot today sustain half the inhabitants who dwell there. It is not only a question of 'a seven years famine : it would be famine continuously, if the inhabitants could not get bread from Poland, Russia, or some other country where corn and food is more plentiful than in Palestine. The land is defiled, because of the inhabitants thereof, because "they have transgressed the law, changed the ordinance and broken the everlasting covenant." Palestine apparently is under a curse, but that curse will be taken away when the sons and daughters of Zion, or the Children of Israel, on their return from their long dispersion, shall sing praises to their God, and serve the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, like in the days of old. 

And the same can be said about the waste places of Zion in our own day. The beautiful Nauvoo, that was once the largest city in the State of Illinois, larger than Chicago or Springfield, the State capital, at the time the Saints lived in Illinois, is today a little, neglected village. What has happened? Icarians, frugal German colonists and others who have tried to build up a city there have failed in their attempts. Nauvoo has gone down completely and like the curse that has rested on the land of Canaan for centuries,  it seems as though a curse rests upon Nauvoo and its surroundings today. The Lord has not forgotten that once there lived in that place a God-fearing people, who were driven away by mobs. Men who did not fear God took away from the Saints of the Most High their inheritances, and the curse is upon the land to this day, the same as the land of Palestine. At least, that is the impression I had when I visited Nauvoo a number of years ago, and something similar could be said of the change that has come to those parts of Missouri where the Saints once dwelt. 

In conclusion I thank God for our mountain home. I appreciate God's blessings upon us here, not only as manifested in the numerical growth of the Church, but in the blessings that have come to the soil upon which we dwell, upon the land which has been dedicated as a land of Zion and a home for the Saints. God grant that these beautiful valleys may always continue a land of Zion to the Latter-day Saints, 1 ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Edna Evans sang, "Kind words are sweet tones of the heart." 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am pleased to have the privilege of addressing you for a short time, upon the principles of the Gospel which are near and dear to the hearts of all Latter-day Saints. I am not afraid that I cannot occupy the time, but I do tremble when I appear before an audience for fear I might not be an instrument in the hands of God in conveying to them the bread of life. So, I pray that the Spirit of our Father shall be with us here to-day, and shall be with what I shall be led to say to you, that your time may not be spent in vain, and that I will not be abjudged guilty of wasting your time. 

There has been reference made to the great "Go-to-Church Movement," that is to be inaugurated in this city on the 26th of April, if I am informed correctly. That movement, like many other great things, was started in Chicago. The first "Go-to-Church" day was February the first, this year. It was estimated that over a million people who were not churchgoing people found themselves inside of some church building on that clay. We were invited with the rest of the churches, by circular letter, to join in the movement to induce people to go to church. We were likewise asked to pay for some advertising in the paper, since the big papers of that city were giving much space to move the people to attend services on that day. We forwarded our check, together with the ad. that we desired run in behalf of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. One month after the movement was over we received a communication from the chairman of the committee reading : 

"Dear Sir : In closing up the matter pertaining to the "Go-to-Church Sunday" campaign, I find among the papers your check, which is enclosed herewith. The advertisement which you ordered was not run because the committee voted that it should be excluded on the grounds that your organization was reither Catholic, Protestant nor Jewish." 

This committee was made up of representative ministers of eighteen  churches including Jews, Catholics and Protestants. 

If the Latter-day Saints in this city, of this State are treated in a like manner, you will not be permitted to participate in the great movement which has received such hearty support in this conference. Some may say we are Protestants in every sense of the word, protesting against all churches in all the earth. But, I prefer to state it in another way. Instead of protesting against Catholic ami Protestant denominations, or against the Jews, we carry a message of peace, and a proclamation to the world that God our Father has again revealed Himself, and the true character of His Son, to the children of men. We have been commissioned to proclaim that revelation to all the world, not as a protest against the doctrines they are teaching, but in love and peace, even the love that Christ felt for the people who really believed in Him and His true character, when He walked with His disciples. We have been authorized to proclaim the wonderful work that God has established in the earth. I thank God that we do not belong to the Catholic denomination or to any of the denominations who have received their authority if they have at all, from the Catholic Church. I thank God, likewise, that my lot is not cast among the Jews of this day, but that I am favored to be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with a testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that He has established His Church in the earth for the salvation of all men who will believe in Him and keep His commandments, and prepare themselves to enjoy all that He has promised to the faithful. 

I was especially impressed with one reference made by President Joseph F. Smith today, in connection with the great work of the Latter-day Saints, and that was, in regard to the salvation for the dead. Latter-day Saints, as you know, believe that not only those who hear and obey the Gospel of Jesus while they live in the earth shall be saved, but all mankind who have ever lived upon the arth, or who now live, or who ever will live upon the earth, shall have an equal chance to hear the name of Christ, to hear the Gospel of Jesus taught, and have a chance to accept or reject the same. Thus the love of Christ is shown more beautifully than ever man has taught it before. His love and His Gospel is proclaimed to all earth's inhabitants, reaching not only the living but the dead, also. Three weeks ago, in the city of Chicago, at least five different churches taught a similar doctrine to their congregations, under the headings of "A Second Chance," or "The Dead shall hear the Voice of God," or "Greater Love of Christ." Thus you can see how the leaven of the Gospel is taking possession of the hearts of the people of the earth. I rejoice in it, and shall rejoice more when they shall look for the true authority to administer in the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, when they shall seek men who have the right to go into the waters of baptism and say in all truth : "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." That they cannot say today, for they have not been commissioned, they have not been ordained; they have no right to say unto the people that they have been so ordained; they have no right to  men and women into the Church of Christ, for He has not so designated them. 

Latter-day Saints sometimes think that they are doing all there is to be done concerning the salvation of the dead. But when I look around in this great nation of ours, and see how the leaven of the Gospel is working, I am almost lead to proclaim that "the children of the world are wiser in their generation than the children of light," for the people of the world are doing a marvelous work connected with the salvation of the children of our Father. Many have had planted in their hearts the love of God and the love of their fellow men, reaching not only to the living but to the dead. They do not recognize their efforts as a work for the salvation of the dead, but such it is nevertheless. Since the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored, and the Prophet Elijah has come, the hearts of the children have been turned toward their dead relatives. While they have not understood that there shall be baptism for their dead kindred, they feel that they should gather their names and genealogies and record them in books. I sometimes believe that they have done that work better than we have done it, using better books and spending more money for that purpose. 

There was not much done, however, of a permanent nature, in this nation, looking to the gathering of genealogies, until after the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple. There were few organizations with this object in view, but one is really surprised to see in the great libraries of the nation the work now being done. I have some items here that I gathered a few weeks ago in visiting one of the greatest genealogical libraries in the world, and I would like to give part of them for the consideration of the Latter-day Saints. I believe that we are interested in this subject more vitally than any other people in the earth; because we have more light on the subject. We have a better reason for gathering genealogies of the dead than any other people in the world. They gather it for decency sake, as one genealogist put it, while we do it in the spirit of saviors to the dead. They do it from personal pride, and the spirit that a man who cannot trace his genealogy is like a mongrel among stock, who had no pedigree. One librarian told me all decent people now a days know who their parents are, likewise their grandparents, and greatgrandparents, because the world over, respectable people keep sacredly such records, and as soon as possible, publish them in good books for generations yet unborn. 

One of the first organizations of that character established in this country, is entitled, "The New England Historical and Genealogical Society," organized in the year 1844, just eight years after the coming of Elijah. They gave this reason for establishing this organization : "There is no work of the kind in the country, and one seems to be much needed, for the period has arrived when an awakened and great interest is felt in this country in the pursuit of genealogical research." With the exception of one or two small or minor organizations having for their object the gathering of genealogies; the work was limited to this one organization. But following the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, when Wilford Woodruff said in his dedicatorial prayer that he had turned the last  turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers in this earth, praying God to hasten the great day of the salvation of the dead, a number of such organizations have been established. I have the names of seven genealogical periodicals that are now published. After 1893, it seems that the great movement began in earnest. I will read a list of the organizations and periodicals that were established immediately after the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple : 

"The Newbury Library," in Chicago, one of the largest of its kind in the world, was organized in November, 1893. A large and active organization for genealogical work was inaugurated November 1893, entitled, "The Genealogical Society of New Hampshire." "The Mayflower Descendants," was organized in 1894. The "Virginia Magazine of Historical Biographies," in 1894. "The Colonial Order," in 1894 "The Military Order of Foreign Wars," in 1894. "The National Society of New England," in 1895. "The Colonial Society," in 1895. The "National Society of Children of American Revolution." in 1895. "The American Historical Register," in 1895. "The Genealogical Society of Pennsylvania," in 1895. "The Genealogical Society of Syracuse, New York," in 1895. "The Mayflower Descendants Quarterly," in 1898. "Old Northwest Society of Columbia," in 1899. "Medford Historical Record of Massachussets," in 1898. "Devon Record Society," in 1904. "Maryland Historical Magazine," in 1906. "New England Family History," in 1907. and "Massachussets Magazine Quarterly," in 1908. Probably there have never been, in such a short  in the world's history, so many societies organized for gathering together names and genealogies. As I said before, they have some other objects, but the great object'as understood by the Latterday Saints, is that some day the people of the earth may go to the House of the Lord, and, with these records, gathered by the children of the world, at great expense of time and means, perform a work for their dead relatives. When they meet those relatives on the other side, they can say that they had worked to secure the salvation of those who had no chance to hear the word of God in this life. 

Truly the Lord has turned the hearts of the children to their parents, and the hearts of our forefathers who are dead have been turned to us. I believe that they are near us, and that they are trying their best to influence us to do that which will open the prison doors, and give them a chance to enter into a broader life and grander work which will prepare us and them for greater happiness in the life to come; this is the greater love that is moving the living and the dead. 

I rejoice in my testimony of the 'Gospel. I thank God for the privilege that I have had in the mission field, of laboring with thousands of your missionary sons and daughters. I know that the mothers and fathers of Zion are the true nobility of the earth. They have noble sons and daughters who are not afraid to proclaim to the world, under inspiration of the Spirit of God, that God lives, and His Son Jesus is the Savior of the world. I would like to say, my brethren and sisters, that we have every reason to hold up our heads and rejoice, because of the testimony that God has given us, be of the revelations of his Son that have come into our hearts, that He is the Savior of the world and Redeemer of mankind, and that the hour is come when the living and the dead shall hear His voice and receive salvation through His wonderful love. 

I ask the peace and blessings of heaven to be upon us. May the spirit of this great work, not only for the salvation of the dead, but the salvation of the living, take possession of us. May we be diligent, even as diligent as the world is, in recording the genealogies of our friends and relatives in books, so we shall be able to trace our ancestry in written records away back to the beginning, and find that we all have come from a noble race of sires. May God grant us His peace and favor, and may He prosper Zion, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

EIDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I shall have an interest in your faith and prayers. I have been suffering with a severe cold, and have not recovered sufficient to speak clearly. I hope and pray that the Lord will strengthen my voice, and that the time allotted to me shall not be considered wasted, but that our gathering here this afternoon will be a spiritual feast, and that we shall continue to enjoy the splendid spirit that has prevailed. I rejoice in the Gospel of the Redeemer of the world. I have been permitted to take a part in the ministry of the Son of God, and have been able to bear testimony to thousands of the children of men who have not learned to love the Lord GENERAL CONFERENCE.  have the Latter-day Saints, neither have become acquainted with the fulness of the Gospel that the Lord has revealed. 

The "Mormon" people have been maligned; men's minds have been turned against them, as the result of missionary work done by emissaries of the adversary, who have taught the people of the world things that are not true, and have been active in discouraging anything that would lead people to think favorably of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as taught by the Latter-day Saints. I had occasion to listen to the recital of a story, a few days ago, by a lady who had been teaching school, in this country, who had gone into one of the States of the Union and was giving an address, the subject being, "Mormonism, and Life among the Mormons." She led her audience to believe that the "Mormons" in Utah have no educational system at all, that they are an ignorant class of people, that they are not making any effort to enlighten the minds of the children in that land called Utah; and many other things that would create enmity in the minds of people. A gentleman, from Utah, who had listened to the discourse, asked her concerning the school systems in Utah, the rank of this State of ours as among other states; pinning her down to prove what she had said. She was surrounded by about twenty ministers, and they were all anxious that she should defend her statement, but she could not do it. Afterwards, she sought that gentleman and asked him not to make a report of it, for she wanted to go back to Utah, where she had some very dear friends. This is only one instance out of many, in which audiences are misinformed. 

I tell you there are very many good men and good women in the world. They don't live perfect lives, it is true, but they are honorable, so far as men of the world are concerned. It is a trick of the* adversary to keep men and women from investigating the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If they could have the veil drawn from their eyes, and could see this country of ours, the great commonwealth that has been established here, as one of the results of the appearance of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith, they would be led to more carefully investigate the history of the "Mormons." We rejoice that we are not afraid of the truth, we are not afraid to have our true history investigated and read by all the men and women of the earth. We desire them to understand what we are doing, that it takes money, that it takes self-sacrifice all the time to keep this latter-day work before the people. It is cheerfully done, without any hope of remuneration in this life. Men lay down their lives for the testimony of Jesus, for the witness of the truth that they bear, inviting men to read and investigate. We do not baptize people without giving them a chance to investigate the Gospel that we preach. We declare that the Gospel is for the living and for the dead, and that they must receive the Gospel of the Redeemer before they can enter into the presence of our God; that the Lord does not save any man in ignorance, but that man must be enlightened; that they will not be consigned to an everlasting torment, until they have had the privilege of receiving or rejecting the Gospel of the Redeemer of the world. 

A lady came to Independence, Missouri, to visit us, and she told  that she had belonged to a certain church all her life, was baptized into it when a child. She had believed it was the Church of God, and had enjoyed herself many times in the meetings of that congregation, etc. She said that two Elders, some two or three years ago, had visited her home and they had left a few tracts and books for her to read, and had borne their testimony that the doctrines stated therein were of the Lord, and included His Gospel and she read them. She had buried her father and husband, and often wondered if she would meet them again. In one of the tracts it was declared that the Gospel had been preached by the Christ to those that are dead. She became interested, and began to study, and, in the course of two years, she was converted to the Gospel. She came to me and said: "I have found a cousin of mine, that I never knew until a short time ago, who has a book containing names of eight thousand of my dead kindred, on my father's sde. Originally they landed in Jamestown with the early settlers of this country. I feel that I cannot rest until I have commenced the work of redemption for them, until, the Temple work has been begun in their behalf, until I have been an instrument for their redemption." This Gospel plan gave her new life, told her she had something great to live for; and she was so happy she felt like weeping, because of this glorious result of the visit of these two Elders. 

Most men will accept the truth when they understand it. Take any man in general and preach something to him absolutely contrary to his views and he will resent it, ninety-nine times out of a hundred, and emphatically declare that he doesn't  it. But when he is calmly reasoned with, and shown wherein his views can be bettered, he will read and listen, and eventually, the leaven of the Gospel enters his soul. How many men and women gathered from the different parts of the earth are witness of this. Ofttimes the^ mother of a family receives the Gospel first, and she never ceases to labor with her loved ones until she gets them into the Church. Occasionally it is the daughter, sometimes it is the son, or father, and they also labor with their loved ones, relatives and neighbors, to get them to become members of the Church. We are witnesses of this, hundreds who are here on these grounds today. Honest hearted men accept the truth when it is presented to them, when prejudice has been allayed. We must make friends and acquantances first, and then they understand our true motives, and the spirit of prejudice that has been planted by Lucifer will be allayed, and he shall not have power always to deceive the children of men. 

My brethren and sisters, we need make no apology for anything the Lord has revealed. In very deed He appeared to Joseph Smith, revealed Himself, spoke to him as one man speaks to another, said to him, "These denominations have a form of godliness, but they have not the power thereof." Why should He not appear to men today as much as at any time in the history of this world ? He appeared to Moses. All people, who are Christians, and many who are not, naturally believe that. He loves His children today as much as He did then. The world's inhabitants have increased, and the works of God are growing greater, and so His love must be greater than in any period of the world's history. As the men and women come and go through this Temple Block, from one season to another, and are shown through these buildings, and go back to their homes, and are met by the Elders of Israel and the Sisters of Zion who bear their testimony to them, prejudice shall be allayed, and men and women will acknowledge the truth, and seek after their dead, and the work for the glory of God shall be consummated and fulfilled. The Lord bless us. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

O, say what is Truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; 

And priceless the value of truth will be, when 

The proud monarch's costliest diadem 

Is counted but dross and refuse. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Joshua H. Paul. 


