Second Overflow
05 04 1914

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Heber J. Grant presided. 

The Ogden Tabernacle choir furnished the musical service, under direction of Joseph Ballantyne, Samuel Whitaker, organist. 

Lillian Scott and the choir sang, "There is a green hill far away." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Hugh J. Cannon. 

Robert Binnie and the choir sang "Nazareth." 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

A few months ago the men of this nation, having an income of three thousand dollars per annum or more, were engaged in the duty of listing, under oath, their income during the months preceding, their worldly blessings, and I thought that if we of the Church, were to list, under the same circumstances, and with the same obligation resting upon us, to make a true and complete inventory, all t he blessings which have come to us from "Mormonism," that the schedule would indeed be a lengthy and imposing one. We would have to list, to begin with, I presume, a correct idea of deity, which has come to us from "Mormonism," even in the first revelation to the Prophet Joseph, as mentioned in the meeting this morning, a knowledge of Deity such as set forth in the sermon of Elder B. H. Roberts, reproduced in the Deseret News last evening. I shall not undertake in the time I have at my disposal to go into details in reference to that subject, but just refer in a general way to the matters that are elucidated and set forth in that splendid talk. So we would have to credit to "Mormonism" a new volume of scripture, even the Book of Mormon, a book attested by the direct testimony of twelve credible witnesses, unimpeached and unimpeachable, competent witnesses altogether trustworthy, and attested by strong internal evidences. The work of the great sculptor attests itself. The work of the great artist likewise, or of the great poet. So the work of the great prophet speaks for itself. There are some things that cannot be fabricated in this world, and a volume of holy writ is one of those things that cannot be produced by fraud or deception. This morning as Elder O. F. Whitney mentioned the efforts to account for "Mormonism," I thought of similar accusations made against Christianity, and the way such arguments have been met. One writer argues thus : 

"Upon the theory that Christ was a  person, the result of the fancy and fairy stories of His disciples after His death, then we must conclude that the leader of the greatest movement for the converting, purifying, inspiring and uplifting of the race which the world has ever known is the prophet of myth, fancy, over-wrought imagination and pious deception. If this be true then it is also true that error is better than truth and the race moves upward under the beneficent influence of falsehood. But this is absurd, and the theory which forces such conclusions must be rejected." 

There would be listed also the Doctrine and Covenants, a modern volume of scripture. And in this connection, we might also note the fact that to "Mormonism" is due the belief, in modern times, in revelation, discarding the notion as expressed by one that "God is an absentee Deity, sitting idly since the first creation morn on the outside of His world watching it go without concern." The truth is that in all ages of the world, the progress of mankind has been guided and led by revelation, revelation that came not prematurely nor tardily, but just at the right time to be in advance of and lead the progress of mankind. And just as it was necessary for the Old Testament Scriptures to be supplemented by the revelations of the New, so it was likewise necessary for the revelations of the Jewish scriptures to be supplemented by the revelations contained in the Book of Mormon, the volume of Nephite scripture, and this Book of Covenants, containing modern revelations. As the information to the followers of Moses was not sufficient to guide those of the Christian dispensation, so the light of the Christian dispensation obscured as it had been through the centuries that had elapsed, was not sufficient for the guidance of the children of our Father in modern times. 

There would be placed also in your schedule another volume of scripture, small, but nevertheless important, the Pearl of Great Price, giving some ancient but very important information concerning the universe, and concerning God's purposes in peopling this world of ours. That book is also well established, so well established that meddlesome priests cannot overthrow it. As well might the birds peck at the foundations of our magnificant granite-built temple to undermine it as for meddlesome priests to undertake to overthrow "Mormonism" by trying to pry out any of its foundation stones. The result of such an effort, recently, as in all by-gone years, has been that "Mormonism" appears stronger than ever before. Just as the story goes of the resident of the cyclone district building a rock fence six feet wide and four feet high. He gave as the explanation for such dimensions if the cyclone turned it over, it would be two feet higher than before. And so in our experiences, whenever any of the foundation principles of "Mormonism" are turned over, they are discovered to be many feet higher than they were before. 

And so the Church organization has been declared by a learned professor of one of our great universities to be one of the great and strong organizations of the world. 

There would be listed also the authorized officers of this organization, men not accomplishing things by their own power or taking credit to themselves for work accomplished through them, but receiving power from, and giving credit to the Father, whose work it is and under whose guidance they labor. 

And to "Mormonism" should be credited also the right idea in reference to authority or priesthood, placing affairs pertaining to the kingdom of our Father, religious affairs, upon the same well known plan that our earthly affairs are placed upon, no principle being better understood or as generally acted upon in this world of ours, in either business or governmental affairs than that one cannot be an agent of the principal without the authorization or the ratification of the principal. And so we recognize this truth as an important principle, that no man can take this honor upon himself save he be called of God as was Aaron, recognizing also the words of the Savior, "Ye have not chosen Me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you' that ye shall go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain." As indicated by the remarks of the brethren during this conference, the result of these added volumes of scripture is to not do away with the Bible, but to supplement and make its precious parts more plain and more emphatic. And as the result of this splendid organization and the priesthood operating in the offices appointed by the Almighty, the fruits of "Mormonism" are good indeed. 

We heard yesterday some vital statistics, which only took a few minutes to read. But do we realize the import of some of those important vital statistics given by President Smith in reference to the birth rate ? Do you know the significance of that little figure as to the birthrate in our Church, of 37 per thousand. Do you know that in England and Wales, when they had reached the very high water-mark of high birth rate in those lands, in the year 1876, since which time the rate has been steadily declining at a very rapid rate, that then the birth rate stood at that time a few points below that of the Church for the year 1913, the birth rate of England and Wales in the year 1876 being 36.3 as against 37 as given by President Smith as for the Church for last year? 

On this same subject, to indicate its importance, let me refer to the remarks of the Archbishop of York, in his presidental address given at the church congress, held Oct. 1, 1912, in which he said: "There is a serious and steady decline in the birth rate of the people," and, "we are confronted by a formidable national danger." Likewise, the Bishop of London, in his address of Oct. 12, 1911, says: "It is proved as completely as anything can be that the cause for this ( referring to the declining birthrate) is a deliberate limitation of families," the cause of which he puts down to the "miserable doctrine of comfort." He intimates that the cure is to live the simpler, harder life our fathers lived when they made Britain what it is today." Also Father Bernard Vaughan, in a speech given by him July 14, 1908, referred to wives refusing the privilege of motherhood for numerous things mentioned by him, among them being : wishing to avoid being bored with the nursery; because there was no room in their flat; because they were not strong enough to bear what they did not like to bear, etc. When that condition arrived, he said, it was time to "read the riot act," an expression peculiarly English. Also Dr. C. J. Trimble, upon the same subject, declared that the declining birth rate as a national catastrophe, and called it social suicide. In our 

Church statistics there is this consequence, if you notice, that while there is a high birth rate there is a low death rate. And writers upon this subject, as for instance, the one in the Nineteenth Century magazine for February last, say that as a rule where there is a high birth rate there is invariably a high death rate, and conversely, with a low birth rate as a rule there is a low death rate. The justification which some have for the low birth rate is to secure a low death rate. But here this rule does not work in the Church, for while we have a high birth rate there is a very low death rate. 

Time will not permit to inventory all the things that can be credited to "Mormonism." You in making up your list might include all that has been said during the conference by the presidency of the Church and the council of the Twelve up to this good time, and all that shall be said peculiar to "Mormonism" during the balance of these conference meetings, and then the half will not be told. There will be much afterwards to add to your account of the spiritual and temporal blessings which "Mormonism" has brought unto men, and you may not undertake to make any fine distinctions in drawing the line between the temporal and the spiritual, because some of them you shall find in the twilight zone, and you can no more separate them than you can take any point of time and say this is where daylight ceases and that where darkness begins. . 

You can give "Mormonism" credit for its people being a frugal, industrious people, a God-fearing, a faith-promoting, a child-rearing, home-building, colonizing people, a people of honesty and integrity and  general worth as citizens of this country of ours, — a people who stand for temperance. The Church stands for settling things in the right way, and until a question is settled right it is not settled; and we might bear that in mind in connection with the courageous and splendid talk of Elder Grant yesterday on the temperance question, and we should realize, to begin with, that it will take manhood, courage and determination to settle the saloon question as it should be settled, and until that question is settled right it is not settled at all. As the poet says : 

"However the battle is ended, 

Though proudly the victor comes, With fluttering flags and prancing steeds 

And echoing roll of drums, Till the truth proclaims the motto — In letters of living light, 

No question is ever settled Until it is settled right. 

"Thougfi the heel of the strong oppressor, 

May grind the weak in the dust And the voices of fame with one acclaim 

May call him great and just, Let those who appiaud take warning, 

And keep this motto in sight, No question is ever settled, Until it is settled right. 

"Let those who have failed take courage, 

Though the enemy seems to have won, 

Though his ranks are strong, if he be in the wrong, » 

The battle is not yet done; For sure as the morning follows 

The darkest hour of the night, No question is ever settled, 

Until it is settled right. 

"O man bowed down with labor, 

O woman young yet old, O heart oppressed in the toiler's breast 

And crushed by the power of gold, 

Keep on with your weary battle Against triumphant might, 

No question is ever settled, Until it is settled right." 

To conclude the line of thought that I started with, in this income schedule, of which we have been speaking, one may deduct certain expenses, taxes, interests, etc., the draw-backs, so to speak, in order to get your net assets; so when you get your list completed of the benefits that have come to you from ''Mormonism,'' charge up or deduct will you, for the purpose of ascertaining your net income from "Mormonism" all the possible drawbacks. Charge up against it, if you please, what you have paid for tithing, if you think that a burden or loss. If it is not to your pleasure, a joy and a profit to make these payments, then deduct them from your schedule. Likewise your missionary effort and expenditures in that direction. Still you shall find there is a large net asset to you from the Gospel, if you are living up to your privileges, if you are incorporating into your lives all the good things that you are entitled to take from. "Mormonism," making them a part of your lives. By the way, our missionary system would have to be listed as one of the best sustained efforts at altruism upon a large scale, considering the number of people, that the world in all its history has ever seen. 

May the Lord assist us to appreciate the good that the Gospel has conferred upon us, and will confer upon us, if we are willing that it shall come into our lives and bless us with its sublime teachings and its life-giving principles and precepts, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER JOS. S. GEDDES 

(President of Oneida Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I presume many of you would be better acquainted with my father than you are with me, a remark I am led to make after the introduction I have had. My father was one of the early pioneers, one who labored upon the foundation of this beautiful temple. I feel very proud of my father and my mother. When my father was about 14 years of age, he listened to the' testimony of two humble elders in the city of Glasgow, Scotland. He became their fast friend, and a convert to the doctrine. When he went home to acquaint his parents of what he had done, the door was closed in his face; thus demonstrating and proving what the Master said, "He that will not leave father and mother, houses and lands, wives and children for My sake is not worthy of Me." I feel to praise the Lord every day that I live that my father, then a boy, had integrity to stand for the Church, and to stand by the testimony that God the eternal Father had given unto him. I feel that I cannot live long enough in the world to repay my father and mother for what they have done for me, and I feel what little time I have to labor here upon the earth that I want to devote my life and labors and all the Lord has blessed me with, and all He may bless me with in the future, for the upbuilding of His kingdom. 

I do not believe in long sermons. I believe that actions speak so much louder than words that we can scarcely hear what we say when placed in comparison with what we do. I remember one of our re elders, Elder Heber Q. Hale, who has now been placed as president of one of the newly organized stakes, in Boise, Idaho. In giving his report he said he had been away from home upwards of three years, and the greatest sermon he had preached while away was one without words. When he landed in Germany, some of the elders warned him about what he should say and do, especially what he should do, because he could not yet say much. So, when a cup of tea was placed before him, he could not tell the good lady he did not drink tea; he could not explain the reason why. The tea was finally removed, and a cup of coffee placed instead thereof. He could not tell why he did not drink that. Neither could he tell why he did not drink the beer, when that was placed by his plate; but he thus preached one of the most powerful discourses that he preached while upon his mission, and it was one without words, for within a few days Brother Hale had the privilege of leading that good lady and all her family into the waters of baptism. 

I remember while in the Southern States a little incident that happened Jn my own experience, if you will pardon a reference to it. After traveling nearly all day without food, we of course were hungry, and we began to try to get entertainment for the night. We overtook a gentleman, and he offered entertainment at his home. We discovered, however, before long, that he was somewhat under the influence of liquor. We did not mind that so much, because we were hungry, and wanted to get a night's entertainment. Before we reached his home, he warned us against his good wife, she did not like the "Mormons." We did not care so much about that, because we had been used to that kind of treatment. He put us into a little room to wait until supper was ready. After supper was made ready, he came and led us across a long piazza, and took us, I think, into one of the old plantation mansions that was used in slavery times, for the dining room was a very narrow, long hall, with a simple table that I think they used years ago in the times of slavery. Seated away on the other end was his good lady and a plate next to hers for him. And down at the other end were two places for the "Mormon" elders. We did not say much, but we preached just the same. Finally the good lady noticed that we did not drink out of the little white cup and saucer. Finally she whispered to her husband. Said he to us: "Don't you gentlemen drink tea?" "No, sir." "What will you take; will you have a cup of coffee?" "No, sir, we do not drink coffee." "Will you have a glass of wine or beer?" "No, sir, we do not drink wine or beer." Then the good lady spoke up and said, "John, I wish you were more like these men." The ice was broken; the sermon had been preached. This lady was a teacher, teaching hygiene to her students, which offered us a splendid opportunity to explain why we did not use these things. Arrangements had been made for the husband to go and get a neighbor to come and stay with her while he went to the club. After supper, the good lady said, "John, you need not go for our neighbor; I am not afraid of such men as these." She took us into her parlor and entertained us royally until about 11 'clock while the husband was off at the club. 

Another incident. A young man was working one time out in a railroad camp. You who have been there will perhaps appreciate the kind of people who are generally found there. But before this young man was allowed to go, his father said: "Son, you may go provided you will always remember who you are, and what your father and mother have done for you." He consented and went, and of course there were all kinds oif talk, profanity, swearing, chewing tobacco, drinking, telling vulgar stories and such like things. The boss, however, noticed one boy who seemed to be different to all the others. One Sunday, one of the number who had been used to speaking, mounted a table and began to tell all about the "Mormons," and President Brigham Young. Some of them' knew this boy was a "Mormon" and they began to twit him —  "Will you stand for that? Why don't you defend yourself and your people?" Perhaps the boy had never preached in his life. They brought him up to the front, and when the boss saw the boy he said : "What! and is he a 'Mormon?' and is it his people you have been talking about? Get down, sir, off that table; you don't need to tell me these people are such a people. If he is a 'Mormon' would to the Lord you were all 'Mormons.' Come down, sir!" The boy had defended his people as Jesus defended Himself when John the Baptist having been cast into prison sent messengers to inquire if he was really the Christ or whether they should look for another. The Savior did not boast at all, who He was, but He merely referred to His life and His labors, and He said, "This will testify to John who I am and what I am." 

"Now, I feel, my brethren and sisters, that my time is about up. I am interested in the work of the Lord. My stake is located in southern Idaho. The northern boundary of Utah is our southern line. We are bounded on the south by the Benson stake, on the west by the Malad, on the north by the Pocatello and Bannock, and on the east by the Bear Lake stake; so you see Oneida is located on the map directly in the center of the earth, and all the important stakes are close by and paying- tribute to it (laughter). 

We are trying to teach our people the ways of the Lord. We are taking up a labor with our priesthood. We feel that there is no labor that is equally important, or more important than the one devolving upon the teachers, whose duty it is, according to what the Lord says, to be with the Church always and to strengthen them, and to see that no iniquity abounds, no evil speaking, no lying nor backbiting, and that everybody attends to their duties. What a wonderful responsibility! I used to think the Bishop was the biggest man in all the Church, but I have about concluded that he is not half so big a man as the elder or the teacher, whose duty it is to .see that no iniquity abounds in the Church. There is not much left for the Bishop to do. 

I, too, was wonderfully impressed with the discourse of Brother Heber J. Grant yesterday. I stand for prohibition individually. I believe that it will extend to the county, to the state, and to the nation, and it should be world-wide. 

I have always maintained that it was a reflection upon Latter-day Saints that saloons should exist in any of our cities or towns. 

May the Lord bless Israel. May the Lord bless our fathers and our mothers, whose locks are growing grey, and though they may have a few failings, their integrity, their life's labors stand out in such bold relief to me that I cannot see their failings. The Lord has a wonderful crown of righteousness for our fathers and our mothers, though they may have their weaknesses, and I feel that in order for us to be half as good as our fathers and our mothers, we must be twice as good as we are. 

May the Lord bless us. May we be the salt of the earth. We are trying to teach our people that they should live such a life that no man holding a portion of the priesthood could walk down the sidewalk unless he blesses somebody, not in what we shall say, but the very influence that he bears, everybody pointing to him, "There is a man of God; there is a good man." And so we can let our light so shine that all men may see our good works, and God our Eternal Father will be glad of it. 

May we all prove true to the trust. May we feel that we are living today, and while our fathers have fought the good fight, have filled their course, and have done a marvel and a wonder, yet today the responsibility rests upon you and me. How are we making good ? is the question. I feel there never was a time in the history of the Church when it needed stronger men and stronger women than it does today, because of the thousand and one temptations coming in so many ways that our fathers and  did not know of. Lucifer in the last days is set loose upon the Latter-day Saints, and his temptations are so nearly like the genuine. There is such duplicity that it is going to deceive the very elect, if it were possible. 

The Lord bless us, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"When I can read by title clear," was sung by Bessie Blair, Lillian Scott and choir. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I am truly happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of meeting with you, and partaking of the sweet influence, the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, which has characterized the various meetings and the teachings of this conference. To one who has been away in the world, striving to gain an audience of those who do not know the Lord, no sweeter joy can come into his life than to look into the faces of his brethren and sisters, in such vast numbers as we have at this conference. These conferences have always been well attended, which is merely an expression of the integrity of heart of this people, who have made covenants with our Heavenly Father. For the true Latter-day Saint to come to conference twice a year, besides attending to his duties and services in his ward, and in the stake of Zion where he lives, is a privilege wherein our souls find a sweet expression. 

When I look into your faces, I realize that there is a soul to this vast meeting, which is of a higher order than, perhaps, that of any individual in the congregation. We all have our faults and failings, but  all have the same faults. When we consider the virtues of each individual here today, I want to say that the aggregate will make a character and soul to this meeting typifying, to an extent, the life, soul, and character of our Lord and Master. There is virtue in the heart of each one who has sought communication with his Heavenly Father, by the inspiration of God's Holy Spirit. 

We hold a position in the world I sometimes think, that is not fully realized by us as Latter-day Saints. When I looked over the morning meeting in the Tabernacle, and look over this congregation today, I see many brethren holding the priesthood, whose wives and children will be partakers of that priesthood with them, and it causes my heart to rejoice. I wonder, Do we really sense the obligation placed upon us, when the priesthood was conferred upon us, or do we look upon priesthood as merely a calling, an honor and not one of service ? I do not believe that the Lord has given the priesthood for no purpose. There are certain requirements in that priesthood which we are called upon to magnify. When your sons and husbands go out and face a wicked world, raise up their voices in declaring that the heavens have been opened, and the Gospel has been restored in its infinite purity, I tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is an inspiration to me that is not equaled by anything else that I have beheld in my life. You have young men in the Eastern States Mission, and it seems that the powers of the adversary are arrayed against the work. There are lecturers talking for money and for effect, trying to poison the minds of the people against this work. 

Our position in this world, my brethren and sisters, is not one of destruction; it is the most constructive work that was ever inaugurated. God has called upon us, not only to go and preach the Gospel, that it might be said that we have fulfilled a two, three, or five years' mission, but that we have labored in the service of the Most High to bring souls unto God. It has been a joy to me to go and herald this Gospel to the world, to lift my voice in defense of what I know is right, what God has revealed unto me. I should be untrue to every sacred sentiment of my heart were I to say, when a call comes to me, that there are others much healthier than I. who are better prepared with this world's goods, better able from an educational standpoint to bear witness of the divinity of this work. I must be true to every true sentiment of my heart. 

God has not given us priesthood that we may only go to our classes and answer "present" once a week. There may be some, perhaps, who have this idea concerning their calling in the priesthood. We are that "peculiar people, a royal priesthood, and holy nation," because we are called upon to bear this Gospel unto the world. At the time that great tragedy was committed by Cain, the first capital criminal, the Lord asked him, "Where is thy brother?" he answered, "Am I my brother's keeper." We have sufficient examples in holy writ to show that it is the duty of every individual child of our Heavenly Father, who has received testimony of the truth, to bear witness unto his neighbors. It is not necessary to go into the world, cross the seas, or into some foreign country to warn another, nor to magnify your priesthood and calling; but it is equally our duty right  at home, here where charity, the love of human souls, can be increased in the hearts of the children of men. 

The Lord, in speaking throug-h His Prophet Ezekiel, says: 

"Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul." 

We have also in modern revelation, as contained in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord says that every one who is warned must warn his neighbor. Does it not appear to you, then, that I am my brother's keeper? An individual who would forsake that responsibility, and partake of the spirit that was manifest by Cain on the occasion that I have mentioned, I tell you that he is not acting according to the spirit of the Gospel, or the word of the Lord. We have imposed upon us a great obligation in "bearing the vessels of the Lord" before the world, even though this life may be spent away from friends and relatives, the comforts of home, and pleasant surroundings. President Geddes has told us he respected his father because he had shown that he was willing to leave father and mother, houses and lands, wife and children, for the Gospel's sake. There is something in such a nature that is devoutly to be admired. 

When I think upon the release which came to my predecessor, PresIdent Ben E. Rich, it fills my heart with joy to know that that valiant defender of the faith received his release from God, our Heavenly Father. If it is pleasing unto Him, and I have 'found favor in the eyes of the Lord, through the sincerity of my heart, I hope that my release may come as President Rich's came. I am interested in this work. My heart is in it, my all. I have laid all on the altar of sacrifice, to go into the world to proclaim this Gospel of life and salvation. 

Upon one occasion the question was asked the Lord and Master by the Pharisees who came unto him tauntingly: "Master, is it right to pay tribute to Caesar or no?" The Master, with diplomacy, yet with wisdom and inspiration, said : "Bring me a penny." And as He took the penny, and held it in His hand He said "Whose is this image and superscription?" And they said unto him, Caesar's. And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." When I look into your countenances, I see the image, the superscription of God. We are simple coin current that is passing, doing good that we could not otherwise do. We have come forth from the mint of the Gods, and passed current, and done the good that was designed in our coming to this earth, then we shall return and be redeemed. I sincerely trust that we will look upon the doing of these things as a sacred obligation we owe to mankind. 

I have much to be thankful for. My father, who was a jailer, had the privilege of hearing the Gospel preached through prison bars, where there were three elders incarcerated for the testimony of Jesus. Their  was one boy, 19 years of age. He went to the head jailer and told him that those men were not wicked, as they had been accused, and the result was that the elders were released. Two of them are still living, the other has gone to his reward. 

My brethren and sisters, I know that the Gospel is true. I do not know how I can find words to express the gratitude in my heart for being born and raised under the covenant, and to my Heavenly Father for the testimony which has been given me. I hope to always remain true to it. Perhaps I could make you understand what the Gospel means to me when I tell you how I feel when I look into the aged face of my dear old mother, when I comprehend the loving affection that she extended to me in my childhood. When retiring at night she would have me kneel at her side and taught me to pray to my Heavenly Father to guide and teach me in my boyhood days. When I went upon my first mission, she enjoined me in these words : "Always keep your eye on the First Presidency of the Church; where these men lead you must follow." That principle has been burned deep in my nature, by the loving words of that mother. If you could understand what my father and my mother have done for me, you would understand how I regard the Gospel. The influence and teaching of my father and mother have placed me in a position to appreciate the blessings of the Gospel. I want to say that my earthly father has not been more kind to me, though he was the embodiment of affection, than has my Heavenly Father, whose merciful blessings that have been given unto me from time to time, are priceless. When I look upon the sacrifice that was made by my father in leaving his home in the old country, and walking across the plains a humble Norwegian boy, who could not say a word of English, and then realize that he has raised a family of 26 children, I feel that I want to praise the Lord all the days of my life for such parentage. 

The priesthood which has been given unto us is most sacred, and I feel that when we understand the full import of our calling we will be more diligent, and more faithful, and the question will never pass our lips, "Am I my brother's keeper?" 

I desire to read to you a passage of modern scripture : 

''Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson, that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of un . righteousness, behold the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved, and when it is withdrawn, amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authoritv. as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, bv  suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; and that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death; let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever." 

O what a magnificent key to those who hold the authority of the holy priesthood! How many of the inhabitants of Zion have the patience and love that they should have toward those who may have sinned, some young man or young woman who may have gone into by and forbidden paths. Have we oppressed, or has unrighteous dominion been exercised in such cases? Or has there been mercy and love extended to such to keep them within the bonds of the covenant? I tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is much required of us who have made covenants with our Heavenly Father. 

May God's blessings rest upon us all, that when we shall look back upon our lives we may feel a sense of satisfaction, having appreciated the truths that have been revealed from heaven. When we shall be brought to stand before the great Judge, to account for the deeds done  the body, may it be said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many." May this be our happy lot, and that we may enter into the glory of the celestial abode, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Mrs. Agnes Warner and the choir sang "Gospel Restoration." 

ELDER LUCIUS N. MAUSDEN. 

(President of Parowan Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is truly a pleasure for me to speak to you a few moments upon this occasion. I trust that the few moments I occupy that I may be inspired by that same spirit which has been with our brethren during our conference, arid during this meeting. I appreciate very much that our stake has been recognized during this conference; not that I wish to appear before you, but Parowan Stake is one of the older stakes of Zion. While it is one of the old stakes, I am only new in the work. I am pleased to report to you that we have a lot of good brethren and sisters in the Parowan stake of Zion, and it is a pleasure to work among them. 

I am pleased to meet with you in our general conferences, from time to time, and partake of the spirit which prevails at these gatherings. I might mention one thing, about the only thought that I wish to speak about, and that is a thing that prevails to some extent in our stake. It is that, in traveling through the stake and getting acquainted with the people, I notice we are not studying the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price,  much as we should do. You know we have been told the glory of God is intelligence. I believe that through the study of these books we will gain much intelligence. I believe that it is a great mistake for families in our community to refrain from studying these books. We are now advocating the study of these church works in our stake, and I trust that our talk will not be in vain. I noticed Elder George Albert Smith's remarks in yesterday's meeting, that he mentioned this same thing, and I take it, my brethren and sister, that we are not the only stake making this regretable mistake. 

Progression and advancement in a financial way are all right, but we have too many brethren and sisters in our stake that pay little or no attention to becoming familiar with the principles of the Gospel. Many go to their labors from day to day and think but little about studying the principles of life and salvation, and I think that should be regarded as most important. It has been said, "What doth it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul?" This is in my opiniori, my brethren and sisters, a most important question. I trust that it will be the effort of every stake presidency and of every bishop in the Church, where these conditions prevail, to try and better the conditions in this regard. 

My testimony is that the Gospel is true; that the Savior came upon this earth and sacrificed His life, and made salvation possible to all. I sometimes think that we hardly appreciate that great fact. 

Let us investigate the principles of the Gospel. Study the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. I do not know of any better way to get the spirit of our office and calling than to study up these principles, and try to live in accordance therewith. May God bless us in all our efforts, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

David Starr Jordan's writings confirming value of the Word of Wisdom — Card playing denounced. 

I might incidentally remark that our clocks are both five minutes too fast. I thought I would give you this information to save your time and prevent you looking at them so often, as it is my intention to speak until four by our clocks, which will leave five minutes for prayer and singing. 

Some of the remarks made today have called to my mind a subject upon which I had no intention of speaking. I hold in my hand a little book written by David Starr Jordan, "The Strength of Being Clean." The retail price, I believe, is thirtyfive cents, but if you purchase the book, one hundred copies at a time you can get it for twenty-five cents. I have given away at least a couple of hundred copies. 

There are many people who, if the servants of the Lord preach to them year after year, what is said has no particular effect upon them. But these same people, if they receive advice of some man of worldly wisdom, immediately follow it. I remember going to Sanpete county and preaching a sermon upon the Word of Wisdom. Subsequently I learned that a good sister who heard my sermon was taken sick and wired for a doctor to come from Salt Lake City, by special engine, and it cost  several hundred dollars to learn from this doctor that she was drinking too much tea, and unless she quit, would be sure to die. She accepted his advice and got well. Had she listened to my advice which would have cost her nothing, she would have saved several hundred dollars, to say nothing about being in perfect harmony with the teachings of the Lord, as revealed in the Word of Wisdom. We sing more than we do any other hymn, ''We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet, to guide us in these latter days." I recommend that some of the Saints add, "provided he doesn't guide usto keep the word of wisdom." 

I have been much pleased with the book, "The Strength of Being Clean." I understand that President Joseph F. Smith says it is one of the strongest ever written by a nonmember of the Church in vindication of the Word of Wisdom. Mr. Jordan was for years the President of the Leland-Stanford, Jr., University of California. The Latter-day Saints should be grateful to this great educator, one of the greatest in our country, for writing a book which confirms the teachings of Joseph Smith, the Prophet; an "ignoramus" in the estimation of many people. 

Mr. Jordan says : 

"It is vulgar to like poor music, to read weak books, to feed on sensational newspapers, to trust to patent medicines, to find amusement in trashy novels, to enjoy vulgar theaters, tofind pleasure in cheap jokes, to tolerate coarseness and looseness in any of its myriad forms.* * * 

It is the hope of civilization that our republic may outgrow the toleration of vulgarity, but that is still a long way in the future.* * * 

"A form of vulgarity is profanity. This is the sign of a dull, coarse, unrefined nature. * * * 

"Alcohol gives a feeling of warmth or vigor or exhilaration, when the real warmth or vigor or exhilaration does not exist. Tobacco gives a feeling of rest which is not restfulness. The use of opium seems to intensify the imagination, giving its clumsy wings a wonderous  power of flight. It destroys the sense of time and space, but it is in time and space alone that man has his being. Cocaine gives a strength which is not strength. Strychnine quickens the motor response which follows sensation. Coffee and tea, like alcohol, enable one to borrow from his future store of force for present purposes, and none of these make any provision for paying back the loan. 

''People who borrow and do not pay back, are classed among the dishonest. The Lord has loaned us our bodies, and it is our duty to return them to Him when the battle of life is ended, without their having been polluted by our breaking His commandments. 

"One and all these various drugs tend to give the impression of a power or a pleasure, or an activity, which we do not possess. One and all their function is to force the nervous system to lie. One and all the result of their habitual use is to render the nervous system incapable of ever telling the truth. One and all their supposed pleasures are followed by a reaction of subiective pains as spurious and as unreal as the pleasures which thev follow. Each or tliem, if used to excess, brings in time insanity, incapacity, and death. With each of them, the first use makes the second easier. To yield to temptation makes it easier to yield again. The weakening effect on the will is greater than the iniury to the body. In fact, the harm alcoholic and similar excesses do to the body is wholly secondary. It is the visible reflex of the harm alreadv done to the nervous system." 

I heard that a non-"Mormon" banker in Salt Lake said he would be willing to employ a gentile boy who' drank or smoked, but he would not think of employing a "Mormon" boy who did these things, because he had been taught better all his life and would, therefore, be violating  teachings of his parents, and his Church, as well as his own conscience. A young man who did this, he did not wish in his bank. "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." If we could implaint this teaching in the hearts of our children it would be a magnificent lesson. 

We, as a people have been told not to play cards. Ever since I can remember, the Presidency of the Church and others have been writing and talking against card playing. Many fathers and mothers say, "Oh, there is no harm in cards," and they let their children play. Recently a daughter of mine, and her cousin went to a social gathering at a Latter-day Saint home, and they' were the only ones who did not play cards. Upon another occasion, this same daughter was again in a Latter-day Saint home, and in the room where she was, when refreshments were served, she was the only one who did not drink tea or coffee. Again I say, "Obedience is better than sacrifice." It is a serious thing for parents to set examples before their children contrary to the commandments of the Lord and instructions of His servants, no matter how insignificant they may think these commandments are. While card playing may be considered harmless, yet it is a very serious matter to the young man or young woman who indulges this habit in disobedience to the instructions of parents or the servants of the Lord. It is well for parents to teach their children obedience,, both by precept and example. 

Quoting again from Mr. Jordan : 

"It is not for you to seek pleasure and strength in drugs, whose only function is to deceive you, whose gifts of life are not so real as your own face in the glass. 

* * * * $ 

"A man ought to be stronger than anything that can happen to him. He is the strong man who can say no. He is the wise man who, for all his life, can keep mind and soul and body clean. 

" 'I know of no more encouraging fact,' — says Thoreau, 'than the ability of a man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor. It is something to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue, and so make a few objects beautiful. It is far more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through which  we look. This morally we can do.' " 

"So far as the drink of the drunkards is concerned, prohibition does not prohibit. But to clean up a town, to free from corrosion, saves men, and boys and girls, too, from vice, and who shall say that moral sanitation is not as much the duty of the community as physical sanitation? 

"The city of the future will not permit the existence of slums and dives and tippling-houses. It will prohibit their existence for the same reason that it now prohibits pig-pens and dung-heaps and cesspools. For where all these things are, slums and cesspools, saloons and pig-pens, there the people grow weak and die." 

Lo and behold! I have got through, and it is not yet four o'clock. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

Walter Stevens and the choir sang, "See now the altar." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John M. Young. 


