Afternoon
04 10 1909


ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Testimonies concerning Christ and the Pronhet Joseph Smith — No break in the Priesthood. — Setting our homes in order. — Should strive after the best in life. 

I believe there is no one here today more gratful than I am for the privilege of being here. It is a joy to me to look into the faces of my brethren and sisters, whom it has been my privilege to visit in their homes. 

I realize that you are here because you believe it is our Father's will that you should be; and you have come for the eternal blessings of our Father, rather than remain at home to seek those things that perish in this life. 

I am grateful for the testimony God has given me that this is His work. I know that He lives. I know that Jesus Christ is His Son and the Redeemer of the world. I know that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of our Father, to bring again the Gospel of salvation to the children of men. The Lord has continued His priesthood in the Church, since the days of the Prophet and his presiding authority, until the present time. We are now presided over by a faithful servant of our Heavenly Father, one of His children whom He has chosen to declare unto us His mind and will. 

I hope that the words which we have heard, in this conference, will he taken home by each of us. "Have I set my house in order?" This should be the query in every heart. Not, Has my neighbor done so ? but, have I done what the Lord has required of me? 

Brethren and sisters, we may have given to us, in this life, a few things that will give us satisfaction, temporally; but the things that are eternal, the things that are "worth while," are those eternal things that we reach out for, and prepare oursevles to receive, and lay hold of by the effort that we individually make. 

This is God's work; it is the power of God unto salvation, unto every  and every woman that will receive and obey its precepts; and I bear you witness of it, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Unity among all the Presiding Quorums. — Prophecies ' fulfilled. — Responsibility resting upon the Saints. — Elders laboring under Divine appointment. — Work at home: conversions among the Gentiles. — Duty of the Priesthood Quorums. — Work enough for all. 

I have been trying to take stock of myself and of my faith, since coming into this meeting, this afternoon; and I have concluded that the harmony which exists in the testimonies of my brethren, which have been borne during the meetings of this conference, and my own thoughts and feelings, h an evidence to me that my- faith is about right. I indorse, with all my heart, the testimonies which have been borne, the instructions which have been given to us during the conference. I uphold and sustain, with all my heart, the President of the Church, as such, and as the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and mouthpiece of God unto this people; and I thank the Lord for him, for his integrity, for his love of the truth, for his administration of the affairs of the Church of our Master. I uphold and sustain with him his counselors. These as men of God, approved of Him, sustained with willing hearts by the people who know them, and know that their deepest interest is for the welfare and triumph of the work of the Lord. I sustain, with all my heart, the members of the Council of the Twelve. I know these men from association  them, day after day, in counsel and in our administrations among the people, and I know that they have the love of the work at heart. I know of their unity — for they are united, to a man, in every question that has come before us, pertaining to the welfare of this work and of the people. I sustain them, pray . for them, and I know that the Lord is with them and blessing their administrations. I uphold and sustain the Council of the Seventy, and I know that this council is in harmony with the Council of the Twelve and the First Presidency. The Presiding Bishopric and the Patriarch are one with these councils. I believe I can say in truth that all the council? of the holy priesthood, throughout the length and breadth of this Church, uphold and sustain the general authorities, and are one with them ir. interest and labor for the progress of the work of the Lord. 

In witnessing the great concourse of people that we had here in this building yesterday, and upon the grounds surrounding this building — knowing that at ihe same time there was an overflow meeting being held in the Assembly Hall — my thoughts were directed to a revelation found in the eleventh section of the book of Covenants, where the Lord, speaking to the Prophet in the year 1829, before the organization of the Church, said : "A marvelous work is about to come forth upon the earth." When I think of the conditions at that time — (there was no organization of the Church then, but the Lord told the Prophet clearly what He had in mind to accomplish; Joseph was to be the instrument in His hands, the chief of all instruments, in bring it about) — and then  I see what has been accomplished, knowing that all ihese people are but a small representation of the Latter-day Saints, I saw, and was impressed with the fulfillment of that promise unto Joseph. I rejoice in it, and it makes me more satisfied, better assured that all those other promises that have been made by the Lord through His prophets, pertaining to the ultimate triumph of His work in the last days, will be fulfilled. 

In connection with these thoughts, I thought of the wonderful responsibility that rests upon us. Numerous as we are, in the sense that I have spoken of, we are but a handful of our Father's children. The Lord, through His prophet John, upon the Isle of Patmos, referred to a time when the everlasting Gospel would be restored by an angel from heaven. It was to be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We accept the visitation of the angel Moroni, the message which he brought, the Book of Mormon which contains the everlasting Gospel, and the revelations of the Lord to us since, as a fulfillment of that' prediction, and we have accepted the great responsibility of preaching this Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, throughout the world. We have made efforts to this end. I hope that our efforts are accepted of the Lord. I sometimes wonder if we are doing all that He requires of us in this connection. We aim to maintain, at the present time, in the mission-field, from the stakes of Zion, about two thousand missionaries. They are maintained at a cost of time and money to the elders and to the Church, together with other expenses connected with the mission fields, in the neighborhood of two million dollars per annum, or more closely figuring, $150,000.00 per month. When we think of it in this sense, it is indeed a wonderful work that we are doing in the preaching of the Gospel abroad. Now, there is another point in connection with this responsibility, that I desire to speak of for a few moments; and that we may be impressed with the greatness of this responsibility, I desire to read a few paragraphs from the third chapter of the Book of Ezekiel. The Lord said to Ezekiel : 

"Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel: therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. 

"When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou giveth him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save h*s life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

"Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul. 

"Again, When a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die: because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered, but his blood will I require at thine hand." 

This is a responsibility — the Lord placed it upon Ezekiel, as a watchman upon the towers of Israel; and we have been commissioned with like authority and with like responsibility. It extends to the preaching of the Gospel in the nations of the earth; and that same responsibility, if I understand correctly, rests upon those of us who remain at home. 

Just a few verses from the eleventh section of the book of Covenants. The Lord says, m a revelation given in May, 1829 : 

"A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Behold, I am God, and give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word. 

"Behold, the field is white already to harvest, therefore, whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God; 

"Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God". 

And reading from the 15th paragraph : 

"Behold, I command you, that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called." 

We read from the scriptures,, with reference to authority, that no man taketh the honor upon himself, but he that is called of God as was Aaron. Aaron was called by the voice of the Lord, through His prophet Moses. This is a principle observed in this Church. One of the articles of our faith reads, "We believe that a man must be called of God by 'prophecy and by the laying on of hands,' by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." 

There are many rnen in Zion who have been thus called by the voice of the Lord, through His servants — the way the Lord has appointed, and they have had the hands of the servants of the Lord laid upon them. They have been blest and  apart for their particuiar ministry. Take for example the presidencies of the various stakes of Zion, the Bishops, and their counselors in the various wards throughout the Church, and the visiting ward Teachers in the labor which they are called to perform : they have all been called, appointed, ordained, blest and set apart for their particular labors; and this responsibility rests heavily upon them, and many other responsibilities not mentioned. 

There are today many of Israel being gathered up, coming up to Zion of their own accord. We find them purchasing homes, farms, and business of our people, from one end, I was going to say, of this state to the other; yes, an I in other states where our people are located. We are selling them our inheritances, in many instances; and some of these people have proven to be of the blood of Israel. We have converted many of them, but I fear that we are not doing our full duty in that regard. And it is that point that I have in mind to impress upon all the people gathered here this afternoon — not alone those whom I have mentioned, these officers, but upon all men and women in the Church, for the Lord exempts no one, as I understand the reading of the revelation. He expects us to find something to do, if we have not been specially called. I wish now to read a few verses from the 58th section of the Book of Covenants : 

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. 

"Verily I say, men should be anx engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned." 

The Lord expects us to look around and see what can be done of our own accord, and devote ourselves to such work as we are capable and have opportunity of doing for the salvation of the children of men. Now, one more passage, from the 38th section : 

"And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a commandment, that every man, both elder, priest, teacher, and also member, go to with his might, with the labor of his hands, to prepare and accomplish the things which I have commanded. 

"And let your preaching be the warning voice, every man to his neighbor, in mildness and in meekness." 

Of course, "no power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile." That is the spirit in which we are to exercise our priesthood and our authority, and discharge this obligation, whether it be abroad, or at home. It does seem to me that we have here the voice of the Lord, all that is necessary in the way of authority to justify and place responsibility upon every man, be he Elder, Priest, Teacher, Deacon, or member, to lift his voice in defense of truth and of righteousness, seeking opportunity where he can do good, allaying prejudice, bringing to the knowledge of thos 2 -. who are uninformed the revealed word and will of the Lord. There are many of our people who are diligently engaged in this work. When traveling among them, we discover this fact. I would call attention to several instances that have come under my observation, and the observation of my brethren, in their travels, which have been reported to us. Some few months ago, while I was in the Fremont stake of Zion, visiting one of the wards, the Bishop reported that during the three years of his administration, in connection with his counselors, the ward teachers, and such help as he had in that ward, they had been the means of bringing into the Church twenty adult members. In one of the wards in Davis stake, it is reported that in nine months time, by organized, systematic, diligent effort, the brethren there had been the means of bringing thirteen out of the twenty-two non-Mormons in that ward into the Church, and others are investigating. And they propose to continue their labors. President Lyman recently visited the Bingham stake, and one of the Bishops of a small ward in that stake reported that, during the past three months, six adults had been baptized into the Church. Visiting in the Morgan stake, a few weeks ago, it was reported by a member of the bishopric of one of vhe wards that during the past three months twenty-one people over ten years of age, ranging from fifteen, to thirty, several of them married — heads of families — had been brought into the Church. So these instances might be multiplied. 

The thought occurs to me, brethren and sisters, Bishops and ward teachers : If in these wards, by systematic, faithful, devoted effort, these have been converted and brought into the Church, is it not possible that there are some of the blood of Israel within the limits of your wards, of your districts, who could be brought, also, to see the truth, if you were to do your full duty by them? The quorums of the Priesthod have all the authority necessary. Every presidency of a quorum have been called, appointed, ordained, set apart for their labors — not alone to preach the Gospel in the world but to minister at home and in their quorums. Do the presidencies of High Priests' quorums, or the Presidencies of the Seventies' quorums, or the Elders' quorums require more authority than has been given to them, to enable them to take up the work in their own quorums? I think not; they have all the authority that is necessary; and the responsibility accompanies the authority. Yet, we find no field, anywhere, that might be more fruitful, through the diligent labors of faithful men, than in these quorums of Priesthood. Therein are men who have repented of their sins, who have come forth and embraced the Gospel; but some have slackened in their efforts; have neglected to labor, the spirit of the Gospel seems to be withdrawn from them, <hey are without the Spirit of the Lord, and are in darkness. We should labor with these men. They may have indulged in habits which are forbidden, and have acquired these habits right under the noses, so to speak, and in the presence of the presidencies of these quorums. I think that these men ought, indeed,  all men to be watchmen upon the towers in Zion, especially to the quorums of Priesthood' over which they preside. They should be so familiar with every member of the quorum, by frequent contact with them, in conversation, interviewing them as to their faith and their faithfulness in the discharge of their duties as quorum members, that those members could not deviate far from the narrow way, the path of duty, without being discovered. And when the discovery is made, in the very incipiency of these habits, this labor should be taken up by those who are in the presidency over them, for upon them rests responsibility concerning the life, the faithfulness of their members. 

Inasmuch as the Seventies and Elders form the foreign ministry to a very great extent, they ought to be practicing their profession while they are at home, for they have an ample field in the quorums of Priesthood. But, we are told in what I have just read, that the members, as well, have this responsibility. They also should preach, and their preaching should be the warning voice, every man to his neighbor. The requirement of this Gospel, in respect to the preaching of the word, is: "Let every man that is warned, warn his neighbor." There should be no cowards among us. I sometimes think that we neglect our duty as teachers to our fellow men at home, because of cowardice. We are not as bold and courageous as we might be. There may be a cause for this. Perhaps, in some of us the testimony of the truth is not sufficiently grounded into our souls, and, perhaps, our course of life is not what it ought to be, and this condition closes our; it humiliates and embarrasses us when we undertake the performance of our duties. So we ought to remain as faithful, at least, as we were when we came into the Church. Our lives should be worthy the emulation of all men, and thus bring glory to the name of the Lord and to His work. If we were living thus, the Spirit of the Lord would rest upon us, the spirit of our callings would attend us, and we would be fearless in the discharge of our duties, we would have love in our hearts for our fellowmen, and, if the sense of responsibility would not force us to do our duty, the love we would have burning in our souls for our brethren and our sisters, and those who come among us, would cause us to reach out a helping hand and lead thern into the narrow way which leads to safety, to salvation and to eternal life. 

But notwithstanding all these reasons why we ought to be active, there is too small a percentage, I believe, of the Latter-day Saints, who have the true, real missionary spirit, even among those who have been out in the world and have spent two or three years, and later, perhaps, duplicated it, in the mission field. They come home, and some even forget what manner of men they ought to be as preachers of righteousness, and lose the spirit of missionary work, a thing to be regretted. Why, their talents, their ability, their memory, everything sharpened by that missionary work, qualifies and equips them to do this most necessary work of individual missionary labor. There is a field broad enough, no one is without excuse, and no man, or woman, need be jealous of the opportunities afforded his or her neighbor, for he has all the opportunity of doing good that is necessary. 

Now, I would like to impress one thought upon your minds, my brethren and sisters who preside in the stakes and in the wards, in the ' quorums and in the auxiliary associations : that we be chaperones, that we be guardians of the people, that we, indeed, be fathers unto the people, and give unto them that which they most need. Let us cultivate in ourselves this spirit, a desire to teach, to encourage, counsel and advise wherever we have opportunity, wherever we see that it is needful. I promise you, if you engage in this work, it will increase your own faith; it will be an anchor to your souls; it will bring joy and satisfaction to you, and your hope of eternal life will be greatly augmented. Thus engaged, our confidence in the Lord will be increased, and also our assurance that our lives will not be spent in vain, but that we will obtain, in the end, the promised blessing of eternal life. God bless us to this end, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The President of the Church and the President of the Nation. — God finds and qualifies His servants. — The power of Presidency. — No officer chosen for personal reasons. — An abundance of material for the Lord's work. — President Taft's "sermon." — Christ's doctrine. — A mission of Salvation. 

"Our President." I see these words confronting me, in letters of colossal size; and I can think of no better text for the few remarks that I shall make on this occasion. 

The motto hung in the eastern end of the Tabernacle was placed there in honor of the President of the United States, who recently paid Utah a visit, and spoke to the assembled citizens from this stand. I desire to refer to him before I complete my discourse; but for the present I wish to speak of our other President, if he will pardon me for being personal in his direction — I mean President Joseph F. Smith, the leader of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

While President Smith "was speaking, yesterday morning, with such earnestness and power— a greater power than any of his brethren can hope to command and exercise — I was reminded of some conversations that I had not long ago with two of the brethien numbered among the general authorities of the Church. Each one said, in substance, "I would not know where to look to find another man to lead this Church; if I should survey the land from one end to the other, I do not believe I could find as good a man, a man as well qualified for that position, as President Joseph F. Smith." I agreed with my brethren; but I thought then, and the thought has recurred to me now : it is not my business to find the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; that is the Lord's business. I have full confidence that the Lord could find a man to preside over this Church at any time, and that He would qualify him and equip him to the performance of his duty to that degree that the people would feel, as they feel now towards our honored President, that he is the right man for his time and place. 

I presume this question arose during the lifetime of the Prophet 

Joseph Smith,, the first President of the Church. Doubtless many of the Latter-day Saints the.n asked themselves the question: What would we do if the Prophet were taken away? Where would we find another president, another leader? The Prophet seemed absolutely indispensable to his generation; but when the Lord saw fit to take him, another man arose — up to that time not noted, any more tha.i several of the brethren with whom he was associated. He was a mighty man, and they were mighty men. But when the mantle of Joseph fell upon him, when God had chosen Brighim Young to be His prophet, and the Saints had sustained him with the uplifted hand and with the power of their faith and prayers, as their president, where was the man in all Israel who could compare with President Brigham Young? He had all the natural gifts before he was President that he had after he became President; but it was not his right, not his prerogative to exercise the power of presidency until it had been duly placed upon him, until the people had sustained him in that position and signified, by their uplifted hands, that they proposed to be loyal to him, to uphold him and make him strong. God chose Brigham Young and placed the power of presidency upon him. That was the secret of his might — the secret of his success. This is the Lord's work, and it is the Lord who makes His servants mighty. When President Young drew near to his end, many were asking themselves the question : who will take his place ? Where is there another man of his sagacity, his wisdom, his executive ability ? Brigham Young had made himself almost indispensable to the 

Latter-day Saints, and in the world, among the Gentiles, speculation was rife, and predictions were numerous to the effect that when Brigham Young died Mormonism would be at an end. I remember an utterance of one reverend gentleman who never bore the Latter-day Saints any good will — Dr. T. DeWitt Talmage. In the Brooklyn Tabernacle, just after President Young died, this reverend gentleman called upon the government to strike at Mormonism. "Now is the time," he said, "while they are scattered and confused, while they are without leadership. Now is the ' time for the government of the United States to strike." On another occasion he said, "Thunder into them the seventh commandment, with shot and shell and cannon of the biggest bore." But the "confusion" that the reverend gentleman imagined, did not exist. There was no confusion. There may have been some question as to who was qualified to take the place of Brigham Young at the head of the Church; but when John Taylor had been sustained as President, when the people had united their prayers in his behalf, and God had clothed him with the power of the presidency, it was perfectly apparent to the Latter-day Saints that another leader had been provided, and that he, from that time, would be the strongest and mightiest man among them. 

It was the same when President Taylor died; it was the same when President Woodruff died; and when President Snow passed away, the man for the time and place was found; as he always will be. It is the Lord's business to find him and to qualify him for His work; and the Lord has never failed. This is my testimony concerning all the leaders, of Israel including our honored and beloved President Joseph F. Smith. 

I remember when the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated — Wilford Woodruff was then President of the Church — Wilford Woodruff, that humble man, who did not deem himself fitted, if I am correctly informed, scarcely believed himself worthy to be the President, and shrunk, in native modesty and humility, from presenting himself to his brethren as their leader, and would fain have retired and had some one else hold the reins of power. But, when his brethren united upon him and sustained him, and the people gave their prayers and their votes in his behalf, who could compare with President Wilford Woodruff, the Prophet of God? I saw him arise, day after day, in the dedication services of the Temple. There were gifted men around him — mighty men, strong and capable — but none could approach him in power and majesty. There were times when he towered like a mountain among hills; because God was with him, and it was not the prerogative of any man, while he lived and held the reins of authority, to exercise the same degree of spiritual power. 

I do not believe, brethren and sisters, that the Lord ever exalts any man or woman to office for his or her own sake. I do not believe that I am standing where I stand today because of any desire on the part of our Heavenly Father to glorify me, or to glorify my father's family; and I do not believe it of any of these men, my brethren. I do not believe it of President Smith. I do not believe it of the Lord — that He has pets and favorities, and  He is interested in advancing the private fortunes of any man. He is thinking of His people, of the general good, of the salvation of the world. When He chooses men and women and places His power upon them it is because they can better be used in the places where He puts them, than anywhere else, for the general welfare. The reason President Smith presides over us, and exercises greater power than any other man can hope to exercise, is because the Lord wants him where he is, and can work through him there to better advantage than through any other man at the present time. I believe this is the principle of promotion in the Church of Christ. 

I believe there are just as good men down in the ranks as occupy high positions — and some strong men are needed in the ranks. They cannot all be Apostles; they cannot all be High Councilors; they cannot all be Bishops; but they can all be men of God. I have never believed that the all-wise Being who made this earth — and who had made millions of earths like it, and had peopled them, redeemed them, and glorified them — would fail to provide Himself with enough material to carry on His work. I believe there is an abundance of material, in the various quorums of the Priesthood, and scattered through the twelve tribes of Israel — an abundance of material out of which to make Bishops and Stake Presidents and Apostles in the due rime of the Lord, according to His will. When an ax-handle breaks, there is a forest of timber from which to select a new one. I do not believe that our Heavenly Father is impoverished; that He has left Himself without men and without  to carry out His great and beneficent designs. Therefore, we can be comforted , we can afford to take an optimistic view, and face fhe future with hope and confidence, knowing that God is at the helm, that the right man is at our h"ad, and that the right man will always be found at the proper time and in the proper place. 

I believe, also, that the right man is now at the head of this nation. I felt honored in being one of the congregation that assembled here, a week ago yesterday morning, to hear our other President deliver his so-called sermon to the citizens of Utah — Mormon, Jew, and Gentile. I rejoice that I have lived to see the day when the President of the United States could come here as the guest of the whole people, and speak to the whole people, and be the friend to all the people. I believe President Taft is the right man for the place he occupies, and that he is entitled to our friendship and sympathy. He has more power and more prestige, at this time, than any other man throughout the nation, — and he has a right to have it. There are eighty or ninety millions of people praying for him — such of them as do pray, at least — Democrats as well as Republicans, and all others. They are loyal to the head of the nation; and that loyalty and love and sympathy cannot fail to contribute much toward making him our wisest and strongest man in civic affairs. It ought to be so, and it is so. I rejoice that he is a friend to Utah and to all her people, and that Mormons, Jews, and Gentiles could assemble here on that notable occasion, to honor him and receive instructions at his hands. 

Now I wish to read two short  of President Taft's socalled sermon, based upon the text which he chose from Proverbs : "A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger." In the course of his remarks, the President said : 

"My dear friends, this matter of hatred and resentment which accompanies the attributing of bad motives to those who differ with you, is a source of a waste of nervous strength, of time, of worry, without accomplishing one single good thing. I don't know how it has been with you, but it has happened, time and time again, with me, that some man has done something that I didn't like, which I thought had a personal bearing, and that I have said in my heart, 'Times will change, and I will get even with that gentleman;' — O, I don't profess to be free from those feelings at all — but it has frequently happened, I may say generally, that the time did come when I could get even with that man, and when that time came, it seemed to me that I would demean myself and that it would show me no man at all, if I took advantage." 

Later on he said : 

"So, my friends, what I am urging is less acrimony in public discussion, more charity with respect to each other, as to what moves each man to do what he does do, and not to charge dishonesty and corruption until you have a real reason for doing so. I am the last man to pardon or mitigate wrongs against the public or against the individual. I believe, and I regret to say, that throughout this country the administration of the criminal law, and the prosecution of crime, is a disgrace to our civilization. But it is one thing to prosecute a criminal when you have the evidence, and it is another thing "to ascribe motives to an act of a man, when you have not any evidence and are just living in your imagination in respect to what you say." I am not going to waste time in any speculations as to how much of this sermon was intended for the Mormons and how much of it for the Gentiles. I think it was intended for me; I think President Taft meant me — I saw him looking at me when he said it. (Laughter); and I saw him loking at you, too; and he meant you, every one of you that was here, and a great many more that were not here. Speaking for myself, brethren and sisters, I want to say that I am in full and hearty sympathy with these noble sentiments uttered by the Chief Magistrate of the Republic. I desire {o be charitable to my brethren and sisters and to my fellow-men. I don't want to live in my imagination as to their motives and their acts. I don't want to think my neighbor a worse man than he is; I want to be just to him, and I desire, also, to be merciful. I believe this to be in consonance with the principles that our Savior died to introduce. The mission of Christ would have been a failure if it had not been a mission of love, of forgiveness, of charity to all mankind; and Mormonism, as it is called, is no more nor less than the Gospel of Christ. It teaches us to be charitable to all men. It teaches us to return good for evil — not to retaliate. If we get a man into a corner who has injured us, we cannot afford to condescend to his level, and treat him as he has treated us. We ought to do unto others as we would that they should do unto us. That is Christ's doctrine. 

President Taft was but paraphras-. ing the Savior's teachings upon this point. To love God with all our might, mind, and strength, and to love our neighbor as ourselves — upon these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets; and that man or woman who cannot forgive, who seeks revenge and has no higher conception of duty than to cherish hatred and practice retaliation — has a small soul and needs to have it expanded and enlarged by the Spirit of Christ. We cannot afford to descend to base levels. We are here to save men; we have been chosen and sent into the world for this purpose, and we must show men that we love them — not their wickedness; God does not love the wickedness of the world, but He loves His sons and daughters, and is anxious to save them. He is not trying to damn a single soul. Our mission is a mission of peace, of charity, of forgiveness, and love; and the Gospel that we preach and try to practice is the power of God unto salvation. Amen. 

EIDER DAVID 0. M'ZAY. 

The care and training of children. — The blessing of work. — Hugo's admonition to a young man. — Exhortation to officers and members of the Church. — Good work of three Elders. 

Yesterday morning when our President suggested to this vast assemblage that they move nearer together in their seats, in order to give brethren and sisters who were standing a little room to sit down, there was a universal movement throughout this tabernacle. It was surprising to those who could look  the audience, to see how just a little one-sixteenth of an inch, multiplied by probably ten thousand, made room for so many people. There was a universal response to that suggestion. Some were unable to give even the sixteenth of an inch, but they wiggled all the same. (Laughter). I thought, why cannot all Israel respond as readily to his suggestion to guard well their children. We can move ever so little, perhaps; but let us move and do something to improve the environment into which our children are thrown. 

"Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven." How many times, dear parents, has God visited your homes and given into your charge one of these precious souls? Did you hear, at each visit, the Savior's words : Suffer this little babe to come back to me, and forbid him not; for of such is the kingdom of heaven ? 

Last evening, about five o'clock, four brethren were riding down Main Street in an automobile. Just as they passed First South Street, they heard a little plaintive cry, "Papa! papa! papa! wait." The father was the chauffeur, and his ready ear recognized his son's voice. He brought the machine instantly to a standstill. As the men looked out the}' saw coming out of that bustling, jostling crowd of humanity, a little nine-year-old boy, out of breath, panting, crying, because of his effort to overtake the machine, which he had spied going along Main Street, to get to h's father. The father said, "Why, where have you been, my son?" "I have been looking for you." "Well did you leave the place where we appointed to meet?" "Yes, I went up to see  you were." He understood that he was to meet up here, in front of the tabernacle. The father evidently meant to meet the child farther down the street. Through a misunderstanding, however, the son had become separated from his parent, and the little child was thrown into that vast throng, unprotected. He knew his way home; he was safe. If he had missed his father, he would have taken the street car and, probably before the shades of night closed in upon him, he would be safely nestled with father and mother and brothers and sisters in one of the most cheerful homes in this city. 

I believe that illustrates the keynote of warning that was sounded to us Sunday morning. Fathers, is there a misunderstanding between you and your sons? Is there one wandering amidst the throngs of life, surrounded with all kinds of temptations, and you expecting to meet him at an appointed place which he does not know? He may not come out from that throng and cry, "Father, father!" and if he should, your ears might be deaf to that call, because of the concentration of your mind upon the affairs of life. So you might speed by him and leave him in the midst of evil, to find his own way home. Take your sons with you along this road of life, that you may have them with you in that eternal home where there is everlasting peace and contentment. When our children are given us, and that admonition "Suffer them to come back to Me" is given, three means of developing them are at hand : The first is home influence; the second, activities — avenues of action, including vocations and avocations; and third, social environment. In all three of these there must be the predominating element of salvation — I mean, now, physically, intellectually, spiritually. And what is it? Work. Work in the- home. Work; legitimate work, in the avenues of life. Work, legitimate work in the social world. 

Of work in the home I shall say nothing this afternoon. We have had excellent sermons on home life; and we shall hear more. The importance of home, as. a saving influence, not only of children but of communities and of the nation, we fully realize, I believe; and it is well we do, for today some educators in our leading universities are saying that the home, as an institution, is doomed. Put that doctrine with some of the doctrines that we heard this morning educators are preaching, and see if we had better not guard well our children from some of the so-called educational theories of the day. Our homes are homes of salvation. Home is the safeguard of the nation. 

I desire to say a word about work as a means, I say, of salvation to the individual. Work! O how often do we read in the scriptures about the blessings that come from doing. Eternal life rests upon the knowledge of God and His Son Jesus Christ. Now, note it, "This is life eternal, to know Thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent." How do you get that knowledge? In another place He says, "If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." There you have the doing, the work, associated with the knowledge, and knowledge bringing eternal life — 

"To know Thee is eternal life." To do is to know. 

In our physical being there is no development, there is no growth, without activity; in the intellectual world there is no advancement without effort, work; and in the spiritual world, in the development of our spirits, there is no growth without effort. There is no salvation without work. I do not mean, now, redemption from death — Christ has done that; He has given us all that we need to get by way of salvation. The doctrine of work does not rob Him of any of His glory. "By grace are ye saved, through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God." But aside from that, the individual growth and advancement, the individual knowledge, the advancement in God's truth, depends upon the doing of God's will. Let us teach ourselves that; let us teach our children and give them something to do; let them know the sin of idleness. 

Joseph Smith, the prophet, has repeatedly given us the assurance that God will not support the idler, that the idler has no place in this Church. The children should know it — O these young men, some of whom belong to us, who are looking forward to a life of ease, to clean clothes, soft white hands — the result, they think of leisure or of wealth! I say, these young men should be warned of the danger of that kind of life. I have here an admonition from Hugo, given by a supposed reformed criminal to a young man who had just started out on a criminal career. I will read it: 

"My boy, you are entering, by sloth, into the most laborious of existences. Ah! You declare yourself an idler;  prepare yourself for labor. Have you ever seen a formidable machine which is called a flatting-press? You must be on your guard against it, for it is a crafty and ferocious thing, and if it catch you by the skirt of the coat it drags you under it entirely. This machine is indolence. Stop while there is yet time, and save yourself. Otherwise, it is all over with you, and ere long you will be among the cogwheels. Once caught, hope for nothing more. You will be forced to fatigue yourself, idler, ana no rest will be allowed you, for the iron hand of implacable toil has seized you. You refuse to earn your livelihood, — have a calling and accomplish' a duty; it bores you to be like the rest: well, you will be different. Labor is the law, and whoever repulses it as a bore must have it as a punishment: You do not wish to be a laborer, and you will be a slave; toil only lets you loose on one side to seize you again on the other; you do not wish to be its friend, and you will be its negro. Ah, you did not care for the honest fatigue of men, and you are about to know the sweat of the damned; while others sing you will groan. You will see other men working in the distance, and they will seem to you to be resting. The laborer, the reaper, the sailor, the blacksmith, will appear to you in the light, like the blessed inmates of a paradise. What a radiance there is in the anv : l! What a joy it is to guide the plow, and tie up the sheaf! What a holiday to fly before the wind in a boat! But you, idler, will have to dig and rag, and roll and walk! Pull at your halter, for you are a beast of burden in the service of hell! So your desire is to do nothing? Well, you will not have a week, a day, an hour without feeling crushed. You will not be able to lift anything without agony, and every passing minute will make your muscles crack. What is a feather for others will be a rock for you, and the most simple things will grow seamed. Life will become a monster around you, and coming, going, breathing, will be so many terrible tasks for you. 

"What precipices are sloth and pleasure! To do nothing is a melancholy resolution, are you aware of that? To live; n indolence on the social substance! to be useless, that is to , injurious! This leads straight to the bottom of misery. 

"Woe to the man who wishes to be a parasite, for he will be a vermin! Ah! it does not please you to work! Ah! you have only one thought, to drink well, eat well, and sleep well. You will drink water; you will eat black bread; you will sleep on a plank, with fetters riveted to your limbs, and feel their coldness at night in your flesh! You will break these fetters and fly; very good. You will drag yourself on your stomach into the shrubs and eat grass like the beasts of the field, and you will pass years in a dungeon, chained to the wall, groping in the dark for your water jug, biting at frightful black bread which dogs would refuse, and eating beans which maggots have eaten before you. .You will be a woodlouse in a cellar. Ah! Ah! take a pity on yourself, wretched boy, still so young, who were at your nurse's breast not twenty years ago, and have doubtless a mother still! I implore you to listen to me. You will want fine black cloth, polished shoes, to scent your head with fragrant oil, to please creatures, and be a pretty fellow; you will have your hair close shaven and wear a red jacket and wooden shoes. You want a ring on your finger, and will wear a collar on your neck, and if you look at a woman you will be beaten. And you will go in there at twenty and come out at fifty years of age. You will go in young, red-cheeked, healthy, with your sparkling eyes, and all your white teeth, and your curly locks, and you will come out again broken, bent, wrinkled, toothless, horrible, and gray-headed! Ah! my poor boy, you are on the wrong road, and indolence is a bad adviser, for robbery is the hardest of labors. Take my advice and do not undertake the laborious task of being an idler. To become a rogue is inconvenient, and it is not nearly so hard to be an honest man. Now go and think over what I have said to you." 

In social environment may be included all our Church influences. As I look at the orzanization, given through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the world in this dispensation; as I occasionally catch a glimpse of the possibilities of the quorums and organizations in this Church, I feel to exclaim, O Lord, my God, how marvelous are Thy works! "Great is Thy wisdom, marvelous are Thy ways! and the extent of Thy doings none can find out I" The organization of the Church is so perfect that every man, woman and child within the Church can find something to do; and therein depends the advancement of the person's spiritual welfare. He has a chance to work in the Church of Christ, no matter how young a boy or how old a man. Now, think, what that means. You go over, in your minds, the organizations as revealed to us in this dispensation. Go first from the First Presidency, down through the Twelve, the High Priests, the Seventy, Elders, Priests, Teachers, and Deacons, all that line of Priesthood. See that mighty army of men, ready to do — what? Called upon to do what? To work for the Lord. We heard, this afternoon, that not one of those men have been called to the position to honor him, but he has been called into the service of the Lord. What does it mean ? It means work; work means knowledge; knowledge means eternal life. O, brethren and sisters, shall we not, as parents, put our boys and girls into that environment? If we do not, are we not unmindful of the call of Christ to suffer the children to come back to Him? Are we negligent as parents, in seeing that our boys as deacons go to these quorum meetings? Are we negligent, as parents, and fail to see that our daughters get to their auxiliary meetings ? Think of it. The note has been sounded; are we going to move? Presidents of quorums : The Lord  said to you, as you will read in the 107th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that it is your duty to meet with your quorum. If you are the president of a deacon's quorum, you are to meet with twelve deacons, and preside over them, to sit in counsel with them, and to teach them their duties. O, deacons, throughout the world! respond to that call. Do your duty, Bishops, you who hold the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood; guide the young men in this activity. Are they slothful? Are they inactive? If they are, some of the results of inactivity mentioned before as befalling the idle individual will afflict the quorum in your ward. Mark it, it will not fulfill its place in the councils of the Church, unless it be active as a council, as a quorum. This is true of the Teachers, of the Priests, the Elders, the Seventies, the High Priests, and all. I remember visiting, recently, the sugar factory, in Sugar City, Idaho. Brother Austin took me through it when every wheel was quiet; the engine was cold; the chimneys stood like specters; the wheels were dry and covered with dust; the sparrows were building their nests in wheels that a few months before hummed with industry. Men had to be hired to keep the dust off the machinery, to make repairs, to keep the factory from going into decay. I thought, that is always the result of inactivity. No sugar was manufactured in that inactivity. There were no laborers employed, except those hired to keep the factory from going into absolute decay. But when the power was turned on, then raw products were changed to useful articles, which are carried into the homes, throughout the world. Sometimes part of the machinery is  up, closed down, and only one part — that of refining — used. I sometimes think that in our Church we are using just part of the machinery that God has placed in our hands. So many of these quorums are lying in inactivity; dust is accumulating. Shall we not work and get them into prominence, bring them into operation ? As presidents of quorums, let us meet in council; let us think over what men in our quorums are neglecting their duty. In 1899, in one of the Elders quorums in this city, three young men were called to preside. At their first meeting there were only six men present in the Elders quorum. "Well," they said, "this will not do; let us institute systematic visiting." And so they did. Those men, as presidents, carrying the responsibility, went out to visit the Elders of that quorum. They went into one house, and asked the man to take up Elder's work, but he said, "No, I will not go to Elders meeting." "May we have a meeting here tonight?" was asked. "Yes." They sang, prayed, spent ah hour or so with the man and his wife. At the conclusion of it, the man promised that he would attend Elders' meeting. The wife, who was unconverted, and who knew little or nothing of the workings of the Church, who lacked a knowledge of it, because of inactivity, began to cry because her husband's going to meeting would take him away from home. "A mission will be next," she said. However, that young man promised to go to meeting on this condition; that he would not be asked to take part. "All right," said the brethren. But it was not long before he was willing to take part on the program. They assigned him a subject, and the broth who told me of this incident, said it was painful to see what that poor man suffered the first time he stood up before his brethren. Those in the meeting deeply sympathized with the man who was making his first effort in public. At the conclusion of it the brother said, "You did well. "No," said the man, "I want another chance; I believe I can do better." He did do better, and he became a strong power in influencing other Elders of his crowd to come out to their meetings. 

They went into another home and met a similar spirit of indifference. They asked permission to pray, and were told "No." They talked to the man a little while, and finally he said, "Well, you may kneel down and pray, if you want to." "Will you kneel with us?" "No." After a little kind persuasion, he knelt down. At the conclusion of the meeting in that home, this second Elder, following the brethren to the door, broke down and cried, confessed that he had been out away from the influence of the Church, had been in another environment, and said, "Keep with me, work with me, and help me to get back into Church environment." The president of that Elder's quorum is now siting on this stand, a member of the presiding bishopric. He and his fellow-workers increased the attendance of the quorum from six to over one hundred during that year. 

There is a practical example of doing. What was accomplished in this Elder's quorum in this city can be done throughout the entire Church. My brethren and sisters, the quorums and organizations are means put into our hands whereby we may bring our children back to Christ. "Suffer them to come." God help us in guiding chem, and may He keep us true; that we may increase our own testimonies in this work; that we may know of its eternal application to our needs; that we may know what happiness comes through living virtuous, pure lives. Let us take up our children and carry them with us, along this road of life. No other purpose of life is more worthy, more admirable. Let us teach them to work, and to realize that the privilege to work is a gift, that power to work is a blessing, that love to work is success. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Joseph E. Taylor. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a. m. Wednesday, October 6th. Wednesday, Oct. 6th, 10 a. m. 


