Morning
04 10 1909


ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

A profitable cyclone. — History and powers of the Priesthood. — Benefits of class instruction in Priesthood duties. 

Brethren and sisters, the Lord is very good to us and orders all things well. Last evening He sent a beautiful shower which cooled the air and laid the dust, and today it is bright and beautiful for the holding of our conference and for the movement of the people upon the streets of our city, and, later in the day, for the State Fair which is now open. Speaking of the weather reminds me of a story that is told of a capitalist who went from  eastern states into one of the western states — Kansas, I think — to look at a large farm, with a view to investment. In speaKing with the farmer, he inquired very carefully as to the quality of the soil of the farm; the farmer replied that it was very rich and productive. The capitalist said, "How is the weather here, how is your climate?" "O," he says, "we have a very fine climate here — very fine. I will give you an example : Sometime agoI had two or three hundred chickens that I wanted to put upon the market. Being very busy, I did not know what to do to prepare these chickens and get them to the market. I was very much worried in regard to the matter. About: that time a cyclone came along,, caught up the chickens, twisted their necks, stripped them of all their feathers, and transported them: to the town, ten miles distant, and put them on the market, all ready for sale the next morning.." (Laughter). 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I don't know where you would go, in all the world, to find a better climate, a climate more beautiful and satisfactory than our own. Of course, we have a few severe blows occasionally — notably in Davis County — but nothing to compare with those nice, convenient, gentle, cyclone zephyrs of Kansas. 

I would like to say a few words, this morning, upon the subject of the priesthood, inasmuch as this is n. matter that always vitally con us. There is a vast difference, brethren and sisters, between priesthood and priestcraft. Priesthood, as I understand it, is the authority of God delegated to men, by which they can build up His Church and kingdom upon the earth. Priestcraft is the assumed authority of God, by which men claim that they are building up the Church and kingdom of God. Now, if this be true, wherever you find the people of Godvupon the earth, there you will find the priesthood. We are borne out in this claim by the scriptures, also by the revelat'ons of God given to Joseph Smith, which throw a flood of light upon this important question. It is said, in one of the revelations, that the priesthood continueth in the Church of God, in all generations, and is without beginning of days or end of years. It is referred to, in the holy scriptures, as a holy priesthood, a royal priesthood, an unchangeable priesthood, and an everlasting priesthood. You will find in section 84, these very important words recorded. The order of the priesthood was instituted in the days of Adam, and was handed clown from father to son, and rightly belongs to the descendants of the chosen seed. Adam ordamed Seth, Enos, Canaan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch and Methuselah to the priesthood, and Methuselah ordained Noah. Abraham was ordained to the priesthood by Melchizedek who received it through the lineage of his father, back to and until the time of Noah. Moses received the priesthood under the hand of his father-in-law, Jethro, who received it through a line of prophets back to Esaias, who received it under the hand of God. Esaias lived also in the days of Abraham and was 

I). 1 est of him. Now, we read in the revelation, that Moses sought to sanctify the children of Israel, that they might behold the face of God; but they hardened their hearts and they could not endure His presence, and God swore in His wrath — for His anger was kindled against them — that they should not enter into His rest while in the wilderness, which rest was the fulness of His glory. Moses and the high priesthood was taken out of their midst, and the lesser priesthood was continued among the children of Israel until the time of John the Baptist, who was raised up of God to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to prepare the way of the Lord and make His way straight. John received the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb, and he was baptized and ordained to the priesthood, by an angel, when he was eight days old. Now, brethren and sisters, we also have every reason to believe that the Lord Jesus Christ held the priesthood, for is it not said of Him that He was a great high priest, and does He not say of Himself that He had received all power both in the heavens and upon the earth; and did He not also say to His apostles, "You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you." It follows that the Savior would not have ordained His disciples had He not received the power to ordain. We know, and we have learned by revelation, by the word of the Lord, that Joseph Smith received the priesthood under the hands of Peter, James and John. He received it in the year 1 829, and in the following year, in September, 1830, this matter is referred to in a revelation given to the , Prophet Joseph Smith, in which the Lord says, beginning with the 12th verse : 

"And also with Peter, and James, and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry, and of the same things which I revealed unto them." 

Also John the Baptist appeared to Joseph Smith the Prophet, in May, 1829, and laying his hands upon his head and the head of Oliver Cowdery, he used these words : 

"Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of the Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." 

Thus, brethren and sisters, it is very easily shown that the priesthood was handed down from Adam to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and from Joseph Smith to us who are assembled here this day. I have only referred to the priesthood in the abstract. When you come into a little closer range, you will find it a most interesting and instructive study. This matter of priesthood is treated, very fully indeed, in section 84 and also in section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants. We learn that there are two priesthoods; one is called the High Priesthood, the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the other is called the Lesser Priesthood, or the Priesthood of Aaron. In these priesthoods there are various offices and orders. In the High Priesthood we have High Priests, Seventies, El; and in the Lesser Priesthood, Bishops, Priests, Teachers, and Deacons. The High Priesthood is defined as the power and authority to hold the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the Church, to havethe privilege of receiving the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven, to have the heavens opened unto them, to commune with the general assembly of the Church of the First Born, and to hold communion with God the Father and Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant. The Lesser Priesthood is defii.ed as the power and authority that holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the Gospel of repentance, and baptism for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments. You see what a very important bearing this priesthood has upon the Church and Kingdom of God. If you should separate the priesthood and the power of the priesthood from those who are gathered in this great assembly today, we would be weak indeed. It is said in the revelations that in the ordinances of the priesthood is the power of godliness manifested; and without this, the power of godliness is not manifested; and without the ordinances of the priesthood and the authority thereof, the power of godliness is not manifest; and without this authority no man can see the face of God and live. Again, these very impressive words are recored in section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods, of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; 

"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abra, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God; 

"And also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; 

"For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; 

"And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; 

"And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; 

"And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. 

"Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved; 

"But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world 

nor in the world to come." 

Now, from this we get some understanding of the character and importance of the priesthood. It is a matter so sacred and concerns us so deeply, brethren and sisters, that it has been thought wise by the general authorities to establish classes in the priesthood, that the brethren of the priesthood may become acquainted with the doctrines of the Gospel and may learn their duty in their quorums. To me this seems beautiful; it seems consistent and right, that thereby they might acquire a love for it, and a spirit of devotion and of loyalty to their quorums; that no man need, necessarily, go outside or away from his quorum to learn his dutv, and to become acquainted with the importance of the priesthood. A committee on priesthood quorums was appointed, and this committee prepared outlines of a course of study for the last year, which course was received joyfully by the Church, and has been followed. This course of lessons was studied in the  during the past winter and into the spring. Now, we have some difficulties to meet; there are some obstacles in the way. One of the most serious of them is the fact that most of the classes were compelled, through circumstances, because of their work and conditions that surrounded them, to adjourn during the summer months. Thus they were broken up, and the members have been scattered. Now it will be necessary to gather them together again, and arouse in them a spirit of interest in this work. I look upon said adjournment as very unfortunate. I do not know that it is possible, but if it is possible, it seems to me, that we ought to devise some means by which these classes of the priesthood can pursue their studies, without interruption, through the entire year; if we would be successful in this thing, it must be so, brethren and sisters, I think it must be so. 

Now, in conclusion, let me say this : Think what it means to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, when the fathers in sixty stakes of Zion, and in seven or eight hundred wards of the Church, can say to their boys : Boys, come, let us go to the priesthood meeting. And the father takes his boys, gathers them around him, and they go with the father to the priesthood meeting. How beautiful that is. The father goes into his class to be instructed in the duties of the priesthood, the deacon goes into his class, the teacher into his class, and the priest into his class. They follow their lessons and obtain their instruction, and at the close the father gathers his sons around him, they accompany him home again. Thus they are brought into an intimacy, a closeness of acquaintance and of friendship and love that has, possibly, never been known in the Church. Think what it means, brethren and sisters, to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, when an elder in Israel shall have nine years of training in the priesthood before he is permitted and found worthy to receive the high-priesthood. For instance, he has three years training as a deacon, three years training as a teacher, three years training as a priest; then he is ready and, generally I think, would be found worthy, and would have sufficient knowledge, to entitle him to receive the office of an Elder; and even then the good work continues. He gets his training as an Elder, and he will receive his training as a Seventy, and even if he goes beyond and higher up, he will still be instructed and taught his duty in the Church, as a High Priest. Think what it means to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, brethren and sisters, when a boy in this Church shall receive nine years training in the art of singing- — we know what the value of singing is to our boys — think what it will mean when the boy has nine years training in his quorum, besides other opportunities in the Church, to prepare him for missionary work, that when he shall go into the field he is prepared and qualified not only to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ but to sing it into the hearts of the people. In my humble opinion, we do not begin to comprehend the possibilities of this great movement in the Church, for I regard it as one of the greatest movements that has been inauguarated in recent times. I believe that the Lord Almighty will work wonders with His people, through this study and train in the priesthood and in the priesthood classes. I hope the presidents of stakes and bishops of wards and all the authorities of Zion will appreciate this great step in advance, this opportunity that is now thrown open for the training of the youth of Zion in a knowledge of eternal things. 

May the Lord bless us and help us and strengthen us in every good work, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The Saints a blest people. — Saints counseled to keep their children around them. — Happy homes and how to make them. — Dr. Eliot's "new religion." — The nobility of labor. — Should establish home industries. — Duties of husbands. 

I am, indeed, thankful to my Heavenly Father for this another privilege of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in general conference. I have enjoyed the testimonies that have been borne, the words of counsel that have been given; and I trust that the same good spirit that has made itself manifest in the remarks and testimonies of the brethren who have preceded me, in this conference, may continue with us until the end. I, for one, never get tired of thanking my Heavenly Father that I was born in these valleys of the mountains. The more I visit the different parts of the world, and the oftener I come in contact with the people of the world, I feel in my heart that the Latter-day Saints, every one of them, should thank God every day of their lives, that they are permitted to live here under such favorable circumstances. 

We see prosperity on all hands, it is so universal, we take it for granteel that it is but natural, and forget that it is God's blessings showered upon us. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we live in a blessed part of this country. God has blest this inter-mountain country with so many of the material blessings of this world, that there is n" place to compare with it. I hope and trust that the brethren and sisters will realize this and that they will be contented and thankful; that they will keep their sons and their daughters around them; that they will cultivate their farms a little better, and by cultivating them better, be able to increase their productiveness, thus enabling them to divide it with their children and prevent them from leaving the state to establish new homes elsewhere. In this way we will have more homes in all of our communities and a better chance of our children having a God-fearing home. 

There has been considerable said during this conference, about home industry, the necessity o', proper home-life, the improvement of home-surroundings. I wish to emphasize all those good instructions, and I want also to call the attention of the people here to the fact that there are many successful homes that, perhaps, would not be looked upon as successful homes by many who do not know what constitutes a home of that character. Every home in Zion should be a home of order, a home of contentment, a home of hospitality, and a home of godliness; for it is said : "The beauty of a home is order; the blessing of a home is contentment; the glory of a home is hospitality; the crown of a* home is godliness." My brethren and sisters, I wonder  our homes are such. I wonder if we, as heads of homes, have built upon these truths and taught our children the same. What greater truth than that the crown of the home is godliness. My brethren and sisters, the fear that I have of Christianity today, in my beloved country, is that the spirit of prayer, of godliness, if you please, is fast vanishing from the homes of the people. In many parts of America the best of people, as they are called,  do not even ask God's blessing upon the food that they eat. They never think of praying to God, in private or as families; and it seems to me that this is a menace to Christianity, and reformation is needed in a great majority of homes in this our beloved country. 

All manner of isms are arising. There is a feeling, from one end of the country to the other, of throwing off the yoke of what people call Christianity. I care not for the cranks that may arise from time to time, for their lives are short; but it seems to me that when a man like Dr. Charles R. Eliot, of the great Harvard University, comes out and announces as a new doctrine a faith that denies the Divinity of Jesus Christ, that denies that man is made in God's image, that denies the authenticity of all biblical miracles, the efficacy of prayer, the supernatural value of the sacrament, the merit of self-sacrifice, and even denies the immortality of the soul — it strikes me, my brethren and sisters, that there is danger for Christianity among the people. He is a man who has been honored with the greatest of positions, and even, within a short time, offered a position as the American ambassador to one of. the greatest countries on this earth. While I haven't the time, this morning, to analyze these denials of his, I am going to content myself by saying, today, that such teaching has a tendency to bring into the homes of the American people a disregard for Christ and His teachings. When that is accomplished, when the spirit of anti-Christ enters the home, I want to say to the good people here assembled, and to the people of this country, there is a condition in the home that cannot be too strongly condemned, and can only be overcome by the acquisition of a knowledge of Christ and our Heavenly Father. 

I hope our homes are homes of order; I hope that our homes are homes of contentment — and when I say "home," I mean a pk-.ce where the father, the mother and every child loves one another and fears God. It is not necessarily a mansion. A successful, contented home may be one within only four simple walls; it may be of the humblest proportions and of the poorest construction; but if in that home there is the love of God; if there is love and contentment; if all the family are laboring to one end, I know that it is a home that God is pleased with. Let me impress this fact upon the people here, that the foremost of all things to bring contentment into a home is the faithful practice of prayer. Let the father pray; let the mother pray; let every child pray; let them take their turns, and let the heaithstone be the place where the desires of your hearts are poured out to your Heavenly Father. 

I think about the meanest being on this earth is a lazy man. I have met a few men, and I rhank the Lord they are few, whom I consider absolutely lazy, so lazy they al their wives to do all the work at home, and earn the living for the family, including the head of the household. I remember, on one occasion, meeting one of these men. I asked him why he didn't get work ? I knew he was always looking for it, but hoping and praying that he would not find it. I could see him upon the street all times of day 'and all seasons of the year, and I asked him how he made a living? "Well," he said, "my wife is still washing." I said to him, "If you can't find a job, why on earth don't you go and help the wifc wash?" "Why, that is beneath the dignity of a man," was his answei . I say, God pity such a being — I hardly like to call him a man. I ask the brethren and sisters here today, to begin with each one of your children, when they are young; instil into them a desire to work. I thank God that I have a trade at my fingers' ends; and that it is a great joy to me, for I know I can go and earn my living any time as a woolen goods manufacturer. I want every daughter of mine to learn how to work. I want her, when she is married, to be capable of taking care of a home. I care not whether she has to do it or not; I want her to know how to do it. I was reading, in a magazine last night, an article on Laziness, by Dr. Albert Von Bergmann, of Berlin, who is acknowledged as the one man of the world who has made the greatest study of this question; and this is what he says about laziness : 

"No one is born naturally lazy. One born indolent and inactive is already diseased by some other cause than laziness. The chronically lazy 

boy is at the start as healthy as the average child, but, as- he continues to refuse to do his work in school, his  at home, his labor in shop and field, a great physical change takes place in him. He physically becomes so that he cannot help being k.zy except under powerful, curative treatment. 

"The motor muscles and points of his feet soften as do those of tie legs and hands. The powers of perception of the brain are dull, and thought becomes sluggish and non-creative. The eye is dulled and only performs about half of the functions it should. The ear misses many sounds, and thus weakens the strength of its possessor. Although slower in its develcpment, there is as much disintegration in a lazy boy's body as in the frame of one attacked with a malignant disease. 

"Gradually this physical change passes into the soul, and the beautiful inspirations given by God to all new-born beings change under human influence into criminal instincts. Society receives then the boy aeggar, the boy thief, the boy sloth. Nothing is left to do with him but lo;k him up, or drive him from town t3 town until death releases him from his uselessness." 

I would like to see every father have a desire in his heart to see his boy become proficient in whatever line of work is mapped out for him, or the boy may choose. We talk about home manufactures — why, I gave almost twenty years of my life, to the Woolen Mills at Provo; and I want to say that one of the hardest things that I had to contend with was to get boys and girls, and even men, and women to stay long enough at a job to learn how to do the work well. My brethren and sisters, it seems to me that if the Manufacturers' Association, or the Chambers of Commerce cf our state, would like to do a splendid thing for this state, in developing home manufacturers, they would have a committee appointed from their body to go and visit some of the great manufacturing centers, as  as the smaller ones, of this country, and pick out from among the thousands of different articles manufactured east, those that could be made here, and then secure the formation of companies to make them here. Why, take little New Jersey, a state no larger than one of our counties, I never realized that any one little spot could be so interested in everything that was affected by the tariff. There was scarcely an item in all of the eight hundred paragraphs of the bill, that New Jersey was not interested in — not all large concerns, but little concerns, the manufacturing of little things. I believe that a committee could go east and look up hundreds of these little things, that would not take very much money to manufacture here, and I have no doubt, could be made successfully. Suppose there were only a hundred of them; and suppose that there were only twenty men or boys required in each one of them, there would be two thousand men or boys engaged in useful work. Every industry that can be started here, that will give your boys employment is, as has been said here, a blessing to the whole community. 

I hope that the fathers will take an interest in the work at home; I hope they will lighten the burden of mothers just as much as possible. I once heard a man speak in public, and he said that he had not kissed his wife since he was married to her. Brethren and sisters, I thought that a strange remark and a confession of wrong doing. I do not believe in that doctrine or practice. I have never left my home, when my wife was there, from the day that I had a home, up till this very morning, without kissing my wife goodbye. I never left her at noon-time, in my life, unless I kissed her goodbye. And I wish that every Latter-day Saint would follow this practice — not to kiss my wife, but his own. (Laughter). Start married life and continue it, by making the wife feel that you are interested in her labors and love her. Lift as much of the burden from her tired shoulders as it is possible to do; for you know it is said, "Man's work is from sun to sun; but woman's work is never clone." No successful home can be made by the father alone; no successful home can be made by the mother, alone; it takes a united family to make a perfect Latterday Saint home. . 

May God give us strength and a determination to make every home in Zion a perfect home and, above all, a prayerful home, a godlike home, an industrious home, a contented home, a hospitable home, and a home of order, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

The triumph of Truth.— Dr. Eliot's "new religion." — Where men can *nd rest for their souls.' — Duties of officers in the Priesthood. — Resignations discountenanced. — Saints should assist the Bishops. — Training of the Young. 

For some time prior to our annual and semi-annual conferences, I experience a good deal of anxiety, as I contemplate the probability of my having to address the conference. The Elders of the Church are not in the habit of making set discourses, but rely upon the Lord and His inspiration, and the inspiration they can gather from the people of God, for what they shall say. I always have more or less fear that 

I shall be unable to collect my thoughts and put them in an order that shall be profitable and interesting to the Latter-da> Saints. As a general thing, however, when a man puts his trust in the Lord, the Lord sustains him. While, as I have said, I have anxiety prior to these conferences because of having to speak at them, I have usually had great cause for thankfulness, when the ordeal is over. The remarks of Brother Clawson and Brother Smoot have given me an opening, however; and I desire to say a few words along similar lines. 

I know that this is the work of God, this latter-da)' work, that is being performed by the people known as the Latter-day Saints. This knowledge has come to me through my own observation, through my own study, as also by the inspiration and impression, upon my heart, of the Holy Ghost. I am satisfied that the work that has been so well started and has made such wonderful progress in the world, will continue until the principles embraced in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as understood by the Latter-day Saints, and as revealed to us of the Lord, through His servant Joseph Smith, the Prophet, shall fill the whole earth and be understood and accepted by all the children of God. Such is my hope and my faith, and I have no doubt whatsoever in this regard. 

While Brother Smoot was speaking of this new religion — if you may call it a religion — of which Doctor Eliot has assumed the head, I thought to myself that it is not anything new. It is but a crystallization, on the part of Doctor Eliot, of the beliefs of the Christian clergy throughout the whole country. It is what they have been believing and  all along. As a result of this belief and of this preaching, the Christian churches have been almost depleted of their membership; there lias at least been a great falling off in attendance at Divine worship; and I think that Doctor Eliot's crystallization of these beliefs into a sort of creed, will accomplish, perhaps, the entire depletion of the churches of the various Christian denominations. 

But, my brethren and sisters, Brother Smoot saw danger in this, and perhaps there is danger in it to the Christian churches; but as he was speaking, I asked myself the question, is not the hand of God in it? I believe, in all these movements which take upon themselves the nature of being world-wide, the hand of the Lord is in them. Mankind have been going to these various churches in search of God, their heavenly Father; they have been going for the purpose of receiving solace to their souls; they have desired consolation, instruction, information and guidance; and they have not found it. Hence, multitudes have turned away from these places and have lost interest in the so-called religions extant among modern Christianity. But there is something in man, and it has been demonstrated to be in man from the beginning until now, that cries out for support, for help, for comfort, for consolation, for knowledge of some supreme being. Man is naturally a worshipful creature. He believes in a power greater than his own. He sees all around him the workings of a greater power than that of man, he sees the handiwork of Deity, both in the heavens and in the earth. It is natural for men to be religious and to seek after God. But they have not found Him in the church; hence they have abandoned them, largely. Now comes Doctor Eliot with his crystallization of these ideas referred to by Elder Smoot. Well, it will be popular with some; but do you think that mankind are going to be satisfied with that kind of husk? I don't think so, not for a moment. The Latter-day Saints, have struggled and have worked, since the inception of the Church, to spread a knowledge of the truth among the children of men. We have preached the Gospel; we have proclaimed the restoration of it; we have declared Joseph Smith a prophet; we have preached that God is, as He revealed Himself, a person, and that man was created in His image; that as Christ, the Redeemer, His Being was like unto man, so wa»- He like unto His Father, and His Father like unto Him and to the children of men. We have made wonderful success in convincing many of the truth of these revelations from the Lord. Yet the great majority are still unconvinced. I believe the Lord is now using their ministers and learned men to destroy the faith of the people in these faise creeds which have erroneously been called the churches of Christ. Let men go on and do their work; let them persuade mankind that there is no God; that there is no such thing as the immortality of the soul; that there is no revelation; nor prophecy; that there is no such thing as authority — only that authority which men themselves assume. Let them go on and do this until men have lost faith in all these false religions in which they have had faith, heretofore. I see in it the workings of the hand of God, for they will be less satisfied then than before they were undeceived. And they will look elsewhere to satisfy that which within them cries out for something that they know not of; and where will they look? They will look here and there; they will run to and fro, and, as predicted, they will not find it among the organizations which have been established by men and which have been perpetuated by the authority of man. But they will continue to look, to search and to seek for the truth, and the Lord will influence and guide them, and they will, in time, discover the truth where the truth is, and that is in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, — the Church of God, founded by the power of God, which enjoys the authority of the Lord, namely, the Priesthood, conferred upon man to act and speak in the stead of God, in behalf of those who seek knowledge and salvation. Here they will find it. I cannot blame President Eliot for reaching the conclusion that hundreds and thousands have reached before him, and that many are reaching today : that there is no such thing as authority in the Christian churches. He has arrived at the tiuth concerning the Christian churches — because there is no such thing as divine authority in them. Now, if these men who have reached this state will continue to search for the truth, they will discover it in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday-Saints. They will find within it all the pure principles of the Gospel of salvation, they will become familiar with and receive the glorious gifts of the Holy Ghost; they will become acquainted with the true doctrines of the kingdom of God, and will find also all that the soul of man yearns for, and in the end life eternal. They will understand what the Priesthood is and  the authority thereof, which authority is Divine, and powerful, and which accomplishes the work that authority ought to accomplish among the children of men. 

This brings me to the main thing I wanted to speak about this morning, in connection with the remarks of Elder Clawson concerning the Priesthood. He spoke of the Priesthood itself; I desire to make a few remarks with respect to the officers in the Priesthood. 

The Church is a wonderful organization. The terms "wonderful," ''marvelous" and "remarkable" are the only terms that we can find with which to express our admiration for the organization of the Church in these latter days. While wonderful and marvelous in the perfection of its organization, it is also wonderful in its simplicity. The Church is divided and sub-divided into stakes, and wards, and organizations. Over these divisions and organizations are placed men to preside and to direct the affa'rs of the same, men who hold the Priesthood that has been restored by the servants of God, under the direction of the Father, as explained by Elder Clawson this morning. Now, the Lord has provided that the Church shall be so divided in organization, in stakes and wards with men called to preside over them, so that this most wonderful and mighty work may be the more easily accomplished. Every man who holds this Priesthood, and is an officer in it, has a duty to perform; and if all men would get a full understanding of their duties and conscientiously perform them, then the labor of carrying on the work of God' in the world would be a joy to those engaged in it. If every man had his , and did the work, then, it would be easy; but when there are some of these officers who are more or less indifferent, or careless in the performance of their duties, that increases — in just the proportion of the numbers who are thus indifferent — the labors of those who are diligent and faithful. I believe, when a man is ordained to the Priesthood, and called to ah office therein, he ought to seek for the spiiit of that calling, and the full understanding of what it means to bear the Priesthood, what his duties are; and then, with mighty prayer unto the Lord for assistance, set his hand to labor in that calling and office to the very best of his ability, even unto the end, or as long as the Lord wants him and does not release him therefrom. 

The special feature that I desire to bring to the attention of the officers in the Church is this, that in my opinion the freedom with which men who hold office in the Church, resign that office, is altogether out of keeping with the responsibility of their calling, and with the work that the Lord has for them to do, and which He has called them to do, in giving them the office and the authority. This applies more especially to the bishops in the Church. It was not so formerly, as now, that men upon this whim or that whim, would resign their positions. Some feel that they are at liberty to resign and get out from under the responsibility and authority the very moment they find their duties be. coming a little irksome or strenuous, or troublesome. I ttiink that disposition and that spirit altogether wrong, brethren. I think it is wrong with respect to presidents of stakes; I think it is wrong with the bishops; I think it is wrong when it  found among superintendents or presiding officers, in any capacity whatsoever, who have been called and placed in their positions by the inspiration of God through His servants who preside over them. They ought to accept these offices with a determination to remain in them until such time as those who place them there say it is enough. There are times, of course, when changes are necessary and have to be made, when men in office,, because of neglect and indifference, prove themselves incompetent to carry on the work of the Lord. But, as a general rule, in such cases the officer never resigns; it is the man who has the ability, and who could do the work if he would, he is the one who may want to resign. If his church duties interfere with some desire, or some business interests, or he finds difficulties arising, that are burdensome; perhaps someone has criticised or found fault with h; m; why, N for these and other unworthy reasons, he resigns his most sacred and holy office in the Church. There are some Bishops who have gone so far as to deliberately remove from one ward to another, or from one stake to another, in order to be relieved of their duties in the Bishopric. That is not the proper spirit that a Bishop ought to have. During this year, sixty-eight re-organizations among the Bishoprics in that many wards of the Church have taken place. There are six hundred and eighty-five wards in the Church. That means that ten per cent of them have had a re-organization in their Bishoprics during tnis year —  altogether too many resignations. I may say that most of these re-organizations have been made necessary because the Bishops had resigned. Very few of them were brought about or found necessary because of the death of the Bishop. I fear many of these Bbhops resigned because they wanted to get out from under the responsibility of the Bishopric. I say, brethren, this is not right; it ought not to be. You never hear — at least I have never heard, and I don't think you have heard — of the presidents in the mission field sending in their resignations, because they find seme difficulties in the preaching of the Gospel. The Elders sent abroad rarely resign from their missions before they are released. I think this same loyalty should be found among us who hold general and local offices and authority in the Priesthood, in the stakes and wards of the Church. I f a ward is suffering because of its liishopric, the president of that stake ought to know it; and if it is advisable that a re-organization should be made, then the president should bring that condition to the attention of those whose right and duty it is to make the re-organization. If a president of a stake is incompetent, or cannot perform his duty because of business interests and other inclinations on his part, and he desires to be relieved of his presidency and wants to get out of it. the Twelve will very likely discover it, and when they receive the proper inspiration from the Lord, will make the change. Men in this Church ought not to feel that they are free to resign at their own will the positions that the Lord God of Heaven has called them to occupy, and in which He has for them a work to perform, in the carrying on of this great latter- day work, in this dispensation. The Lord's will rather than man's should be done. 

I would like to say, in connection with these remarks, to the people of  Church, you ought to make the office of the Bishop a pleasant one by giving him your undivided support, as long as he h worthy of it. You ought to withhold your criticisms and not find fault with him when he is doing the best he can. Some wards have boasted of their ability to "kill off" the Bishops. Well, that is wrong on the part of the people. The people should love the Bishop; they should delight to honor him; they should sustain him, pray for him, and magnify him. Much of his strength to bear and to perform his duty depends On how the saints uphold and sustain him. We ought to help these brethren in their positions. And to the brethren I wish to say again, we should not feel that we can lay down these offices in the Priesthood, as some have felt they could. We should feel more, with reference to our offices in the Priesthood as we feel toward the Priesthood itself. You can't find any of the officers of the Church, who still retain a love of the truth and a knowledge thereof, who have a desire to resign from holding the Priesthood itself. O no! We don't want the office of Bishop : we don't want the trouble of being Bishop; we don't want all this labor and responsibility, but we want the Priesthood; we will not yield that; we value fhat most highly, and we are determined to keep it. If we would feel this way toward the offices in the Priesthood, it would be better fo r us and better for the Church at large, by far; for every time a ward is re-organized, it is disturbed from center to circumference and the new men have to be trained. We are halted in our progress as a general thing, momentarily at least, when these changes have to be made. I hope  the future the brethren will not resign except under the most urgent necessity. 

Speaking oj home industries — brethren and sisters, I believe in home manufacture; and, as suggested by President Smitn, yesterday morning, I think that along a certain line of manufacture the Latter-day Saints, every one of them, ought to be most industriously engaged, and that is in the manufacture, out of their children, material for good Bishops and good officers of the Church; giving special care and training to the children who will in time become the officers in the Priesthood and in the Church, that when they grow up they will be polished and finished articles, fully understanding and irealizing that when the Lord calls them to positions of responsibility, He wants them until He releases them from their calling. And among our girls, we ought to be manufacturing noble women, true and virtuous, who shall be worthy and devout mothers in Israel, and keepers of these homes that Brother Smcot spoke of. I tell you these boys and girls, born under the new and everlasting covenant, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, are the very best and most genuine material that can be found among all human kind; and if we do our duty toward them, if they are properly taught, and if they are industrious in their training, as we ought to be, they will become men and women of whom God Himself shall be proud, and glad to bless and magnify in our own eyes, and in the eyes of all the children of the earth. The Lord help us to be true in all things, that we may be able to carry on this great latter-day work, is my prayer, in the name o ( Jesus. Amen. 

A baritone solo, "Oh shining light Divine," was sung by Brother Melvin Peterson. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

O ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky Arches over the vales of the free, Where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow, How I've longed to your bosom to flee. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Angus M. Cannon. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


