Outdoor
03 10 1909



ELDER BENJAMIN GODDAED. 

We are glad to meet you, my brothers, sisters, and friends, in this gathering, realizing that you are unable to obtain entrance to the Tabernacle or the Assembly Hall, and that you are so desirous of learning something with regard to the work in which we are all interested, that you are willing to come to this open  gathering and remain standing, until the close. 

In the official position J now occupy upon this block, every day in the year, I am asked questions with regard to Mormonism. The words of the prophets have been literally fulfilled, as indicated in the hymn that you have just sung: 

"High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled; Ye nations now look up, 

It waves to all the world. In Deseret's sweet peaceful land — On Zion's mount behold it stand!" 

I think sometimes we ought to read the words of our hymns as well as sing them, and understand how forcible they are with regard to the Latter-day work. At times we give too much attention to the music and too little to the spirit of the song, and I am therefore going to read, perhaps as an inspiration unto those who may follow, the next few lines. 

"For God remembers still 

His promise made of old, That He on Zion's hill 

Truth's standard would unfold; Her light should there attract the gaze Of all the world in latter days. 

"His house shall there be rear'd, 

His glory to display; And people shall be heard 

In distant lands to say, We'll now go up and serve the Lord, Obey His truth, and learn His word." 

The truth of the words that I read can be testified to by many who now stand before me. Many of you have come from foreign lands. Your presence here indicates the fulfillment of this prophecy; and, as I stated before, upon this block, within the vicinity in which you are now standing, thousands  people come from every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, to learn what Mormonism means. To the strangers that come amongst us, we declare that Mormonism means the salvation of the human family. Mormonism has a message to the world, that message having been introduced by the direct ministration of the Father and the Son, repeated through the ministrations of the Angel Moroni, (whose figure is upon the summit of our Temple), who revealed the sacred record, the Book of Mormon, from which we teach, together with the Bible, the word of God. And, further, we declare that Mormonism is the revealed truth of the Almighty, given through a prophet in the latter days, that prophet having been ministered unto by resurrected beings : John the Baptist having come unto him and clothed him with the power of the Aaronic Priesthood; and Peter, James, and John having appeared unto him and given unto him the authority of the Melchisedek Priesthood; and these revelations of God, (the Doctrine and Covenants) we present unto the world as another sacred volume, which we commend as worthy of consideration. We therefore have before us today, the word of God contained in the Bible (for "we believe the Bible to be the word of God"), and the Book of Mormon, which we believe also to be the word of God : ancient scriptures treating of God's dealings with His people upon the Eastern continent, and also upon the Western continent; and we declare that we have now the living orades amongst us; and revelations given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, equally binding, equally sacred, equally divine. We commend unto the world these sacred volumes. I trust that the brethren will have your attention, and that God will bless us in this open air gathering equally with those who have been privileged to meet in the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall; and may the Spirit of the Lord fill your hearts, and interpret unto you every truth that is uttered, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDEK SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission). 

My brothers and sisters and friends, I can say that I am pleased to have this opportunity of addressing you a short time this afternoon, and I trust that while I occupy this position, I may be aided by the Spirit of the Lord, and that you will assist me by your faith ani prayers. I am pleased to see so many people out here to this open air meeting. I have never had the privilege of attending an open air meeting in this city before, although I understand such meetings have been held during several conferences. It is an indication of the growth and development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which has been going steadily on ever since the appearance of God the eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ to the boy prophet some eighty odd years ago. , 

The Latter-day Saints have been taking great interest in the salvation of the souls of men, having received the testimony that Joseph the prophet received through the visitation of the Father and the Son. And it has come unto you and unto me with such force that we have rejoiced at the privilege of preaching it unto the children of men, both  home and abroad. It has become a knowledge with us, and we know absolutely that God lives, that Mormonism is true, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of, God, and that He has His authority upon the earth in this day in which we live, and that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is in full force and effect for my benefit and for yours. By the piinciples which God, the eternal Father, has established, you and I may gain an exaltation in His kingdom, where He and His Son dwell. We know it so well that it has become a part of our lives. 

I was very much impressed this morning with the remarks of President Joseph F. Smith, a prophet of the living God, who declared unto Israel today that the work of God in the world is here to stay; that there are men who have the authority to preach it upon the face of the earth, and that there is nothing that can stop the Almighty from revealing His principles unto the children of men. 

Christ, the Lord, while He was upon the earth, said, "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me." This doctrine, the doctrine which we call "Mormonism," does not belong to the people: it is God's law. He has established it upon the earth. It is His system by which you and I may gain an exaltation in His kingdom, using the agency that God gave us when He created us and sent us forth in the world, that we might use this agencv to receive or to reject, to acknowledge, or not to acknowledge, his goodness in all things. 

To me it is the greatest thing that could come into my life to know that the Gospel is in full force and effect here upon the earth, and that a man does not have to spend his  and his life and accomplish nothing; that he will not have to go back into the eternities bankrupt, but that he can go back there into a house filled with treasures, where nothing can take them from him, and where the experience that he has earned in this life will be of assistance to him in the life to come. When we think of the millions of people that have passed from the earth, that have not had a knowledge of the Gospel we recognize that there is plenty for the missionaries to do after they leave this stage of probation. The Gospel has to be preached unto every creature. Joseph the prophet gave .us to understand that no man could be saved in ignorance, and whether in life or in death, this system, this law, these ordinances of the Gospel, will have to be given unto the children of men. Christ opened the way, liberated the captives that lived in the days of Noah. Peter testified that this was the case, that the Gospel was preached to the dead that they might "live according to God in the spirit, but be judged according to man in the flesh;" for a man must obey the principles and doctrines of Christ. He has given us to understand that "every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ." 

While the Savior was upon the earth, He said to His apostles, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel unto every creature : he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned; and these signs shall follow them that believe : in my name shall they cast out devils, they shall speak with new tongues, they shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them. They shall lay hands  the sick, and they shall recover.'' These are the words of Jesus Christ, who opened up the Gospel dispensation in His days, and brought light into the world. And who has the right to change an ordinance of the Gospel? What man under the sun has the right to say that the signs shall not follow the true believer when Christ plainly said that they would? I want to say unto }0U that no man has a right to change it, and that the principle upon which the Lord said that He would build His Church when He was talking to Peter — that of revelation — is in full force and effect here upon the earth. We have men who are appointed and chosen by God to represent Him here in the earth; and this knowledge can come unto you and to me, and unto every individual under the son; for He that said "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me" also said, "If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine." If any man will put Him to the test; if any man will search the scriptures, as Christ, the Lord, said for him to do. he may know absolutely that this is the work of the Lord; that the angel which John the Revelator saw, has flown again through the midst of the heavens, and that the Gospel is here. 

I am thankful that I have had the privilege of going into the world and declaring unto the children of men that I know this to be the truth, for I want to tell you, brothers and sisters, that there are millions upon millions of people in the world today that are honest in their hearts, that have been led astray by the cunning craftiness of men. They do not know what the Lord requires of them; and when you look into their faces, and know, as surely as you stand there, that they are honorable men and women, it gives you joy and satisfaction, and it is a privilege to open the way for them. It is not our doctrine, it is not our Gospel, but it is the word of the Lord unto His children on the earth, that they should obey His commandments; that they should go .down into the waters of baptism; that they should obey His laws, just as He said they should be obeyed; and no one has the right to change them. 

The result of all this missionary work is that thousands of people every year are going down into the waters of baptism, having listened to some humble Elder as he stood perhaps upon the streets of some city, without purse or scrip, a stranger in a strange land, with the Lord inspiring him, testifying, preaching the Gospel of the risen Redeemer. Hundreds of people have heard these Mormon Elders speak. As I look upon this congregation this afternoon, I see faces that I know, faces of men who have borne the testimony which they have received unto the children of men in foreign lands. Many have been brought to a knowledge of the truth, and to the world, the strange thing about it is this : that just as soon as a member of a family embraces Mormonism, he or she wants their whole family to accept it. Every convert becomes a missionary in the world, because they know positively that there is salvation for them in the doctrines taught by the Latter-day Saints. They know this, and they cannot deny it, and if a wife first embraces it — for quite frequently a wife joins the Church before the husband does, — she never rests until she has converted her husband. Then she starts with her  : she starts with her mother, or with some of her friends, or invites the Elders to help her, never relenting until she has accomplished her purpose. 

The work of the Lord is growing. The work is not like it was in the early history of the Church. In every county, or at least in every state of the Union, and especially in the Central States Mission, we have bodies of Latter-day Saints organized into branches, building up the Church of Christ; and people around them are becoming acquainted with the principles of the Gospel that have been sent out from the tops of these mountains by those who have faith in God. 

I want to say to the young men in Israel : take care of your means, that you may have the privilege of going into the world and preaching the Gospel; that you may not be curtailed for lack of funds : that you may go there and bear unto the children of men your testimony, and show them by scripture and by example that you know absolutely that this is the work of the Lord. I think that no apostate can ever say that he knew that he was wrong. Apostates say they know absolutely that the Gospel is right, that it is the Church that has gone astray. A man who had apostatized told me upon one occasion that he had joined other churches, a good many of them, but he never saw a peaceful day. His mind was never in a situation of contentment until he had got back into the Church again. He never could deny what he had received. The Gospel is so simple, and so plain that we cannot help but understand it. 

This privilege of coming up here to attend the conferences is an inspiration to the Latter-day Saints. 

It helps you and me in our faith : it strengthens us. I wish to repeat again that I enjoyed the remarks made by the President of our Church this morning, and I wish that the Latter-day Saints would read them, and that they would give them to their friends, and that our newspapers would print them just as he spoke them, that they might go out into the world, for they were the words of the Lord unto this people. That is the way He speaks — by His servants, the prophets. 

My brothers and sisters, I do not care to speak longer to you this afternoon, except that I with to say, in conclusion, that your sons and your daughters in the mission field, so far as I am able to find out in the Cehtral States Mission — and I am traveling nearly all the time — are enjoying themselves and their work, and are meeting the people upon the street corners, in their work-shops, and in their homes. 

We have four Elders, in one of the cities, who are meeting with the men who work in one of the great railway company's workshops. Every day, at twenty minutes past twelve, they preach to those men — something like three hundred of them — until one o'clock. They are making friends everywhere. 

Write unto your sons and unto your daughters words of encouragement. Preach the Gospel unto them when you write them letters, and do not write them anything that will disturb their minds. There is no question but that we pray for the Elders of Israel, thousands of us every night; but not only in your prayers, but when you write them letters, fill them with inspiration, that the Elders may become strengthened, and that there may be nothing in a letter that will detract  an Elder's labors. I ask the Lord to bless all Israel, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission). 

I read from Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized." 

One of the keynotes given to the great audience assembled in the Tabernacle this morning, by President Smith, was that the parents of children throughout the Church should give heed to them, should give more attention to their sons and daughters, and should see to it that they are guarded and directed aright. In the mission field we meet with so many classes of people, that the questions are involuntarily forced upon us time and time again : "What is our duty to those who are in the world?" and, "Who are we to consider our neighbor?" 

It seems to me that this revelation which was given in our day for the guidance and direction of this people meant that our children should not be properly trained simoly for our own good or for our immediate neighbor's good; but that they might be examples abroad wherever they went in whatever city or county, or state or nation. And so I say to you, my brothers and sisters, that this question of our neighbor is a very serious one for us to consider, because this work is broad. It comprehends all truth. We cannot afford to be narrow and contracted in our views, for our work and our duty extends to every one in the world who is in need of light, and who is seeking the truth pertaining to the salvation of the human family. 

Christ told His followers upon one occasion, that at the last day it would be said to certain people, "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world : For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat : I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked, and ye clothed me. * * * " And the people would wonder at this because they could not remember any particular time they had given Him such entertainment; and so they would say to Him, "When saw we Thee an hungered, and fed Thee? or thirsty, and gave Thee drink? when saw we Thee a stranger, and took Thee in? or naked, and clothed Thee?" And He would say, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, My brethren, ye have done it unto Me." 

That is the spirit of this work. It means that it must go to all the world, to every man, woman, and child; that everyone must have a chance to hear this great plan of salvation. So our duty is not to our individual neighbor, to him that lives next door to us, but we are held responsible if our children go into another city, and come in con-. tact with other people, and do not  them proper examples. I think we shall be held accountable, just as this scripture says, if we do not provide them the means and the ways, and do not set them proper examples. Condemnation will come upon us if we fail in this matter. 

[Quoting again from the Doctrine and Covenants :] "Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; and they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness." 

So, if our young men, and our young women go to the neighboring towns, to the neighboring county, or state, or wherever they go, and carry not this spirit, this inspiration of the Gospel with them, condemnation will rest upon us, their parents. 

A few months ago, I read of a sad event which happened in this city, which very much impressed me at the time. I do not think I shall forget it. A man who was very popular here, both in a business and a political way a few years ago, was led into temptation, and he became a defaulter in the bank with which he was connected. He was sentenced to a term of imprisonment, and had served quite a number of years of his time, but had a longer time to serve, when an outbreak occurred in the penitentiary. It seemed that a general jail, outbreak was planned, and that the execution of it would have been carried out had it not been for the prompt action of this man. He took it into his head to hide the keys from the jailbreakers and did so. Then he hid himself; but it was soon discovered that he was the  that had frustrated the plan of the desperadoes. So when the matter was brought before the Board of Pardons of this state, it was thought well to release him, to give him his freedom, because he had earned it. 

This man began here, among the people who knew of his disgrace, among those who knew thiat he had defaulted from his bank, among those who knew that he had worn the prison garb, to start out among neighbors and friends, to make over his life, to live it anew. A great number of difficulties and trials and tribulations came in his way, and he was about to give up, and yet he thought, "I want to succeed here, and show these people that I am a man." So he kept on in this line of thought and action. But one day, as he was passing along the street, and as he turned a corner, two men who stood there were heard to remark, one of them to the other, "There goes an exconvict: there goes;" he said 

it loud enough for the unfortunate man to hear, and he was crushed beyond endurance. He had borne many indignities that had been heaped upon him by those who were opposite to him in business; but this was the final blow. .On the way to his office he purchased a revolver; as he entered he said, "If anyone calls for me, say that I am not in." Then he stepped into another room, and in a moment the report of a gun was heard. The poor fellow had blown out his brains. He left a letter to his intimate friends, in which he said, "My competitors would not let me live. They were jealous of me because I was trying to make a name fcr myself and live down my shame. They would not let me live." 

I say to you, my friends, that that man's death is chargeable to some individual in this world. I believe also that we are chargeable, we are accountable, for what we do and say, no matter who is our neighbor. Everyone who is in trouble, who is in distress, who needs our help, is cur neighbor; not our own family, not only those whom we mingle with from day to day, but every man and woman who is in distress in this world. 

The words of one of the poets come to my mind in this connection, and I will try and repeat a few stanzas to you. 

"Some there are who seek 'twixt covers 

For their knowledge of mankind. In whatever each discovers 

May he satisfaction find; But for me no book is needed, 

As I ponder day by day On the humor and the oathos 

In the flats across the way. 

"Mornings, as the children sally, 

And a goodly score appear, Forth to school or mimic warfare, 

Boyhood's fancies reappear. Life is short, and time is fleeting, 

I repeat, as day by day, Children change to youths and maidens 

In the flats across the way. 

"From a window just above me 

Oft there leans a maiden fair, Playing with her favored canine, 

Tall is she, with golden hair. I'll admit my heart, distracted, 

Grows with envy day by day, As she clasps that brindled bull pup, 

In the flats across the way. 

"Just across the nice young couple 

Have been sent a son and heir, But the way they treat that baby 

Sets on end my every hair. My conviction, though unpleasant, 

Grows more certain day by day That they'll kill that "kid" with kindness 

In the flats across the way. "By a window sits a grandsire, 

Hopeless paralytic he, There awaiting death to free him, 

Yet he smiles right cheerfully. To give thanks for present blessings 

Is the lesson day by day Taught me by that helpless cripple, 

In the flats across the way. 

"All unbidden, most disturbing, 

Once a thought there came to me, For it straight imposed upon me 

Great responsibility; For this thought, and 'tis a true one, 

Guides my action day by day, To those opposite I'm living, 

In the flats across the way." 

And so I say to you, my brothers and sisters, we are living to those who are looking upon our acts every day, every hour, and every minute of our lives, and we should be cautious in every act, thought, and deed, no matter where we are. God grant that His blessing may be with you, that He may lead you aright in the paths of truth and righteousness, is my humble desire, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The hymn, "I know that my Redeemer lives," was rendered as a solo, by Elder Oscar Kirkham. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

We are informed by the poet that "the groves were God's first temples." We are enjoying the privilege of standing under the shade of trees upon this historic square this afternoon, and listening to the music and the instructions of the Elders. 

My mind was impressed this morning with that part of the remarks of President Smith concerning the responsibility we are under of saving souls. At the A. Y. P. Exposition at Seattle, in the Alas building there is a glass cage, surrounded by very strong iron bars. There is a treasure within that glass house that attracts the attention of passers-by at all hours of the day. They stand about the glass cage, longingly looking in upon the golden treasure, the gold bricks, and the gold nuggets within; but if all of those golden treasures were multiplied a thousand times, they would not equal the value of a human soul. In visiting Arizona a few months ago, I was told the story of the search for the body of a man who was supposed to have been drowned in the Little Colorado River. His friends and neighbors turned out and searched day by day in those turbid waters to recover the remains, but without success up to the time of my visit. Just before that I was in Summit County, and  heard narrated the search for a poor old lady, who, in her declining years, had wandered off in the snows of winter, and the search was going on for her body, for it was believed that shortly after sTie had been out in the snow and the cold she had perished. The search went on day after day in a systematic manner. Horsemen rode a few rods apart so that they might know that every rod had been carefully searched. And so the hunt went on from day to day; not in the hope of saving a human soul, but simply to administer to the comfort of loved ones in recovering the body. A year or two ago a half dozen of my friends and associates went into a steam launch upon the Bear River, and as they were gliding swiftly, at the twilight of a summer's day, suddenly the boat struck a submerged pile, and they were precipitated into the water, and two of them, the best swimmers, never reached the shore . In Logan the stores were closed; men in all vocations went from that town, from Smithfield, from Newton, Clarkston — went in large numbers, and dragged the river. Expert divers were summoned from a distance of a hundred miles to dive in the water to recover the bodies. Every known means of dragging the stream was put into effect. When darkness prevented the search to advantage, men rolled themselves in their blankets near the stream, in order to be at hand when daylight should come; and so the search went on day after day. I remember after the lapse of a day or two, the bishop of Wellsville telephoned to me to know if the bodies had been found, and he concluded by saying, "Wellsville stands ready to send one hundred men, if necessary, to participate in the search." Not for the purpose, I say. of saving a human soul, or even of saving life, because life, of course, was long since extinct; but for the purpose, merely, of recovering the tenaments of clay, to minister to the sentiment of their friends in giving them a Christian burial, instead of having the bodies remain in a watery grave. If we will make that sort of an effort, my friends, in order to recover mere bodies, mere tenaments of clay, what snould we do when a human life, or a human soul is in peril ? What price can we place upon a human soul ? The Psalmist has given us some words bearing on that question. "They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches; none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give God a ransom for him." 

The Savior has also given us some idea of the value of a soul when He says, "For what shall it  a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" I once saw a young man shortly after a drowning, in which he had endeavored to save those who had perished, and, as the tears streamed down his cheeks, the thought that was uppermost in his mind was whether he had done the very best he could to save his drowning companions. It was true that nothing had been left undone by him, but in his anxiety as to whether he had fulfilled his full duty that thought was uppermost in his mind. As I understand it, there is a responsibility upon each one of us in reference to the welfare of his fellow man. Ezekiel, in the third chapter, discusses the question in this way : 

"Son of man, 1 have made thee a watchman unto the House of Israel : therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, 'Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning nor speakest to warn the w; cked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul. Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him. he shall die; because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the righteous man, that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin, he shall surely live, because he is warned; also thou hast delivered thy soul." 

So that here is a duty, not only to warn those who are in sin, but also to warn the righteous who may wander into sin, for we know full well that though a man today may be justified through the grace of Jesus Christ, his salvation is not sure, and he may fall from grace. Although he may be classified as a righteous man, still he may fall. And there may be a responsibility upon someone within warning distance of him for not warning him of some false step that he has taken, some by and forbidden path that he has entered upon. 

It is the sense of this responsibility that enables these missionaries, these with whom I have the honor of speaking this afternoon, to remain abroad, as they do, for so many long years, gratuitously giving the best years of their lives in order to warn others. Brother Ellsworth who shall follow me, has been out, I suppose, some eight or ten years now. Brother Bennion has been in the missionary field for a number of years and Brother Herrick is just entering upon what will probably be a long missionary career for him. They do it gratuitously, and for the love they have for their fellow-men, to discharge this responsibility; for they know that a soul is precious in the sight of God; that Mormonism is the science and art of life, and that it will have a saving effect upon those who will give heed to its teachings, just in proportion as they understand that great system of truth, and will put it into practice and into effect in their lives. 

It is on account of a realization of the sense of the impoitance of saving souls that there is such joy at the return of the prodigal. I confess that I do not like to hear the story of the prodigal son presented with a view of impressing, perhaps, a license to sow wild oats, or anything of that sort, but I like to hear  presented for the forgiveness manifested by the father in taking back to him his wayward son. 

I was impressed the other day with the thought of an aged sister who was about to make her will. She had forgotten at first that there was an additional consideration due one of her children, the wayward -on. She said, "You know he and his father had some friction, and he wandered away from home, and it is my desire, if I can, to make up to him, in a small way, by showing a greater interest in him than in the other children." 

It was a realization of this principle of saving souls that gave joy to the shepherd in the parable of the lost sheep, in leaving the ninety and nine that were safe, and going after the one lost sheep, and in bringing it safely within the fold. I feel that the words of President Smith this morning were timely, and of great, importance to us all, of doing all we can for the salvation, first of those of our own household, and then of all mankind. 

May the Lord bless us, and enable us to put into practice these principles of warning and saving others, doing our full duty to them, that we may not stand under condemnation, neither as to our children, nor as to our Father's children in general. May the Lord bless us and help us to endure true 'and faithful to the end, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

(President of Northern States Mission). 

I rejoice in meeting you. I know you have gathered here, each and every one of you, to receive light, and to be encouraged in the princi of the Gospel that you have espoused; and as you have come seeking, so ye shall go away filled. 

I enjoyed the spirit of our services this morning, and I have enjoyed the spirit of the service this afternoon. The song that: was just rendered by Elder Kirkhain ever inspires me. It arouses within me a feeling, a knowledge of God and His works, that is impossible for me to express, for I know that my Redeemer lives. This %iorning I was thrilled in every fibre of my being while listening to the prophet of the Lord. I was reminded of the song, 

"Come, listen to a prophet's voice And hear the word of God, 

And in the way of truth rejoice, And sing for joy aloud." 

How many of us will listen to the voice of the prophet of God and go home singing and rejoicing because of the teachings that he has given us this day concerning our duty to ourselves and our children? 

I am proud, my brothers and sisters, to feel that I am representing the Northern States and the missionaries laboring there. I have enjoyed every minute of the time I have been in that part of the world, because of the association I have with so many men and women who love the Lord — men and women who are strugging to keep the commandments of the Lord and magnify His holy name in their walks and conversations among the people. It has been my privilege to labor with about eight hundred Elders and a dozen lady missionaries in that mission. Out of that eight hundred, we have had only one man go astray so far, in the field, as to lose the spirit of his calling. We think this a wonderful record compared with  of big men of the world, who confess the looseness of their morals both before and after marriage. 

We have a most sacred duty to discharge to the children who have been given to us by our Father in heaven. They are an heritage from the Lord, and we have b. j en given the privilege of being their fathers in the flesh. The scriptures say that we correct them and they give us reverence. I wonder if all the Latter-day Saints correct their children and their children give them reverence, so that they are growing up to be worthy sons and worthy daughters of our Father in heaven, able to stand before the world pure and clean and nobly represent His cause. Upon that principle alone we ought to be, and will be, if we can remain true to our covenants, the salt of the earth; for there are no people living upon the earth today who have made more sacred covenants concerning their virtuous actions than have the Latter-day Saints, and none ought to be more clean and pure. I am very proud of the young men who have been sent to th.e Northern States Mission. They may have neglected their opportunities for education; they may not have reverenced the name of Deity, as they should; they may have neglected to give honor to their parents, but they have listened to the promptings of the Spirit pnd given sufficient heed to parents that they are clean and pure before God concerning their morality. And when the Spirit of God fires the souls of such men it is life giving to the people who listen to them, and the heads of thousands are bowed because of the virtue of t^e young men and women of Zion. 

We sing and pray, and thank God every day of our lives for a prophet to guide us; we thank Him for the Gospel to enlighten our minds, and I think, my brethren and sisters, that we ought to take seriously the warning concerning our children, and concerning our own lives. We ought never to forget with what a pleading voice our President declared that be would sooner bury his children or die himself, and be taken to the cemetery than to have them lose their virtue or lose their testimony, and wander away from the truth that God has given him and enabled him thus far to teach his children. 

How many of you, my brothers and sisters, have sought in kindness and in love to so teach your children, and gather them around you so closely that they will not be tempted to go astray. To so teach them that they will love their homes and love their surroundings, and honor their parents in their lives when they go out from the parental roof? It is, indeed, an inspiration to me to see the sons and daughters of President Smith greet him with a kiss as they meet each day and receive in turn his fatherly greeting. How many of us, as parents, have so taught our children or have kept so close to them that the first time they meet us each day they feel like coming up and putting their arms around us and giving us a child's kiss, and we in turn kissing them? I wonder how many of us are so near to our sons that we can sit down by their side as they are budding into manhood and put our arms around them, and warn them against the vices of the world, and teach them, if they have not been taught, to lose every limb of their body, before they lose their virtue. Teach them that it will  the deepest sorrow; teach them that it will bring a sting to them forever to lose the greatest gift that God has given us. During the past year, strong, hearty, big business men, have shed tears in confessing to me that they have not formed in early manhood the standard of morality that they understand the Latter-day Saints to have, and they were sorry to say that they deceived j&eir wives. I say to mothers and fathers in Israel, that Joseph F. Smith meant purity and morality and clean living as strongly as anything else in the world; for if we can keep our children pure and clean, they will not go far away from the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored to us through the Prophet Joseph. 

Should our Elders in the field sin they would never have the heart to face the world, and call them to repentance, because Satan will whisper, "Why are you out here? You ought to go home. You have done wrong. You have violated the sacred covenants that you made. You have no right to call the world to repentance," etc. And so, my brothers and sisters, on this score alone we ought to gather our sons and daughters around us and teach them the great strength of bemg clean and uncontaminated from the wicked ways of the world. 

We, as a rule, guard our daughters, and we are able to rear them so that they are clean and pure before God; but I am afraid we are not as careful with our sons. If they associate with evil companions, perhaps a few years older than themselves; they hear things that are wrong; they receive a wrong conception of the most important things of life, and ere we are aware they may have done many things  are sorry for. Had their fathers begun teaching these vital truths to their boys of fourteen and fifteen, had they put their arms around them and made companions of them, they could send them out in the world, and in to life so strong they would come back, no matter how long the time, as clean as when they left their mother's arms. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I rejoice in the testimony I have that God lives, and that Jesus Christ is His son and the Savior of the world. I rejoice that the Latter-day Saints believe in God and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and believe that He actually lived, and lives today, and is able to counsel them, and render unto the world His Father's mind and will concerning the walks and conversations of men and women in the earth. It gives me pleasure, beyond my power to express, to have the privilege of laboring with men and women who night and morning kneel down and in humility pray for me as well as for those who are at home, men and women who earnestly desire to be guided and directed to teach and say and do the things ihat will build up the kingdom of God and magnify His name, in the earth. 

We, as Latter-day Saints, pray for Joseph F. Smith every day of our lives, and in our hearts we sustain him and uphold him, as our leader and as the man to whom our Father gives ability to proclaim the things we need. He has given us this day instructions concerning our children; and I say it behooves us to go home and find some way to reach our sons and daughters who may be careless, and estranged from us; if there are any such. I venture the assertion that there are fathers  Israel who have never had their arms around their sons for many days and years, and in consequence there is a barrier between them. We should have the power to break that barrier down that keeps us from loving and counseling and helping our own flesh as we should. We sustain Joseph F. Smith, and we ought to heed his counsel and example and take the first opportunity to bring about conditions that there may be love between father and son such as should exist. 

We ought to sustain each other with our faith and prayers; and by our daily actions we ought to sustain each other in business. We ought to look after each other's interests, that we shall not be crowded out of our place. We ought first to remember our brother, that he in return may remember us, and by so doing grow strong together. We are told to love our enemies, and I believe the Latter-day Saints, of all the people of the world, have loved their enemies, have builded them up when they have come in among us in such a way that they are stronger and more prosperous than ourselves. 

We have something like two hundred students in Chicago, studying medicine, dentistry, mining, law, architecture, and other things. When they come back here, if they were known as John or Bill or Dick, they still are frequently dubbed John or Bill or Dick. They may have taken first honors in their college work; they may have stood head and shoulders above some other men, still it makes no difference. But when some common boy from some other state comes here to locate among us, it is "Dr." So and So, it is "Prof." So and So; it is this and that and the other with never a thought of who they used to be or what their present attitude toward our welfare is. I say, my brothers and sisters, we should give our boys a fair chance, we ought at least to give them an equal opportunity with those we know nothing of. If I were to be operated upon, I should like to have the knife in the hand of a man who knows that my spirit came from God, who has a prayer in his heart that I may recover, and who will do everything in his power, and do it in a better way because my life is more sacred to him than to those who know not what life is, neither know God or keep His commandments. 

I know some of the men who came here from other towns and states, I know their lives, and I tell you that it will pay you to stand by Bill and John and Dick when they come home. When these professional men to whom I refer go into other places they seek membership and fellowship with the churches in order to get their patronage but here they join our enemies; they take sides with those who seek to destroy our faith and sacred honor, yet we love and support and build up these very men. I would like our own to have a little more chance after being away for years. We need to love our enemies, but not so much that we turn our own out of house and home and out of the country that our parents and grand-parents have made. I love the students that labor with us as missionaries, students who stand well with their professors and college students worthy of your patronage. Some of the presidents of graduating classes in different colleges have been nothing more than returned Mormon Elders, men who have filled 'missions, and gone back  school, and because of their leadership, are honored by their fellowmen; but when they come home, in some instances they find they have not a bit more or not an even chance with those who believe that when we die we are gone forever. 

We ought and do pray for the President of the Church; we pray for the Twelve, and we sustain them, and we ought also to pray for every individual member of the Church, and we ought to sustain them too, that they may leceive an inheritance in Zion, that through their lives and works and successes, this kingdom may be built up. When we need men in any line, we ought to call men who have the Spirit of God in their bosom, and who would do everything to save our lives or property, or that which is entrusted into their care, and in turn use their substance to the building up of this great cause instead of spending it in trying to undo what God has set us to do. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I rejoice in the achievements of the past, and I hope most earnestly that we shall sustain each other so well that we in the future, as young men and young women, will build well upon the foundations that have been laid by our noble sires. We will never.be able to do it if we sO love our enemies that we give them preference in our business life and associations and companionship over those who bow the knee with us. 

Some colleges of the east so recognize our people that numbers of our students who have come there to enter college have received entrance credit for woik done as missionaries. They regard the training of young men who have done missionary work as qualifying them  to go on with college work more than had they been doing labor in other lines. 

The Lord bless us, and help us to "listen to a prophet's voice, and hear the words of God," and in the way of truth abide, that we may sing for joy aloud. God bless the mothers and fathers of the missionaries and answer your prayers upon their heads-, and in turn answer their prayers upon your heads, that Zion  grow and prosper until the honest in the earth shall sing praises unto the Master, until all shall know that our Redeemer lives, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 


