Afternoon
05 04 1915

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Guide us, O Thou great lehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art able — Hold us with Thv powerful hand. 

Elder Joseph R. Shepherd offered the opening prayer. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! What more can He say than to you He hath said, You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled? 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the annual report of the Church Auditing Committee, as follows : 

auditor's report. 

Salt Lake City, Utah, 

April 6, 1915. Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Dear Brethren : Your Auditing Committee begs leave to report that we have carefully audited the books and accounts for 1914 of the Trustee-in -Trust and of the Presiding Bishopric; and have searchingiy examined the reports made by the various Stakes, Wards, Temples, General Auxiliary Organizations and all other institutions in which the Church is interested. 

From such audit and examination we are pleased to be able to report that the icceipts and disbursements of all Church funds are not only fully and accurately accounted for, but evidence a most careful and detailed consideration of the numerous items which constantly demand the attention of the presiding authorities. 

We feel especially gratified in noting the large amounts of money, which the liberality of the Saints has enabled you to spend for charitable purposes, for the education of our youth, and for the promotion of God's work on earth, both in building temples and meetinghouses at home, and in sustaining the various missions abroad in the world. 

Praying God to continue to bless you in thus carrying on the work of the Master, and in the wise discharge of its weightv responsibilities, we respectfully submit this report, and remain. 

Your brethren in the Gospel, 

(Signed") W. W. Riter, John C. Cutler, Henry FT. Rolapp, Joseph S. We£ls, Heber Scowcrot, Auditing Committee. 

On motion, the foregoing was accepted, and approved, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Faithfulness, peace, and comfort among the Saints. — Danger in excessive pleasure-seeking. — Need for the young to be carefully guarded. — Profiting by experiences of former peoples. — Modesty in apparel, and patronage of home industries advocated. 

I sincerely trust that the few moments I occupy the Lord will bless me with strength to make you hear, and with ideas that will be fruitful of benefit to you, my dear brethren and sisters. 

My heart has been made glad during this conference, at the out-pouring of the Spirit of the Lord, and I feel that it has been well for us to be together. In the midst of the turmoil that exists in the world today, I have felt to praise my Maker for the peace and quiet 'that reigns in Israel; for the blessings that abound in this great land of America; that our lot has been cast under the folds of the Stars and Stripes, and that our Heavenly Father saw fit to plant the feet of His people in this grand intermountain country. It is a source of satisfaction and a testimony of the divinity of this work that notwithstanding the assaults of the adversary, and the mobbings and drivings of the people, they have kept the faith and have evidenced, by right living, their belief in God and their knowledge that He lives. As long as we are humble and keep the commandments of the Lord, there need be no anxiety as to the result. The danger to us, as it has been to all the peoples of God upon the earth, is from forsaking humility, lacking the charity that should abound in the hearts of men, and turning to  and unrighteousness. We have been wonderfully prospered as a people, and in traveling through the stakes of Zion I am gratified to see so many living in comfortable homes, and that the men of our communities are providing the comforts and conveniences of life for their families. I believe this is pleasing to our Heavenly Father. 

Some times I wonder if we will err, if it is possible that your family and mine will make the mistake that has been made by the sons and daughters of God in the various ages of the world, and forsake the house of worship for the hot^e of pleasure. How are we going to be affected, as a people, by the general tendency to go to extremes in seeking amusement ? Pleasure-seeking increases among us as the years go by. I can remember as a child that I felt I was favored if I could have one excursion a year out to the Lake, and another one to Calder's Park. If I could go to one or two matinees in a season I was well satisfied. That left me plenty of time to attend my Sabbath School, Mutual Improvement Association, day school, and the other institutions provided for my edification and instruction. 

There is a growing tendency in this age to live much more rapidly. Instead of thinking seriously of the purposes of life, many of our young people are devoted to light amusements. "What shall we do tomorrow for fun?" "What shall we do next day for pleasure?" Let's go to the moving picture show tonight." "Let's go to the dance tomorrow night." This is the tendency of their ambition; and I am wondering, my brethren and sisters, . as the guardians of the children of the Latter-day Saints, we are as prudent and careful as we should be in safe-guarding, and in encouraging them to engage in more important pursuits. Our children are the most precious gift that our Father bestows upon us. If we can guide their feet in the path-way of salvation, there will be joy eternal for us and for them; but if, by reason of following after the fashions of the world, or as the prophet predicted, it should happen in our clay that our children should be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, it will be a sad time for us, because those v\ ho pursue pleasure in this life to excess are likely to forsake the ways of the Lord. I am concerned for the youth of Israel; I feel that we yll should be, and should assume the duty of looking after the Lord's little ones, teaching and safe-guarding them as far as it is possible. 

Some of our people are patterning after the follies of the world, and are blinded to their danger until it is too late. Of the strangers who come to live in our midst, many are good, faithful, honorable men and women, then there is another class, who are devoted entirely to making money, and riotous living, and everything else must take second place. x\musement of every kind, and temptation of every kind is thereby placed within the reach of our children, and the result may be in some cases that, if we are not careful, we will lose some of them. It is your duty and mine to always be exemplary in our conduct; to seek to do good to our fellow men, to encourage, not only our own children, but the children of our neighbor to works of righteousness, to honor the Sabbath Day and keep it holy; to honor father and mother and observe the other commandments that onr Heavenly Father has given to us from time to time. That is our privilege — nay, that is our duty, because the Lord has conferred upon us the priesthood, and has given to us a knowledge that He lives. Let us look back a few hundred years and judge of the future by the past. Let me read just a few verses from the third chapter of Isaiah, of what the prophet of God foresaw among the people who should live after him. He says : 

"Moreover the Lord saith. Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet; 

"Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will discover their secret parts. 

"In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tires like the moon, 

"The chains, and the bracelets, and mufflers, 

"The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings, 

"The rings, and nose jewels. 

"The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping pins, 

"The glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the veils. 

"And it shall come to r.ass, that instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girdiner of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty. 

"Thy men shall fall hv the sword and thy mighty in the war. 

"And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she being desolate shall sit upon the ground." 

If the prophet had lived in our clay, could we better understand  of the terms he has used? It would almost seem that some of the things referred to are the ornaments of the present. I wonder, as I look back to the time that is past and see the destruction that did come upon some of those whom the Lord warned through His servants, if we cannot with profit remember the past, and teach and guide our children to avoid similar excesses and the sorrow that follows. 

I find also something else in the word of the Lord contained in the fifth chapter of Alma. He had been instructing the people with reference to their duties and he strove to bless them by teaching what the Lord would have them know; he was advising those whose ancestors had been miraculously guided across the mighty ocean to a land of promise. Being a prophet, he was teaching under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. He was evidently fearful of the result of the prosperity of the people and desired to save them from threatened danger, and these are a few of the words that he spoke : "Yea, can ye be puffed up in the pride of your hearts? Yea, will ye still persist in the wearing of costly apparel and setting your hearts upon the vain things of the world, upon your riches?" Those are Alma's words to the people who dwelt upon this western land, those who had been blessed in a remarkable way. I would call your attention to the final destruction to that people. They were blessed of the Lord; even the Savior Himself visited and ministered unto them, they saw Him and heard His voice, and for two hundred years afterward they were a righteous people. They were an intelligent people, too, and highly civilized, but they transgressed, and de followed. Look at the scattered bands of Lamanites that are in this land of ours today, and realize the pinnacle from which they fell by reason of disobedience to the commandments of God through his prophet. It is well for us to remember these things because the same cause will produce the same effect. 

In our day the Lord has cautioned us again. The forty-second section of the Doctrine and Covenants contains this admonition to the Church. This doesn't refer to the time of Isaiah nor to the time of Alma, but comes right down to the day in which we live. Through His prophets He admonishes us with reference to our duties, and among the things He says are these : "And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands." What a splendid thing to contemplate in our community. I would like to read that again. This is what the Lord advises : "Let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I think that is worthy of our consideration. When discussing the high cost of living, examine your own household, and I am talking to myself while I talk to you. Am I increasing the cost of living by extravagance, or am I teaching my family to make the garments they wear ? Are we using the materials that are at hand, or are we sending across the ocean to bring from the nations afar expensive things for the adornment of our persons? Right here in our own community there are those who prefer articles manufactured in distant lands, when right in  own neighborhood industries are struggling for existence, that would do well if we would patronize them, and employment would be furnished many hands now idle. Our factories can produce practically all the things that we need, and they should be sustained by us. That is self-preservation, for we would keep our money at home and employ our own people. 

Now, I feel, my brethren and sisters, that this is worth thinking about. Look at the clothing worn by employes in offices and stores. What about the high cost of living? Extravagance is responsible for much of it. Many of our young men and girls when they go to their daily employment are attired as if they were going to a party. They cannot afford it, but beggar themselves to keep up with the demands of fashion. I believe we give entirely too much attention to style, rather than to the things that will make us God's children eternally. We can afford to retrench, and I recommend to the Latter-day Saints the words of our beloved President along that line spoken in this conference. Let us set an example; let us live within our means; let us be lenders instead of borrowers; let us not place our homes or the lands that produce our living under mortgages, in order that we may ride in fine conveyances or keep up with the pace set by our neighbors who may be able to afford it. Let us be more concerned about the adornment of our minds that are eternal, rather than adornment of our persons with things that are of no lasting benefit. Let us keep the commandments of God; let us live humble, and sweet, and pure. Let us not be lifted up in the pride of our hearts if we have been more successful than our neighbor financially, but, mindful of the blessings of health and strength, and the gift of home and loved ones, appreciating the knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that is the power of God unto salvation, unto all those that believe and obey it; let us evidence by loving kindness to every child of our Heavenly Father that we are grateful. 

May the Lord add His blessing; may we be righteous exemplars; may His peace be upon all Israel. May the spirit of kindness and love find its way into the hearts of mankind everywhere, that war may cease and peace and happiness abound in the world, that from shore to shore and from pole to pole the Gospel may be preached without hindrance, and all God's children be called from the error of their way and partake of the glorious blessings that we enjoy in the valleys of these mountains, that eventually all mankind may rejoice in keeping the commandments of the Lord and obtain eternal life thereby, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The Gospel — Tts Scope, and the Responsibility of those who preach it — Spiritual and temporal activities — Various ways of preaching — No substitute permissible — Human theory versus divine revelation — The heroism of God's people. 

"Woe is unto me if I preach not the Gospel." 

So wrote the Apostle Paul to the Corinthians. I think I sense in some degree the weight of the responsibility that Paul found himself under. Tt is a responsibility resting upon any people who have received  like commission from on high, a commission to preach the everlasting Gospel That responsibility rests upon the Latter-day Saints. We have received the same Gospel that Paul received, and are under a similar obligation to preach it in all the world, as a witness to all nations, before the end comes. There is nothing so important, so imperative, as the delivery of the divine message that has been entrusted to us. 

But what is the Gospel? Do we mean by that term faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, with other principles of the religion of Jesus Christ — do we mean these, and these alone? Is there nothing more to the Gospel than the laws and ordinances thereof, and the preaching and performing of the same for the salvation of mankind? 

Last summer I stood upon what is called the Land of Zion — Jackson County, Missouri, the spot that has been consecrated as the site for the City of Zion, the New Jerusalem, and the gathering thereto of a people who shall be prepared for the glorious coming of the Lord. I stood, in a local sense, upon the Land of Zion; but in a larger sense T did not need to go to Jackson County, in order to be upon the Land of Zion. I was standing upon it here in Utah, before I went down to Missouri. The whole of America is the Land of Zion, according to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Even so, while we refer specifically to the Gospel, including in that reference such principles as faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying' on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — while these, in a specific sense, are the Gospel, in a larger view the Gospel means everything connected with the work  the Lord in which we are taking part. 

The very word "Gospel" teaches this truth. It springs from an Anglo-Saxon term— "Godspell," signifying God-story, or the story of God. When we speak of the Gospel in this greater sense, we mean the career of that divine Being who left His glorious throne in heaven and descended upon this planet to die that man might live, who became the author of salvation and the giver of eternal glory to all who would believe on Him and obey Him. The God-story includes the choosing of the Christ in the councils of eternity, the creation, and the fall of Adam and Eve which prepared the way before the Savior and His great upliftingwork. It includes His death upon the Cross, and His resurrection, concerning which He said : "Because I live ye shall live also." It includes all the dispensations of the Gospel from the days of Adam to the present time. It covers this great and final dispensation, which will gather to its bosom all former dispensations of God's dealings with man, and bind them together in one harmonious whole. It comprises the work of Joseph the Prophet and the latter-day restoration of the Gospel. It extends over the future, over the Millennium that is to come, the reign of universal peace and good will, and over the glorification of our planet and its conversion into a heaven, the abode of the righteous forevermore. These are all parts of the great God-story, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

The Latter-day Saints have been criticised and even ridiculed because the Church to which they belong has had so much to do with temporal things. Men have apostatized in  past, and have tried to justify their defection from the truth on the plea that the Church was engrossed with temporalities — with the construction of canals, the building of railroads, the extension of telegraphs, the founding of co-operative stores, mills, and factories, the institution and promotion of industrial enterprises of various kinds. As if these things had no connection with the work of God and were no part of the divine plan for the building up of His kingdom. As if a desert could be redeemed by prayer and prophecy alone! As if colonization and empire-founding could be accomplished merely by sitting in meeting and singing hymns, or by preaching and listening to sermons. The Latter-day Saints realize that the Gospel embraces temporal as well as spiritual duties; that it is intended to save the souls of men; and that the soul is not spirit alone, nor body alone, but spirit and body combined. The two priesthoods under which this Church was organized and by virtue of which it carries on its work, are an object lesson, teaching the Latterday Saints that they are expected to interest themselves in temporal affairs as well as in spiritual concerns — which, after all, include the temporal, as the greater includes the. less. All God's commandments are spiritual, and as such they cover all things, the temporal as well as the spiritual. Those same apostates, if they were here today, would complain about the water reservoirs, the sugar factories, the knitting works, and the various other enterprises that have been carried on or assisted with means voluntarily contributed by the Latter-day Saints for the building up of Zion. I wonder they did not grumble because our people in early GENERAL CONFERENCE.  found it necessary to battle with crickets and grasshoppers and even to fight Indians, in order to save themselves from destruction. About the only temporal activities they did not find fault with were gold and silver mining, in which they themselves were engaged. 

Our missionaries, our boys, our fifteen hundred to two thousand striplings who go forth into the world to testify that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith is His Prophet — they are not the only ones who are preaching the Gospel in this dispensation. Their fathers and mothers who send them means to enable them to travel from place to place, they are preaching the Gospel by the assistance thus rendered to their sons in the mission field. And behind them also — as Brother Roberts reminded us in a recent meeting — is the great Church that sends them forth — a vast spiritualtemporal machine for the preaching of the Gospel, the saving of souls, and the preparation of the world for the Savior's coming. Those who receive these missionaries into their .homes, who feed them and help them on their way, are likewise preaching the Gospel; for it can be preached in many ways, and by example as well as by precept. We can all be preachers of it — can all tell some part of the great story of God and the building up of his kingdom. They who pay tithes and offerings or otherwise contribute to the revenues of the Church, are helping to proclaim the message of salvation. The larger view need only to be taken, and our course is vindicated, whether it deals with things temporal or things spiritual. There is a work for every man, woman and child in the preaching of the Gospel, and woe unto those who  had this commission put upon them, if they neglect it! We need not worry about temporalities; all we need concern ourselves over, is whether we are doing our duty where God has placed us, and holding first in our hearts the interests of His work. Never aggrandize yourselves at the expense of the Kingdom of God. 

We cannot safely substitute anything for the Gospel. We have no right to take the theories of men. however scholarly, however learned, and set them up as a standard, and try to make the Gospel bow down to them; making of them an iron bedstead upon which God's truth, if not long enough, must be stretched out, or if too long, must be chopped off — anything to make it fit into the system of men's thoughts and theories! On the contrary, we should hold up the Gospel as the standard of truth, and measure thereby the theories and opinions of men. What God has revealed, what the prophets have spoken, what the servants of the Lord proclaim when inspired by the Holy Ghost, can be depended upon, for these are the utterances of a spirit that cannot lie and that does not make mistakes; while the teachings of men are often based upon sophistry and founded upon false reasoning. Uninspired men are prone to judge by outward appearances, and to allow prejudice and plausibilities to usurp the place of divine truth as God has made it known. 

The Savior declared : "This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come." And He gave, as one of the signs of His second coming, "wars and rumors of wars," which He said "must come to pass." Joseph 101 

Smith supplemented this divine prediction with the prophecy that war would be "poured out upon all nations;" the Lord declared through him that those who gathered to Zion from the various nations would be the only people under the whole heaven that would not be at war one with another, and that they who would not take up the sword against their neighbor must needs flee unto Zion for safety. But last summer, as I am told — for I was not present — but I am informed that a learned gentleman, not of our faith, though a very estimable man, a scholar, a philosopher, a good and wise teacher, stood up in Salt Lake City and declared it to be his conviction that there could not be another great war upon this earth. The peoples of the world were too refined, too civilized, too cultured, to permit or tolerate anything of the kind; the financiers would not stand for it, would not furnish the "sinews of war," would, not finance the armies and the military movements, and consequently such a war could not be. Since then the greatest hell of conflict that the world has ever known has burst forth and now wraps Europe in flames. In the light of such developments, which are you going to depend upon — which can you afford to tie to — the theories of men or the revelations of Almighty God? 

What more eloquent preaching of the Gospel has there ever been, in this or any previous age, than the great gathering movement which has been going on since Joseph Smith lifted up the standard of the restored Gospel in this dispensation? There is no more eloquent preaching than when men and women will forsake their native land, their homes, their parents.  children, their material pos r sessions — every earthly thing, and cross the stormy ocean, the heated plains, the frosty mountains, many of them laying down their lives, to be buried in lonely graves by the wayside; pulling hand carts, wading rivers, crossing deserts, climbing mountains, and settling in a barren waste — all for what? Was it for gold and silver, houses and lands, flocks and herds, and the betterment of their temporal condition? Was it for the honors of men and the applause of the world that they did these things ? No, it was because they loved God and wanted to build up His kingdom. They had heard the voice of the Shepherd; they were' His sheep, and a stranger they would not follow. Yet these people, our grandfathers and grandmothers, our parents, who came from Scandinavia, from Germany, from Switzerland, from England, Scotland, and Wales, from Australia and the islands of the sea, from Canada and the States of the Union, braving every hardship, facing every peril, laying their all upon the altar, coming out and fighting for God and His divine purpose — they are called by some "the offscourings of the earth," "the scum of creation!" Perhaps it is because they "came out on top!" (Laughter.) But cream also rises, and if I were asked to characterize and describe the Latter-day Saints who have made such sacrifices, I would say they are the cream of God's creation — the heroes and the heroines of modern times. There is no more eloquent preaching of the gospel than is found in their toils and privations, in their struggles and achievements. 

All men will not receive the Gospel. Some hate the truth, and turn GENERAL CONFERENCE.  it instinctively. A man who is wallowing in sensuality, giving himself up to the gratification of his base appetities and desires, he does not love the person who comes to him and warns him to stop these evil practices; he hates him — hates him for the message that he bears, for he wants to be let alone to continue his wallowing in the mire. Such men will not receive the truth — unless God puts His Spirit into their hearts; for after all men are not converted by preaching, nor by anything else than the Spirit of the Lord. Some people hate the truth, and love darkness rather than light, "because their deeds are evil." 

There are others who are clean of conduct, and who love the truth, or would love it if they could only see it. But they are spiritually blind. They have listened to lies and slanders about this work, until they are filled with prejudice and cannot see clearly. We are surrounded by such people here in Salt Lake City and elsewhere, and we must be patient with them. President Smith says that he can love any honest man, no matter how much he differs from him in opinion. We can all afford to follow that example, and be patient and kind and forbearing to those who do not see just as we see. 

There are still others, who love the truth and who recognize it, but they dare not espouse it; they are afraid of the social consequences. This whole broad land, this whole broad world is sprinkled with such people. Our boys meet them, and our girls, not only in the mission field, but in the colleges and universities of East and West. When the principles of the Gospel are presented to them they say, in surprise and astonishment: "Is that 'Mormonisrn?" I never dreamed it. Why,  is true — I believe it with all my heart." And the tears spring to their eyes as they acknowledge it. But they don't come out in the open and fight for it. Why not? Judge ye. Brother Smoot truly told us that the crying evil of this generation is moral cowardice. 

"They are slaves who fear to speak For the fallen and the weak; They are slaves who will not choose Hatred, scoffing and abuse, Rather than in silence shrink From the truth thfey needs must think; 

They are slaves who dare not be In the right with two or three." 

I thank God that I belong to a people who not only love the truth, but who recognized it when it came to them and were not ashamed to stoop and pick up the diamond from the dust. ''Truth is truth, where'er 'tis found," and a diamond is a diamond, whether it sparkle in the dust at your feet or glitter in the diadem of a queen. I thank God that I am numbered among a people — that I am descended from parents and grandparents who not only saw the truth, and loved it, but also dared to come out and fight for it and suffer for it. "Scum of creation," forsooth! Where, then, will you find your heroes and heroines? 

Some day "Mormonism" will be popular; the whole world will followafter it, shouting its praises and eulogizing those who were brave enough to befriend it in the days of its obscurity. There will be no lack of friends and followers in that day; but now is the accepted time, when the world is being tested, to see whether it will befriend the truth in its poverty, and without waiting for it to become popular before bowing down to it and rendering the homage that is its due. 103 

"Then to side with truth is noble 

When we share her wretched crust, Ere her cause bring fame and profit, 

And 'tis prosperous to be just; Then it is the brave man chooses, 

W r hile the coward stands aside, Doubting in his abject spirit, 

Till his Lord is crucified, And the multitude make virtue 

Of the faith they had denied." 

May God keep us steadfast in the truth, and help us to preach the Gospel and discharge the great responsibility that rests upon us, the proclaiming of the message of salvation, by example as well as by precept, and may we all endure faithful to the end, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

A duet entiled, "Music of the Pines," was sung by Sisters Lizzie Thomas Edward and Agnes McMillan Bolto; words and music by John Chamberlain. 

ELDER DAVID O. M'KAY. 

Mutual aid of Church members — Those who give offerings, and observe to fast, bless themselves — Healthful effect of fasting — Fasting, a means of attaining self-control — If each member of Church donated ten cents monthly, all needs of the poor could be supplied. 

"Our people are efficient, prosperous and happy, because we are a body who aid One another in the productive life." This expression from a recent publication entitled, "The Religion worth having," came to me this afternoon as I listened to my brethren present the various phases of this great latter day work. The Latter-day Saints are truly a people who aid one another in the productive life, a life that tends towards the salvation of the human being. By that salvation I do not mean just  place in the hereafter where all our cares and worries may cease, but a salvation that applies to the individual, to the family and to society here and now. Through the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the perfect organization of the Church as revealed in this dispensation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we are aiding one another spiritually by taking advantage of the many opportunities for service in the Church. We are fostering brotherhood by activity and association in priesthood quorums, in auxiliary associations and in our social gatherings and ward reunions. We are aiding the young people in securing ivholesome pleasures, by giving them sweet and wholesome enjoyment under the direction of the priesthood, as it serves particularly in the Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church as well as in other organizations and in the amusements under the direction of the authorities of the ward. The Church is aiding in temporal matters and a practical benefit is resulting to the people today through the united efforts of the membership of the Church. In such ways, and many others, the Church fosters the practical things of life. 

During the few minutes that I stand here this afternoon I desire to call attention to the principle of Fast Offerings, as one of our economic efforts toward aiding one another. I mention it because of the fact that in the report given by our president at the opening of this conference, it was stated that $160,000 had been appropriated from the tithing fund to aid the worthy poor. 

1 thought at once of this principle established by revelation whereby all the men and women in the Church may not only benefit those. GENERAL CONFERENCE.  are in need of financial aid, but by so doing may bring blessings unto themselves. We are asked, as a Church, to fast once a month — to refrain from eating from Saturday evening meal until Sunday evening meal. The requirement is that all members of the Church fast that day, attend to their meetings, particularly their sacrament meeting, and in accordance with the revelation of God, give their oblations, render their sacraments and offer their prayers to God. We are asked, further, to contribute in effect the amount of those two meals for the benefit of the worthy poor in the ward. No stated amount is given, each one is left to give voluntarily that which he believes he ought to give, so that the bishop may have in his hands sufficient funds to aid those who may be in need. 

Now, it is a little, simple thing, and at first thought it does not seem to have much of the power of salvation in it, but like all other principles and ordinances of the Gospel of Christ, it is associated with the fundamental principles of life and salvation. That is why I desire to call the attention of the presiding authorities who are before me, as well as of all the Saints in Israel, to the importance of living up to this requirement more closely in the future than they have done in the past. Let us see what it means. 

If we contribute to the bishop the value of two meals once a month, we are certainly no poorer financially than we would be if we had -consumed those meals as we regularlv do. There cannot be any loss to our own family in a financial way, and we have given at least a mite towards alleviation of hunger, perhaps distress, in some home that is less fortunate, less blessed than . There is no loss to us financially, no man is poorer, no man is deprived of one blessing, no child is deprived of anything that he would have had if he refrained from giving that small contribution. Financially then, nobody who gives it is any the poorer. 

Physically, we are better off by refraining from eating at least once a month than we are when we eat regularly three meals a day. Time will not permit to go into this phase of the subject; but I am just reminded now of having read a few days ago, the opinion -of one of our leading athletes who in his training watched the effect of eating three regular meals, then of eating two regular meals and finally of eating one meal daily, regularly, and he concludes so far as he is concerned that when he ate three meals a day he had been eating too much, and when so doing he found it necessary to fast at regular periods in order to maintain his vitality to the standard possessed when he ate more sparingly. Physiology books will give us the same lesson. So, generally speaking — each individual must take this for his own good, — but generally speaking no person is injured in any way by his depriving himself of those two meals on Fast Day, but on the contrary he is benefitted physically. 

There is still another blessing, and here I believe is the most potent factor, the most saving power in this Fast day requirement. What our young people need, what every man and woman in this world needs in order to keep himself or herself free and unspotted from the sins of the world, is the power of self-mastery. Fach individual should studiously practice self-control. It does not come all -at once. Nature never 105  cash payments as a whole, says William George Jordan. Her payments are always made in small installments. Those who desire to win self-mastery must do it by constant application. About the only definite command, to fast as given in the Law, refers to this principle as an ''affliction of the soul," It is associated with spiritual uplift, and therein is one of the greatest blessings that come to those who will fast as God has asked them to. Some may say, "Well, that isn't much, I cannot see how the refraining from partaking of food once a month regularly is going to give me any self-control." It does, however, it is one of the best lessons that adults as well as children can practice. Appetite is calling, there is a yearning and the natural tendency is to yield. Teach the child to master appetite. Teach him, not harshly, but kindly, with the Spirit of the Lord, with the spirit in which the revelation was given, and you will find that in childhood these little lessons in abstinence coming daily to your boy. unconsciously are placing into his little spirit power that may save him from falling in disgrace sometime when he is driven on by the fire of youth to the very verge of the precipice of destruction. Then is the time that he will need mastery of self and he will have it. Men who have studied this principle suggest that we need to take some such lesson as this not onlv weeklv or monthly, but daily. ' Mr. Wm. George Jordan, savs in that excellent article, "The Kingship of SelfControl" : 

_ "Let us each day do as mere exercises in discipline, in moral gymnastics, a few facts that are disagreeable to us', the doing of which will help us in instant action in our hour of need. The  may be very simple, dropping for a time an intensely interesting book at the most thrilling pa^e of the story, walking home when one is able, when the desire is to take a street car; talking to some disagreeable person and trying to make the conversation pleasant. These dailv exercises in moral discipline will have a wonderous tonic effect on man's whole nature. The individual can attain self-control in great things onl v through self-control in little things" Unat is in harmony with the suggestions that Professor James gives in Ins excellent article on "Habit " He makes practically the same point, by saying,] "Be systematically ascetic or heroic in little unnecessary pointsdo, every day or two, something for no other reason than that you would rather not do it; so that when the h-our of dire need draws nigh it may nnd you not unnerved and untrained to stand the test." He says it is something like paying an insurance, a fire insurance; you may not need it, but if ever the fire come you are protected by the small payments you have given "so it is" he says, "in these daily habits of concentrated attention energetic volition and self-denial in unnecessary things. The man will stand like a tower when everything rocks around him and when his softer fellow mortals are winnowed like chaff in the blast." 

Don't think that there is not a spiritual significance in the little principle of fasting. Don't think parents, that you are favoring your child when, out of compassion, you say, "Oh give him his breakfast; oh let us have breakfast; let us have dinner; I have the headache; the little boy is too young to go without his meal," and so on. You don't know what you are doing by such teaching as that. I want to tell you that the children of our Church can be so taught this principle of selfdenial that they will set worthy examples to their parents in the observance of it. Your little deacons particularly — there is a magnificant GENERAL CONFERENCE.  for teaching them one way of honoring the priesthood. 

Now, what does obedience to this requirement mean in aiding those who might be in need? It means that one hundred sixty thousand dollars need not be taken from the tithing fund because some of us did not comply with the principle of fast-offerings! If you estimate those two meals as being worth only five cents each — that is all, say that you are saving, by refraining from eating those two meals, only five cents each. If you contribute that amount as your offering on fast day, your bishop will have sufficient funds in his hands to pay out all that he needed in 1914 to support his worthy poor and will have as much more on hand towards help for the next year. Five cents a meal for each person is not much; surely we ought to do that. This would mean $1.20 per capita, an amount more than sufficient to supply all the present demands for the worthy poor in our Church. Think what it means and particularly when we are aiding ourselves by doing it. We are losing nothing financially; we are blessing ourselves physically, and we are gaining greater spiritual power, to withstand the temptations that we meet in life : and best of all, we are practicing the very essence of our religion; the true Christ-spirit is manifest in that little offering. You know what the Savior said when He referred to the time when the Son of Man shall come in His Glory: 

"Come ye, blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you; for 1 was an hungered and ye gave Me meat; I was naked and ye clothed Me; I was thirsty and ye gave Me drink; I was sick and in prison and ye visited Me; and then they will say: Lord, when saw we Thde hungry and  Thee meat? or thirsty and gave Thee drink? or naked and clothed Thee? or sick and in prison and visited Thee? Then will He say to them: Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these My brethren ye have done it unto Me." 

That is in accord with the beautiful sentiment expressed in the last stanza of the hymn that the prophet had sung in Carthage jail, just before he was martyred. "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." You remember how he was hungry, thirsty, beaten, thrust into prison; and then at last, in a moment, "the stranger started from disguise" : 

"The tokens in his hands 1 knew. The Savior stood before my eyes; He spake and my poor name he named, 

Of. me thou hast not been ashamed; These deeds shall thy memorial be, Fear not, thou didst them unto me." 

God help us to obey these principles more faithfully in the future than we have in the past, to be efficient, prosperous and happy always, because in the strictest sense of the word we do all we can, by obedience to the principles and ordinances- of the Gospel, to aid one another in the productive life; I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

( President of Southern States Mission.) 

In the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord tells us that we offend Him when we do not acknowledge His hand in the events which shape our lives. We live in a day of miracles, but unfortunately the hearts of the people have waxed gross,, and their ears dull, that they do not perceive the hand of the Almighty in the events which are transpiring. I be107  that the deliverance of Washington's army by the fog, when misfortune faced him, was miraculous, as was the cloud and the pillar of fire that came between the fleeing Israelites and the pursuing Egyptians. Hundreds of years before the coming of the Redeemer in the flesh Xephi uttered this splendid prophecy : "In the day that the prophecies of Isaiah shall be fulfilled, men shall know of a surety, at the times when they shall come to pass." And so Jesus said to the people, "If any man will do the will of the Father he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Isaiah predicted the coming of Jesus, he predicted His life's work; and Peter having obeyed the will of God could say so grandly to his Master, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." When Jesus passed away, what power was it that upheld Peter and his fellow apostles in declaring and testifying, and sealing their testimony with their life's blood What power was it that called them to adhere to this testimony? It was the power of God. It was the power of the Holy Ghost by which, the Prophet Joseph tells us, angels speak; therefore they speak the truth. 

It must be borne in mind that Isaiah predicted the mission of Joseph Smith, the prophet of God, as well as the .mission of Jesus the Redeemer; and so the prophesy of Xephi holds good in this case, too, that men should know of a surety when all the prophecies of Isaiah should be fulfilled. So we behold the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon, faithful unto death to their testimony, speaking in the fear of God, because Nephi's promise had been richly fulfilled in them, and they knew by the power of God,  

son } knew by the gift of the Holy and sfr that this book was translated bp 1 the gift and power of God. This testimony has come to the Saints of God, the testimony that they do know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of . God. 

Jesus said, speaking- of His second coming: "And He shall send His angels with the great sound of a trumpet; and they shall gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." Those angels have come; that mighty angel Moroni brought the Book of Mormon; and the prophets of God predicted that when this book should come forth, in the dispensation of the fullness of times, the gathering of Israel from their long dispersion would commence. In the Kirtland Temple, Moses appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith and delivered unto him the keys of the gathering, and the people of God are engaged in this great, this noble, this mighty work, supported by the knowledge, by the surety that this work is of God and that it is the power of God unto salvation. Look at the ministry of the elders in the field, your sons and daughters, my brethren and sisters. Truly their ministry is a miracle, when we contemplate the fact that they are there in the world outside, you might say, of the sphere of influence which the priesthood wields at home. Men have said that the elders belong to the Church largely, because of their fathers and their mothers, because of the influence of the authorities of the Church. Then I ask, what power sustains them in the world when surrounded by strangers, by enemies in many cases? What power sustains them in delivering their testimony? What GENERAL^ CONFERENCE.  magnifies them in the-ne of the people, and blesses them i power and influence in the pfeir. .ing of the Gospel? It is the power of the Christ. Not long ago I stood on the streets of Ohio assisting a young elder to hold an open-air meeting. As that boy, 20 years old, stood before that vast congregation, preaching the Gospel, with the love of God and innocence stamped upon his features, the tears flowed from my eyes, and I said to myself, would to God that his father and mother could look upon their son at this moment. 

The spirit, the missionary spirit, is in this Church; it is the greatest spirit of all. Why? Because this Church has a mission; it is the great missionary in the world to prepare a people for the second coming of the Son of God. Last fall the Southern States Mission was honored by the visit of President Joseph F. Smith. President Charles W. Penrose, Elders George Albert Smith and Joseph F. Smith, Jr.. of the Twelve, and the Presiding F>ishop, G. W. Nibley. In the great cities of Memphis. Chattanooga, Atlanta, and Jacksonville, the people turned out in multitudes to listen to the word of the Lord. Up to that time no general public invitation of that kind had been issued to the people of those great cities; and when the President of the Church stood there and preached the Gospel to those congregations of Gentiles to men who were prominent in the business and professional life of those cities, to men who stood high in society and in governmental affairs, when T heard the President of the Church and his counselor, and the other brethren, preach the Gospel to them as missionaries, in the true missionary spirit. I felt to re, because I knew that God was with His servants and that they were delivering His message to the people. 

Talk about their being something in "Mormonism!" Why, the Gentiles know there is something in "Mormonism." If every man, not in the Church, who believes that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, I say, if every man who believes that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God would come into the Church, the membership of this Church would be added to by tens of thousands; for the knowledge that Joseph was a prophet is deepening in the world, it is taking hold of the minds of men. This Book of Mormon, with the Bible, is confounding false doctrine; it is opening the eyes of the people; it is causing those that erred to come to understanding; it is causing those that murmur to learn doctrine and be blessed of the Lord. One of our Southern statesmen told President Smith that he had been to Utah, he said: "President Smith, as 1 surveyed the achievements of your people, as I looked at what *Mormonism' had done for the people, and what it had done for the country, 1 felt that there was power in 'Mormonism,' and power for good." My brethren and sisters, that statesman who declared that truth is only one of many who feel the same way. 

I rejoice in the glory of God. I love to see this Church grow in influence and in power. When men honor my leaders, the leaders of this Church, they honor me; for as we help tO build up the work of the Lord we build up ourselves. This people must rise as a people, some must not pull down while others lift up : we must all rise together, keep the commandments of God and dis109  our duties. I thank God for this missionary spirit. I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that the authorities of this Church have the missionary spirit, and in that spirit this people will succeed. In that faith they will go forth to perfection. 

I beg of you, fathers and mothers, to write good letters to your sons; write them Gospel letters, not gossip. Write them good Gospel letters, filled with the spirit, and filled with encouragement. Oh the beautiful letters that come from the mothers! What splendid faith they have. It happens once in awhile, that an elder lays down his life in the field; he dies at his post of duty. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, the faith of the mother rises to heights of sublimity. Her son, who is to his mother even as the apple of her eye, is brought home to her in death. That mother's sublime faith — it pierces the heavens, so to speak, and she beholds, in her sorrow, the power of God, and with an eye of faith, which all the mothers of Israel have, she looks upon her son, cold in death, yet she knows that God's rich promises in her son shall be fulfilled in God's own time and in His way. She knows that  God has begun in her darling son He will finish in glory, in honor, and in exaltation; for she knows the holy ordinances by which this may be brought about. 

I desire to praise the Lord all the days of my life. I love God; I love my brethren; I love the people of the Lord; for they are the best people on the face of the earth. 

"I'll praise my Maker, while I've breath, 

And when my voice is lost in death Praise shall employ my noblest powers, 

My days of praise shall ne'er be past, While life and thought and being last Or immortality endures." 

Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

TheSpirit of God like a fire is burning! 

The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Walter P. Monson. 


