Afternoon
06 04 1915

The congregation sang. the hymn : 

There is beauty all around, When there's love at home; 

There is joy in ev'ry sound, When there's love at home. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Stephen L. Richards. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer —  

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

PREST. SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

(President of First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, I can but express to you today the pleasure that I have in being with you at this great conference, and I have received additional pleasure in listening to those who have spoken, and also have found joy in the true ring of the good spirit that actuated President Smith's remarks in the beginning session of these services. I believe in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; I have faith in His servants and in the Church. I believe in the Prophet Joseph Smith; I believe in his sacred and important ministry. I believe the message that he received from the angel Moroni, bringing to him that great record of a portion of the house of Israel, whose remnants are today inhabitants of this American continent and the islands of the Pacific. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel that I have received. Like yourselves, my brethren and sisters, I «was born of goodly parents. I have heard from the lips of my father and mother, testimonies of the truth of this great work, from the earliest time that I can remember. I imbibed the principles and 125  of the Gospel from my mother, From my first remembrance, I heard her speak of this great work, with the sublimest faith that a human being can possess, and the same can be truly said, as many of you know, of my noble father. He taught his children that Jesus was the Christ, that He is the Son of God, that He is the Savior of the world, the Redeemer of all the children of our Heavenly Father; and that Joseph Smith was sent with a high commission to perform a great labor, to reveal a knowledge of the resurrection and the eternal life of man, to bring to light again the truth of the everlasting Gospel that Jesus taught, and that His apostles taught, and that Paul alluded to when he said, "Woe is me if I preach not this Gospel for it is the power of God unto salvation to all them that believe and obey." 

I rejoice today when I remember some of the things that I heard my father speak of. He said that at one time, during the early spring of 1834, the Prophet Joseph interviewed himself and his brother Brigham. The Prophet said to these two brothers, Elder Brigham Young and Elder Joseph Young, "I am going to organize a company of men to journey up to Missouri, to the center stake of Zion, from whence the Saints have been driven, and robbed of their possessions, and I want you two brethren to consent to go with me. If you will go," he said, "I promise you in the name of the Lord that you shall go safely, and return in safety to your fami : lies." Of course, these faithful brethren were never known to refuse a call made upon them by the Prophet, and they joined the gallant company that accompanied the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hy into the land of Missouri, with two hundred and ten others. I am glad of the testimonies I have heard borne in regard to that great mission. At that time it was considered opportune to bring relief to those poor people, the Latter-day Saints, who had been driven from their homes in that part of the state of Missouri, Independence, Jackson county. The Prophet invited men who had some means, I heard my father say, and history bears this out, men that could command some resources, to go up to Zion, as it was called then, and redeem, by purchase, that portion of the land from which the Saints had been driven. When they arrived in the state of Missouri, and crossed the Fishing River, opposite Independence, a 'great storm arose, and this was thought to be very providential. Little Fishing River, and Big Fishing River, rose thirty or forty feet in one night, so some of the mob testified, and this proved a protection to the little band of brethren who went up in Zion's camp. 

While there encamped, there was dissatisfaction among some of the members of the camp, some of them felt to rebel against the requirements made upon them by the Prophet. One evening some of them were stricken down with a terrible disease known as the Asiatic cholera — I do not know as the brethren recognized at that time that that was the nature of the disease. Fourteen of that little band of brethren died within three days, with that terrible scourge. It is written in history that the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum, by request of some of the afflicted ones, laid their hands upon the brethren who were sick and tried to rebuke the disease, but the disease laid hold upon these two GENERAL CONFERENCE.  men to that degree that they were thrown to the ground in terrible convulsions. As they lay together writhing in pain, they seized each other by the hand and struggled to their knees, holding fast to each other's hands, with a vow in their hearts that they would not arise from their kneeling position until they had a testimony from God that they would be restored. After praying for some time, the Prophet records, lifting their hearts to God, pleading with Him with all the strength that they could muster, Hyrum Smith rose to his feet and began to shout "Hosanna to God and the Lamb forever, for," said he to his brother Joseph, "I have had a vision, I have seen our dear old mother kneeling in the orchard praying for her bovs, and T have had a testimony from God that her prayers will be heard, and that we shall once more see her in life." Joseph, the Prophet, immediately arose from his knees and ioined in praise and halleluiah to God, for he too felt renewed strength and power from the intercession of her faithful prayers, and exclaimed, "God bless our dear old mother; how often has she brought us from the depths of despair, sickness, pain and suffering through her devotion and pravers." 

I am glad that this testimony has come to me. from my father, and also from the history of the Church. The Prophet and his brother felt the blessed result of that good mother's prayer, and testified of her devoted love for her sons. Tt is in keeping with the mothers in this Church, the mothers of these boys and girls who are seated in this great congregation. I do not mean particularlv of any age, but of all ages. All of us, my brethren and sisters, have realized how the faith and prayers of  dear mothers and fathers have prevailed, time and time again, with the Lord of heaven in our behalf. 

I am glad today that I can testify of the truth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; it is indeed the power of God unto salvation. Today, instead of having enemies in Independence, Jackson county, Missouri, Brother Bennion informs me there are many friends there who do not belong to our faith. There were very many people in that country that were not our friends, at the time of the gathering of our people there, and of their settlement in that county; they far outnumbered us and were our bitter foes. Today they are friendly to our people; and T am glad that this is so. I am glad that our people have the opportunity once more of standing upon those sacred places that were designated by the Prophet Joseph Smith to be prominent cities, dwelling places for the Latter-day Saints some time in the future. We have a mission established there, a house of worship, and able missionaries under the president of that mission proclaming the Gospel on the very land from which the Saints were driven in olden time. "In olden times" I do not mean ages or centuries ago, but during the history that this people have made in the last eighty-five years. 

Things have turned in our favor in many places where we were at one time very greatly in disfavor, and I attribute this to the fact that this is indeed a progressive work. Tt is being taught by able missionaries to the people of this land, and they are beginning to realize that there is some good in "Mormonism." The Lord is evidencing by His power and blessings that they are His people indeed. Many 127  have been willing to admit, although they have not had sufficient testimony of the Gospel to embrace it, that there is much good in "Mormonism," and that it has brought to pass many good things. It has gathered men and women from every land and clime of the civilized world; all of the Christian nations have contributed some of their population to this great movement, and their unification, their union of purpose, have testified that they are being brought into unity of faith, and speaking the same language. Amalgamating together the gathered of the nations that have come to this place, I am reminded of that Mr. Brown who was long the bodyguard of Queen Victoria. He said to the beautiful Danish princess, whom the Prince had chosen for a wife, "In welcoming thee all Danes are we." I think that in welcoming the Latter-day Saints to this land that has been prepared for their gathering, we can say we are all one nation, one people, that we are one in purpose of heart, that we are worshiping one God, and that we have one faith, one baptism, one Lord. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice today in this testimony. I can say, in conclusion, when I look at this work and its progress, and when I realize the faith of our leaders, I feel like repeating what Queen Elizabeth said, when the Bishop of Canterbury placed the crown upon her brow. "The Lord has done it and it is marvelous in our eyes." Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

In placing upon record a number of visions granted to him when a prisoner upon the Isle of Patmos,  beloved disciple of the Lord, John, recorded this : 

"I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the hour of_His judgment is come: and worship Him that made heaven and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

Two very great things are implied in that scripture. First of all it is evident that "the hour of God's judgment" we naturally think of as in some way connected with a great epoch in relation to the earth and its history. "In the hour of God's judgment," it would appear from this scripture, men would be without the Gospel, — every nation and kindred and tongue and people, —or else why should there be need of the Lord sending an angel to restore that Gospel to the world in the hour of His judgment, if it was already on the earth. In the time of His judgment, also, it appears that every nation, kindred and tongue and people would be worshiping some other Deity than God who created the heavens and the earth and the seas and the fountains of water; or else why this call to all nations to return to the worship of the true and the living God, creator of heaven and earth? 

The other great thing that is implied in this prophecy is the fact that in the hour of God's judgment He would restore the Gospel to the earth by the ministration of an angel. 

Those two things, I think, stand out strongly in this scripture, and it is generally understood I think in the Church that the dispensation of the Gospel given unto us, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  forth in our age by the ministry of angels, is the fulfillment of John's vision, although there be some among the Latter-day Saints who think that this passage has nothing to do with the introduction of the Gospel to the earth in our day; and there was one man very high in authority in the Church who rather scoffed at the idea of the elders using that passage of scripture as a prophecy of the coming forth of the work of the Lord in these days. Yet the matter is decidedly settled by a revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants that is called the "Appendix." By the way, our treatment of that revelation as to its placement in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants perhaps is a little misleading; it was a revelation given on the 3rd of November, 1831, and was then called the "Appendix" to a little collection of the revelations that had been given to the Prophet up to November, 1831; and this revelation is the "Appendix" to that little collection rather than to the whole Book of Revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants; but because it was called an "Appendix" to that little collection, we have kept moving it back, in the book in succeeding editions, and admitting the subsequent revelations, still calling that the "Appendix;" but as a matter of fact it was the "Appendix" only to the first collection of revelations that was made and that was intended to be published, and was partly published, in the city of Independence, in 1833. In this revelation occurs this passage : 

"For, behold, the Lord God hath sent forth the angel crying through the midst of heaven, saying, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make His  straight, for the hour of His coming is nigh." 

And again: 

"Now, verily saith the Lord, that these things might be known among you, O inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine angel" — 

This is in 1831, be it remembered — 

"flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel, who hath appeared unto some, and hath committed it unto man, who shall appear unto many that dwell on the earth; 

"And this Gospel shall be preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue and, people, 

"And the servants of God shall go forth, saying, with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come: 

"And worshp Him that made the heavens and the earth and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

The language of this modern revelation describing the fulfillment of St. John's vision is so nearly identical with that of the Book of Revelation that I think there can be no mistake about it, vist that this dispensation of the Gospel committed unto us is the fulfillment of John's great vision. And now, that being true, behold what burden, joyful burden however, is laid upon the Church of Christ! For with the acceptance of this dispensation of the Gospel, and the organization of the Church as the means of proclaiming that Gospel to the world, comes the duty of preaching that Gospel to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. The Church has two great functions to perform, that is to say, you can generalize her responsibilities and her duties to the world under two 129  heads, namely, the proclamation of the truth which God has deposited with her, to all the inhabitants of the earth; and the other great duty of the Church is to perfect the lives of those who accept those truths. Upon those two things hang all the law and all the prophets, so to speak. 

I merely wish to call your attention to one part of that great mission, and that is the responsibility of making proclamation of the truth which God has restored to the earth, and deposited with His Church. That burden rests upon the whole Church of Christ; not upon one section of it. You may use, and we are waking up to a realization of the fact that it was evidently God's intent that we should use, the seventies of the Church as the means for the proclamation of this Gospel. Now you may use them as the agency for this work, the principal one, but the duty and the burden of carrying out that part of the mission of the Church rests upon the entire body of the Church of Christ, and not upon the seventies alone. We are beginning to realize that in sending forth this message to the world we are doubtless using too many young men of inexperience, of scarcely matured minds; young men whose judgment has not yet settled to full, manly judgment. In other words we have perhaps overlooked the admonition that the Prophet gave upon this subject in the very early history of the Church. For instance, he says in a letter from the elders in Kirtland to their brethren abroad, in 1833 : 

"Be careful about sending boys to preach the Gospel to the world; if they go, let them be accompanied by someone who is able to guide them in the proper channel, lest they become  up and fall under condemnation, and into the snare of the devil." 

We find it necessary to return to this counsel, or to be admonished by it; and while we may continue to call young men, I hope we will, but at the same time we find a crying need for men of mature judgment, and of comprehensive knowledge of the great truths that we are to present to the children of men. In passing let me say that the Church has no higher duty to perform than this duty of teaching the Gospel. The organization of the Church is such that it proclaims to us, if we will but contemplate it, how highly the Lord regards the duty of Hi? Church in making proclamation of His message unto the inhabitants of the earth, since He sets apart and makes it the special duty of the Twelve Apostles and of the great body of the seventy — now ten thousand strong — to perform that duty. It is a labor worthy of the best manhood, and of the highest talent, in the Church; and is worthy of the greatest sacrifices, in order to send the message of God unto the inhabitants of the earth. This Church has prospered in proportion to her zeal, and earnestness in fulfilling this high duty that she owes both to God and to the children of men. When dark clouds gathered about the Church in Kirtland, and it did seem as if the powers of the nethermost world were combined in an effort to overthrow the Prophet and the work that he was founding, a strange thing happened. In a council meeting of the priesthood the Prophet arose and crossed the room and went to Heber C. Kimball and told him that the Spirit had whispered to him that for the salvation of the Church, it was necessary that the Lord's servant, Heber C. Kimball, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the great waters and make proclamation of the Gospel in England. A strange way to save the Church, was it not? And yet it had that effect; for from the introduction of the Gospel at that time in England there began that great procession of new membership into the Church, which so mightily strengthened it. They gave to it new life and vigor and power in the world. The new disciples took the place of those who were disposed to fall away. 

Again you would naturally suppose after the experiences in Missouri, when the Latter-day Saints who had gathered to that state were as a people scattered and peeled, dispossessed of all their earthly possessions, and driven from the State of Missouri, everybody in distress, in sickness, and in poverty — you would naturally suppose, I say. that nobody would think of missionary work then; and yet. in the midst of those trials, the word of the Lord came to the Prophet directing that the Twelve Apostles should take their departure from the land of Zion, from the public square in Far West, and cross the waters and preach the Gospel again in England : and so in the midst of the moving from Missouri and settling in Nauvoo, this mission was undertaken; and again the work took a mighty stride forward as the result of the mission of the Apostles to those foreign lands. Tens of thousands were brought into the Church, and the means essential to carrying on the work of the Lord, came from that mission, and strengthened the hands of the brethren at Nauvoo. Tn each of these crises, you see, the Church turned to her great duty of making nroclamation of the Gospel, with the happiest results. 

When our people were expatriated from the United States and had been wonderfully led through the wilderness to these mountain valleys, with a great portion of the Church still on wheels in the wilderness, and in encampments along the line of travel between these mountains and the Missouri River, you would naturally suppose that that was a time when every man of strength and wisdom and faith and spiritual power would be needed in Israel to locate the people in these mountain valleys; yet the prophet of the Lord, then guiding the affairs of Israel, in 1849 ,"at the"October Conference of that year, before anvbody was very well settled in the new home, began a great foreign and domestic missionary work — leading to the founding of a number of foreign missions that have continued to this day. 

Addison Pratt, a returned missionary from the South Pacific Islands, since the Church had no temple at that time, was taken to the summit of Ensign Peak and given his endowments, that he might return to those islands of the sea in which he had labored, with greater spiritual power, and with his two other companions go on with the work that had been opened up in those far away lands. 

Elder Amasa M. Lyman and Charles C. Rich, the latter a newly ordained apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, were sent to the Pacific Coast, to California, to gather up those who had gone astray, and save the scattered sheep of the house of Israel. 

Orson Pratt, in 1848, had been sent to England, to preside in that mission; and at this wonderful conference, of 1849, Franklin D. Richards, a newly ordained apostle, at 131  time, and a young man then, was sent to join Elder Pratt in the British mission. 

Elder Lorenzo Snow was called to open the door of the Gospel in Italy and in other lands of Europe and India. 

Erastus Snow was called at the same time to open the door of the Gospel to the Scandinavian nations. 

Elder John Taylor was sent to open the door of the Gospel to the great empires of France and of Germany. These brethren had mavelous success, for God was with them, in establishing periodicals in the languages of the nations to which they were sent; also in translating some of the standard works of the Church — the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and other works. They made wide proclamation of the Gospel in those days, and founded the missions that have continued until this present time in those several lands. The work under Elders Pratt and Richards, in England, had a wonderful development. In the little less than three years that Orson Pratt presided in that land, the "Millennial Star" increased in its circulation from three thousand seven hundred to twenty-two thousand. In about the same length of time, a little less than three years, in the British Isles, twenty-two thousand were added to the Church of Christ, and five thousand five hundred were emigrated to the land of Zion. You see how wonderfully God blesses His Church when she pays full and complete attention to this holy office of making proclamation of the word of God to the inhabitants of the earth. It is the source of strength and life and progress to the Church. 

I am saying all this to you because 

I believe, while we have not been neglectful, I think, at any time, our circumstances and conditions considered — we have not been neglectful at any time in attention to this great mission of ours; and yet from time to time there do come, apparently, special openings, special opportunities, calling for increased exertion upon our part, and, perhaps, the making of what we call sacrifices for this work. I believe that the stage of the world is being reset for increased opportunities for us to make proclamation of this message that has been committed unto us; that the nations are on the way to that humiliation, to that condition, when they will lend an ear to what we have to say. Now my point is this, that while they are in preparation for the incoming of conditions wherein they will be more willing to listen to our message, it is becoming in us that we make preparation for the enlarged opportunity that is promised for a fruitful proclamation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ again restored to the earth. 

In pursuance of these ideas we are going among our seventies, and the local authorities of the stakes and wards are being asked to give more attention to the seventies as the most proper officers in the Church to fill the call for missionary service abroad. The mission service of the Church needs men of judgment, men of weight of character. There is nothing truer in the psychology of things, than this, that if you would appeal to men of character, men that are heads of families, men that have mature thought, and are earnest in fulfilling the purposes of life, if you would reach those classes — and they are the ones I take it that we are anxious to reach, because GENERAL CONFERENCE.  we reach one of them we will reach not a unit but a group, a family, and they are the ones to which we should make most earnest appeal. Now, I say, if you want to reach that class of men, then you must send that class of men to them, or you will not reach them — at least so effectively, you will not reach them. That is the kind of men we want; and if it calls for sacrifice, then let us make the necessary sacrifice, in wisdom of course, and judgment. 

There is just one other thing connected with that important matter that I would like to call attention to, although I am afraid I am trespassing upon the time of others, but it is this : the Lord of heaven takes no pride in ignorance. His whole purpose is to give out intelligence and to save men through knowledge of correct doctrine and truth. He will take no pride in an ignorant ministry. When a number of elders assembled in Kirtland and were waiting for a conference to be held before they should return to. their fields of labor, they asked the prophet what the Lord's will was concerning them, and the Lord gave this instruction : 

"I give unto you a commandment, that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom; 

"Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you ma-" be instructed more perfectly in theory, inprinciple, in doctrine, in the law of the Gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; 

"Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land, and  knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." 

And why? Here is represented a very extensive field of knowledge. It covers every possible field of knowledge, why are the elders admonished, and even commanded to become acquainted with all these things? The Lord answers that question : 

"That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you." 

And again, in the same revelation : "As all have not faith — " as all are not able to attain unto knowledge by faith — not all gifted tb drink at the very fountain head — 

"And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ve out of the best books words of wisdom: seek learning even by study, and also by faith." 

That was the instruction of the Lord to the elders who were contemplating their mission to the world, and that was what was required of them. Again, I say, since the world's stage is being set for a wider proclamation of the Gospel, let me admonish the seventies, among whom I stand, and with whom I more especially labor, let me say to them, to go to, now fill your minds with knowledge and also with faith, and let us draw to ourselves that spiritual power which comes from observing the laws of the Gospel; that when the great world's war shall cease, when its terrors shall no longer appal the people, and when they settle down to sober contemplation of the eternal verities, as they will, let us be 133  to teach them the truth as God has revealed it, and thus help in the great period of reconstruction that will come to the world, and that will be absolutely necessary to the world. That is my admonition to you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder Horace S. Ensign sang a baritone solo, entitled, "Let us Have Peace." ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

Brother Smoot yesterday quoted one of our articles of faith: "We believe all that God has revealed." I have been thinking about it; all that God has revealed, as found in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price. When you think of it 'for one moment it requires a great big belief to believe all that God does now reveal; "and we believe that He will, yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God." It is not very difficult for a Latter-day Saint to believe all that has been revealed. To me it is all true, but the great trouble I am having is to make it work. (Laughter). I have been trying to crystallize what faith I have — and I might say that I haven't any to spare. Why not find out one or two or six of these splendid things that have been revealed and see if we can include them in our work? 

After listening to Brother Roberts I think I will have to put on what they call the "soft pedals," because those things stir my soul. It is my calling; it is my appointment. I feel it, and I sense it just as much as Brother Roberts does; it sounds to me like mobilizing, and I  that is the meaning of all this noise. 1 believe it will take time to awaken and arouse all the Seventies. We will have to get our choir to sing, "Hark, listen to the trumpeters!" I don't know but what it will be necessary to have a martial band and work up a little enthusiasm, and play on the imagination of these Seventies for a while; it won't hurt them. You need not be afraid of getting them over excited. (Laughter). We are almost immune to missionary work and the reason for this is, we haven't been called upon for a long time; only a very few Seventies are filling foreign missions, at present. 

The presiding bishop's office report shows that there are over 11,000 Seventies. I wish they would get busy and help us find about two thousand of that number, because they are not yet enrolled; I think we have decreased that number since last year. We have that great body of priesthood, and I don't think any one in this Church, not even the General Authorities, realize more than we do the condition, the financial condition that our brethren are in. We find that it is because of the building of homes, the purchasing of land, and a great many other difficulties that have come to them. They have had sickness, and financial, disappointment. The First Council have interviewed a great many men and I can say for the Seventies, as far as I am personally concerned — and I have interviewed just as many as any of the Council has — that we have few cowards in our band, but some of them have "served tables" so long, and settled difficulties, and been ward teachers, and slept in good beds and remained home, that it is just possible some of them have cowardly thoughts; and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  reason for this is, they have been at home so long they have become attached to their homes, and they need weaning. (Laughter). It is a very great responsibility. 

I am going to ask you a few questions and then conclude my remarks. I wonder if we Seventies know what we want? I know my father preached once, "that to want a thing and you can't get it is hell." Some people have never been able to find out what they want. I have learned that when my family want anything they seem to want it mighty bad, and I never have much peace until I get it for them. Do we see and understand what we want? I now ask you in all solemnity, brethren — and you might as well look the cannon in the mouth; as this is no Sunday School proposition when you talk about preaching the Gospel — don't we know, haven't we been? I know something about it; T have filled two missions. I don't look like I would ever be able to go again, but I am ready. I hardly think I could pass a physical examination, but my temperature is all right, and my pulse is beating regularly, and I am ready to face the music. T have enough faith to accept a call. 

Do you want to "inherit eternal life?" Every man answer for himself — no use trying to put the burden on the Council of the Twelve or the First Council of the Seventy. Do you want to inherit eternal life? Are you willing to pay the price? Do you want to take up the cross and follow vour Master, and inherit eternal life? Remember the young man — T wish I was as good as he was; he observed all the laws; but the Savior said : "One thing thou lackest;" and what did He tell him? Did He ask him if he was in debt? , he knew; he knew how to settle that matter at once. Sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and take up the cross and follow Me, and thou shalt inherit eternal life. And that is what the young man thought he wanted, when he asked the Master, "Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" The young man received his answer, and he went away a good deal sicker than a lot of these Seventies will be when we get after them. He did not want eternal life at the price; he did not have the faith. 

Faith is a process; faith consists in hard work, and when you accept a call for a mission, the desire must be put in one's soul day after day. You think it over and over, and then go doggedly back to it and keep on asking yourself, What is it I really want? You will have an awful time answering the question. If you have found out what you want, then ni)- advice to you is to get prepared for it. I am willing to be one among the number. I am willing to sell what is necessary to pay my debts. I would be pleased to pay them. We will have to take care of your farms, and plow your land, and put in your grain and harvest your crops : we will have to help the wife with the children, and teach the boys to work; and then we will go out and preach the Gospel, if you will assist us. This is no fifty-cent proposition. If you brethren can't go — you rich men and you poor men — then put up your money like men, and we will do the work. Money talks when it comes to missionary work, as our families have to be cared for. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught the doctrine that these Seventies were "not to serve tables, and they were not to settle difficul135 ," but were to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and the Twelve and Seventy have particularly to depend upon their ministry for their support and that of their families; and they have a right, by virtue of their offices, to call upon the Churches to assist them. 

I have the spirit of the Seventy calling, I feel it in my' hands; I feel its thrill all through my being, and I propose to breathe it into every Seventy that comes near me. So if you don't like it, you better keep away from me. I want eternal life. I want salvation, and I desire to breathe the same desire into my wife and children, so that they will want to partake o'f it, and be willing to make some sacrifice. I want to breathe it unto every Seventy that I come in contact with, and then go out into the world and see God's children partake of eternal life and salvation, the greatest of all gifts that God can give to His children. I want it. I know what I want, and I begin to find out what it will cost. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

This congregation will be pretty well impressed with the fact that the first council of the Seventy are in earnest about this missionary work, and feel the responsibility that has been placed upon the Seventies relative to the carrying of the Gospel to the world. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit of this conference and in the words that have been spoken, from the opening address of President Smith which filled my soul with delight, to the last words that have been spoken. It is true that the Lord has instituted the office of a Seventy  the express purpose of proclaiming the word of God to the nations of the earth; and in our labors among our brethren we have discovered this, that more than half of them have already filled missions in the world, and, although we now have comparatively few doing missionary work out of the vast army of the Seventy, there are, however, many who are supporting their sons now laboring as elders in the missionary field — some of them having two or three — the expense of whom are being met by their fathers, who are numbered among the Seventy. So I don't think that we ought to reproach our brethren of the Seventy because of the fewness of their numbers now in the field, for they have done valiant service, and many of them have filled one or two, and some of them three missions abroad, and I glory in the work which they have performed. 

Our missionaries labor, it has been said, without pay and without compensation. It seems to me, however, that this is a very great mistake, to say that they are not compensated for their work. It is my faith and belief that all who labor for Zion, her interests and welfare, both at home and abroad, are the best paid people in all the world. Their names are upon the payroll, and the Lord is their paymaster. 

We read in the epistle of James, in the New Testament, where attention is called to an ordinance of the Church : "Is any sick among you ? let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him." How can that be? Has this ordinance, the laying on of hands for the healing of the sick, anything to do with bringing about the remission of sins? We know, as Latter-day Saints, that the ordinance of baptism has been instituted in the Church for the express purpose of bringing us the remission of sins and that this ordinance of laying on hands for the healing of the sick is different from that. How do you obtain remission of sins? Through faith in God and repentance from sin and being buried by baptism for the remission of sins? And what follows this remission of sins, if our faith has been sincere and if our repentance has been genuine ? When we have been buried by baptism for the remission of those sins, we come forth from that watery grave sweet and clean, even as a new-born babe, and then only are we prepared to receive that other ordinance, the laying on of hands for the reception of the holy Spirit; because the Spirit of God can not dwell in an unclean tabernacle. Our sins must first be remitted. It follows, then, that when we have had and do have the Spirit of God, that our sins have been forgiven. When men labor in any calling, go out and administer to the sick and enjoy the spirit of their calling, they have the Spirit of God, and their sins, of course, have been remitted or they would not have that Spirit. So with you, my brethren of the Seventy, if you will go and labor and magnify your calling, proclaiming the word of God and enjoying the spirit of your mission, which is the Spirit of God, your sins have been remitted and you are forgiven, and the power of God will be upon you. That is your compensation that is God's pay. Labor then for the salvation  souls, and God will reward you. Therefore, put your trust in Him and receive your compensation, the remission of your sins, the companionship of God's Spirit, which I pray we may all do, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve. Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and, Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his first and second Counselors. 137 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer of the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman : George H. Brimhall, Willard Young and C. N. Jensen. 

Auditing committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler. Heber Scowcroft and Joseph S. Wells. 

Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University j Provo : Joseph F. Smith, Jesse Knight, Wilson H. Dusenberry. Reed Smoot, Willard Young, Susie Young Gates, Richard W. Young, Lafayette Holbrook, Stephen L. Chipman, Jonathan S. Page, jun., Joseph R. Murdock, and Joseph F. Smith, jun. 

Tabernacle choir : Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, Secretarary and Treasurer; John Drake librarian; and all the members. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING ADDRESS. 

Knowledge of Gospel principles most essential for missionary service — Other missionary requisites, are, love and humility— First Presidency annoyed by unnecessary questions — Indignant repudiation of false statement concerning attitude on prohibiten — Saints advised to endeavor to perfect their lives — Import nee of teachers' duties— The Saints enjoined to pray. 

I want to read a passage of the scripture which will apply not only to the Seventies but to all the Saints : 

"Wherefore, honest men, and wise men should be sought for dligently. and good men and wise men, ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil. 

"And I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall forsake all evil and cleave unto all good, that ye shall live by every word which proceedeth forth out of the mouth of God; 

"For He will give unto the faithful line upon line, precept uoon precept; and I will try you and prove you herewith : 

"And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for My name's sake, shall find it again, even life eternal: 

"Therefore be not afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in My heart, sayeth the Lord, that I will prove you in all things, whether you will abide in My covenant, even unto death, that you may be found worthy; 

"For if ye will not abide in My covenant, ye are not worthy of Me." 

I think that this passage of scripGENERAL CONFERENCE.  opens to us a vast field and subject for thought and reflection, for research, and careful attention. I believe in all the words that have been spoken by the Holy Prophets concerning the dispensation of the fulness of times and the establishment of the kingdom of God in the earth. I believe it is good to seek knowledge out of the best books, to learn the histories of nations, to be able to comprehend the purposes of God with reference to the nations of the earth; and I believe that one of the most important things and perhaps more important to us than studying the history of the world, is that we study and become thoroughly acquainted with the principles of the Gospel, that they may be established in our hearts and souls, above all other things, to qualify us to go out into the world to preach and teach them. We may know all about the philosophy of the ages and the history of the nations of the earth; we may study the wisdom and knowledge of man and get all the information that we can acquire in a lifetime of research and study, but all of it put together will never qualify any one to become a minister of the Gospel unless he has the knowledge and spirit of the first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Another thing — one of the indispensible qualifications of the Elders who go out into the world to preach is humility, meekness and love unfeigned, for the well-being and the salvation of the human family, and the desire to establish peace and righteousness in the earth among men. We can not preach the gospel of Christ without this spirit of humility, meekness, faith in God and reliance upon His promises and word to us. You may learn all the  of men, but that will not qualify you to do these things like the humble, guiding influence of the Spirit of God will. "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall." 

It is necessary for the Elders who go out into the world to preach to study the spirit of the gospel, which is the spirit of humility, the spirit of meekness and of true devotion to whatever purpose you set your hand or your mind to do. If it is to preach the gospel, we should devote ourselves to the duties of that ministry, and we ought to strive with the utmost of our ability to qualify ourselves to perform that specific labor, and the way to do it is to live so that the Spirit of God will have communion and be present with us to direct us in every moment and hour of our ministry, night and day. It is surprising to hear the multitude of questions that are continuously sent to the Presidency of the Church, and to others of my brethren who are in leading positions, for information upon some of the most simple things that pertain to the Gospel. Hundreds of questions, communications, and letters are sent to us from time to time asking information and instruction on matters that are so plainly written in the revelations of God — contained in the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and the Bible — it seems that any one who can read should understand. Why Elders and Bishops and missionaries should be under the necessity of writing to inquire about many of these things is mysterious to me. They have the books and other sources of information within their reach; they should have every facility to acquire the knowledge 139  is necessary to fit them for their duties, if they will only pay attention to them; but they don't always do it. Some people seem to like to ask questions. I have been so bored at times with questioners that I have said to them: "Answer your own questions yourselves and submit them to me, and I will tell you whether you are right or wrong, as near as I can. But if we were to devote ourselves to answering questions that the Bishop should answer for the people, and attend to duties that should be attended to by the Teachers in the wards, we would have very little time for doing anything else. When the brethren and sisters want to know anything about temple work, about the ordinances, about the precepts and principles of the Gospel or the obligations of members in the Church, let them go to their Bishops and find out; and, if the Bishops can't inform them, let them go to the presidents of their stakes, and let the president of the stake and his counselors and the Bishop and his counselors get together, if necessary, and answer the question. Then if they are not satisfied about it let them appeal to the Presidency of the Church or to the Twelve, or the Seventy or Presiding Bishopric as the case may require, and possibly we may help you out. 

There is a disposition — I feel almost indignant to refer to it at all, but I am led to believe that there is a feeling and disposition on the part of some of our brethren to misconstrue my position, my feeling and my desire with reference to the temperance question. I thought I expressed myself here last night as plainly as a man could do it, and yet the very remarks that I made here last evening, before the priest meeting, have been, I am told, so misinterpreted and misconstrued that I am beset to know what I meant, and as Brother Golden said : "I am going to tell you something." I started out in this ministry in 1854, a boy of fifteen years of age. From that hour until now I have never relented nor relaxed, one moment, in my advocacy of abstinence from strong drink, and my advocacy of temperance and prohibition, wherever prohibition can be effected; I believe in it. I believe that the time will come and that it is close by, when the people of this stalte will have to join in the procession of other states and adopt a law of state-wide prohibition; I believe the time will come when they will be forced to do it, to keep in line with the other states in the Union. 

I am delighted with the effort that is being put forth in Great Britain — the motherland and the fatherhr"" 1 of many of the Latter-day Saints, and one of the most fruitful nurseries of the Church, where people have been let loose to indulge in drunkenness, to wallow in the debasing evils of the "public house," the "beer shop" and to indulge in every species of licentiousness which leads to degradation and 'poverty. Many of the mayors of the great boroughs and cities are principal owners of the ale houses, and dispensaries of intoxicating drinks. Now the authorities of that great nation, the leaders of the people are waking up to these monstrous evils and are setting to work with a will and a determination to establish temperance in that land. It will be the salvation of our mother country, if they will only do it as Russia has done it. I propose to continue to preach abstinence and to advocate the cause of temperance; I not only GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in and will advocate this, but I will also advocate and strive to the best of my ability to use every opportunity or power within my reach for prohibition, in wisdom, and not in unwisdom. If I go to any extreme at all, in any matter, I hope it will be in the cause of justice, truth, temperance, righteousness and honesty of life and purpose. I may get extreme in matters of that kind, but I may not be so extreme as some people are in questions of policy. 

I have enjoyed the spirit of our conference. I feel that we have been blessed in our assemblies; that much has been said of a very important and precious character to us, and I sincerely hope that the spirit of the conference will abide with us, will go with us to our homes, and that we will be able to continue to build on the foundations of the Gospel of the Son of God until we become perfect even as our Father in heaven is perfect, according to the sphere and intelligence that we act in and possess. I do not expect that any of us will ever become in mortality quite so perfect as God is perfect; but in the spheres in which we are called to act, and according to the capacjty and breadth of intelligence that we possess, in our sphere and in the exercise of the talent, the ability and intelligence that God has given to us, we may become as perfect in our sphere as God is perfect in His higher and more exalted sphere. I believe that. 

Now may the Lord bless Israel. May He bless our presiding Patriarch, who will give us a parting blessing in the adjournment of this conference. May the Lord bless the presidents of the stakes of Zion and their counselors, and the high councils of the stakes, and the Bishops and their counselors, and all  are called to act in the very important callings as teachers among the people. I don't know of any duty that is more sacred, or more necessary, if it is carried out as it should be, than the duties of the teachers who visit the homes of the people, who pray with them, who admonish them to virtue and honor, to unity, to love, and to faith in and fidelity to the cause of Zion; who strive to settle uncertainties in the minds of the people and bring them to the standard of the knowledge that they should possess in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. May all the people open their doors, call in the members of their families and respect the visits of the teachers to their homes, and join with them in striving to bring about a better condition, if possible, in the home than ordinarily exists. If you can advance, try to aid the teachers to help you make that advancement. 

May God bless Israel in all her abidings. Remember our Eld^-s who are laboring throughout the nations of the earth, in your prayers; and remember your prayers, for the Lord has enjoined it upon us that we shall pray, morning and evening. And the prophets of the Book of Mormon have enjoined upon us that we should carry with us always the spirit of prayer in our hearts, morning, noon and night, and that we should pray for the blessings of the Lord upon our families, our farms, our flocks, our herds, our business, and everything that we possess in the world. Do not forget to pray. Don't suppose for a moment that you are as safe and secure in the favor of the Lord when you feel independent of Him as you will be if you feel your dependence upon Him all the day long. God bless you. Amen. 141 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

BLESSING AND BENEDICTION. 

Our Father who art in heaven, at the close of this conference we return unto Thee the thanks and the gratitude of our hearts 'for Thy many kindnesses unto us, for the words that have been spoken, for the revelation of Thy works and the work of Thy Son, Jesus Christ, and of His life and mission in the world. We pray Thee to bless and sanctify the teachings given at this conference to the good of Thy people, and the furtherance of Thy work here upon the earth. Wilt Thou sanctify the songs and music which have been heard in this conference, to the good of all those who have heard the same. 

Wilt Thou remember Thy people who have been gathered together here in conference. Let Thy peace and blessings go with them to their homes, that they may have with them a constant and thorough understanding of Thy word as it has been taught here; that they may not misconstrue any of the teachings, and that they may have moral courage and strength to obey them in their lives, that they may thereby be worthy to receive Thy blessings. 

Now Father, as Thy servant whom thou hast called to bless Thy people, I seal upon this great multitude in this conference the blessings which Thou art willing to bestow  us, Thy people, and upon Thy servants whom Thou has called to preside and to teach Thy people. Wilt Thou bless those who have heard these teachings, that they may take them to their homes and put them into practice. 

Help us, O Father, to do Thy will and to receive Thy blessings with humility and gratitude. Let Thy blessings go with this people to thenhomes, that no ill or evil shall befall them, that they may go with Thy benediction, with Thy smile and approbation upon them; may they by their good works, by their testimonies, and by their loving kindne c  to their neighbors, influence many . others of Thy children to learn the truths Thou hast made known. 

Dismiss us now with Thy blessings, help us in all our endeavor-; to serve Thee and keep Thy commandments, and unto Thee we will ascribe the honor and the praise forever, through Thy Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, assisted by Horace S. Ensign; and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, assisted by Tracy Y. Cannon, and Levi N. Harmon, Jr. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, Frederick G. Barker, and Clarence Cramer. 

Duncan M. McAllister. 

Clerk of Conference. To the presidency and general authorities of the priesthood, and to all the Saints in the stakes and wards and organizations of the Church in Zion, love and greeting. 

We, the Elders and members of the Church of Christ, scattered in the nations of Europe, beseech for you a splendid outpouring of the Holy Ghost in the annual conference, and the continued showering down of the choicest favors and blessings of God upon you in all your abiding places. 

You reside in the promised land, where the Lord has tenderly gathered you; we are yet scattered abroad in the earth. Your feet are planted in pleasant places and all your paths are peace; we are among a people multitudes of whom find pleasure only in unrighteousness and tread the downward paths that lead to destruction and death. You are privileged to meet and worship the Lord in undisturbed tranquility : we meet under unfavorable circumstances, some of our branches having been disorganized and many of our meetings suspended. Your prayers and songs of praise ascend in sweet cadence and joyous strains to the ears of the God of Sabaoth; ours too, have been heard and answered. The word of the Lord falls upon your ears as a benediction from the lips of inspired men whose hearts are very near the Lord, while the elders are being rapidly withdrawn from us and we feel keenly their absence. You dwell in beautiful homes among the pure in heart,  we are surrounded by Babylon. You inhabit the hills and valleys of Zion, and through the favor of God and the blessings of industry the earth yields in her abundance and strength; in Europe the hills and valleys are torn and furrowed by trench and shell, and have become graveyards and fields of slaughter, and the otherwise fruitful ground is soaked in blood and glutted with the bodies of men. Your children ''grow up like calves of the stall," fed by the choicest inspiration of heaven and through your sons have the people of many nations been blessed; our children are surrounded by fearful temptations, and they face unpromising prospects — some are already orphaned and some are denied the presence and protection of fathers and older brothers, and the minds of others are full of dread of the future. 

Nevertheless, we rejoice with you in all the blessings of prosperity and peace enjoyed by the body of the Church in Zion. We also are of the "body of Christ, but members in particular," members far removed from the head and trunk, but for all that, none the less a part of the body, and we are deeply interested in the welfare of the whole. We rejoice in the knowledge that, while we may be the "less honorable, and weaker members," yet we are not forgotten by the body which feels after us and is kindly solicitous of our well-being. 

In behalf of the Latter-day Saints in the nations of Europe, we thank 143 , the body of the Saints and each member composing the body, for your considerate remembrance of us in your recent liberal, contributions to assist those of your members in these countries, who, because of wars and contentions, have been reduced to privation and want. The Church has ever been mindful of her children and we who now have another instance of her mercy, extend to you our heartfelt gratitude and humbly acknowledge the open hand of our Father in heaven, whom we love and whom we worship in the name of Jesus Christ, His Son and our Redeemer. As it has been clearly shown that we have need of you, so do we pray that we may have power, through faith in God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, to remain true to the Gospel we have received, and seek to work righteousness in the earth that you may also ever feel that you have need of us. 

In all our tribulations we rejoice in the knowledge and testimony of the truth, and count it a favor that we are found worthy to suffer affliction for Christ's sake and the Gospel's. We beseech you, brothers and sisters, pray for us that we may receive faith and strength to  to the end so that, if not in this life, then in the life to come, we may be saved and found worthy to dwell with you in the Celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven. 

In the love of God and the fellowship of Jesus Christ, we salute all the Saints who have covenanted to serve the Most High "and the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you, to the end that He may establish us in holiness toward God, even the Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all His Saints." Amen. 

Hyrum M. Smith. 

Liverpool, Eng., March 23, 1915. 

P. S. — The elders still remaining in these lands are in good health, and only need the cheerful encouragement of their loved ones in Zion in order to remain in good spirits and hope. 

Let not the parents, relatives and friends of the missionaries worry and fret, we are in the hands of the Lord and we know, as you must know, that He can take care of us and preserve us while we are here, as well as He could if we were home with you. 

H. m. s. 

