Outdoor
04 04 1915

A meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information, at 2 p. m. Elder George F. Richards presided, and the 17th Ward choir, conducted by James H. Neilson, furnished the music. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn : "How firm a foundation," etc. 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Benjamin Goddard. 

The Choir sang the hymn, "Jesus, I my cross have taken," Bessie S. Rex rendered the solo part. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Faith of Saints manifest by very large attendance at Conference — Vital importance of religion — Compliance with Gospel ordinances repugnant to the worldly — All the truth of all religions embraced in "Mormonism" — God's mercy and justice evidenced in plan of salvation for the dead. 

My dear brethren, sisters, and friends, — we regret exceedingly that we have not a building sufficiently large to house all of the people who have come up to this Temple Block today to worship the Lord, and that so many have to stand during our service. I do believe, though, if we will try and concentrate our minds upon the things of God and His kingdom, having a desire to worship Him in spirit and in truth, that we will be able to stand the fatigue; and, through our faith, receive from the Lord that which will encourage and comfort us, and build us up in our faith. 

The large Tabernacle is filled to overflowing; perhaps ten thousand people are assembled there. The Assembly Hall is filled to overflowing; perhaps between two and three  people there, and, as you can see, a large concourse of people here. It all reflects credit upon the Latter-day Saints, and interest on their part in the work of the Lord. Those who had the privilege of attending the opening session of' our conference this morning, held in the large Tabernacle, and heard what President' Joseph F. Smith had to impart by way of instruction, and report of conditions, will surely have no doubt in their minds as to the development of this great work, its growth and progress in the earth. 

I have great joy and satisfaction, my brethren and sisters, in my religion, my membership in this the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, having the assurance that this work is the work of God, the power of God unto happiness and joy in this life, salvation and eternal life in the world to come. The principles and ordinances of the Gospel, which we have embraced as Latter-day Saints, are amply sustained by the scriptures. Those who have made an investigation, unbiased and thorough, will be convinced of this fact. 

There is a great satisfaction in being right. There is great disappointment in having been wrong upon any question; and the more important the question, the greater the satisfaction or the disappointment, as the case may be. There is, my friends, no question of greater moment to the children of men than religion, the plan which God has instituted for the salvation of His children. I am thoroughly convinced that the time will come when all the problems of religion will be unraveled, and when that day comes, great will be the comfort of those who have been right, and great indeed will be the discomfiture of  who have been wrong upon this important question. 

When God placed man upon the earth and shut him out from His presence, and required him to live by faith, He did not leave him without evidences of the existence, the power, and the love of God. Those evidences are so many, and so potent that those who> reject God and His existence are excluded from those who will receive salvation in His kingdom. "He that cometh to God must believe that He is" (Heb. 11:6). 

There is a class of people in the world, and they are very numerous, who are willing to accept God according to their own conception of Him, His existence, and of the immortality of the soul of man, who are not willing to accept of certain principles and ordinances of the Gospel necessary for their salvation, such as repentance from sin, the necessity for it as a condition of salvation, baptism by immersion in water for the remission of sins, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — these and other ordinances, and the necessity for their being administered by one whose authority God recognizes. When the time comes when all things will be understood, if it shall prove true as the scriptures teach and as we believe, that these principles and ordinances, as well as faith in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, are necessary to salvation, how much better off will we be who have accepted these great truths than those who have rejected them; and if it were possible to be otherwise than true, would we not still be as well off as they, and if true we would be infinitely better off, we would have the satisfaction of having been right upon this great question. 

At any rate, we, as Latter-day Saints are on the sure side, as we have all that others accept of truth and many more truths, principles, and ordinances than they have. Indeed, this work which we have espoused, commonly known as "Mormonism," embraces all truth and all good. There is no truth or good that is not included in our religion, and there is nothing but truth and good included in it; and these facts will be known to the world of mankind in time, if not at the present. 

If it shall prove true, my friends, as the scriptures teach and as we believe, that the Gospel is the plan which the Lord instituted from the foundation of the world, by which men can be saved in His kingdom and presence, and there is no other plan, and that it is the plan by which all men are to be judged, and that justice demands that it be taught to the dead as well as to the living, and that the ordinances which are necessary for the living are also necessary for the dead, what a satisfaction it will be when these things are known generally to those who have accepted of them. On the other hand, what a great disappointment it will be to those who have rejected, and how much better off we will be who have built temples and maintained them at such cost, who have procured at great cost and effort the genealogies of our dead, and have gone into the temples of the Lord and performed these ordinances for them! I say, what a satisfaction it will be to us, and what a disappointment it will be to those who have rejected these principles. 

If it shall prove true, as we believe, and as the scriptures plainly teach, that a worthy man and woman  together as husband and wife, under solemn covenant for time and for all eternity, that union solemnized in the Temple of the Lord as He has directed, by the authority which he has delegated to men, and those relationships maintained and recognized in the life beyond, and that they shall have eternal increase in the kingdom of God, — and that all other unions will not be so recognized, — what a satisfaction it will be to those who have accepted this divine truth, this great hope, and have yielded obedience unto it, and have been true and faithful in the keeping of their covenants! On the other hand, what a great disappointment it will be to those who have rejected these scriptural and divine truths! 

My brethren, sisters, and friends, we find that the Latter-day Saints are on the safe side of this great question from any angle that we may view it. Is it then to be wondered that when men come among us, and women too, proselyting, that they do not convert the Latter-day Saints to their faith, their creeds and denominations ? Is it a wonder that our missionaries who have been in the field by thousands, yes hundreds of thousands, at different times, have not been converted in the world by men who have been schooled for the ministry? Is it a wonder that hundreds of thousands of men and women in the world, honest and conscientious, have yielded obedience unto these principles, forsaking all that their former faith, or creeds, had to offer to them? Or is it a wonder that there are today, as there are, thousands of men and women who have come among us, not for religion's sake, many of whom, by investigation of these truths, have become converted, convinced, and  turned away from their former faith, and adopted the true faith, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? I say it is no wonder. The promise is that the truth shall be understood by the true individual, he whose heart is true before God, if he will seek with honest heart and purpose to know the truth, shall find it. "Seek and ye shall find." .By yielding obedience unto the commandments and the requirements of the Gospel, following the dictates of his conscience, he may obtain eternal life, and through obedience and faithfulness, he may know while yet in life, that his course is approved of the Lord, and that it will bring to him a reward of eternal life. 

I bear you my testimony, as a witness for the Lord this day, that T do know that these are the truths of God, that this Gospel is indeed the power of God unto salvation, and exaltation, unto all who will obey faithfully its precepts, and there is no other plan instituted by the Gods for the salvation of the children of men; in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, "True to the faith." 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in having the privilege of mingling with you in this General Conference of the Church. I enjoyed, beyond measure, the instructions and the spirit of our morning session, and the words of President Smith wherein he said that the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are at peace with themselves, and there was no spirit of contention one with another  the Church. We have no power over the world except by the power of love, and we have no right to operate in any other way than in the spirit of love and kindness, the spirit of long suffering, and of gentleness toward our fellow men, for that is the Spirit of the Redeemer, our Lord and Master. 

I was touched with his counsel, too, and I reflected on what we find recorded concerning the counsels of Adam, when before he left this earth, he called his sons and grandsons, and all the generations that lived in his day, around him and gave them information concerning the things that he knew of God his Father. The knowledge that Adam possessed concerning his Father was handed down to his sons, his grandsons, and great-grand-sons, and possibly many other generations. Those who lived in the days of Adam were acquainted with their fore-fathers, and possibly lived in the presence of many generations, and a knowledge of God was understood by them, and many of them kept the commandments of the Lord. 

From time to time, during the days of the prophets of old, the Lord revealed Himself unto His children, and His attributes and His loving kindness were known among the children of men. On one occasion, when He was about to destroy the cities of the plains, we are told that one of the prophets pleaded with Him not to do so, asking for the privilege of going and gathering out those who were honest, saying if he could find fifty righteous, would He spare the cities, and later if He would spare the cities even if he found but ten righteous. And the Lord said His mercy would be extended toward them providing he could find these few righteous. In the days of Noah the Lord's patience and long-suffering toward the wicked lasted one hundred and twenty years, even after He gave the revelation to Noah to build an ark. The knowledge of our Heavenly Father was handed down by the prophets of the Lord from generation to generation until the coming of His Son, Jesus, into the earth, Jesus became a revelation of His Father to the children of- men, through all time thereafter. Divine mercy was shown by the Almighty through His Son coming and ministering among men in the flesh, showing by His works among them, by His gentleness, kindness and long-suffering that the Father loves His earthly children. 

I rejoice in the spirit that was proclaimed this morning is possessed by the Latter-day Saints; that their mission in the earth is one of peace, and the proclamation of peace even with the olive branch. All men must hear the Gospel of peace, and be judged thereby; not only hear the sound, but have in their hearts a knowledge of God, our Father, and comprehend His love toward the children of men. Latter-day Saints believe that very few men in the earth can commit the unpardonable sin, because they do not have knowledge enough concerning God. The sin for which there is no forgiveness is the sin against light and knowledge. Men and women throughout the world, tens of thousands who now take sides against the Latter-day Saints, do so because they have no knowledge concerning that which has been revealed to us from the heavens. If they knew as we know, concerning the revelations of God our Father, they might be just as valiant for the truth, and  as zealous in proclaiming it as the Latter-day Saints themselves are. 

I rejoice to be associated with the young men and young women of Zion, your sons and daughters, who have been sent into the world with the olive branch of peace, to make friends with the world, to win their hearts in every way that is right, that thereby we may teach them the great things that our Father has revealed in this day and time. After the crucifixion of the Savior and the putting to death of the prophets of the Lord, and the true knowledge of God having departed from the earth, He has been merciful in these the last days in restoring anew the Gospel of Jesus; not only restoring the Gospel, but revealing His own character, and the character of His Son to the. children of men. All the knowledge given to Adam, Abraham, Moses and the prophets of old, has been renewed in this day, through the coming of the Father and of the Son. It has been given to the Latter-day Saints to proclaim to the world that God lives, that Jesus Christ is His Son, and that the love of God shall yet cover the earth as the waters cover the mighty deep. The knowledge of God shall spread upon the earth until every man who is seeking the truth may have the privilege of hearing and obeying it, working out salvation for themselves, and for their fathers and mothers who have gone before, and transmitting that knowledge to their posterity. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the gathering of the Latter-day Saints, in these semi-annual conferences, and the quarterly conferences, and ward conferences. I believe the day will speedily come when there will be some other feat connected with the Latter-day Saints gathering together, that used to be among the Saints of old. We make records of our dead ancestors, and transmit them to our posterity; and I believe we will incorporate into our associations the spirit that was in the hearts of the prophets of old, and record the stories of our fathers, grandfathers and greatgrand-fathers for the benefit of our children, that they may transmit it to the generations that follow. As I have already stated, Adam transmitted the knowledge of God to his posterity, and taught them all things concerning the purposes of God. In like manner, I believe we should teach our children the history of our parents and grandparents, and all relatives in whose presence we have lived; and also teach them to transmit the same to their children, that the knowledge of our fathers may go to our descendants by word of mouth as well as by record. The Latter-day Saints have received a revelation from God, in this day, which is in harmony with the revelations that were given to Adam and the prophets of old, that God is our Father, that Jesus Christ is His Son, the only begotten of the Father in the flesh. 

To the Latter-day Saints has been given an understanding of the knowledge concerning God that was imparted to Adam. We are living in the dispensation in which this knowledge has again been revealed; and I believe that we should transmit this important information to our children. God has been merciful and kind to us. It is a wonderful thing to have sounded in our ears, by the very men who stood in the presence of God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, that we are His children, that God is in very  our Heavenly Father, and Jesus is our Elder Brother. The world does not believe this, and scientific men, men of great worldly learning, have spent their lives in trying to prove some other way to account for the existence of man in the earth. 

I am glad, my brethren and sisters, that I know my father was a good man, and my grandfather likewise. I am acquainted with some of their attributes and virtues, and some of the things they tried to do in the world. I know something also concerning my ancestors beyond my grandfather, and what good things they tried to attain in life. That information ought to be transmitted, I think, to my children. A record of all the virtues of our forefathers should be transmitted to the children of men who now live and will live hereafter in the earth, that the good influence thereof might be passed on until the time when Jesus shall come to reign among His children here upon the earth, and dwell with the men and women who have worked for the building up of the kingdom of God. A doctrine that has been revealed in this day is that works should accompany the faith of the Latter-day Saints; not preaching, only, but building houses of worship, and temples : gathering genealogies, and histories. Seek and find all that we can concerning those who have gone before, and transmit all that is of value to our children, that they may do the work that our Heavenly Father has declared should be done in this day. 

I rejoice in the spiritual growth of the young men and young women who have been sent to the Northern States Mission. I rejoice when a testimonv of the Lord comes to them in defending the faith, and greater love for the work of God comes into their hearts, and that the doctrine of peace, preached this morning, takes possession of them. If I ask them concerning the city where they labor, they can tell you there are many honest-hearted people in it, good men and good women, and they do not wish to be taken away from these cities, at least they do not want the judgment of the Lord to come upon them : they would plead with the Lord for the privilege that the city be saved. They desire to gather out the honest in heart, and teach them that God our Father, in this day has revealed again concerning His character and the character of His Son, and has restored the Gospel with lall the power that has ever been given to men in the earth for the winning of the souls of men, and for teaching men who they are, and what they are in the world for, and why they have been Iplaced upon the earth in this day and time. 

It is a glorious thing, my brethren and sisters, to have a knowledge in your heart that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that our Father has been merciful to us in this day in restoring the plan whereby we might be saved in His kingdom. I know this Gospel is true. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God, and that he has influence over the hearts of men and women to lift them up and make them better in this life; and their righteous lives gives them a better chance of salvation in the life to come. I am only one of hundreds of voting men who have been touched by the lives of the men who stand at the head of this Church, in whose hearts dwells the love of God  the love of their fellow, men. That influence is not confined either to the President of the Church, and the Twelve Apostles, but is possessed also by Stake Presidents and Bishops, and is in the hearts of all the men and women who have a testimony of God, and are striving to keep His commandments. 

May the God of heaven help us to defend the faith, to magnify the name of God through all our days, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

"Thy dead men shall live; together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust, for thy clew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead," so said Isaiah to ancient Israel. Today (Easter Sunday), throughout all Christendom, people who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ are giving evidence, by worship and by offerings and gifts, that they believe the words of Isaiah. It was not always so, and so far as that is concerned, it is but true in a limited sense today, for of the 350,000.000 of so-called Christians, against 1.500,000,000 of people in the world, there are many of the Christians who do not accept as a fact the teachings of the Bible that Christ did arise, and that the dead shall come again from the tomb as foretold by Isaiah and by the prophets who followed after him. 

As well said by Elder Richards, anyone who has studied the providences of God from time immemorial must be struck with the evident love, mercy, charity and provident kindness that lie has exercised  His children, for though Adam fell and brought upon himself and his children endless sleep in the grave, God suffered men not to die, until they had been sufficiently instructed in the plan of life and salvation, to know that they might live again. An angel was sent who instructed Adam not only in the principle of faith in God and repentance from wrong doing, but in the ordinance of baptism, and took him and laid him beneath the watery element, that he too should be born anew from the grave of waters and thus evidence faith in Christ, typified by the Lamb, that he was instructed to offer as a sacrifice to teach all his children in a concrete manner the fact that Christ, the Lamb of God, in the meridian of time should be offered up as a sacrifice that men should not sleep eternally in the dust. So Adam was baptized, and he taught these principles of saving grace unto his children and his children's children for nearly a thousand years of mortal reckoning. 

Not only did God manifest Himself to Adam and the ancient patriarchs — to Noah, who builded the ark, and to his sons, and their immediate descendants, but when Israel had become a nation of serfs in bondage in Egypt, He spoke unto them by the mouth of Aaron, as well as by that of Moses; and not only to Israel did He make His call to repentance, but unto the Egyptians as well. For mark you, not one of the wondrous miracles performed in Egypt but what was a direct rebuke to the Egyptian gods. 

The insignia of power in Egypt was the sacred snake, two entwined which made the crown of the Pharaohs of Upper and Lower Egypt. The rod of Aaron, cast upon  ground in the symbol of that power, overcame the snake of the Egyptian, and in that little thing, showed the power of the Hebrew God to be greater than that of the magicians of the Egyptian king. 

The River Nile, the Father of Waters, the healer of the sick, worshiped by the Egyptians as the bringer of seed time and harvest — for in flood time it spread its waters out over the great valley of the Nile, making it the granary of the ancient world — this river became flooded with the red waters from the mountains, until it became like as blood and was a thing of disgust unto the people. It nauseated where once it had pleased, and sickened, they turned away from., that which once they had bowed down to in devotion, unto which they had offered virgins as sacrifice — and felt again that the wrath of the Hebrew God made manifest His omnipotence over theirs of the Nile. 

Its inundation brought with it, doubtless, the plague of frogs. The frog, in Egypt was a sacred creature, and he who inadvertently should tread upon one and kill it, was himself to suffer the penalty of death. Now this great plague came upon the land, as foretold by Moses, until it crowded into their homes, into their bedrooms, and even into the kneading troughs. Sickened again, and in disgust, the Egyptian turned away from the laothsome creature, and was robbed again of a god that he had worshiped. 

So with the plague of lice and flies — for one of their most sacred goddesses was supposed to keep these things out of the land of Egypt — but they crept in upon them, into sanctuaries of their temples, even the holy of holies, and the priestly robes of the initiated priesthood, were all defiled by these loathsome things, until again they were disgusted with their gods and felt how impotent they were when arrayed against the power of Israel's God; and so on, from step to step, the hail, the thunders and the lightnings which are so infrequent in that land, so much so that it is said "in Egypt it never rains," came upon them and destroyed their crops. Murrain came upon the beasts of the field and destroyed doubtless the great bull Amnion that they worshiped in the temple of Heliopolis. 

The great god Ra, the sun. that painted the flowers and ripened the harvest, that  secured them in warmth, was put out in the midst of darkness, that men could feel, and made a night of three days in which there could be no light made, and so this god in turn, was made to bow to the power of Israel's God. 

By this time, the Egyptians were ready to let Israel go, but Pharaoh hardened his heart again. His possessions had not diminished so much. His servants had kept from him the dread things that had come to the common people; and so he still held out for the power of the Egyptian god against that of Israel. Then the warning was sent unto him— for lie had refused longer to look upon the face of Moses — that the destroying angel should pass through the land, and that the firstborn of every creature, both of man and beast should be destroyed except where they exercised faith in the blood of the Lamb, and typified it as it had been in Eden's garden by the sacrifice that was to be made, and their door-posts and the lintels thereof were to be sprinkled with blond of the sacrificial lamb. That night, we understand, a scourge passed over Egypt, and none es except those who were faithful and did as ordered by Moses. In the house of Pharaoh was lifted the voice of mourning, for his firstborn was stricken down with the dread malady, and so their great god Osiris, the last and final one, the arbiter of their fates, the one who gave life to the world, was put to naught and shamed by the power of the Hebrew God. 

And so by these miracles testimony was given to ancient Egypt, that they too might repent and not be cut off until they had been sufficiently instructed in the way of truth. And when Moses, having divided the waters of the Red Sea, and carried his people through victoriously to the nether side thereof, to the plains of Arabia, when he sought out his father-in-law Jethro, and announced unto him all that God had done in Egypt, the old priest, who had given to Moses his priesthood and instructed him ii1 the ways of righteousness, lifted up his voice and his eyes unto the heavens, and said, "Now I know that the Lord is greater than all — for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly — He was above them." 

And so the Lord, by His beneficence and love hath taught to all men as they would receive light and instruction, the fact of His redemption — the truths of His Gospel. 

It was a hard thing to understand that men might live again — they who were laid away in their tomb — that their bodies, revivified, renewed and immortalized, should coine forth to eternal life, to immortality and everlasting youth : but Isaiah knew it, and declared it unto Israel as I have quoted : and the major prophets after him bear that same testimony. 

The Lamb of God Himself de when he was upon the earth, "I am the resurrection and the life: he who believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live," and said, "If I be lifted up, I shall draw all men unto me;" and declared that not only should the living hear His voice, but they who were dead and in their graves should hear the voice of the Son of God and live." 

The testimony of the ancient fathers of the Church, as well as the Scripture, bear witness that Christ, before He arose from the grave and broke the. shackles of death, went into the prison house and preached to the spirits which were in prison — and for this reason, says Peter, "that they might be judged according to men in the flesh" — by the same law, by the same ordinances, by the same constraints, the same reasoning that men are judged today: faith in God, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — for these were the principles of the Gospel that Christ and His apostles taught to men, by which He founded the Church, setting at the head first Apostles, Prophets, etc. — and being "judged according to men in the flesh," as you and I shall be judged, being in the spirit world they should "live according to God in the spirit." 

We have been told, and we have read, of the miraculous resurrection of the Christ, of His recovery from, death, and the bringing out of His body from the tomb, that He walked and talked with men, ate with them, and taught them for a season of several weeks relative to His plan and their labors for bringing to pass the salvation of the souls of men. I know that hard-headed men are loath to accept the fact that we can live again; and yet, if this be not true, we stand as a contradiction of  of nature's creation. We are a paradox, yea, more than a paradox, an anomaly; for God has set in our hearts alone, so far as we can determine, the longing, the desire, the yearning after immortality and eternal life. We understand that there is nothing meaningless, nothing vain or waste in the emotions of living creatures : that they shall meet their complement here or hereafter. 

We build, we suffer, and we sacrifice for things that within and of themselves of necessity, because of mortality, can never be attained unto in mortal life. Life were vain, in fact, "if in this life only we have hope," for the deepest things that stir our souls, that which appeals to us most, has to do with the future, with the eternal association with one another, in the family relationship, in the presence of God and His Christ, who was the first fruit of them who slept, and in whose image and likeness, John tells us, we shall be when He comes again, for the grave and death and hell shall give up the dead in them, and they shall come forth in the same type as the Master did. 

Men believed in spirits anciently, and they believe in them today, and when the Master stood before Hirs disciples, "they were affrighted," saith the scriptures, for they thought it was His Spirit, but He called unto them and said, "Handle me, and see that a spirit hath not flesh and bones as you see me have." And still they were afraid, and so He asked if they had anything to eat, and they gave to Him an honeycomb and fish, and He ate in their presence. A week later, on the Lord's day, when He appeared unto them again, and the doubtful one, Thomas, who had heard the testimony of his brethren and of the women who had seen the Christ and conversed with Him, did not believe that testimony, but said, "ve have seen a spirit." and contended with them, that he would not believe unless he could thrust his hand into His side and feel the prints of the nails in the hands and feet of the Master, and would not believe that He had recovered His body from the dead — the Master appeared before him and said, "Reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side and be not faithless but believing," and Thomas, convinced in his soul, cried out, "My Lord, and my God;" and the Master upbraided him gently because he had needed such a testimony to believe, because he would not accept the word of his brethren nor their testimony. He said, "Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed : blessed are they who have not seen and yet have believed." 

And that is the touch-stone of virtue with the Christian today. Does he walk by faith? Is he willing to accept the words of the witnesses of the Christ and the words of the Master, and not desire to handle and see for himself as did Thomas? For I want to tell you that when a man has to do a thing, there is no virtue in it. But when he chooses to. when he exercises faith and confidence, then there is virtue and righteousness in it. 

T said if there be no immortality, we stand as a contradiction to the rules of nature, an anomaly in her handiwork, for when we look forth upon her creations, they all answer the end thereof in this life, except man. We need not deal with the vegetable field, but when we come to animate things, to the birds of the air and the fishes of the deep, and the beasts and the creeping things of the field — they have no thought of  morrow, no care and no heed. Divine providence cares for them, brings a complement of their lives to them. Some will tell us it is intuition that guides them so unerringly in the pursuit of that which prolongs their lives and enables them to perpetuate their species in the earth, and others would have us believe it is habit; but those who walk by faith see behind it all a divine will that directs all of the energies of nature and all of her creatures, to the end that His name shall be honored and glorified, and that His purposes relative to His creatures shall be fulfilled, and that thev aside from man. and man too, shall come to a fullness of joy. 

But with the creatures beneath men. they have not their own will, they answer the ends of the divine will. But when it comes to us. God hath given us our free agency to choose and to act for self. We gloried in this before the world? were. It is one of the greatest benefactions that we have in this life, because by it and with it men can develop the divine which is within them and come into a full fruition of godliness. 

T said that beasts have no thought of the morrow, and no heed, except as instinct or divine love may guide them to provide for their morrow or for themselves : but when it comes to man, he has the capability of worship, of paying homage and devotion that the beast has not; and this of itself, according to the rules of nature, demands a complement in a being to worship, in someone to pay homage to and a creature that arouses our devotion, and to whom we can prove ourselves devoted; and so this, of itself, makes God a necessity, for men to come into full complement of his God-given at and powers. Man alone has the power of conceiving of a heaven, of a hereafter, and it is with all men, from the most illustrious in the halls of learning, to the pagan of the darkest continent and to the Indian of our own loved country in his most remote and ignorant state. They dream — these latter — of their "happy hunting grounds," of a place where they shall be provided for, where gaunt famine and sickness are unknown, with a larder never empty, and where men dwell as brothers and friends. 

The Christian dreams of a place where he shall worship God and look upon His face, where there shall be anthems of hallelujahs sung forever. And the Latter-day Saint looks for the place where he shall build, as he began to build in this life for an eternal home, for the family relationship, for father and for mother, for wife and husband, for parents and children, to associate together until they shall come into a fullness of all that their fond hearts have desired and their minds have conceived of; and it shall be an endless home of eternal progression in the presence of the Christ and with the Father, who is God over all. The capabilities which man has are divine, and they only lack time and opportunity for expression in complete development to become like the Father, whose children we are. 

With Him and in His presence, in the eons of years yet to come, we shall come into a fulness of divinity, and build yet other mansions for our Father, thus adding to His glory as we add to the glory and perpetuity of our own homes and families. 

None but men can conceive of this, and when he has once conceived of it, and then is told that this probation is the end of life, and  is the end of progression, when death shall claim us and shall still the voice and shut down the eyes and make pulseless the hand — how vain is life, and how vain the imaginations and sacrifices of man! But how exalting the other thought! What an incentive to correct living and to proper thinking for men to believe that they can strike hands with the Infinite. One can become like Him and have and hold the family relationship forever and ever without end of years, that God loved them from before the beginning until after the ending of this life, and that this bringeth a fullness of joy — to have the body and the spirit inseparably connected, the body by which we receive so many of our impressions in this life, by which we have manifested ourselves to our fellows, by which we have learned the sweets of life as well as the bitter things, by which we have achieved success, in which we have been chastened by adversity and sorrow, through which we have learned what it is to be cared for and to' be loved, that we in turn might be compassionate and loving to others, and that the full development of our capabilities and talents must come and be with and through this vehicle that our Father hath clothed our spirits with, and that with this body we shall come into not only that which I have intimated, but untold, which the mind of man here, finite, cannot conceive of! 

Would not life then be vain in conceiving these things and having these powers of conception, these beliefs, these longings and yearnings, and have them go unanswered? After we have sacrificed for them, loved them, and loved those who have labored for them, would not life be vain? Would we not be a contradiction to the law of nature if there be nothing of life save this little span of existence, of mortality? And so today, in the light of modern revelation, in the light of what the scientist has unfolded, though as yet he has not demonstrated it in his laboratory — yet so nearly that our greatest thinkers today, — Stead and Lodge, who are dead, and Currie and Crooks, Myers and Funk and others alive, have announced the fact that there is an immortal > soul, and that it is not impossible even scientifically, to demonstrate sufficiently to prove to .the seeking mind and the faithful heart that Christ arose from the dead; — so shall the bodies of men again live and be "energized" and be made immortal. 

I thank them for this testimony, because there are some who will not accept in faith, as I have said, nor as did Thomas, anything that is not demonstrated coldly before them; but in the light of these things, and of modern revelation, I say again, as Isaiah said, unto you, and as this Sabbath day, the Easter Sunday, should bear witness to all men, — "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust, for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and thy earth shall cast out the dead." Amen. 

A quartet, consisting of James H. Neilson, Hyrum J. Christiansen, Harold Langton and Aner Hansen sang the hymn, "O, give me back my Prophet Dear." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) To speak to people in the open is new to me, but there is something about it I like, and that is. if you don't care for what I say, you can return home! (Laughter.) 

I am trying to take the hopeful, optimistic view of things. I am a man among men who are looking into the future. I have hope of the future, and I am trying not tc be afraid of it. I am burning all my bridges behind me, so that I cannot go backward, I hope that my course will be onward and that I will look upward, that I will look out and forward, not backward. I am trying to be optimistic, and I am having quite a time of it. I cannot work myself up quite as well as the man whn fell from a twenty-story building, and as he passed a window of the tenth story, a drummer in the room, said to his wife : "Gee, that fellow is optimistic." His wife said, "What do you mean ?" "Why, as the fellow passed the window, he said : 'I'm all right yet.' " (Laughter.) 

Now, brethren, I read in Scripture, "He that is the greatest, shall be a servant." Some think that means he that is greatest in the kingdom of God must be a valet, or a butler, or a hostler. I do not believe in that doctrine, at all; T think it means that he that is greatest in the kingdom of God must give service, be willing to sacrifice. He that is greatest must be a Joseph Smith, a Brigham Young — and I am not afraid to say, a Heber C. Kimball. 

What I want to talk about are real things, not something that I do not know anything about. When I get through, I will have told you something I know, so that you can go home and think about it. I am going to talk about things that have happened since I was born, not something that happened eighteen hundred years ago, or that will happen hundreds of years in the future. 

When President Brigham Young came, with the pioneers, he was sick, and prostrated in the wagon in  he was riding", he rose and saw this valley, and said : ''This is the place: drive on!" He did not preach for an hour over it. When he came upon the ground where this Temple now stands, he dropped his cane, and said : "Here we will build a Temple to our God." They got bus)-, they prayed about it, they fasted, and then they built it. It took them 40 years. When I think about that building, every stone in it is a sermon to me. It tells of suffering, it tells of sacrifice, it preaches — every rock in it, preaches a discourse. When it was dedicated, it seemed to me that it was the greatest sermon that has ever been preached since the Sermon on the Mount. When I go up on the Capitol Hill, and see that great building, a great pile of granite, etc., that will cost two million and a half; there is not a stone in it that whispers! It is speechless. It does not tell of suffering or of faith. Any man who will come to the Bureau of Information and listen to the guides will learn that every window, every steeple, everything about the Temple speaks of the things of God, and gives evidence of the faith of the people who built it. 

When I see this monument here, (indicating the Sea-Gull Monument standing on the Temple Grounds), I notice that many of you men pass it by as if it told no story. When I think of that monument, it tells me of suffering, it tells me of a people that were about to be destroyed by famine : it tells me of crickets that were destroying and eating up everything. The people prayed, they fasted, and they got busy, every man, woman, and child killed crickets. But they could not kill them all, so God came in and helped them. He sent the gulls, and they ate  crickets, and the people were saved. 

That Tabernacle preaches the same kind of sermon. I helped haul sand for it, when I was a boy. Every Saturday we had to haul sand, and that is how I learned something about these things. You see this wall surrounding this block — do you think we built it to keep the Indians out? I want to tell you we built it to give employment; and when people were out of work, and hungry, we found something for them to do. If we could not find anything else to do, we built walls. That is what you want to do now — give service — give work. 

When Christ gathered the people together, they were hungry, and then their Master fed them, and after they were filled He gave them the Bread of Life, fed them, and then told them the truth. If people are out of employment, you find something for them to do, and then bless them. 

Think of what this people have done; not what they have preached, but what they have accomplished, and what they have suffered. I desire to say to you Seventies, get ready, and after a while we will sing the hymn, "Hark, Listen to the Trumpeters! They Sound for Volunteers." Now, we will not say to you what the Savior said to the young man, ''Sell whatsoever thou hast and give to the poor, and take up the cross and follow the Master and I will give you the greatest of all gifts that God has ever given His children, which is Eternal Life," all we ask you to do is to give whatsoever you have to your family, and pick up your valise and go on a mission. Do you want eternal life? Almost everybody here would be awfully keen for it, if it did not cost anything. We would accept the whole world if it did not cost anything; I would be willing to take half of it myself. (Laughter.) 

The greatest of all gifts is "Eternal Life," but we have to pay for it, just like our fathers and mothers did. We will have to pay for it with service, and with sacrifice; as there can be no blessings obtained without sacrifice. I know what is the matter. We think more of automobiles, we think more of oriental rugs, and hundred-dollar gowns than we do of salvation. T know you have faith, many of you, and now we want to begin to get hold with both hands and make this fight for the Lord. I prophesy that hundreds of you, thousands of you, will go into the world on missions. 

Now, my brethren every man who holds the holy Melchisedek Priesthood, and is a Special Witness for God, should get ready for a mission. Begin to pay your debts, and train your family, and get them so that they will be glad to have you go. Stop writing letters to the First Council making a lot of excuses, that your wife is sick, that you are in debt, or that you are sick. What is faith for? Who is the Great Physician? Why don't I get well? Because I haven't faith enough. I  trying to hurry up and get well so that I can go. 

You must look into the future; this world belongs to the visionary men. Brigham Young had a vision. He said that this city would reach to the point of the mountain south, and I am a witness that it will come true. People did not believe it. Joseph Smith had a vision, a revelation that we would "come to the Rocky Mountains and build great cities, and become a mighty people.'' We have started to fulfill that prophecy. 

Now, brethren and sisters, we have Prophets, we have Apostles, we have the gifts and the blessings. You Seventies must go out and heal the sick : you must go out and comfort the desolate, and you must go to the nations of the world, after this war is over — it cannot last forever. You Seventies will go — this prophecy will come true, otherwise we will make High Priests of you and ordain other Seventies who will go. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Awake my Soul," Geneva Harris and II. J. Christiansen sang the duet. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Win. J. Robinson.