3
Morning
01 10 1937
Elder Melvin J. Ballard 
1
20-24

None

None

ENCOURAGED AS TO SECURITY PROGRAM 

It has been my privilege during the last summer to be associated with the Church Security Committee, to meet and hold conversations with some of the gentlemen who have visited our communities and have written articles that have appeared in magazines and newspapers. By reason of the trend of their conversation and their interest I have been greatly impressed with the fact that the interest that has been aroused is not going to be wholly satisfied by learning something about our Church Security Program. The progress which we have made is fully up to my expectations. The response of the membership of the Church in the increase of Fast offerings and Tithing last year was most encouraging. I do most sincerely trust that we shall not hesitate now, but that we shall continue this good effort and raise our quotas in the payment of our Fast offerings at least up to the standard of the minimum for the poorest members of the Church, to the dollar suggested by the Presidency. We did not reach it last year. We are making progress toward it, and I hope that none of us will be content until we have at least reached that objective. The reason is that we need that assistance. Our program is going only as fast as we have the means, and we do not propose to run in debt to try to solve the problem, but we are consuming the means that come to us in an effort to solve this important undertaking which the Church has in hand at this moment. 

APPEAL TO MEMBERS 

If there ever was an occasion in the history of the Church when the non-tithepayer or the individuals who have not paid Fast offerings ought to be appealed to effectively it is now. Surely there is not a man who claims membership in the Church who is going to stand by and see his Church humiliated, because he did not do his part. There is not a man, though he does not live up to all the requirements of the Gospel, but that has a pride in his Church. He likes to hear good things said about it. He wants to see it fulfill its undertakings. And, therefore, I do appeal to you, my brethren who have to do with the encouragement on the part of those who have not yet done their full duty in assisting us, before the close of the year, that we shall have many of them aroused to the point where they will give us that assistance, not only because we need the help, but because it will bring to them blessings, spiritual blessings and material blessings at the hands of the Lord. 

PROBLEMS SOLVED IN THE LORD'S WAY 

The greatest feature of our program has not been the assistance we have rendered to others — while that has been most satisfactory, one of the greatest contributions that the Church has received out of the program has been the awakened interest on the part of the indifferent who have come to participate and become active in the Church work. It will become a savior to many of them, and if we persist in this program as we certainly shall do, and with the aid and help of our brothers and sisters and the blessing of the Lord, in due time we will solve the problem, and when we have done it, it will be a monument to us that will attract the ends of the earth; because we are dealing with a problem that is world-wide, every nation, every community has the same identical problem and they are struggling, by various ways and means, some by Communism and some by Fascism and some by other methods to solve the problem; but we know that it can only be solved in the Lord's way. We have the Lord's way, and it is our responsibility to demonstrate to the world that the Lord's way is effective, that it will work, but the interest that has been aroused will create further inquiry into the lives of the people. They will want to know how we live in the home; our social life; our relations with each other, in an age when there is a growing doubt concerning the vitality of the Christian denominations arid their ability to meet and solve human problems. This is the opportune time to prove to the world that the real Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which we have received, does have in it the power to make men capable of living up to the highest standards that have been given to mankind in the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. No other people in the history of this world have had put before them higher ideals than have the Latter-day Saints. When this inspection comes, I am getting exceedingly anxious that we shall be so well prepared when they come not only to learn about our security program, but come to learn about our personal lives, our relationships with each other, that they will discover that we have a practical religion that goes with us into the shop, into the farm, into the factory, into our social lives, that wherever we go we take our religion with us and that it is effective in making us different. 

KEEPING OF WORD OF WISDOM URGED 

The President has just made an appeal, and I am with him one hundred percent. I shall continue wherever I go in the stakes of Zion, to appeal to the young people of the Church, and the older people as well, to live up to the Word of Wisdom. I want to make this additional appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, that not only for the blessings and the benefits that will flow to us, shall we keep the Word of Wisdom, financially and spiritually, but for the blessing it will be to the world. When they come from abroad, as the prophets of old said they would, one of a city and two of a family from the ends of the earth to the tops of the mountains, where the House of the Lord should be established — the prophets said the peoples of the east and the west and the north and the south would say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that we may learn of his ways and walk in his paths" — when they come I am exceedingly anxious that they shall not find Latter-day Saint girls and boys smoking. If they do not, it will be a distinguishing thing, for they will not find such a situation anywhere else in the world. We want you to be the hope of the world, the very light of the world, the salt of the earth. You have a responsibility, with the superior knowledge that has come to you, to be an example. When they come I do not want them to find Latter-day Saint boys and girls drinking liquor, or beer with its alcohol content, condemned by the Lord, because it is a strong drink. 

STANDARDS SHOULD BE MAINTAINED 

When they come to be close to us in our social life, I want them to find us living up to our high standards, for we have received instructions from our youth, that the boy shall be as clean and as chaste as the girl; that there is no double standard, and that each one of us regards preservation of chastity as more precious than life itself. I want them, when they come, to find us living up to our high privileges, having entered into the house of God and entered into sacred contracts with each other that shall endure through time and eternity, that we are not a people who quickly dissolve our marriage contracts as the world does. Our standard today — our record, leads the world, but we can make it better than it is. When they come and inspect our homes, I do not want them to find homes without children. I want them to find typical Latter-day Saint homes, the heritage of the Lord, children welcomed in those homes, that make them ideal. When they come to inspect us in our business relations, I want them to find a Mormon's word still as good as his bond; that we pay our debts and that we fulfill our contracts to the best of our ability 

OPPORTUNITY NOW TO GET AHEAD 

When they come to find us in our material possessions, I am exceedingly anxious that they shall find, as it is now, a larger percentage of our people owning their own homes than any other people. We are not quite up to the standards of our fathers, however. I would like to see us recover our former positions. When they come, also, to discover the status of our farms and homes I hope they will find us in a more favorable condition than any people, that we have freed our homes and our farms from the mortgage that is upon them. 

I would like to say this to you, my brothers and sisters, I feel in my heart that we, as a people, have never had a better day to pay our debts than right now, and I have a feeling that we will have several good years to do that in. Somebody misquoted, or at least misconstrued my appeal to the people in Arizona to store up food for the care of the poor, and had me saying that a great panic was right at our door. As far as this country is concerned I do not believe that. I believe that there are several good years ahead of us here. Let us employ them to get out of debt. During the height of the depression I said in several places that then was a good time to borrow money, because you could not borrow very much, and no matter what you spent it for, it would be profitable. Now is a good time to pay our debts. Let us free ourselves, if we can consistently, now. 

SURROUNDINGS PREACH THE GOSPEL 

I am exceedingly anxious that as they come to see Latter-day Saint homes they will be impressed that here are people who love culture. We would like the front gate to preach the Gospel, because it has all its pickets on, and has a coat of paint on it. We would like to see the homes in which we live as beautiful as we can afford to make them. We would like them surrounded with shrubbery that proclaims our love of the beautiful. We would like them to find us the finest civilization there is in the world. 

I remember a few years ago, when there stood in this pulpit a great economist, I think one of the greatest in the world, who had been visiting Utah on several occasions and had been teaching here in our summer schools, Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver, who said, 

If I were searching the whole world over to find a people who were building an advanced civilization, I would come here to Utah and learn of it from you Mormons. 

A RELIGION THAT SUSTAINS 

I want us prepared when they come to show the world that here is a religion that could sustain our fathers when martyrdom met them and took their leaders. Here is a religion that could sustain our fathers when they were driven from their homes, and their homes were pillaged and burned, sustained them when they journeyed across the plains; sustained them in the battle with the wilderness and supported them under trials, when their enemies slandered and vilified them, and they stood like beaten anvils under it all. I want them to come and find us in our prosperity still true to that faith, not having patterned after the ways of the world. Young men and young women, God never expected you to be like the world; not to be imitators. Your mission is to be pattern makers, to hold up an ensign, to create hope in the world and faith in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, having power to mold men's hearts to conquer their weaknesses and make them susceptible to live up to the high standards of this restored Gospel of Jesus Christ; and all of it is to fit and prepare us to live as ladies and gentlemen in the presence of the great king, God the eternal Father. 

If all this brought human misery — to conquer one's appetite, to subject oneself to the Gospel standards — if all this brought unhappiness and misery, I would be afraid to say what I am saying, but I know the testimony of thousands and have proven it in my own experience, that there is no life lived on this earth that is so happy, so full of joy and satisfaction, so abundant in health and life, with greater spirituality and greater intelligence, than that enjoyed among the Latter-day Saints who live up to these Gospel standards. 

JOY IN ACHIEVEMENT 

We get our reward here and now. Our joy, our achievements, have brought us heaven right now, and it is preparing us for an eternal heaven that is yet to come. I do know that our fathers and mothers were great men and women. They subdued the desert and conquered it, but I know that we have a greater task, to conquer ourselves, to master ourselves and subscribe to this high standard of living. If we shall do it, when the ends of the earth come to see us they will learn of our ways and be willing to walk in our paths. We shall find a joy in the achievement and bring honor and credit to the work of God. 

God bless us that we shall be ready for the day of inspection. It is going to come — whether you are ready for it or not. I trust we shall not be embarrassed, but that we shall set our own houses in order, where we need to, also our own personal lives, and make a great contribution to glorify the name of God and to become here, on the tops of these mountains, the very light of the world, the hope of mankind, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
