5
Afternoon
01 10 1937
Elder Rufus K. Hardy 
185
28-30

None

None 

My beloved brethren and sisters, during the few moments that I stand before you, I trust that I may have not only an interest in your faith and prayers but that I may have from you an assurance of your desire to hear the truths of our faith and to further all that God desires you to do. 

As a child, I can remember these great gatherings, these conferences which we now are attending. I recall distinctly that there are two definite, fixed things in my mind which have stayed there from that day to this. Those two things were a knowledge that the Lord God had again come to earth and had spoken to his servant, and that Christ lived, and that through him we were actuated and did those things which God would desire us to do. Even as John has recorded concerning the Christ, so was the belief of our people then and of our people now — that Christ did come, that Christ did live and that he and his works, through the children of men, glorified and magnified that great work of God. 

I recall distinctly that the other thing which left its impress upon my mind was the fact that the Priesthood of God had come to earth and that we had received that Priesthood and that through it and by it the things which we, the members of the Church of Jesus Christ, were able to accomplish, were made possible. 

I remember as a lad in early days coming to Conference and seeing practically hundreds, yes, thousands of horses tied on the outside of this block and tied in the vacant lots around; teams that were hitched to wagons, to white-tops, and buckboards. Today, with the march of time and the progress of the Church, we come here now, as did they, as members of this Church, even as we assembled to worship and give thanks to God when I was a lad. Now we wait until the closing of each session of this Conference to go outside and find patiently waiting for us, not horses, but the latest model of a high-powered automobile and  we reach it, there it stands in its shimmering colors and glory, and all we have to do is to turn a key in its door when we come again into this Church. But that same spirit, that same love, and that same hope which actuated our fathers and mothers, I feel very, very confident, is here today and actuates us. 

There are some things which to us are the dearest things in the world. I think two of these things are a knowledge that the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, did come, and a knowledge that the Gospel is preached today by the power of the Priesthood that was given to the apostles anciently. 

John says: 

We know that the Son of God is come and hath given to us an understanding that we may know him that is true; and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, the eternal life. 

So much has been wrought by our own kindred who are now dead and gone through a knowledge of this wonderful thing which has come unto them and unto us. Man is given many powers and many opportunities. He is also given an individuality which individuality is his and cannot be taken from him. He has his love. He has his faith. He has his understanding of Deity, and this individuality that God has given each of us is held absolutely responsible for all that it does and all that shall occur. Even so in life, as we must go through life with the individuality which God has given us — we cannot barter it or give it to another — on into death we carry that individuality and there we shall be judged according to the things that we have done here upon this earth by the individuality which God gave us. 

Now, with that understanding and with that knowledge, we must remember that man has within himself apparently two things which are opposed: perfect independence and, at the same time, perfect union and cohesion with a few or with many members of a body such as is this; that on down through this earth life of ours and eternal life we may march and walk retaining, at the same time, our own individuality. 

Some things have come into our lives, however, that are a little different from the olden days. A new note is sounding, and that new note has been ringing around this world into every nook and corner, conveying somewhat of the influence which the Church is showing and the momentous things it has taken hold of and put its hand to do. The name of this Church has been carried everywhere and this is not strange, because we expected that. But back to us has come the echo of this great broadcast, and that echo is one of praise, one of commendation. This is unusual, rather new, a startling thing for us, and I sincerely hope and trust that as we look at it, as we listen to it, and as we calmly sense that this has come, not through our individual effort but through the mercy and the blessing of the Lord God Almighty, through the power of his Priesthood, that we shall, with meekness and humbleness, acknowledge that power and that great work which now is showered upon the heads of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and praises are sung to it. It is through this wonderful thing, the Priesthood, that this has all come. 

I wish you would, when you can, read again the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Study it and think of it and see if it does not fit us. I have here a few verses which I would like to read to you and those verses on the Priesthood are as follows: 

Which priesthood continueth in the church of God in all generations, and is without beginning of days or end of years. * * * 

And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. 

Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. 

And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh; 

For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live. * * * 

For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ. 

And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit. * * * 

And this revelation unto you, and commandment, is in force from this very hour upon all the world, and the gospel is unto all who have not received it. * * * 

And any man that shall go and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed. And they shall not go hungry, neither athirst. * * * 

For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the powers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a little while and ye shall see it, and know that I am, and that I will come and reign with my people. 

If we may continue to have that same sweet, satisfying faith that was possessed by our fathers and mothers, with their toil-worn hands empty though they were, who came to these Conferences and attended them for the spiritual uplift they gave, and if we may continue ever onward in that channel and in that path, I am satisfied that God's blessings will be upon us, and I ask them to continue so, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
