9
Afternoon
01 10 1937
Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
42-48

None

None

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being present with you at this important Conference. I have enjoyed the spirit of this meeting and trust that which I shall say may prove profitable and faith-promoting to everyone present. 

I was impressed in listening to President Grant this morning, and desire to state that I am unqualifiedly in support of the statement he made relative to that which is expected of us. I am grateful to the Lord for the faith that I have in the principles of the Gospel and my desire to live in accordance with every principle of the Gospel. 

I was interested, also, in his very interesting description of his visit to Europe and the various meetings held throughout the nations of that part of the world. It brought back memories to me of two missions that I fulfilled over in Europe, comprising about five years, between thirty and thirty-eight years ago. 

LARGER CROPS AND BETTER PRICES 

I am happy to be with you under such favorable conditions. I am grateful for the improvement generally in our temporal circumstances. As you realize, the past season in this intermountain country has been very favorable from a climatic standpoint, which is a very important factor in our temporal progress. The result has been that the crops generally speaking, throughout the intermountain country, and I think probably throughout the nation at large, have been bounteous. Likewise, better prices have been obtained. 

The fact is that those who are engaged in farming are profitably enjoying the fruits of their labors. In my judgment, the prosperity of this nation, or any nation, depends, in very large measure, upon the prices of farm products, upon the availability of fertile farm lands, and, also, upon favorable climatic conditions. 

EFFECT OF FARM PRODUCTS PRICES ON ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

As I examine the economic charts for this country, covering a long period of time, I note that whenever the prices of farm products have been good prosperity has prevailed, and when farm products prices have been low depression has generally prevailed. Prosperity has not been dependent primarily upon wages, but apparently, as an important factor, upon fair prices for the farm crops. Therefore, I think it is important, so far as possible, taking into account the laws of supply and demand and the fact that farmers do not control crop production, to strive to maintain fair prices. It does not appear to be possible in agriculture, to regulate production to the same extent that it is practicable to do in industry, and in the handling of commercial undertakings. The natural tendency of those engaged in agriculture is, when any product yields good prices one year, to plant larger crops the following year, with a consequent drop in prices. Whatever can be done reasonably to regulate supply to conform to demand should be done. 

WAGES AND INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS 

There is no particular need to be concerned about wages. Wages tend to follow general economic conditions. When times are prosperous, the wage level rises steadily. When depressions occur, they follow the trend. Where efforts are widely made to force wages up beyond reasonable limits, commercial and industrial development is adversely affected. On the other hand, there are instances where employers take advantage of their workers and fail to give them a fair return for their efforts. This, also, interferes with economic progress. The more nearly commodity prices, in general, can be maintained at what is considered a normal level, the better and more stable will be the economic status. Commodity prices tend to increase, naturally, with the increase in the amount and velocity of money in circulation, and to decrease with the improvement in efficiency of production, the increase in volume of trade, and the growth in population. We are very fortunate, at the present time, under the favorable conditions which prevail in industry as well as in agriculture. Whether the general rise in prices is a natural economic improvement, or whether it is caused artificially, in part, by the large amount of Federal funds in circulation, remains to be seen. Likewise, the causes of recent financial disturbance are not clear. 

IMPROVEMENT IN FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 

I rejoice in reporting to you that the tithes of the Church for the first six months of this year show an increase over the same period of last year, and that last year's tithes showed a material increase over the year before. This is an index of the financial condition of Church members. Likewise, the number of tithepayers has increased, and correspondingly with the growth of the Church, the number of those who should pay tithing has increased. On the average, there are about 25 % of the membership of the Church who pay their tithing. There are about 15% in addition who should, but who do not pay tithing. This is a field for encouragement and the teaching of the principle of tithing by Church officers, to those members of the Church who have not shown the faith necessary to observe the principle of tithing. There are those who have paid donations who have not really paid a tithing. They have given their donations of what we call a part tithing, and yet have not had the spiritual strength and the unselfishness to be willing to give that tenth which the Lord expects of his children, for the advancement and fulfillment of his promises and purposes unto his people. 

RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHURCH OFFICERS 

Great responsibilities rest upon all the officers throughout the Church. They are not occupying places of responsibility because of any personal or selfish desires. They have been selected because of their willingness to serve and for their diligence. They are engaged in this work because they are assured that it is the work of the Lord. They are as watchmen upon the towers to safeguard the spiritual welfare and progress of the people. It is their duty to teach and counsel the members to observe all the revelations of the Lord, and to perform all functions pertaining to their duties. When they teach tithing or any other divine principle they know that those who obey shall receive the blessings of God, and that his purposes shall be most fully accomplished. Heavy demands are made upon the Presidency of the Church for funds to carry out all the things that are desirable and necessary for the building up of this Church at home and abroad — the great missionary work, the work of religious education, the construction and maintenance of Church buildings, the relief needs, the Church Security Program, and all of the other important matters needing attention. This work grows by the individual and collective service given by all the members, and by the observance of the divine commandments which are magnified by the Lord for the achievement of his plans. There is no occasion for us to boast about the progress that is being made in this great work. But there is every reason for us all to be profoundly grateful and appreciative of the wonderful manner in which the Lord is bringing to pass his purposes. And we need to manifest our gratitude by increased faith in every principle of the Gospel and greater activity in his cause. 

FASTING AND FAST DONATIONS 

Further, you will remember that in Conference eighteen months ago, instructions were given and a request made by the First Presidency that all members of the Church faithfully observe the monthly Fast, and give the equivalent in value for the benefit of those in need. It was shown that the equivalent of two meals would amount to at least ten cents per month for every member. The request was for a donation of not less than one dollar per year for every man, woman and child in the Church. There has been considerable improvement in this respect, but we have not reached the goal as yet which is expected of every one of us. For the past six months, the reports show an increase of 53% in the Fast offerings over the same period of last year. The number who have paid Fast offerings has increased about 31%. Apparently, then, since there has not been a proportionate increase in the number who have donated, those who have paid, have given more. Here is an opportunity for Church officers to encourage those who have not done their part, to fulfill this duty also. The average Fast offerings per capita paid for the first six months is 21.6 cents; whereas it should be at least 50 cents. When we realize how efficiently these donations are applied directly for the benefit of those in need, we should all be ready and willing to do our full share, and thereby get the spiritual blessings that attend the principle of Fasting. 

I need scarcely repeat the fact that the Fast offering is a donation that should not cost us one cent, because if we observe the principle we do not sacrifice anything but the eating of food for two meals; and the value of those two meals is represented by the amount that we give for Fast offering; so one dollar per capita per year does not represent fully what the members of the Church would consume if they did not Fast and did not observe this donation. 

STATISTICS ON RELIEF 

There was disbursed during the six months period to those in need, through the regular channels, a total of practically $300,000, which includes $116,015 from Fast offerings, $102,238 from the tithes, $22,494 from Relief Society donations, and some $58,534 from other sources, including $15,648 through the Church Security Program. This total is an increase of 97% over the amount distributed for the needy in the same period of 1936. The number of persons assisted on direct relief was 16,163 and those helped on work relief was 8,110. This is an increase over the previous year of 51%. As of June 30 it appears that there were 1,912 persons over 18 needing employment. Of this total it appears that about 86% were unskilled and 14% skilled. The number taken off County Relief during six months was 600. 

CHURCH BUILDING PROGRAM 

Another program of great importance that is going forward steadily is that of the building and renovating of ward, stake and mission buildings, seminaries, institutes, temples, and hospitals. During the past months there has been expended directly from Church funds something over $800,000. There is a great demand at the present time for new buildings, improvements, repairs and remodeling of buildings, both for the various wards and the seminaries. If we take into account the amount raised by the wards as their portion, there has been expended thus far this year for that purpose approximately $1,300,000. There have been 192 buildings under construction and remodeling. Every effort has been made to expend this money carefully, economically, and with the desire to obtain the best results possible for the money expended, and to provide the facilities that are needed for the welfare of the people. Taking this into account you can understand that care must be exercised and proper control must be had in everything done in this department as well as in every other department, in order that not one dollar shall be spent extravagantly, or unnecessarily, for the improvement of these facilities that are necessary for the progress and welfare of the Church. 

TRAINING IN BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 

The people are making great sacrifices. We are endeavoring to train apprentices in connection with building projects in the various localities so that through practice and under proper supervision they may gradually qualify in the various crafts for future building operations. 

You will realize that in the construction of buildings a very small proportion of the cost is for unskilled labor. The large proportion of the labor cost is paid to those who are skilled men in various trades. We have fallen behind the conditions that prevailed in the early history of the Church in these various communities. Then there were many skilled artisans, men who could build, who knew their crafts thoroughly, who had been trained largely in European countries. We were learning then to use the hand as well as the head, to a much larger extent than we are learning today. It is a challenge to our young people, especially to our young men, in the various communities of the Church to qualify to build the houses and other buildings that are necessary in their growth. We would like to be able to encourage the wards in such a way that they may be able to furnish all necessary labor for their projects; but the fact that so few are prepared to qualify to do the skilled part of the work is one of the hindrances and difficulties that stand in the way. 

COUNTING THE COST 

One of the things we are telling the brethren in the various wards is that sometimes in their haste and in their enthusiasm to go forward with any project they forget the lesson contained in a parable used by the Savior. We are employing it rather literally. I would like to read it to you: 

For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? 

Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, 

Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish. (Luke 14:28-30.) 

Within the last few years the borrowing of money for the construction of Church buildings has been stopped. In addition we have been endeavoring to get the people to pay their ward debts, with the result that, in spite of unfavorable economic conditions, these debts have been steadily reduced year by year, until now they are only about 30% of the original amounts. You will realize how important it is that the wards be prepared to undertake to do their part of the building when it is authorized, so that they may not be held up or forced to stop for a period during its construction. In one or two instances, such a condition has prevailed. It is very unfortunate. Almost identically these words of the Savior have been expressed by people who have passed such buildings and seen them unfinished. They have ridiculed those persons responsible for failure to adequately prepare for the undertaking. 

So it is a challenge to us all to be thoroughly prepared when we undertake anything in life to carry through to a successful conclusion and in conformity with our plans. In this connection, I would like to call your attention to other instructions which the Savior gave in connection with this parable: “Whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple." (Luke 14:27) And again, "No man, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the Kingdom of God." (Luke 9:62) Therefore, when we undertake to put our hands to the plow as disciples of the Lord, Jesus Christ, we must count the cost, and prepare ourselves to go forward throughout our lives in his service if we expect to gain the blessings and benefits which come from membership in his Church, and adherence to his principles, as they have been revealed unto us. I pray that the Lord may help every one of us to sense these things and to learn these lessons that will help us and our children, — our young people, — to learn the foundation of faith, to develop understanding of faith, to seek and gain that faith in God which will enable them to be true to every principle of the Gospel and go forward and serve the Lord with full purpose of heart, which I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
