2
Morning
01 10 1937
Elder Reed Smoot 
39
17-20

None

None 

I do not know just how you feel after listening to the remarkable sermon just delivered by President Grant. I want to say to you today that from my own experience, not only at home but abroad as well, the statements made by the President, if carried out in our lives, would bring honor, not only to the individual members of the Church but to the great organization to which we belong. I am quite sure I speak the truth when I say I know that every member here is perfectly willing to sacrifice anything that the Church, through the inspiration that comes to God's servants, requires in order that it may grow and increase in power in the world. 

OBEDIENCE TO LAWS OF THE CHURCH BRINGS HONOR 

I just want to add one thing to what has already been so well said to show my brethren and sisters that the honest people of the world will think a great deal more of the members of this Church if they comply with its laws and live up to their professions as Latter-day Saints than if they do not. I have had many chances in my life to prove this. 

I remember upon one occasion, shortly after I went to the Senate of the United States, and after the wicked charges had been made against me, I was invited to a dinner by perhaps not only the wealthiest woman in Washington, but in the United States. She had a beautiful home, all that money could purchase. Upon that occasion as I entered that great dining room I saw tables that were at least eighty or ninety feet long, furnished of course with all that money could command, and at each plate were three glasses for the purpose of serving three different kinds of wine. As I sat at the table I thought to myself that the proper way to do was to turn my glasses upside down so that no wine could be served at the place where I sat. 

After the dinner was over, and we had adjourned into the great reception room, my hostess came to me and said: 

"Senator Smoot, wasn't my wine good enough for you?" 

I said: "No, madam, no wine is good enough for me. I never use it." 

I had the chance then and there to explain to her the Word of Wisdom, and I am glad to report to you that she admitted to me that we were right, and that all of them would be better without strong drinks. But fashion, that great slave-driver of certain classes, was so powerful that I suppose she would follow it even though she realized that to drink wine was wrong. 

DR. KARL G. MAESER'S SAYINGS 

I thought this morning I would take the time to call the attention of this Conference to some of Doctor Karl G. Maeser's sayings, which I call Sentence Sermons. I think they are wonderful; each one is a subject for a sermon, and put so concisely that to announce the statement itself is sufficient: 

Infidelity is consumption of the soul. 
Be yourself, but always your better self. 
The Lord is never in debt to any one. 
The Lord never does anything arbitrarily. 
Make the man within your living ideal. 
Everyone's life is an object lesson to others. 
My word shall always be as good as my bond. 
Authority must be as an iron fist in a velvet glove. 
Say to thy soul: "No unclean thing shall enter here." 
One who has lost the Spirit of the Lord is dead spiritually. 
Let your first good morning be to your Heavenly Father.  
A man without character is like a ship without a rudder. 
I would rather lose my right arm than break my word of honor. 
If it shall please my Heavenly Father, I shall be a teacher in heaven. 
It is not so much what a person says, but what makes him say it. 
A laudable ambition to excel is an indispensable requisite to success. 
When I listen to a sermon, I have my ears open to the doctrine only. 
No man shall be more exacting of me or my conduct than I am of myself. 
He that deceives another is a knave; but he that deceives himself is a fool. 
Our patriarchal blessings are paragraphs from the book of our possibilities. 
Boys, when you are tempted to go into a saloon, think of me, your teacher. 
We go to the East for learning, but the East will come to us for wisdom. 
No righteous rules, however rigid, are too stringent for me; I will live above them. 
Eagerness to earn bread and butter has overshadowed many a golden opportunity. 
School is a drill for the battle of life. If you fail in the drill you will fail in the battle. 
I would rather trust my child with a serpent than to place him in the hands of an irreligious teacher. 
The good angels never lose an opportunity of calling attention to something good in everybody. 
All our prayers are addressed in the handwriting of the heart, readable to God and ourselves only. 
Youth demands recreation, and if it is not provided in the high places, will seek it in low places. 
The truly educated man will always speak to the understanding of the most unlearned of his audience. 
If you learn only the fraction of the "A" of a principle, practice at once that fraction you have learned. 
What we did before we came here conditioned us here; what we do here will condition us in the world to come. 
It is our privilege to become so attached to our duties that temptation shall have no power to lead us astray. 
Every one of us, sooner or later, must stand at the forks of the road and choose between personal interest and some principle of right. 

CHANGE WROUGHT BY THE GOSPEL 

I have read these hundreds of times. I think if the Lord ever made a man completely over, through accepting the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that man was Doctor Karl G. Maeser. All his ideas of life were changed. I have heard him tell many and many a time, and personally I know from actual experience, of the spirit which I suppose is common to the German people, that of being strictly military, if you please, in the demands made by them. 

I remember the first time that I ever saw Brother Maeser. I was then a small boy, and I went to the Twentieth Ward school. He came to the Twentieth Ward after teaching President Young's children in a small schoolhouse within a block of this place. There was a blackboard painted on the wall on the west end of the room, and a long bench in front. We all sat upon that bench. Brother Maeser came down the aisle, walking just as I always imagined a German general would do. He stood in front of the class, then came up to me, as I was on the end of the bench, and said: 

"Are you prepared?" 

I didn't know what "prepared" meant. I said, "No." 

He slapped my ears, and went all down that bench, and every one of the class got a slap on the ears. 

Years afterwards I saw Karl G. Maeser, under the influence of the Spirit of God. He had been called by the President of this Church to a great mission. I saw him, as I say, transformed from the German spirit into a man with the humblest spirit and with a devout belief in God's way. 

I owe a great deal to Brother Maeser. I graduated from the Brigham Young Academy, and I thank God that later I had a chance to demonstrate to him that I loved him — loved him better than he perhaps thought. I would have done anything in the world for him. He was a man of God who fulfilled his mission, and as the years go by the members of this Church, through the students that were under him, shall know better the work intended by God for his people in this dispensation. 

SERVICE IS JOY 

My brethren and sisters, I believe in service to God. I believe in service to country. I believe in service to our families, and I believe in service to the Church. God grant that I may ever be able to fulfil every call, no matter what it may be. I assure you that there isn't a day passes but that I ask my Heavenly Father that I shall be blessed in a way that my life shall be acceptable to him, also for the welfare of my loved ones; the welfare of the President of the Church; the welfare of the Authorities of the Church — both the local and the general Authorities. I feel that way, my brethren and sisters. May we pass through the trying ordeals of the present with a deeper conviction in our souls that God is at the helm, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
