12
Morning
02 10 1937
Elder Nicholas G. Smith 
197
56-57

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am happy to stand before you this morning and bear testimony to the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I love our Church because of the opportunity it gives each of us to do unselfish service. 

I spent the most glorious two and a half years of my life in the California Mission, and recently returned from that mission loving it and loving the people there. To associate with your boys and girls in the mission field, to see them grow and develop in their testimonies and in their ability to mix with other people and to convince them of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, was a great joy. 

California is a great country — the land of sunshine they call it. I love it, not because of its sunshine, but because of the people who are there. Goodness knows that had I been seeking sunshine I would not have needed to go away from Salt Lake City in August and September of this year. 

Since coming here I have been assigned to a new task, to labor as a counselor to President Stephen L. Chipman in the Salt Lake Temple, and I have been surprised at the things I have discovered there. Do you know we have some sixty thousand names that have been sent into the temple from the mission fields of the world that should be taken care of and the work done for them? The President of the French Mission wrote to me and told me that he had sent in some lists of names — several hundred — two years ago and had not yet received the papers back, and he desired to know whether the names had been lost. When I looked into the files I discovered that not only those from the French Mission were there, but there were thousands and thousands from other missions that were there waiting to be taken care of. I feel it would be a glorious thing if the people would consider this great work, this charity work, that is to be done for the missions of the world, and when they come to the House of the Lord take the names from some of these missions and help us to clear them out of the files. I hope the new Security Plan will work out this very thing. 

I was astonished to learn that for the month of August the temples ran about 29% capacity; that is, we could have done 71% more work in the Salt Lake Temple than was done during the month of August; and I am wondering how temple-conscious we are, and whether or not we should not consider this great mission that all of us have been called to that are in the Church. You will remember that the Prophet bore down heavily upon this one point —  we cannot be made perfect without our dead — and assigned to us a special activity, a missionary work if you please, and while I will candidly admit that up until now this missionary work has not been so interesting to me as the missionary work for the living has been, I recognize the fact that it is essential, it is a work that all of us should be thinking about; and I hope that throughout the winter months the Salt Lake Temple and all the temples will be running one hundred per cent capacity, instead of 29%. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints. Wherever I have been amongst our people I have found that they were living the Gospel, and their example has been a strength and a help to me, for their homes have been opened, and I have been fed and clothed and blessed through the Saints. 

May the peace of our Heavenly Father be in the hearts of each and every one of us, and may our desire be to uphold the General Authorities of the Church in all that they do, is my prayer, in Jesus' name. Amen.
