18
Morning
02 10 1937
Elder James M. Kirkham 
179
66-68

None

None

I am very grateful to the brethren who gave me the privilege of going into the mission field and presiding for a little more than three years over the East Central States Mission. I had never had such an experience before in all my life. It is invaluable, and I am very grateful for that privilege and opportunity. 

The mission is progressing. There is a change of attitude in that country. I recall an instance that happened when I first went there. Elders were invited to leave a home, with a very definite statement not to return. Before I left the mission they were invited back to that same place. This one incident is but representative of a general improvement in the attitude toward our people. 

The newspapers there are very much more friendly, as they are everywhere, and the people in those states are looking to us. I want to emphasize with all the power that I have that we must not fail in the great project of the Security Program in this Church, any more than we should fail in any other of the things we are called upon to do. 

I know that that mission will continue to progress, because I have learned from friends since my return home of the splendid leadership being exhibited by President William Tew who succeeded me in that mission. 

Since coming home I have been laboring in an activity in which I was very much interested before I went on my mission — that of genealogical work. Recently I have visited a number of stakes in connection with convention work. I would like to emphasize to you here today that while I am interested in the living, having a large family of grown children and being selfishly interested in them, I am also interested in the dead. I would like to emphasize to you the privilege that is yours to go into the Temples of the Lord and there become saviors upon Mount Zion. 

In my youth I was given a blessing and told that I should become a savior upon Mount Zion, and I wondered how that promise could ever be fulfilled. Today I know how it is being realized and fulfilled. I want to say to you that we should seek our own dead, that we with them might be made perfect. We must not seek only those having the same surname as our own but we must seek our own kindred dead. I realize when I make this statement that many of you are having difficulty in doing this, but the words of Nephi remind me that the Lord will require at our hands no service save he will provide a way to perform it. 

Oh, he will test us, he will try us, but the Lord will open the way. He tells us that if it is necessary, the time shall come when we will go to the Temples of the Lord and there will have the names given to us. I hope that the prayer that was offered by Brother Joseph Fielding Smith last night can be realized, when he prayed to the Lord asking him to touch the hearts of the presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, that they would assume their leadership and discharge their responsibility in this great work. 

The time is short and we have much to do. We must seek our dead. My experience from careful study and observation, has taught me that the Lord is touching the hearts of the people of the world, and they are doing a most wonderful work in preparing genealogical records. 

To illustrate in one particular, it may be interesting to you to know that in the one hundred and ten counties in Tennessee last winter from three to five W. P. A. workers in each county were copying vital statistics, deeds, and marriage records, and they are now available to the public in the city of Nashville. Is the Lord at work? The Lord is way ahead of us, brethren and sisters, in paving the way for us, and it seems to me our duty is to take advantage of the manner in which the Lord is opening up new and easy fields for research. The people of the world are actually gathering records for us. 

May the Lord bless and help us to realize our responsibility, our opportunity, our leadership, and then the world will be led to glorify our Heavenly Father because of what we are doing and the way we are doing it. 

May the Lord help us and bless us to this end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
