31
Afternoon
03 10 1937
President Rudger Clawson
7
109-113

None

None

As I listened to the broadcast this morning and looked out upon this great congregation of people, I was nearly swept off my feet; I think I would have been had I been standing. It was a wonderful meeting. 

This is also a great gathering of Latter-day Saints, filling the entire Tabernacle, a congregation that is eager for the word of the Lord and are here now to wait upon him. 

A REMARKABLE BOOK 

I have in my hand a most remarkable book. There is nothing exactly like it in all the great libraries of the world. This book is distinctive, it is different from any other record under the heavens. In fact, it contains one hundred and thirty-five revelations given to Joseph Smith the Prophet for the instruction of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, given by the Master himself. 

And yet in our day and time it is declared by Christians generally that the voice of revelation has ceased being heard in the land. This book is not to be handled with the spirit of indifference. It justifies the deepest consideration and study. Three or four or five years of intense application in the study of this book, the Doctrine and Covenants, would be the equivalent to a university education in the higher brackets. 

We cannot speak lightly of a book with such solemn and important instructions as are given in this volume which covers every phase of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In a matter so extremely important, my brethren and sisters, would we not be justified in pausing for a few moments to consider and reflect upon some of these great commandments of the Lord. 

REVELATION ON THE THREE GLORIES 

I refer you now to Section 76. In this section the kingdoms of glory of the other world are set forth in great force and beauty. I would like to read to you the introduction to this particular revelation given by the Lord: 

Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior. 

Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out 

His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand. 

From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail. 

For thus saith the Lord — I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end. 

Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory. 

And to them will I reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come, will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom.

Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations. 

And their wisdom shall be great, and their understanding reach to heaven; and before them the wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall come to naught. 

For by my Spirit will I enlighten them, and by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will — yea, even those things which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man. 

Are not these words, being the preface to a revelation, great and mighty words? The Lord describes himself and his power and greatness and ability to bless and save in these few introductory lines. 

Now, this revelation sets forth three great kingdoms of glory, and the people in the Church, yes, and those of the world at large may choose therefrom their destiny for the hereafter. And, should one step forth the following question might consistently be put to him: "What destiny do you aspire to?" The answer might be, "Well, I would like a Celestial glory, which I understand is the highest and best." The sun, moon and stars are pointed to in the revelation as being typical of the three kingdoms of glory, and as the sun differs from the moon in brightness so is the Celestial kingdom of glory; and as the moon differs from the stars in brightness so is the Terrestrial glory, and as the stars differ one from another in brightness so it is in the Telestial kingdom of glory. If you can abide the law of the Celestial kingdom, why, then you can abide a Celestial glory and that glory will be given you. Otherwise, you must look for some other kingdom of glory such as the Terrestrial or Telestial, but remember that if your worthiness should entitle you to a Telestial kingdom only it is due to the fact that you are able to abide the law of the Telestial kingdom. 

Permit me to read a few words from this section to show what is required of those who will be saved in the Celestial kingdom of God: 

And again we bear record — for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the gospel of Christ concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just— 

They are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on his name and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given— 

That by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power; 

And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true. 

They are they who are the church of the Firstborn. 

They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things — 

They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory; 

And are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son. 

Wherefore, as it is written, they are gods, even the sons of God. 

Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's. 

Now, brethren and sisters, you see what is before you; you see what it will require upon your part to obtain the Celestial glory. If you cannot live up to the requirements of this law that governs in the Celestial kingdom, though you may have membership in the Church, you cannot abide that glory. That is the edict. The Lord tells us that in Section 88. 

Section 76 is a great revelation. We can sit down by ourselves and determine just which glory will satisfy us and how we can obtain it, and we are left without excuse. This great revelation appears in the book, and it is worthy of study and deep reflection. Each one must determine whether his life squares with the conditions; and this is only one of the many great revelations contained in this book of Doctrine and Covenants. 

REVELATION ON PRIESTHOOD 

In Section 84, a revelation on Priesthood, we find the duties that go with the Priesthood, the duties of the Presidency of the Church, the duties of the Council of the Twelve, and the First Council of Seventy set forth in clearness. It defines the duties of Patriarch, High Priest, Seventy, Elder, Bishop, Priest, Teacher and Deacon. The whole field of official standing in the Church comes within the purview of this important section. 

We had a great body of Priesthood here last night. This building was filled to its utmost capacity. Some were standing. It is the duty of the Priesthood of the Church to study these great revelations, particularly Section 84. Are you familiar with it? Have you a Doctrine and Covenants within reach? Not in the library case, but on the table where you can get at it handily? You ought to give time to this matter and to the importance of the Priesthood, the necessity of magnifying it, because it represents divine authority, and brethren, we cannot trifle with divine authority. When the Lord speaks we must take notice, and when he commands we must obey, because it is the Lord who is the law-giver, and he who becomes a law unto himself, if he does not repent, is lost. 

REVELATION ON THE ETERNITY OF THE MARRIAGE COVENANT 

And then there is Section 132 — a revelation upon marriage. It speaks of the eternity of the marriage covenant. I wonder if our young people who are thinking of marriage are thinking about that feature of it? Here is an opportunity for the young people to use great discrimination. Marriage should be approached in a prayerful spirit. We should pause and consider this matter. Sometimes it happens that a couple will pass the Temple door and go and get a civil marriage, and I have wondered sometimes if such a couple had weighed the matter fully. 

There is as much difference between a Temple marriage and a civil marriage as there is between the sun and the moon. A civil marriage is a good marriage because it has the authority of the United States government behind it. The law protects it, and we cannot condemn it. All we can say about a civil marriage is that it is good as far as it goes, but it may not go very far. That is the trouble. It may last a month, it may last six months, it may last ten years, or twenty years, or thirty years, or forty, or fifty years, which is just a moment of time. 

Now, there is the Temple marriage which covers time and all eternity. There is going to be a good deal of sorrow, a good deal of anxiety come into the lives of those who accept the inferior marriage because there is bound to be a separation of loved ones. A civil marriage applies only to this life and holds good until death parts them. If the husband dies, the bond is broken. If the wife dies, the bond is broken; and if both die the bond is broken. It does not reach beyond this life. That is a matter that should have our deepest consideration, because after all, the rewards that come from marriage are governed by law like other things, and we are living under the operation of law in all things. 

REVELATION ON TITHING 

There is the law of finance, the divine law of finance given to the Church. Somebody might say: "I have not seen that law, Brother Clawson. I have not read very much of the book of Covenants, but I have not seen that law, or any law entitled the law of finance." 

Well, it may not have that title. Nevertheless the revelation on tithing is the law of finance in the Church of Christ. That is the way the Lord deals with us in relation to some financial things. 

It is wonderful, this law of finance. When the Church was in great distress some years ago, was upon the verge of bankruptcy, the law of finance was put into operation and stressed by the Authorities, and it brought the Church out of its difficulties. It must needs be that we give attention to this law of finance. And there is a reward that goes with it too. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM 

Then there is the great law of health. "Well," someone might say "I have not seen a revelation entitled the great law of health, Brother Clawson." 

"No, of course you have not. But you have seen the revelation that is entitled the Word of Wisdom, haven't you?" "Yes." 

"Well, that is the law of health, given by the Lord many years ago. It is wonderful what it has done for the people, and it is surprising that it has not done more for them, but that is the fault of the people who have failed to obey this law." 

THE APPEARANCE OF THE SAVIOR IN THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE 

And then there is an account in Section 110 of the great vision that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple at the time of its dedication, when the Lord Jesus Christ appeared standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit. His appearance was glorious, but his words were more glorious, and his particular word upon that occasion was grand and beautiful. He said to them: 

I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore lift up your heads and rejoice, etc. 

Marvelous were these divine words of comfort and mercy given to the Saints of God by the Lord himself. They were fully rewarded for the great sacrifices they had made in building the Kirtland Temple. 

STUDY OF STANDARD WORKS URGED 

I must not take any more of your time. Brethren and sisters, let me plead with you to give more attention to the standard works of the Church. There is so much literature that comes into our homes, I am sure, that we can hardly reach the standard works of the Church, yet the standard works should come first, and other literature afterwards. 

Of course, we must keep track of daily events, things that are going on in the world, but when it comes to reading books of interest and value, let us give preference to the Church works because they are more precious than any other books in the world. If they were wiped out entirely and not one standard Church book left, it would be a calamity, a great misfortune to the Church 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 
