34
Afternoon
03 10 1937
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
120-123

None

None

While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, what think ye of Christ? 

As deep answering deep, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints affirms: 

We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

"THE RICHEST HILL ON EARTH" 

A few months ago, while visiting the Northwestern States Mission, accompanied by its capable mission president, Preston Nibley, I entered the city of Butte, Montana. I beheld on a large board this inscription: "The Richest Hill on Earth."

Butte derives its name from the old French word "butte" meaning a rounded hill. The hill is pierced by a hundred shafts from which has been hoisted to the surface $2,500,000,000 of mineral wealth. But values are relative. What men call treasures God calls dross. The truth still remains: "For the love of money is the root of all evil." 

When I read that inscription, I said to myself, "There is a small and solemn hill outside the ancient city of Jerusalem which has yielded no mineral treasures, nevertheless it is reverently regarded by true Christians as the richest hill on earth." 

For on sacred Calvary took place the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, which Canon Farrar declares was "the most stupendous and moving scene in the world's history." 

BANISHED FROM GOD'S PRESENCE 

Spiritual ruin came by the fall of man. This is the sad story told in the Holy Scriptures: "Because that Adam fell we are; and by his fall came death; and we are made partakers of misery and woe. And men have become carnal, sensual and devilish, and are shut out from the presence of God." 

Man, by sin, brought himself into the captivity of sin. His nature, by reason of the fall, became evil continually. He was shut out from the presence of the Lord. What a terrible sentence! Imagination cannot conceive a more dreadful judgment. It was not in man's power to escape from the misery that never dies. This judgment mortal man could not reverse. There was no appellate court. It was to be of endless duration. Hope seemed to have bade the world farewell. In despair man stood helpless. 

Against this dark background, God, who is love and with whom there is forgiveness, caused to shine brightly, the three graces, Faith, Hope and Love. He told Adam that Jesus Christ, the righteous Judge, would come in the meridian of time and atone for original guilt. 

Down through the ages this living faith and hope sustained those who believed in the heavenly promises. The Messiah became the consolation of Israel. "God had turned away his judgments because of his Son." 

THE ATONING SACRIFICE 

God himself came down from heaven and made the Divine Sacrifice. The God of Nature suffered and died on the Cross. The Apostle Paul said: "We shall be saved by his life, * * * by whom we have now received the atonement." (Romans 5:10) 

"The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world." (John 1 :29) 

On the Cross our Savior paid the debt that made mankind free. He bought us with the price of his precious blood. We are not our own for we are bought with a price. His blood atones for all our sins, through obedience to righteousness, but it shall not cleanse those who obey not his commandments. The manner of our redemption calls forth our love and affection. 

Through the infinite atonement and resurrection of our Lord we receive forgiveness of sin, immortality, a glorious resurrection and eternal life "which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God" provided we walk before Him, "in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless." Death lost its sting, the grave its victory. The Savior's death was the door to the glorious resurrection. 

Yes, Calvary is the richest, hill on earth. 

THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHRIST 

A Roman ruler was dying. With relentless cruelty he had sought to destroy the sect that was everywhere spoken against, but in vain. He had been found fighting against God. Pointing with trembling finger in the direction of Calvary he said feebly: "O Nazarene, Nazarene, thou hast conquered mightily." 

The sublimity of the Christ is manifested in many men, softening the hearts of statesmen and generals. The Savior is a very present help in time of need. He pitieth the poor. 

General Lee and General Grant met in Appomattox, near the famous apple tree, where General Grant wrote the terms of the surrender of the Confederate Army. He says in his own simple account of the event, "The question of the disposition of the Confederates' horses arose. I thought they would need them for the spring plowing." Then the General magnanimously permitted the Confederates to retain their horses. He had a vision. The spirit of Isaiah rested upon him. Swords were to be beaten into plow shares. He beheld the battlescarred fields of Dixie blooming in incomparable beauty with corn and cotton. I believe that he heard the voice of Jesus saying: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." The great soldier decided to turn into plow horses those war horses, which had hauled the Confederates' artillery to points where death and devastation could be poured into the Union ranks. 

Oh, that our foreign statesmen, diplomats, and generals could see the vision of farms instead of battle fields. Then fields which are now running red with human blood would soon bloom with life saving harvests. Someone has said that a sword is a misshaped plow. God hasten the day when in this war-torn world there will be more plows than swords. 

SPIRITUAL RICHES FROM CUMORAH 

Another hill, old in story, is ancient Cumorah. Out of that hill came truth and spiritual riches that will never fade nor perish — a volume of Scripture, the Book of Mormon. For many long centuries the people whom Columbus found when he stepped on the shores of America had no recorded knowledge of their forefathers, or the will of God concerning them. Without scripture which would make them wise unto salvation through faith in Jesus Christ they "wandered as strangers in sin." The deep darkness of ages had rested like a pall over their buried past. But God said, "Let there be light; and there was light." The Prophet Joseph joyfully exclaimed: 

And again, what do we hear. Glad tidings from Cumorah. Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfillment of the prophets, the book to be revealed. 

The Book of Mormon, like the Bible, is holy because it testifies that the Savior is the Son of God. The Nephite record contains the account of the Messiah's marvelous ministry to his "other sheep" on the western hemisphere, after his resurrection and ascension into heaven. To be a witness that Jesus is the Christ and to the truth of the Bible, is the chief mission of the Book of Mormon which ancient prophets, notably Isaiah, predicted would be brought forth to magnify the name of God. 

AMERICA’S DESTINY FORETOLD 

Behold the destiny of the United States in the light of Book of Mormon prophecies: 

The Gentiles shall be blessed upon this land. And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles. There shall be no kings upon the land who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. 

For I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king. And I will fortify this land against all other nations. 

These glorious predictions shall be fulfilled upon this people upon the unchangeable condition that "they will serve the God of the land who is Jesus Christ." 

It cannot be said truthfully that Mormonism is intolerant or unpatriotic. In the hearts of this people is the essence of true political faith, true patriotism for God and country, for which they would shed the last drop of their heart's blood. 

Our wonderful Republic. May we revere our heaven inspired Constitution and keep it foursquare with the plan of its inspired architects, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
