28
Morning
03 10 1937
President David O. McKay
18
100-103

None

None

APPLIED CHRISTIANITY 

What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him. — (James 2:14.) 

In this significant passage, James decries the impotency of faith as a merely intellectual perception, and implies the importance of the application of truth to daily life and conduct. He teaches that "faith is dead and useless unless it expresses itself in a true life and true Christian activities." There has been, and is today, too much discrepancy between belief and practice, between the proclamation of high ideals and the application of these ideals to daily life and living. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, accepting Christ as the revelation of God to man, believes that Jesus in his life and teachings reveals a standard of personal living, and of social relations, which, if fully embodied in individual lives and in human institutions, would not only ameliorate the present ills of society, but bring happiness and peace to mankind. 

If it be urged that during the past two thousand years so-called Christian nations have failed to achieve such a goal, we answer that all failure to do so may be found in the fact that they have failed to apply the principles and teachings of true Christianity 

DENOTE OBLIGATION 

To every sincere follower of Christ religion should denote not only a sense of relationship to God, but also an expression of that feeling in actions with respect to right and wrong, and obligation to duty. 

This was undoubtedly the kind of religion Patrick Henry had in mind when, in the closing scene of his life, he said: "I have now disposed of all my property to my family. There is one thing more I wish I could give them, and that is the Christian religion. If they had that, and I had not given them one shilling, they would be rich; and if they had not that, and I had given them all the world, they would be poor." 

Pure religion gives one power to rise above the selfish, sensual, sordid life of what Eucken calls "pure nature," and enables one to "experience a divinity in life above and beyond the world of sensible reality." 

"Without this religion," this philosopher continues, "no true civilization is possible. A civilization declining all contact with a supernatural life and refusing to establish those mysterious inner relations, gradually becomes a parody of civilization." 

STANDARDS VIOLATED 

For six thousand years and more the human family has suffered from unrestrained expressions and manifestations of selfishness, hatred, envy, greed — animal passions that have led to war, devastation, pestilence, and death. If the simplest principles of the Savior's teachings had been observed the recent world war, for example, could have been averted. The nation or nations that began that holocaust violated some standard or standards of the Christian religion — with what result? Seven million men killed. Five million more dead of starvation and disease. Twenty million wounded, five million of whom are maimed and crippled for life. Six million men imprisoned. Twenty million women in Europe deprived of a home of their own. Countless millions who suffered privations in the trenches, and in lonely homes of the poor. Fifty billion dollars worth of material and property destroyed. One hundred billion dollars to provide for the cost of the war and interest. 

And even now as the passing of time dims the memory of that terrible experience, we again hear rumblings of threatened and deadly conflict. Indeed, actually today in some parts of the world horrors are being enacted that make the soul shudder. Innocent human beings, noncombatants, helplessly, desperately fleeing to save their lives, are blown to pieces by death-dealing missiles from the air. Children left homeless, maimed, and slaughtered indiscriminately; starving mothers seeking to give away their famishing babes if by so doing they can save their lives. Because these atrocities are 6,000 or 8,000 miles away, we fail to sense fully the horror of it all. But imagine if they were here, and your boy or girl, your mother, wife, or babe were subjected to such peril! If there be a means of averting such calamities, plain common sense, to say nothing of religion's appeal, would prompt its acceptance. These things but emphasize the truth of what Hayden writes: 

What he says merits careful consideration. 

VIOLATIONS AT HOME 

But we need not cross oceans to see the effects of violations of Christian ideals. Crime in our own country is costing about fourteen billion dollars a year — all in disregard of Gospel teachings and ethics. "Can you imagine," says the author of The Builders of America, "what this country would be like if ten or twenty billion dollars a year were added to our national income? Even if you can imagine the result do you realize what it would be like to feel no need of locking doors and windows, no fear of leaving your car unprotected, no danger that your wife or daughter would be insulted, or you yourself sandbagged if you went out at night; no fear that you would have any uncollectable bills except through accident or unpreventable misfortune; no fear that in a political election there would be any bribery, or in politics any graft, and no fear that anyone anywhere was trying to 'do you' — Can you imagine all that? It would be heaven on earth! Of course, it cannot happen. Yet if all the destroyers of civilization could be eliminated, and if the traits of the rest of us that come from destructive strains could be eliminated, an approach to such a state some hundreds of years hence is by no means inconceivable." Let me again emphasize that such a desirable state of human society is possible through obedience to Gospel principles. 

If you are now thinking that the application of Christ's teaching is impracticable under modern conditions, let me ask you to bring to mind a few specific examples of people who have devoted themselves to the common good. Recall the life of Florence Nightingale, and a million others like her, unheralded and unsung. Think of the Red Cross, a comparatively recent organization among Christian nations. Think of Abraham Lincoln, consecrating his life to his country. 

If still you are doubtful, consider the humble life and great achievements of Dr. George Washington Carver, "who has done more than any other living man to rehabilitate agriculture in the South," refusing a proffered salary of $100,000, preferring to devote his talents and energy to the benefit of his fellowmen 

Christianity applied to daily life! 

WILLINGNESS TO SERVE 

This willingness to serve others is ready for expression in the hearts of millions, if only nations or groups in nations will but point the way. Here is a recent illustration: September 19, 1937, the Salt Lake Region of the Church Security Plan, finding itself in need of a new store house, held a special Fast Day for the purpose of raising funds with which to make the first payment. The committee asked the people to go without two meals on that day and contribute the equivalent in cash for the project. The leaders anticipated raising about $4,000. The people contributed over $15,000 — realization exceeding anticipation nearly four times! 

The Church worshiping in this renowned Tabernacle today accepts as literally true the saying of Jesus: 

I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly

We believe, however, that this abundant life is obtained not only from spiritual exaltation, but by the application to daily life of the principles that Jesus taught. 

SIMPLE PRINCIPLES 

These principles are few and simple and may, if desired, be applied by every normal person. The first of these, and the foundation upon which a true Christian society is built, is: 

Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, mind and strength. A belief in a Supreme Being who lives and loves his children — a belief that gives power and vigor to the soul. An assurance that he can be approached for guidance, and that he will manifest himself to those who seek him. 

Another is: The acceptance of the truth that life is a gift of God, and therefore divine. The proper use of this gift impels man to become the master, not the slave of nature. His appetites are to be controlled and used for the benefit of his health and the prolongation of life. His passions mastered and controlled for the happiness and blessing of others, and the perpetuity of the race. 

A third principle is: Personal Integrity. By this I mean, plain, everyday honesty, sobriety, and respect for others' rights, such as will win the confidence of one's fellows. This recognition applies to nations as well as to individuals. It is as wrong for a nation, because it is powerful, to steal from another and oppress it, as it is for an individual to rob and kill his neighbor. 

A fourth essential is: Social Consciousness that awakens in each individual the realization that it is his duty to make the world better for his having been in it. The very heart and spirit of this standard is expressed in the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith — "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of no value to me." 

Some day intelligent human beings will realize the importance and benefit of living in right relations one with another. When that time comes the Savior's prayer will be in people's hearts — "Make them one, as thou Father and I are one" — Then when that time comes "the war-drum will throb no longer and the battle flags be furled in the Parliament of Man, the Federation of the world." 

This condition can be achieved not alone from mere belief, nor from oratorical exhortations, but by the application in business, social and national life of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 
