35
Afternoon
03 10 1937
Bishop John Wells 
108
123-126

None

None

I desire to call your attention to an incident in the life of the Master. The last day of the Master's life had come. His apostles had met with him to commemorate the Passover. The spirit of Jesus was troubled, no doubt, because of his impending betrayal and sacrifice. After he had designated the traitor and Judas Iscariot had left the room, Jesus felt free to speak, as though he had been relieved of a burden. He said in effect: "Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him. A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you; that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another." 

To be a true follower or disciple of our Savior we must demonstrate our love for God, for our Savior and for our fellowmen. The Apostle John states: "And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God loveth his brother also." We can show our love one to another by brotherly kindness, neighborliness, service in both spiritual and temporal things, and by the spirit of benevolence and forgiveness. We manifest our love for one another by our righteous precepts and by our good example, that others knowing our teachings and feeling the influence of our good example, may be induced to follow in paths of rectitude. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith received several revelations from the Lord containing this new commandment of the Master. The ideal and practical application of this commandment "to love one another" is found in the system the Lord revealed to the Saints known as the United Order. An epitome of these revelations gives the spirit of this economic system: It is not intended, in this heaven-sent plan, that one person should possess that which is above another. Every member of the Church was to have an equal claim for his just wants and needs, these claims to be exercised for the benefit of the Church as a whole; every member to improve his talents and use them for the common good; every member to seek the interest of his neighbor. The purpose of this order was to bring about equality in wealth; there would be no rich, no poor, ample for everyone and funds to build up Zion. Under this system there would be no waste, no idlers; industry would be dignified; all would work for the common good. With this equality in temporal things, we find a foundation for equality in spiritual things. The word of the Lord is "If ye are not equal in earthly things, ye cannot be equal in spiritual things." The Lord never intended the Latter-day Saints to be in bondage to others, nor in the bondage of debt. 

Let us consider our present situation: Ours is a rich nation, the richest in the world. However, statements have been made to the effect that there is more unemployment and that there are more dependents on charity in the United States than in all Europe. During the past fifty years the number of farmers who own their own farms has decreased; the number of mortgaged farms has increased; the number who are living on farms has decreased. The conditions in the world today of poverty, lack of employment and our competitive method of doing business indicate that there is a crying need for a re-statement of the commandment of the Master that "ye love one another." 

I am thankful for the Church Security Program, which has as some of its objectives: to help us "seek the interest of our neighbor;" to promote the spirit of service and brotherly kindness; to promote equality in temporal things, to care for the poor and needy; to eliminate want and suffering; to find employment for Latter-day Saints; to encourage the return to farms; to assist unemployable members to do Temple work; to locate Latter-day Saints on land where they may become independent; to encourage quorums of the Priesthood to develop useful quorum projects; to stimulate the beautification of homes and places of worship; to have canning and sewing centers; to take care of surplus food, or in other words to develop brotherhood and cooperation. This plan has been inaugurated by the First Presidency of the Church. Its efficacy and purpose can never be doubted. It is for our benefit and our blessing. 

George Holyoake, the author of books on Consumers' Cooperation, made a statement which I think can be applied to our Church Security Plan. He said: 

Cooperation touches no man's fortune, seeks no plunder, causes no disturbance in society, gives no trouble to statesmen, enters into no secret associations, contemplates no violence, subverts no order, envies no dignity, asks no favor, keeps no terms with the idle, and will break no faith with the industrious. 

I want to express my appreciation for what has been done under this security program of the Church. As I see it, it is the beginning of higher and nobler things. The Lord intends his people to be equal in all things, both temporal and spiritual. 

My brethren and sisters, let us get back to simple methods of living — of helpfulness, each Latter-day Saint doing his share in the community, cooperating in all useful efforts and for the good of all. We are ideally situated to carry forward cooperation in temporal affairs, for we are accustomed to cooperating in spiritual matters. I sincerely hope we will give study, thought and consideration to "seeking the interest of our neighbor and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." Remember always the words of the Master, "By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another." May we apply the spirit and meaning of this commandment in our daily lives. 

My heart is filled with thanksgiving for the Gospel and for the privileges and blessings I enjoy. I appreciate my membership in the Church and the opportunity which is mine to labor in the ministry, to give service in the Church. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Living God, and that through his instrumentality this great latter-day work has been established. It will continue to increase, gathering power and influence as it grows in years and numbers! 

May we follow the counsel and admonitions given to us in these latter-days for our spiritual and temporal welfare, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
