27
Morning
03 10 1937
President Heber J. Grant 
10
95-99

None

None

Read the following report: 

CHANGES IN CHURCH, STAKE, WARD, AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE 1937 

New Mission Presidents: 

Gilbert R. Tingey appointed president of the Samoan Mission to succeed Wm. M. Waddoups. 
Franklin J. Murdock appointed president of the Netherlands Mission to succeed T. Edgar Lyon. 
Hugh B. Brown appointed president of the British Mission to succeed Joseph J. Cannon. 
Mark Garff appointed president of the Danish Mission to succeed Alma L. Petersen. 
William Thomas Tew, Jr., appointed president of the East Central States Mission to succeed James M. Kirkham. 
Merrill Daniel Clayson appointed president of the Southern States Mission to succeed LeGrand Richards. 
Frank Evans appointed president of the Eastern States Mission to succeed Don B. Colton. 
David A. Broadbent appointed to preside over the North Central States Mission to succeed Wilford W. Richards. 
W. Aird Macdonald appointed president of the California Mission to succeed Nicholas G. Smith. 
Thomas E. McKay appointed to preside over the Swiss-German Mission to succeed Philemon M. Kelly. 
Philemon M. Kelly transferred to Berlin to preside over the German-Austrian Mission to succeed Roy A. Welker. 
Alfred C. Rees appointed to preside over a proposed division of the German-Austrian Mission. 
Joseph Jacobs appointed to preside over the Palestine-Syrian Mission to succeed Badwagan Piranian. 
Carl F. Eyring appointed to preside over the newly organized New England Mission. 

New Mission Organized: 

New England Mission created by taking Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island from the Eastern States Mission, and Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick from the Canadian Mission, with headquarters at Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

New Temple President: 

President Stephen L. Chipman appointed to preside over the Salt Lake Temple to succeed President George F. Richards. 

Other Special Appointments: 

Apostle George F. Richards appointed acting Patriarch to the Church and Supervisor of all Temples. 
D. Sterling Wheelwright appointed organist and director of Music at the Washington, D. C, Chapel. 

New Member Appointed to General Committee — Church Security Plan: 

J. Frank Ward. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed: 

Eugene Hilton appointed president of the Oakland Stake to succeed President W. Aird Macdonald. 
Thomas E. Winegar appointed president of the South Davis Stake to succeed President James H. Robinson. 
Leland Erastus Anderson appointed president of the South Sanpete Stake to succeed President Lewis R. Anderson. 
Paul C. Child appointed president of the Pioneer Stake to succeed President Harold B. Lee. 
Samuel E. Bringhurst appointed president of Cottonwood Stake to succeed President Henry D. Moyle. 
Samuel G. Dye appointed president of Ogden Stake to succeed President Thomas E. McKay. 
Henry Clay Cummings appointed president of Wasatch Stake to succeed President David A. Broadbent. 
Stayner Richards appointed president of Highland Stake to succeed President Marvin O. Ashton. 

New Wards Organized: 

Stratford Ward, Highland Stake, created by a division of Highland Park Ward. 
Elko Ward, Nevada Stake, taken from California Mission. 
Carlin Ward, Nevada Stake, taken from California Mission. 
Wells Ward, Nevada Stake, formerly independent branch. 
Firestone Park Ward, Los Angeles Stake, taken from Matthews, Manchester and Walnut Park Wards. 
Hartley Ward, Alberta Stake, formerly independent branch. 
Tremonton 1st Ward, Bear River Stake, and 
Tremonton 2nd Ward, Bear River Stake, created by a division of the former Tremonton Ward. 
Rosemary Ward, Lethbridge Stake, formerly an independent branch. 

Ward Re-named: 

Park View Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly Long Beach East Ward. 

New Independent Branches: 

Woodland Branch, Sacramento Stake, formed by a division of the Sutter Ward. 
Colton Branch, San Bernardino Stake, created by a division of the San Bernardino Ward, was formerly a dependent branch. 
Wendover Branch, Tooele Stake, formerly a dependent Sunday School Branch. 

Wards Disorganized: 

Oakley 4th Ward, Cassia Stake, consolidated with Oakley 2nd Ward. 
Cedarville Ward, Franklin Stake, disorganized and annexed to Weston Ward of same stake. 

Auxiliary Board Members Deceased: 

Inez Knight Allen, Relief Society General Board member. 
Elise Benson Alder, member of General Board Relief Society. 
Lenore Cornwall, Assistant Secretary General Primary Board. 

Bishops Who Have Passed Away: 

Albert Frank Hanny, Bishop of Firth Ward, Shelley Stake. 
Quimby Roundy, Alton Ward, Kanab Stake. 
Andrew N. Seitz, bishop of Veyo Ward, St. George Stake. 

Others Who Have Died: 

Mary Teasdel, artist. 
Elizabeth J. Kooyman, wife of Frank I. Kooyman, former president of the Netherlands Mission. 
Frank Moreland Dunford, musician. 
Horace H. Cummings, Church leader and educator and former member Deseret Sunday School General Board. 
Ethel G. Reynolds Smith, former member of Relief Society General Board and wife of Apostle Joseph Fielding Smith. 
Emma Louise Stayner Richards, mother of Apostle Stephen L. Richards. 

There are only five minutes left until time for us to turn the Conference over to the Choir recital. I do not want to ask any one to occupy that short period of time, so I shall do so myself. I am happy indeed to see this marvelous congregation. Not only are all of the seats taken, but people are standing up in the galleries and in the aisles below. It is a great evidence to me of the growth of the work of the Lord in our day. I think it is perhaps the largest audience that I remember to have seen crowded into this building at a Conference session, and I am grateful for this. 

A CHOICE LAND 

I am very thankful that I am not in the least pessimistic or at all alarmed about the work of the Lord. I am a firm believer that this country, both North and South America, is the choice land of the world, a land choice above all other lands, according to the words of the prophets in the Book of Mormon. I believe in its final destiny. I believe that there is an over-ruling Providence protecting this country. I believe that this is the only place in the United States of America where the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints could have been established and continued without the most terrible persecution, worse than anything we ever had. 

FAITH IN DIVINITY OF THE GOSPEL 

I am very thankful indeed for the remarkable men and women that we have in the Church, who are devoting their lives without hesitancy to the advancement of the kingdom of God on earth. I am very thankful indeed, in my eighty-first year (I will be eighty-one years old in a little more than a month), that from my childhood days till now I have never found anything that has in the least degree weakened my faith in the divinity of this work. I am very thankful that faith is a gift from God, and that gift came to me in my young manhood. There came into my heart at that time an abiding testimony that the Book of Mormon is exactly what it purports to be. I read that book through as a boy, prayerfully and numbly, and there came into my very being — that part of me that will exist when my body is placed in mother earth — an absolute assurance that that book is exactly what it purports to be. To my mind, the Book of Mormon is the greatest tract, the greatest preacher of the Gospel of Jesus Christ of all the literature that we have. That book has stood the test for over a hundred years, notwithstanding the abuse and ridicule that have been brought against it; year after year additional evidences are coming regarding the divinity of that book. 

I remember when first they said, "Oh, it is a falsehood because it says the people who lived on this continent anciently had horses, and no remains of horses have been found." Since that time we have found in the great oil fields of California remains of horses. 

SKILLFUL IN USE OF CEMENT 

People ridiculed me because I believed that those people had erected cement houses; they said that there had never been a cement house found. Since that time cement houses have been uncovered by the score. A great monument upon which my Counselor J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and my former Counselor Anthony W. Ivins, stood, covers eleven acres of ground — ten per cent more than this Tabernacle block, and as I remember it, is is one hundred and fifty percent higher than this building. The outside of this great monument is cement, and people have dug down into the earth in front of this monument and have found a fine cement road, showing a skill in the use of cement equal, if not the superior, to what we have today. And additional evidences are coming all the time. 

THE INEXPLICABLE EXPLAINED 

When I was in England, presiding over the European Mission, I was entertained by the assistant manager of the great New York Life Insurance Company in London, and one of the guests at that dinner was a man who had been connected with the British Legation. He had been to Canada a number of times and to United States many times. He said to me: "Mr. Grant, I saw the most inexplicable thing in my life when I was way up in Canada beyond the bounds of civilization, among those heathen Indians. I found an exact copy of a Holy Land rug, woven in small beads, the exact pattern of what I had seen in the Holy Land. How under heaven those Indians up there who had never heard of Jerusalem could duplicate a Holy Land rug is beyond my comprehension." 

I said: "I will give you a copy of the Book of Mormon and you will find that the forefathers of the American Indians came from Jerusalem." 

"What?" he said. "That explains the inexplicable." 

GRATEFUL FOR GROWTH OF CHURCH 

I rejoice beyond my powers of expression for the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ. I am grateful for this magnificent audience. I am thankful for the opportunity that our Choir has each Sabbath of broadcasting their splendid music, and it is doing more, I believe, to create good will for the Latter-day Saints than any of the missionary work we have established. 

May the Lord bless every one of us who has a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to so order our lives that our integrity, upright devotion to the work of God will preach the Gospel, is my prayer and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.
