33
Afternoon
03 10 1937
Elder Rulon S. Wells 
44
117-120

None

None

In the first chapter of the first book of Moses, which is commonly known to us as the Book of Genesis, we will find — what I have always considered it to be — an account of the spiritual organization of the universe. 

The next chapter, the second, deals with the natural creation after, however, first confirming the spiritual creation. It reads like this: 

These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, 

And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. (Genesis 2:4, 5) 

This narrative is also given to us in the writings of Moses as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. In these writings Moses, who is also the writer of Genesis which is known as the First Book of Moses, gives us a more elaborate account, or I might say a fuller rendition of the same narrative. Although the account in Genesis clearly indicates both the spiritual and natural creation I will quote the passages from the Pearl of Great Price in which the narrative is given even in greater clarity and more in detail: 

And now, behold, I say unto you, that these are the generations of the heaven and of the earth, when they were created, in the day that I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth; 

And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air. (Moses 3:4, 5)

My purpose in calling your attention to these paragraphs is to show the dual nature of all created things; that we lived in another world before this world was made, as the children of God, the spirit children of God. 

Let us visualize, if we can, the scenes in heaven in that first estate of man, before the world was when the Lord had looked out upon this great expanse, and darkness covered the face of the deep; and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and God said, "Let there be light," and there was light, and the universe was ablaze with it. — First, the creation spiritual, which of necessity must precede the natural creation. 

The second chapter then goes on to relate this remarkable phase of our life, the second estate, as the spirit enters into the body. 

And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul. (Gen. 2:7) 

How marvelous that is! See how many things are explained in these scriptures, how many questions are answered! The Lord tells us, in one revelation given to Joseph Smith, that "The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D. & C. 88:15) How completely that harmonizes with this dual nature of things — The spiritual creation and the natural creation! 

And now let us visualize the Lord standing in the midst of his assembled sons and daughters, unfolding to them his almighty purposes with regard to the salvation and exaltation of his children, the plan covering both their spirit life in heaven and the natural life on earth in bodies of flesh and bones; the two estates of man. 

All this was shown unto Abraham and is recorded in the Book of Abraham which was translated by the gift and power of God from papyrus by Joseph Smith, the prophet. Let me quote: 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. 

And the Lord said: Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me. And another answered and said: Here am I, send me. And the Lord said: I will send the first.

And the second was angry, and kept not his first estate; and, at that day, many followed after him. (Abraham 3:22-28) 

What a flood of light is thrown on the scriptures through this marvelous revelation. How many questions are answered. 

The New and Everlasting Covenant was first made in heaven; and afterwards renewed on earth — all through the Bible references are made to it. This Covenant is the very essence of God's dealings with his children. This also explains why the children of Abraham were called God's chosen people. 

Abraham was known unto God as one of the great and noble ones for his integrity, and God knew that he would teach his children after him; therefore, he was chosen before he was born to become the father of the faithful through whom the knowledge of the true and living God, even the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, or Israel's God as he is variously called, should be maintained upon the earth among the children of men; and those who were permitted to come through his lineage were among the great and noble ones, or in other words, among those who had been valiant in their first Estate. 

Thus it will be seen it was a "natural selection" or we might say "a survival of the fittest." It may also be said that through this lineage have come the prophets and apostles, the "morning stars" who sang together in the primeval days before the world was. Judah held the scepter through whom many kings among the nations came, and through the tribe of Levi the Aaronic Priesthood during the Mosaic dispensation was preserved; but last and greatest of all through this lineage came the "Only Begotten Son of God" in the flesh, but also the son of Mary a literal descendant of Abraham. Thus it is seen that through this lineage "all of the nations of the earth have been blessed." 

Notwithstanding all this it is still true that God is no respecter of persons and all that filled their first Estate are now to pass the second trial. 

There will be many of Abraham's seed who, on account of their wickedness, will be cast out, and still many others who are not of his lineage who by reason of their obedience will be grafted into the Olive tree and become known as the children of Abraham— the "chosen people of God." 

From these quotations from the Pearl of Great Price we also learn that God created this earth expressly for the habitation of his children in their mortal bodies which were to be made out of the elements of the earth — our mother earth — out of the dust of the ground, and that too for our second trial — our second Estate — the span of human life — the probationary period. 

But, before placing us here on earth, he first made covenant with us that if we kept our first Estate we shall be added upon. In other words, there shall be added to our immortal spirits these bodies of flesh and bones. And if we keep our second Estate then "glory shall be added upon our heads for ever and ever." No wonder then that the sons and daughters of God, especially those who were valiant in their first Estate — the great and the noble — "the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." (See Job 38:4-7) 

This passage from Job, which even now is a mystery to the world, is fully explained by this marvelous revelation from the Book of Abraham. 

Then the question arose: "Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me." (Abraham 3:27) 

"Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." (Moses 4:2) 

But another one arose and he said: "Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor." (Moses 4:1) 

But God said: 

"I will send the first." (Abraham 4:27) 

And Satan rebelled against God, so there was war in heaven, and the war begun in heaven has been continued here on earth. 

And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. (Rev. 12:9) 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ embodies within it "all things whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us." If we render obedience to this, and remain true to our covenants unto the end, we shall have glory added upon our heads for ever and ever. 

May the Lord bless us that we may attain to this exaltation, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
