Second Overflow
05 04 1925

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

President of the N or thvoe stern States Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, these occasions are very memorable in the life of a missionary, because he rarely has the opportunity of addressing so large a gathering as the present one. The work in the northwest is progressing. Our baptisms, I am happy to state, are gradually increasing, the spirit among the Saints is better at present than it has been in the past. We are making very strenuous endeavors to erect churches where we lack them in the various places where we have organized branches, for (frequently we '.have only a Sunday School in some places, while in others we have branches with completely equipped organizations, Relief Society, Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primaries. We are rather stressing the work of the Primaries; because we find that we are able to and do gather into our little associations the children of people who will not themselves attend our services. We have some very faithful local as well as missionary sisters, who are engaged in Primary work, and the average of the mission is that two-thirds of the membership is non-"Mormon." The parents in many instances are being interested through their children, the children carrying home to parents some suggestions of the truths that they have acquired in the Primary associations. 

The missionary work which is the particular feature that engrosses the greater part of my attention, because of the fact that I have largely to direct the labors in it and do not to the same degree come in personal contact with the brethren and sisters who constitute the various organizations — is of the character that I cannot speak in too high terms of the workers, their excellence, their faithfulnesss, their cleanness, the beauty of their lives and the strength they manifest in proclaiming the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is an inspiring thing to any olne who has the opportunities that I have had to observe it so closely. 

We endeavor to teach the missionaries not only the gospel of Jesus Christ (and I refer more particularly to the first principles of the gospel), but we are also endeavoring to implant in their hearts a proper idealism of the greatness of this work with which we are associated. We endeavor to teach them that the missionary experience they are enjoying is only a small part of what is expected of them in the Church of Jesus Christ, that it is merely the laying of the fonndation upon which they may build their future lives. We are endeavoring to establish in their hearts and consciousness the ideals of "Mormonism," the greatest ideals that God has ever given his children to enjoy We teach them that they have come to the earth lor a specific purpose, that that purpose is the salvation of the souls of men, that the mere fact that they are in the field for a couple of years is onlv  to the life that they are expected to lead, to the work they are expected to perform. And they are faithful, they are attentive in their desire, and endeavor to acquire a knowledge not only of the gospel but of the things pertaining to the progress of civilized peoples, the history of the world, and the association that men and women have with each other, all of which should have for its object the benefiting of society. These are the fundamental things we endeavor to teach the missionaries. They sometimes come to us crude; they come to us with a lack of understanding; they come to us sometimes with but little education; and to the degree that they lack education, to that degree are they handicapped. We are learning that in order to reach any class of people you_must have a man or representative who is capable of teaching that class of people. And, while the boys and the girls are highly successful in their contacts with men of affairs, we find the more highly educated they are, the greater is their sphere of usefulness. I am convinced that the standards of education are being constantly advanced in our community, not alone for the purpose of improving the power of the missionaries, but that also we may rise to the lofty plane that sometime we must occupy in filling our destiny; for, as Brother Stephen L. Richards said yesterday, we are a great people, and there is no power that can prevent us from occupying a high place in the history of the world, if we will be true to the ideals that God, through his servants, has revealed to us. 

Speaking again of the Northwest, we have an Indian school on the Fort Peck Reservation, in Montana, which is maintained by the Church. We have at the present time thirty pupils in that school, which is the crowded capacity of the school. We cannot, with our present force of missionaries — for we are limited on the Reservation as well as in other parts of the mission — send out among the people of that tribe, the number of missionaries necessary to have contact with all the residents of the reservation. But we do take as many of their children into our schools as we can accomodate and teach them there the principles of the gospel, while at the same time we are giving them the fundamentals of education. We board them, and we provide lodging for them; they live at the mission home during the entire school year. And while some of the adjoining schools, which are conducted by other churches, have some difficulty in retaining their pupils, keeping them within the confines of the school, we have the same difficulty in getting the Indian children to go home and remain there, owing to the different spirit that characterizes the teaching of your boys and girls as its influence is reflected in the hearts and minds of those little children. I have seen them hang about their teachers in attitudes of almost worship, because those boys and girls love these Indian children, and you cannot touch the Indian heart, any more than you can touch any other human heart, except by the glorious emotion of love. And so the Indian children love your sons and daughters, and there has come to be a great respect for the ''Mormon" people. 

It was only a few days ago that I was in Wolf Point and had the opportunity of conversing with two of the chief Indians of the Assinniboine and Sioux tribes, George Conners and Meade Steele. I had met with them a year or more ago and they had asked me for letters to our senators and representatives in Congress, at Washington. I had been very glad to comply with that request, particularly as I have the honor of being a personal friend of Senator Reed Smoot, of Senator William H. King, and also of Commissioner Spry, who is located in Washington. My correspondence has been chiefly with Senators Smoot and King, and these Indians testified to me that never had they met with such kindliness of treatment as was accorded them by these brethren. And, said they, "We have taken our other Indian friends, of tribes from other parts of the states, Oklahoma, and other places, and introduced them to Senators Smoot and King, and it is our fervent testimony that we have never had the same success in achieving our rights as has been accorded us under the able advice and tutelage of Senators Smoot and King." And so they say, "We know that your people are our friends; the great men among your people have evinced such great interest in the Indian affairs." And they both testified to me that by reason of the kindness they had received at the hands of our brethren they had been led to investigate the faith of, the Latter-day Saints, and each of them testified they knew the Book of Mormon to be true, because they had read it from cover to cover, and because it told them, illustrated to them the great truths, in a plainer and more direct manner, of the legends which are so generally maintained among them. 

The mission, as I have said, is prosperous. We are, I hope, doing our job. It is the desire of your sons and daughters to do the thing they have been sent there to do, and I would like the parents and the friends of the boys and girls in the mission field to encourage them in their work. But do not send them too much money; they are just as well off without it. The boys and girls who have accomplished missions on the least money have evinced the highest development. So if you would have your boys and girls properly educated as missionaries, do not in the kindness of your hearts, send them too much money. You may even stint them a little and it will not be to their injury. Sometimes young people, not having had previous experience in the expending of money, as is the case with some of them, do not always spend it judiciously. While they are good, they are just young people, and we may not be too lavish with our children, because lavishness in parents has a tendency to break down the finer and better morale of the nature than to increase it. Remember, brethren and sisters, that our fathers worked for what they had, as you doubtless are doing, and as I know in many instances the parents and friends are doing to maintain in the missionary fields their boys and girls, at great sac to themselves; and it is only proper that the boys and girls in the field should share in those sacrifices. 

1 am grateful to you, to the Church, to the leaders of our community, to God, for the opportunity he has given me for the associations I enjoy with your sons and daughters. They are a great inspiration to any man who observes their faithfulness and the beauty of their lives. Endeavor to encourage them when they shall return, that they may continue in the spirit of missionary labor; for if this people shall once come to realize their real mission in life, they will know that they are missionaries — not missionaries in the word alone but missionaries in every act of their lives. You cannot understand or know, how much you affect your environment by your acts, but every man every day writes his impress on the universe by the acts of his life, by the thoughts of his heart, by the words that he speaks; and the highest idealism in "Mormonism" is that we shall save these children of our Father. Let us be worthy of the great heritage that has come to us from our forebears; let us be faithful to God. My testimony to you is that your boys and girls are faithful to God. They are striving to the full, as opportunity is afforded them, to perform the duties that they have gone out into the world to perform. 

My testimony is, brethren and sisters, that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is the work of God. And your boys and girls are learning it by contrasting it with other religions, so called, of the world, and they are learning that "Mormonism" is indeed the truth of the Lord Jesus Christ That we may be worthy of what God has promised us, and that we may live so as to enjoy it, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER EUGENE J. NEFF 

President of the Hazvaiian Mission 

I believe my throat was never so dry as it is upon this occasion. 

I come from the land of Hawaii, from the land of perpetual sunshine and flowers. I bring to you the love and greetings of our 14,000 Saints who live on those fairy islands. I believe that there is no place in all the world, with the exception possibly of the stakes of Zion, where the gospel has been so firmly established as it has been in Hawaii, among those chosen people of Joseph. I commend the work of the people who were missionaries there in the early days of the Church, and who labored so assiduously to establish the work so firmly upon those islands. I believe that there has never been a man in Hawaii who has done more for the establishing of the cause of truth and righteousness in the Hawaiian Islands (except possibly it be the late Presidents Joseph F. Smith and George Q. Cannon) who has devoted his time, his ability, and talents to the growth of the work there any more than Samuel E. Woolley, who died day before yesterday. I mourn his loss, because J know of the great good he has done among the people on those islands. I know their love for him, and I know the sorrow which will he in their hearts when they learn of his passing away. T believe, however, that it is the will of the Lord that lie should go, because his life the last few years has not been as happy as it might have been, and I believe in the spirit world he will have the privilege and the opportunity of laboring with the departed spirits of those people whom he so dearly loved. 

During the recent centennial anniversary of the Protestant churches in Honolulu, one of the speakers arose and said that in one hundred years and with the expenditure of vast fortunes, running into millions of dollars, the Protestant church had converted ten to twelve thousand men, while the "Mormon" Church had been there thirty years less time and had expended practically no money but had converted between sixty and seventy thousand people. They came to me and wanted to know why it was that the "Mormon" Church was able to reach the hearts and minds of the people more than they had done, and I told them our system of work among the people. Their representative replied, "I do not see so much difference in that." And I told him that it was not so much, possibly, in that, as in the fact that those people are the chosen seed of Joseph, and susceptible to the teachings of true religion. 

I have seen the heathen Chinaman, the Mohammedan Jap, those who had no belief in God, through intermarriage with the Hawaiian people the children of whom have become believers in the living God, who are susceptible to the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have never seen an infidel among the Hawaiian people; I have never seen one who denied a belief in the true and living God. 

During a recent convention of sugar men in Washington, D. C, the Governor of the Territory was present. — And I might say that we have labored for the past twenty-five years to be recognized as a part of the United States, as a territory of the United States and not as an insular possession. It has been felt by some people that Hawaii should be merely an island possession of the United States, but it is a territory and has rights as a territory and is today being recognized as a territory. I have come here with the intention of convincing people here in Zion, if I can, that we are no longer a mere island of the sea, set apart from the people of the United States, but a part and portion and an integral part of the United States. — The Governor of Hawaii, made this assertion before some of our Utah sugar men, who were there gathered, "There has never been a church in Hawaii that has done more for the uplift of the Hawaiian people than the Latter-day Saints." And he further concluded by saying, "They are our foremost citizens of the Territory of Hawaii in the work of rehabilitating the Hawaiians." 

A law was passed by Congress a few years ago appropriating one million dollars to make possible the return of the Hawaiians to the soil. The Governor of the Territory made application to me to find one  our returned "Mormon" elders, who had labored among the Hawaiian and who was familiar with western farm life, to go there and direct |the rehabilitating of the Hawaiian people on the farms 

Mr. Samuel W. Robely, the Scout executive of" Hawaii met Oscar A. Kirkham in one of their conventions. He was found smoking 

Y l P?S r t; K i rk ia T- Br ° ther Kirkham Patted him on the back and said, Robely, I think a great deal of you, but I would think a great deal more of you, and I believe you would make a better Boy Scout leader, if you would not smoke." Mr. Robley told me himself that he has never lit a cigarette or cigar silnce, but he has been reminded of the words of Oscar Kirkham. In a convention of Boy Scouts in Honolulu he made this assertion, "Before we become successful in some of our;Boy Scout organizations, we will have to convert these people to ''Mormonism," to make them better Boy Scouts. For the state of Utah leads in the Boy Scout movement." 

We have in Hawaii today a man from Wisconsin who claims that fee is going to revolutionize the religious world; he is going to take pie best out of all the religions and put it together and make a religion that can be comprehended by all— a religion that is modern and not one that was fit and suitable for the Jewish people only. [He came to me and wanted to know what there was in our religion that we considered best, that would be fit and proper to make a part of this .new religion which he is trying to form. And I told him that I thought that we had that formed just as completely as any man-made religion and more so. He said, "I am not trying to make a religion of gory own, but I want to modernize Christianity and make it suitable to the day in which we live." And he told me of the churches in the east who liad two of the ten commandments from the Decalogue and substituted two others. The first was, "In six days the Lord made the heavens and Bie earth, the seas and the fountains of water, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day." He said, "You don't believe that; that would be all right for the Jews in their day, but in our day, these [modern times, we cannot accept that doctrine and we have got to modernize Christianity." I told him that it was, possibly, because we Hid not understand the creation of this earth. We were in our church building at that time, which is built of concrete and lumber. I told pirn to examine those timbers and tell me how old the meetinghouse Etnight be, but he told me it was but a few years old. Then I said, Blow old are the timbers in this meetinghouse?" And he told me fthey might be many years old. And I said, "How long has it been since those timbers grew on the mountain side? How old was the seed from which those timber grew? And before that, where was the tree which produced the seed that grew the timbers which we sawed into lumber and made into that building?" I said, "It can go back to eternity! In fact, all matter is eternal; there is no creation of matter, but merely an organization." He said to me, "It is the first time I have lever understood it in that way; I supposed the Lord created and brought GENERAL CONFERENCE  things to pass by the word of his mouth." And I told him that I thought he did not, any more so than we organized the building out ^ of materials which did not exist. 

The other thin?, he said, that we have got to substitute another thing for is the statement that the sins of the parents rest upon the children unto the third and fourth generation. He said, "this is unkind unjust; no loving God would ever be so unkind and unjust to his children.'' I said. "All that I would ask you to do is make a trip to Molokai, the island of the lepers, that prison which is bounded by the ocean on three sides and a perpendicular precipice of 2,000 feet on the other side— a natural prison, where all those who have contracted leprosy are placed— and upon this island I will prove to you that the sins of the fathers do rest upon the children unto the third and fourth generation." I have seen those who have been afflicted with this dreadful disease, whose children have not had the disease, whose grandchildren have not had the disease, but in the third and the fourth generation I have seen leprosy break out among the descendants of those people who had that disease before. No one can tell me, I said, that the sins of the parents do not rest upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of men. 

I am happy to be engaged in the missionary work. I come from the firing line, from the front, where we are battling to establish the kingdom of God and righteousness among the children of men. We have arrayed against us Satan and his forces; we have come in conflict with them many times, but I am thankful to say that nearly every time we have come out victorious, and the splendid sons and daughters you are sending into the mission field are valiant fighters for the cause of truth and libertv in the world. I am happy in the thought that I have been called to' labor among such splendid young men and women. The early part of my life was cast among people who were not devout religionists, who were not given to religious worship; but today my whole life is devoted to the cause of truth and the labor among these splendid boys. I have heard them testify many times of the inspiration and love which they have from me. I want to bear testimony also that I receive inspiration from them; the love which I have for your sons and daughters in the mission field is almost akin to brotherly love, to the love which I have for my own brothers and sisters. 

The Hawaiian mission is prosperous, one of the biggest missions in the Church. I believe there are no sincerer, truer Latter-day Saints in all the world than we have upon the islands of the sea. I pray God that the spirit of the missionary work may penetrate the hearts of you fathers and mothers who are here at home, that you may be able to let your sons and daughters go into the mission field, that you will be willing to make the needed sacrifice to maintain them in the mission field as long as their services are needed. 

May the Lord bless us all. I testify to you that God has again spoken from the heavens, that his Church is again established on the 101 , and that all that learn to obey his commandments and walk in obedience to the laws, will receive the blessings of eternal life in the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father. May this be our happy lot, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A quartet consisting of Mrs. Irene S. Cummings, Mrs. Madeline Calloway, Milton Fisher and DeVon Meacham, sang, "Send out thy Light." 

ELDER A. WILLIAM LUND 

Assistant Church Historian 

I most humbly desire, my brethren and sisters, an interest in your faith and prayers for the few moments I may occupy this afternoon. I am thankful for the privilege I have had of attending the meetings, thus far, of our wonderful conference, and to have received the instructions of our president and other elders of the Church who have spoken to us. I rejoice in my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ. I value it above everything I have. I hope and trust that I may always be faithful and true to the covenants which I have made, with my Father, an(d that we all may be true to the covenants we have made with our Father when we accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ and took upon ourselves his name. 

The beautiful song just rendered, "Send out thy Light," seems to have been fulfilled in the sending forth of the missionaries of this Church, sending them out to preach the everlasting gospel, the light of the world, which will lead us back into the presence of our Father. These missionaries are clothed with his power to go into the world and preach unto men the gospel of life and salvation having the same Priesthood and power that have always made clear to the world the difference between the Church of God and all other churches. This Priesthood is the distinguishing feature which makes us the Church of Jesus Christ. It is God's power unto this people to act in bis name, so that they may carry forth the message of salvation, perform the ordinances of life eternal, so that men and women, obeying the gospel message, may enter his Church. This power of God has always been with his people from the very 'beginning. Whenever there has been a prophet of God among the children of men, he has been clothed with the power, the Priesthood of God, to act in his name. It is through this Priesthood that the revelations of God are given to men. It is the channel of revelation, it is that which constitutes a man the president of his Church and his prophet upon the earth. 

The power of this Priesthood has been manifested in many different ways. It is manifested in the organization of the Church; the healing of the sick; the raising of the dead; the wonderful prophetic utterances, and in the miracles that the prophets performed when they were upon the earth. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

It was by the power of the Priesthood that Elijah sealed the heavens, so that for three years no rain fell in the land and a sore famine afflicted the people. It was by this same power of the Priesthood that Elijah raised the dead boy. Yon remember the story of how he went and lived with a widow and her son, during this famine; that they had just a little meal and oil which lasted until the fan line abated. The son was taken sick and died. The mother came to Elijah complaining that he had come to call her sins to remembrance and slay her son. The Prophet asked for her son and took him to his own room where, by the Priesthood he held, he raised this boy from the dead and brought him back again to his mother. 

It was the power of this Priesthood which gave Moses the ability to do the wonderful miracles that he did. Moses was called of God and was ordained, we are told in the Doctrine and Covenants, under the hands of Tethro, the priest of Midian, a man having the authority of God. and w*ho gave it to Moses. When Moses was instructed by God to go down into the land of Egypt and bring out of bondage the chosen people, the Israelites, he went clothed with the power of the holy Priesthood, and he made manifest to these people more than once the power of God in their behalf, that they might be taught again that there is a God in heaven, the God of Israel. They had lived for some hundreds of years in Egypt, under the teachings of the Egyptians, and had departed from the true and the living God in that they were worshiping idols. This is evidenced in the "fact that when Moses was away from the camp in the mountains, a short time, about forty days, receiving from God instructions to take back to the people and teach them the plan of life and salvation, the people prevailed upon Aaron the brother of Moses, to make a calf which they might worship. Now. the calf represented one of the gods of the Egyptians and Israel returned to the worship of idols while Moses was away. When Moses came down to the camp and heard the peoule singing, he asked what was going on, and when Joshua told him of the conditions, he cast the tablets of stone to the ground and broke them, even though they had written upon them, by the finger of God himself, the commandments which he desired taught unto his people. He went into the camp, destroyed the calf and scattered about the broken pieces, and then went back into the mountain to appeal to the Lord to forgive his children. 

Here is an example of strength and character that the Priesthood of God gives to a man when he obeys the principles and teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for no greater temptation can ever be placed in the path of man than was given to Moses at this time. The Lord offered to make of Moses a mighty na - i<m : c ffered to make his seed numerous as the sands upon the seashore; offered Moses the right that, through his seed all nations might be blessed, but Moses said, Not so, O God, thou hast made this covenant with thy servant Abraham and thy servants Isaac and Jacob, that of them thou wouldst 103  many nations auid that through their seed should all nations be blessed. Moses refused to accept of this wonderful blessing. He proved himself true to the trust and calling that God had given to him. He came back into the mountains and prayed to God, that he would forgive the people of Israel, and pleaded with him and wanted to know what the people of Israel would think of this kind of a God, that would take his children out into the wilderness and then destroy them. Moses offered himself that God destroy him and blot his name out of the book of remembrance, that he should never foe numbered more among the children of men, if only God would forgive the children of Israel. God did not withstand the pleadings of that faithful man, and he forgave the children of Israel their transgressions. 

This power of the Priesthood, when exercised rightly, heals the sick and raises the dead. You rememner the wonderful miracles that Jesus Christ himself did among the children of men. When the apostles after him went among the people, preaching unto them, they, too, did many wonderful things in the name of God. One striking example: after Peter and John had been away preaching for some time, they were returning to the city of Jerusalem, and as they neared the gate of the temple, called "Beautiful," there was a lame man there begging alms. He had been lame from his childhood, and begged alms of Peter and John. Peter said to him, "Silver and gold I have none; but such as I have, give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk." And he arose, was made whole, through the exercise of this Priesthood of God which Jesus Christ himself had given to Peter and to John. 

In the days in which we live, I testify to you in 'humility, this same power of the Priesthood of God has been made manifest. In the early history of the Church, one member of the Church, Elijah Fordham was lying very ill, in fact, he was upon his death bed. The Prophet Joseph came into the room and asked him if he knew him, and he said "Yes," then the prophet asked him if he had faith in God that he could be healed, and he said, he had. Then Joseph, taking him by the hand, said, "Brother Fordham, I command you, in the name of Jesus Christ, to arise from this bed and 'be made whole." And he arose from his bed and was made whole. 

This power also brings to the prophets of God a knowledge of things that shall come to pass. On the sixth day of August, 1842, the Prophet Joseph made a prophecy that the people should be led to the valleys of these mountains, that many would die from exposure, some from hardships that would befall them, but the Saints would come and build a wonderful colony here in the tops of the mountains. It has been literally fulfilled. This same spirit of prophecy rested upon President Brigham Young", the man who succeeded the Prophet "Joseph in the presidency of God's Church. Out on the plains, in 1846, he told the brethren that a temple of God would be erected in the tops GENERAL CONFERENCE  the mountains, and that endowments would be given in the tops of the mountains, which has been literally fulfilled. After the Saints had been driven from Nauvoo, where the people had received the blessing's of God in that wonderful temple, built by the sacrifice of our people both in time and means, and after suffering untold hardships, they came into this valley. Just a few .days after their arrival, President Young with some other members of the Twelve were standing upon this Temple block, when President Young struck his cane in the ground and said, "Here we will build a temple unto God." President Wilford Woodruff bears testimony that the temple was built upon the spot where President Young drove his cane into the ground. How did President Young know that the people would even stay here when they got here? How did he know that they would give of their time and their means, amounting to about four millions of dollars, for the erecting of that temple, except by the revelations of God, and by the witness of the Spirit of God to him that this was true? 

And so, if time permitted I could enumerate many other instances, showing that this Priesthood of God is with this people. I bear you my humble testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I do know that this is God's work, that this is his Church, that the men who have stood at the head of this Church are prophets of God, that the man who stands at the head of the Church today has the keys of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, the power of God to open the door of life eternal to all the world, the power to save every child of God if he will obey the gospel of our Lord and Master. 

I bear you my witness that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that his gospel is the power of God unto salvation, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

Assistant Church Historian 

T have enjoyed the remarks made by the previous speakers and have listened with attention to the reports from the two presidents of missions and to the historical narrative by Brother Lund. 

After listening also to the excellent discourse delivered this morning by President Ivins, in which he recited the beautiful story of the Israelites, and also referred to the return of the Jews to their land —  their original land of inheritance — I was led to reflect upon an event which took place in Kirtland, Ohio, on the 3rd of April, 1836, when Moses appeared in the Kirtland temple and delivered unto Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the keys for "the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth and the leading of the Ten Tribes from the Jand of the North." We understand by this that it referred not only to the Jews, but to the other tribes of the House of Israel as well, and that it means a general gathering dispensation. Many centuries 105 , the children of Israel were scattered to the four corners of the earth, but in the last days God, according to prophecy, will cause them to be gathered again from the islands of the sea, from the lands of the north, and from wheresoever they have been driven. In connection with this, I was thinking of some notes that I made recently regarding the preaching of the gospel in the different nations of the earth, as the question may consistently be asked : Have the Latter-day Saints been faithful and diligent in preaching the gospel to the nations and in gathering Israel? 

Jesus instructed his apostles, shortly before he ascended into heaven, to go out into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. John, in his vision upon the Isle of Patmos, saw an angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We see the fulfilment of that prophecy in the visit to Joseph Smith by the angel Moroni through whom the elders of the Church in our dispensation received their first commission to preach. 

While Joseph was engaged in translating the Book of Mormon, assisted by Oliver Cowdery, in Harmony, Pennsylvania, and in Seneca county, New York, in 1829 and 1830, they testified of the restoration of the gospel to the people in these localities and when these men had  been ordained to the Priesthood by John the Baptist, and, according to the command that he gave them, had baptized and reordained each other, they commenced to baptize others. The next to be baptized after Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery was Samuel H. Smith, a brother of the Prophet Joseph. From that time on until the 6th of April, 1830, about thirty people were baptized altogether, and on the day mentioned, as you remember, the Church was organized, with six members. Of those baptized only six members seem to have been present when the organization was effected at Fayette; at least the Church was organized with six members whose names are known. 

As soon as that was done, the preaching of the restored gospel commenced in earnest. Oliver Cowdery preached the first public discourse ever delivered by a Latter-day Saint elder in this dispensation, on Sunday, the 11th of April, 1830, and I venture to say that since that memorable Sunday there has never been a Sabbath day but what the elders of the Church have lifted up their voices and borne testimony to the truth of the gospel. At the present time several thousand elders raise their voices every Sabbath day preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ in the various stakes of Zion as well as in the missionary fields. 

Among the first elders of the Church was Peter Whitmer, Jr., who, together with Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as early as April, 1830, commenced missionary journeys away from Fayette. One of their first trips was to Colesville, in Broome county, New York, about thirty miles from Fayette, where the Church had just 'been organized. In Colesville, the first convert to the restored gospel was Newel Knight, GENERAL CONFERENCE  afterwards became prominent in the Church. Soon a number of others embraced the gospel in that neighborhood, and so it is recorded in Church history that the Colesville branch was the first branch of the Church organized after the first organization in Fayette, New York, and it was also the first branch of the Church that fulfilled the command of "gathering to Zion." The Colesville branch led the van of the gathering of Israel in these last days by traveling as a body about 1300 miles from Colesville, New York, to the place designated for gathering, in Jackson county, Missouri. 

Soon after that, other elders entered the missionary field preaching the gospel. Thus Samuel H. Smith also became one of the first missionaries of the Church. He went to Lavonia, Livingston county, New York, and after suffering much persecution, the elders succeeded in getting a foothold there, and branches of the Church were soon afterwards raised up in that neighborhood. 

In August of the same year, Joseph Smith, Senior, and Don Carlos Smith performed a mission to St. Lawrence county, New York, where they converted a number of the Smith family. It seems that all of these except two became members of the Church, and most of them remained faithful and true adherents to the faith the rest of their  lives. 

In October, 1830, Oliver Cowdery, Parley P. Pratt, Peter Whitmer, Jr. and Richard Ziba Peterson were called by revelation on a special mission to travel to the far west to preach the gospel to the Lamanites, and thus a few months after the Church was organized, our missionaries had gone as far as 1300 miles away from Fayette preaching the gospel on the way, not only to the Lamanites but aho to the whites. 

I am relating these things, my brethren and sisters, that you may know that we have been diligent in keeping the commandments of the Lord in regard to preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. First we preached in the United States, but after the keys had been given by Moses for gathering Israel, as has been referred to, the Elders also went into foreign lands. 

It may be interesting to know who the first elders in the Church were, and not only that, but who were the first missionaries of the Church — the first of the many thousands of missionaries who since have preached the gospel in nearly all parts of the world. We have between 1500 and 2,000 elders out in different parts of the world preaching the gospel at the present time. It has always been interesting to me to know who preceded me in preaching in the different localities where I have labored, and I imagine that the same is the case with others. The first sixteen missionaries in the Church were Joseph Smith, Jr., Oliver Cowdery, John Whitmer, David Whitmer, Samuel H. Smith, Joseph Smith, Sr., Don Carlos Smith, Parley P. Pratt, Hyrum Smith, Newel Knight, Richard Ziba Peterson, Peter Whitmer, Jr., 107 

Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G Williams, John Murdock and Orson Pratt, These elders alt labored as missionaries in the year 1830. 

It may be interesting for Patriarch Milando Pratt, who is present with us in this meeting, to l know that his father, Orson Pratt, was among the first missionaries of the Church, 'being only nineteen years old when first called into the ministry. He had been baptized on his birthday and soon afterwards was ordained to the Priesthood and sent out to preach. Orson Pratt died in 1881, a faithful elder in the Church, and one of the twelve apostles. 

Time will only permit me to refer very briefly to what has been done by our missionaries, but it seems important that we should know how diligent the elders of the Church have been from the beginning in introducing the gospel into the different states of the Union, and into many nations. 

First they preached in New York and Pennsylvania. In 1831, they went as far east as Vermont, where Joseph the prophet, Brigham Young and many others, who became prominent men in the Church, were born. Elder Jared Carter organized a branch of the Church at Benton, on the west side of the Green Mountains — the first branch in Vermont. The restored gospel was also preached in Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Indiana and Michigan, in 1831; and even some of the elders entered Kentucky and Virginia the same year. 

The next year (1832) Orson Hyde and Samuel H. Smith filled an important mission to the Eastern, or New England, states, and during that year the gospel was first introduced in New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Hampshire and Maine. In the last named state, Elder Wilford Woodruff later performed a splendid mission upon the Fox Islands. 

In 1834, the elders entered Tennessee. David W. Patten, Warren Parrish, Wilford Woodruff and Abraham O. Smoot were the first missionaries in that state. Wilford Woodruff and Henry Brown preached the gospel in Arkansas, in 1835. Into Maryland the gospel was introduced as early as 1837; and North Carolina was entered by Jedediah M. Grant (father of President Heber J. Grant), in 1838. The same year missionaries visited Iowa and later organized branches of the Church in that state, which afterwards 'became the home of many of the Latter-day .Saints after their expulsion from Missouri. 

The first Latter-day Saint missionaries entered South Carolina, in 1839. The first elder in that state was Lysander M. Davis. Missionaries entered Wisconsin, in 1840, and that state has been a fruitful field of labor ever since. 

The first Latter-day Saint missionaries entered the states of Mississippi, Louisiana and Delaware in 1841, Florida about 1842, Georgia (where we now have the headquarters of the Southern States mission), Alabama and Texas, in 1843, and California, in 1846. The first Latter-day Saints in California were that company who, after sailGENERAL CONFERENCE  from New York in the ship Brooklyn, landed where San Francisco now stands, July 31, 1846. They found there only a small Spanish village, called Yerba Buena, which the Brooklyn people soon turned into a thrifty town called San Francisco, and made it not only an ordinary Anglo Saxon town, but with "Mormons" in the majority. 

In what is now South Dakota we find our people, in 1846. They entered at or near the point where the Vermillion river empties into the Missouri. An elder of the Church, by the name of James Emmett, tried to lead a company of Saints astray at the time the Church had lost its first leader and prophet, and the people did not know exactly whom to follow. James Emmett spent the winter of 1846 and 1847 in what is now South Dakota with a number of people who followed him, and while he himself never became a faithful elder in the Church afterwards, most of his company returned to the fold. 

The Latter-day Saints were introduced into what is now Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona by the Mormon Battalion, in 1846 and the Saints were not only the first representatives of the Church in what is now the state of Colorado, but they were also the founders of the first Anglo-Saxon settlement in that part of our great country. The sick detachment of the Mormon Battalion, and a small company of Saints from the state of Mississippi, spent the winter of 1846-1847 at Pueblo, which up to that time, was a small Mexican and Indian village. 

In Nebraska, Winter Quarters (built by the Sanits in 1846) was the first Anglo-Saxon settlement of any importance. We were just as much the first Anglo-Saxon settlers of Nebraska as we were the first pioneers of Utah. 

Some of the exiled Saints from Nauvoo, Illinois, found themselves, in 1846, traveling west and passing through what is now the state of Wyoming (it was not Wyoming until 1868), but the pioneers of 1847 were the first Latter-day Saints in that part of the country; they located Great Salt Lake City the same year. 

Members of the Mormon Battalion, after having served their country faithfully one year, returned eastward by way of Carson Valley, in Nevada, in 1847, and in 1851 our people made the first real settlement in Nevada, where Latter-day Saints have resided ever since. 

We entered Idaho in 1847. Samuel Brannan, who had led the Brooklyn company from New York to the Bay of San Francisco the previous year, being anxious to intercept Brigham Young and the pioneers, crossed the mountains to tell President Young what a beautiful country the San Juaquin Valley, in California, was. After meeting President Young on Green river, he became very much displeased when the president, as he entered the valley of the Great Salt Lake, said, "This is the place," and then stopped here, instead of going (according to Brother Brannan's advice) to locate in California, which in reality had many attractions at that time as compared to the Salt Lake country. In Idaho also we became the first settlers. Samual Brannan, 109  from California over the Sierra Nevada mountains by way of old Fort Hall passed through the southern part of what is now Idaho. Some time afterwards the Saints located the first Anglo-Saxon settlements in Idaho (Fort Limhi, in 1855, and Franklin, in 1860). 

The president of the Northwestern states mission, who is present with us today, may he interested in knowing that as early as 1850 Charles C. Rich appointed Boyd Stewart to take a mission to Oregon, and that is the beginning of the missionary work which we have since carried on in that state and the great Northwest. We cannot tell exactly at the present time when the first elders entered what is now the state of Washington, from Oregon. We entered Indian Territory (now Oklahoma) in 1855, and we have carried on missionary work there ever since, both among Indians and whites. We entered Montana in 1869, Minnesota as early as 1875, and North Dakota about the same time. 

This covers all of the United States, and proves that the Latter-day Saints have preached the restored gospel in every state in the Union. In some states they have done more work than in otners, because of the tolerance or intolerance of the people. The Church has always had elders who were on hand to preach in all parts of the United States and elswhere. 

I shall now briefly refer to our foreign missions. As early as 1832, the missionaries of the Church crossed the St. Lawrance river and lake Ontario into Canada and commenced to preach the gospel in that part of the British Dominions, and from that time until the present there have been Latter-day Saints in Canada and at times also flourishing branches of the Church. At the present time we have a well established mission in Canada. 

In June, 1837, the first Latter-day Saint missionaires crossed the Atlantic Ocean and opened the door for missionary work in Great Britain. I need not give details of that mission, for you know what Great Britain has been to the Church. Tens of thousands of Saints have gathered from England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland, to the gathering places in America, and the Church would look very much different to what it does today if it had not been for the acquisition that has come to it from the British Isles. 

Our missionaries entered British India in 1840, and in 1853, a regular mission was established there. Some of our brethren went there as sailors; we have still members of the Church in India. 

In 1841, Orson Hyde arrived in Palestine as a missionary from America. He dedicated the land for the gathering of the Jews. In 1843 Elder Noah Rogers, Addison Pratt, Benjamin F. Grouard and Knowlton F. Hanks started from Nauvoo, Illinois, for the Pacific Islands on a mission. Brother Hanks died at sea on his way to the Islands and was the first Latter-day Saint elder who found a watery grave. The other elders of that mission were successful in preaching GENERAL CONFERENCE  gospel on the Society Islands and neighboring groups, and about the time that Joseph Smith was mrytred in Carthage jail, Addison Pratt organized the first branch of the Church on the island of Tubuai — the first branch organized among a non-English speaking people. One of the missionaries who left Nauvoo in 1843 for the Pacific Islands, namely, Noah Rogers, stayed on the islands only a short time. Getting somewhat discouraged, he returned to America and was the first elder of the Church to circumnavigate the globe. He arrived in Nauvoo in time to become a victim of the persecutions then raging against the Saints, was exposed to the cold weather and the hardships on the plains of Iowa and took sick and died; he was the first Saint buried at Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, where later about 250 Latter-day Saints found, so to speak, martyrs' graves. 

Erastus Snow, accompanied by John E. Forsgren, Peter O. Hansen and George P. Dykes, arrived in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1850, as the first Latter-day Saint missionaries to that land. Elder Snow baptized the first converts August 12, 1850, and organized the first branch of the Church in Scandinavia (the Copenhagen branch) Sept. 15, 1850. John E. Forsgren arrived in Sweden in June, 1850, and baptized his first convert in Gefle. July 26. 1850. From the beginning Denmark, Sweden, and Norway became known as the Scandinavian mission, which so far has been the most flourishing mission of the Church established among non-English speaking people. It is estimated that nearly one fifth of the present membership of the Church are of Scandinavian origin. 

In December, 1850, a number of Elders arrived in the Hawaiian Islands. We are pleased to have listened to the president of the Hawaiian mission today, telling us that this mission has grown until it now has 14,000 members. I have had the pleasure to write the history of the Hawaiian mission, as well as the history of all other foreign missions of the Church, and it is indeed interesting to note how our missionary work has progressed in many lands and climes. 

In Italy, Lorenzo Snow opened the gospel door in 1850. Tn Switzerland, Thomas B. Stenhouse first preached in 1851. Gudmund Gudmunson commenced to preach the gospel in Iceland and John Murdock in Australia, in 1851. In Norway the gospel was first introduced in 1851, by Elder Hans F. Peterson, who died many years ago in Ephraim, Sanpete county, Utah. To Chile, in South America, Parley P. Pratt and Rufus C. Allen went in 1851. They spent about seven months in Valparaiso and vicinity, but came away without baptizing anyone. It seems that they were unable to learn the Spanish language. One reason why so many young men are called on missions to the islands of the sea and other places, where foreign languages are spoken, is that people learn languages easily when young. Foriegners who come to America from some old countries when they are over twenty years of age usually find it a hard task to acquire 111  English language so as to speak it without brogue. You can generally detect that they are foreigners. We invariably acquire new languages when we are still in our teens better than later in life. 

In 1852, Lorenzo Snow and others visited Malta (the same island where the Apostle Paul preached the gospel centuries ago) and established a mission there. 

The first Latter-day Saint elders went to Siam in 1853 and also to Gibraltar, Germany and South Africa. Other elders, the same year, went to the West Indies. New Zealand became a missionary field for our elders in 1854, Holland in 1861, Austria in 1864, Finland in 1875, Mexico from 1875 to 1879, the Samoan Islands in 1888, Belgium in 1889, the Friendly Islands (Tonga) in 1891, and Japan in 1901. 

I am hurrying to give you the merest outline. I have compiled many more details of these missions which perhaps may be used in Church publications later. 

In my endeavor to cover so much ground, I neglected to explain that while the Jews are being gathered to Palestine in their unbelief as to the mission of Jesus Christ, many of the Ten Tribes, who were taken to the Tigris country in the neighborhood of Nineveh, Assyria, and afterwards traveled northward (where they are now found in the lands of the north and upon the islands of the sea), become converts to true Christianity. Our elders have baptized many of them, and they gather as believers to the places which God has appointed for that purpose. Most of us here assembled are of Ephraim, or of the Ten Tribes; we are of Israel. This we are generally told in our patriarchal blessings and tradition bears out the same idea. There may be Gentile blood in our veins, but the blood of the House of Israel, we believe, predominates within us. Thus — while parts of the Ten Tribes gather as converts, the Jews gather to Palestine in their unbelief, and will not know the great Redeemer of the world until he shall place his foot upon the Mount of Olives and it shall be rent asunder; then, and not until then, will they recognize their Shiloh, or Messiah, in Jesus of Nazareth. 

May God continue to bless and prosper the missionary labors of our elders. May you who are younger than others of us who are fast growing old, continue to preach the gospel of Christ with unabated zeal until the heavenly message of salvation shall be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, until Israel shall be gathered in fulfilment of prophesy, until Zion shall be fully established upon the earth and until Christ shall come and reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. May our children and grandchildren after us have occasion to rejoice exceedingly in, contemplating the integrity and faithfulness of their seniors, and, finally, may we all rejoice together in the celestial kingdom of our God and ever glorify him who has used us as humble instruments in his hands to labor for the establishment of his Church and kingdom upon the earth. May God bless us, I humbly pray m the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

A devotional anthem, words by Willard Done and music by Gerrit Dejong. was sung by the choir. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

It is now time for the dismissal of this meeting, but let me take just a minute to give one or two more thoughts for consideration. 

During the last half hour many have left this building, undoubtedly for the purpose of avoiding the crowd they would encounter when the meetings now being held are dismissed. Many of them have been standing for the past two hours and perhaps feel justified in leaving. To my mind this should not be. We should enter a house of worship with a spirit of reverence. We should endeavor to keep order and should consider others above our own personal desires. In lea\ing a service before its conclusion we do not show this consideration, for we disturb the congregation and make it difficult for the speaker to follow his subject. It is hardly fair to remind you of this, for those who really need this reminder are on the outside, but I am sure we can all render a service to the Church by trying to encourage one another to avoid making such disturbances when attending a religious gathering. 

During this conference; a number of the mission presidents have called our attention to requirements for missionary work. President Young has just reminded us that there is a tendency on the part of parents to send missionaries more money than is actually needed for their missionary labors. The Savior's admonition to the Twelve was to go into the world, "And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. 

"Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils; freely ye have received, freely give. 

"Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, 

Nor scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat," 

The records of the missions justify the statement that those engaged in this work of preaching the gospel, and who follow as nearly as possible this admonition, are doing the best work. This should be an evidence that the Lord is willing to assist his missionaries and will reward their faith and diligence. Let me suggest to those of you who have sons and daughters in the mission field that you communicate with the president of the mission and ask that he advise you as to the amount needed for those you are supporting. If you will then follow the advice given and endeavor to impress upon your son or daughter the importance of doing so, too, the burden now placed upon many who are struggling to maintain missionaries, who are laboring with companions who have more than they need, will be greatly reduced, and 113  condition of equality will be more nearly brought about in the mission field. 

One more suggestion and I am through. The First Presidency have caused to be established a home where missionaries about to leave tor the mission field may receive a course of instruction before their departure, and where returning missionaries, who stay in Salt Lake City to report their labors, may find lodgings. Although this home has been in operation for only a month, we find that some of the out-going missionaries, especially the young men, find it difficult to adapt themselves to the discipline and regulations, apparently not being accustomed to having their freedom curtailed. This, in my opinion, is a reflection upon their home training. 

The examinations given and the course of instruction pursued indicate that many are reporting for missionary work who have bodily defects which could and should be corrected before the missionary reports to Salt Lake City. 

We are also led to believe that the courses of study prepared especially for the lesser priesthood are not being followed with a view to preparing young men for missionary service. It is not sufficient that they meet in class once a week to study an outline, but we should also provide daily, or weekly, labors for them to perform. Young men- and young women should not be called to the mission field until they have labored in the Church organizations, and have become familiar with the principles and ordinances of the gospel. I hope mothers and fathers will not leave this training wholly to the officers of the wards, but will cooperate with them and endeavor as far as possible to see that their children take advantage of every opportunity given to prepare themselves for the great missionary service. 

Now, may the Lord bless you and help you in your efforts to serve him, which we should do in the spirit of faith and humility. We cannot serve the Lord without serving our fellow men. May we always be united in our efforts to advocate his gospel and always have his holy Spirit to guide us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"Praise God from whom all blessings flow," was sung by the choir and congregation. 


