Morning
05 04 1925


PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

As I stand before this vast congregation this morning, and contemplate my early experiences upon this block, when the Latter-day Saints were few in number, with poor shelter, and very inferior accomodations compared with that which we at present enjoy, I am overwhelmed with gratitude as I think of that which the Lord has accomplished, for I see in this gathering the fulfilment of his word, and the words of his servants, the prophets uttered more than four-thousand years ago, and come to understand my own littleness, my own inability, my utter dependence upon the Lord my God, for without his aid we are helpless, he has done it. It has not been the work of man, although devoted men and women have been the instruments in the hands of the Lord in the accomplishment of that which we see before us this morning. Therefore, I give praise and glory and honor to God for all that I am, all that I hope to be, all that we are, all the we can hope to be, for our dependence is upon him. 

DO YOU BELIEVE THE PROPHETS? 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, as a preface to the remarks which I make, to read briefly from the second general epistle of the Apostle Peter to the Church, as follows : 

"We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts. Knowing this first, that no> prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." 

At the time when the Apostle Paul was arraigned before King Agrippa, to answer to charges which had been preferred against him, after recounting the circumstances of his conversion, he turned to Agrippa and said: 

"King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest." Then Agrippa said to Paul, "almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian." And Paul said : "I would to God that net only thou, but that all who hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, save these bonds." 

I desire to paraphrase these words as follows: My brethren and sisters, do you believe the words of the prophets as they have been handed down to us through the holy Scripture? 1 know that you believe, and I would that all of you understood them, and comprehended their importance and application to us, not as I understand them, but more fully and comprehensively. 

NEED OF KNOWING THE HAND-DEALINGS OF GOD WITH MAN 

To properly comprehend the great plan of human redemption, designed by the Father for the blessing of his children, it is necessary that we be familiar with his hand-dealings with the people of the world, from the beginning of time, as we count it, until the present. It is not sufficient that we familiarize ourselves alone with the dispensation in which we live, important though that be. We must know something of the past, as history has written it, the present as we see and understand it, and the future as the prophets have declared it. Without this grouping of the past, the present and the future, our vision will be restricted, and incomplete. 

LOOKING BACK FOUR THOUSAND YEARS 

I desire, my brethren and sisters,, to take you back more than four thousand years, to a period of time when- an event occurred which was of transcendent importance to us, when a promise was made by the Lord which has not yet been fully fulfilled, but toward the fulfilment of which we are rapidly moving. 

THE PROMISE TO ABRAHAM 

It was about 122 years after the deluge that the Lord called Abram. who at that time was seventy-five years of age, and a direct descendant of Shem, the chosen son of Noah, commanding him to go out from the country of his kindred, and from his father's house, into a land which he promised to give him, and to his posterity after him, for an everlasting inheritance. In obedience to the word of the Lord, Abram went from Haran, to which place he had been taken by his father, from Ur of Chaldea, and pitched his tent in the land of Canaan. Twentyfour years later the Lord spoke to him as follows: 

"And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram, and said unto him: l am the Almighty God. Walk before me, and be thou perfect. 

"And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply 

thee exceedingly. 

"And Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, 

"As for pie, behold my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of 

many nations. "Neither shall thy name he called any more Ahram, hut thy name shall be Abraham, for a father of many nations I have made thee. 

"And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee." 

god's promise never fails 

We have here a promise made by the Lord, which, judged by human standards, was impossible of fulfilment. Abraham was an hundred years old, and his wife, Sarah, ninety years of age, a supposedly barren woman, but the Lord had spoken, and his word never fails. Isaac was born, and the Lord repeated to him the promise made to his father. Isaac in turn, became the father of Jacob, through whose lineage, and the twelve sons who were born to him, the foundation was laid for the twelve tribes of Israel, the progenitors of a mighty nation. 

THE HISTORY OF ISRAEL AND THE STORY OF JOSEPH 

To follow the history of this interesting people from that time to the present in detail, would be impossible in the short time which is at my disposal. You who are familiar with the story know that twelve sons were born to Jacob, six of whom, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar and Zebulon, were the sons of Leah, his first wife. Joseph and Benjamin the sons of Rachel; Dan and Naphtali the sons of Bilha, the handmaid of Rachel; and Gad and Asher, the sons of Zilpah, the handmaid of Leah. 

You are familiar with the story of Joseph, who was sold by his brethren to passing Ishmaelites who carried the boy into Egypt, and sold him to Potiphar, a captain of the king's guard. How he was cast into prison, and finally released and made the vice-regent of the king, the most powerful personage, except the Pharaoh, in all Egypt. You know how famine came to the land, which made it necessary for Jacob to send his sons to Egypt to procure food, where these men discovered that the governor of all the land was their younger brother, whom they had sold into slavery, and after returning to Canaan brought down their father and all of their possessions into Egypt, and were established in the land of Goshen, where they became a numerous people. 

But Egypt was not the heritage of Israel. Naturally they would have remained there and been absorbed by the Egyptians, but the Lord had decreed otherwise. He had given them Palestine as the land of their inheritance, and their return to that land was inevitable, even though it were against their will. 

After remaining in Egypt more than two hundred years, some chronologists say four hundred, the Lord delivered them from the bondage of the Egyptians, through his servant Moses, and under the leadership of Joshua they again entered and took possession of the promised land, a great people. From the seventy souls who went into Goshen with Jacob, there went out 603,500 men more than twenty years  age, men able to bear arms, probably not less than three millions ot people in all. 

The history of the Israelitish people, from the time they crossed the river Jordan, under Joshua, and subdued Jericho, until the establishment of the kingdom, under Saul, about four hundred years, is one of almost constant war and contention, which resulted in the subjugation of neighboring kingdoms and peoples, until Israel, under David, became the possessors of Palestine from Dan on the north to Beersheba on the south. 

It was under Solomon that Israel reached the zenith of her power and glory as a nation and kingdom. One hundred and twenty years had elapsed from the establishment of the kingdom, under Saul, until the division of the nation, which occured during the reign of Rehoboam, the son of Solomon. Five hundred years in all, since the return from Egypt. Years of conflict among themselves and with other peoples, years of faithlesness on the part of Israel, and suffering because of their transgression and indifference to the words of the prophets whom the Lord sent among them to call them back into the old way of righteousness, but they said, we will not walk therein. When the watchmen whom the Lord placed on the towers of Zion sounded the warning trumpet they said, we will not hearken. 

THE DAY OF THE PROPHETS 

It was the day of Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel and others of the prophets of old, through whom the Lord strove to keep the people in the path of righteousness and justice, the only road that leads to ultimate success, for final truimph has never been achieved and never will be, by a nation which denies the living God, and departs from the path which he has marked out for us to follow. In their pride of conquest Israel saw, in the glory which had come to them, fulfilment of the promise made by the Lord to Abraham. He had given them the land of promise, from north to south, and east to west, they were in possession of it, and in their pride believed themselves strong enough to hold it forever. 

THE DISSOLUTION OF ISRAEL 

1 The dissolution of Israel, as a great nation, commenced when the ten tribes, under the leadership of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, broke away from Judah and Benjamin and established the kingdom of Israel, with Samaria as its capital city, while Judah and Benjamin, with a part, at least, of the tribes of Simeon and Dan retained Jerusalem as the capital city of their kingdom. 

Both nations rapidly relapsed into idolatry, Israel to the worship of the golden calf of the Egyptians, while Judah, to a great extent, turned to the worship of Bel of the Babylonians, and the idolatrous gods of the nations with which they were surrounded. 

In this condition Israel continued until about sevtn hundred years before Christ, when the Assyrian armies, under Sennacherib overcame the Israelitish armies, captured Samaria, carried the Ten Tribes captive into Assyria, at the head of the Euphrates, and brought people from their own country whom they established in the cities of northern Palestine, and the identity of Israel as a distinct people, was lost to the world. 

Judah continued to maintain a semblance of power for more than one hundred years after the fall of Israel, when they suffered the same fate. Judea was overrun by the Babylonian armies under Nebuchadnezzar, Jerusalem taken, the temple desecrated, and despoiled of its wealth, and Judah carried captive into Babylon, as their brethren had been carried into Assyria. 

THE CHRISTIAN ERA USHERED IN 

This hasty and imperfect review brings us to the ushering in of the Christian Era. 

After the fall of the Babylonian kingdom to the armies of Media and Persia. King Cyrus permitted the Jews to return from Babylon to Palestine and rebuild their city and temple which had been destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar. With great enthusiasm this work was undertaken, and it appears that the Jews who returned from the Babylonian captivity showed greater faith in the God of their fathers than had been manifested before they were carried way. 

THE FATE OF THE HOUSE OF ISRAEL FORETOLD 

The fate which befell the House of Israel had been plainly outlined by the prophets whom the Lord had sent to warn them that the penalty of disobedience would be the dissolution of the nation, and that they would be taken from the land of their inheritance, and scattered among the strange and unbelieving nations of the world. A final fulfilment of this prophecy occured when, about one hundred years after the birth of the Redeemer, Judea was trodden down by the Roman armies under Vespasian and his son Titus, Jerusalem taken, the temple destroyed, and the Jews scattered among the nations of the world, where they have remained until the present day. 

The prophets Zechariah and Ezekiel had declared that the shepherds would neglect the flock, and that the sheep would be scattered, and become the prey of strange nations. To all human appearance, judged by every law of human reasoning, the promise made to Abraham had failed, he had been promised that Palestine should be the everlasting heritage of his children, and now they held dominion over no part of it. The end, it appeared, had come, the words of the prophets had been literally fulfilled, the promise made by the Lord if ever to be realized was still future. 

ISRAEL NOT FORSAKEN OF THE LORD SHALL BE GATHERED AGAIN 

Notwithstanding the fact that the Israelitish people had been scat and lost to the world, to become the prey of strange and unbelieving nations, the Lord had not forgotten nor forsaken them. He remembered the covenant made with their father Abraham, and decreed that it should be verified. The prophet Jeremiah, six hundred years before the birth of Christ, speaking upon this subject, declared that the Lord who scattered Israel would gather him again, in these words : 

"Hear the word of the Lord, O ye nations, and declare it in the isles afar off, and say : He that scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd does his flock. 

"For the Lord'hath redeemed Jacob and ransomed him from the hand of him who was stronger than he. 

"Therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow together to the goodness of the Lord, for wheat and for wine and for oil and for the young of the flock and of the herd; and their soul shall be as a watered garden and they shall not sorrow any more." 

Isaiah, seven hundred years before the birth of the Redeemer, referring to this same matter, said : 

"And in that day [be spoke cf the Latter-days] there shall be a root of Jesse which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek and his rest shall be glorious. And.it shall come to pass in that day the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people who shall be left from Assyria and from Egypt and from Pathros and from Cush and from Elam and from Shinar and from Hamath and from the islands of the sea. 

"And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah, from the four corners of the earth. 

"The envy also of Ephraim shall depart and the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim." 

CHRIST* S PROMISE TO ISRAEL PRIOR TO HIS CRUCIFIXION 

During his ministry among the Nephite people, upon this continent, after his resurrection from the dead, the Redeemer of the world, ref ering to this matter used the following language : 

"I will remember the covenant which 1 have made with my people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them together in my own due time, that I would give unto them again the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father. 

"And it shall come to pass that the time cometh when the fulness of my gospel shall be preached among them; and they shall believe in me, that I am Jesus Christ, the son of God, and shall pray unto the Father in my name." 

This entire chapter treats the subject to which I am referring, but I need not read further from it. 

More definite and direct on this subject than any other, and to which I desire more particularly to call your attention, are the words of the Redeemer, just prior to his crucifixion. He called his disciples together, and in answer to questions which they propounded, spoke as follows: 

"And now ye behold this temple which is in Jerusalem which ye call the House of God, and your enemies say that this house shall never fall, but verily I say unto you that desolation shall come upon this generation as a thief in the night, and this people shall be destroyed, and scattered among all nations. 

"And this temple which ye now see shall be threwn down, that there shall not be left one stone upon another." 

This was literally fulfilled at the time of the taking of Jerusalem by Titus, the son of Vespasian. 

"And it shall come to pass that this generation of Jews shall not pass away until every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come to pass. 

"Ye say that ye know that the end of the world cometh, ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away, and in this ye say truly, for so it is, but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled. 

"And this have I told you concerning Jerusalem, and when that day shall come shall a remnant be scattered among all nations; but they shall be gathered again; but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. 

"And in that day shall be heard wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayed his coming until the end of the earth. 

"And the love of man shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound. And when the times of the Gentiles is come in; a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel; but they perceive not the light, and receive it not, but turn their hearts from me, because of the precepts of men. 

"And in that generation shall the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." 

That the final destiny of Judah was different to that of Joseph is plainly indicated by the blessing pronounced upon him by his father. 

THE BLESSINGS OF JACOB 

Just before his death, Jacob called his sons to him and gave to each his last blessing. Upon Judah he pronounced the blessing of leadership, declaring that the scepter of power should not depart from his house until the coming of Shiloh, to whom the Jews looked forward as their final king. 

When he laid his hands upon the head of Joseph, he said : 

"Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches run over the wall. The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors, unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills. They shall be upon the head of him who was separated from his brethren." 

The promise made to Abraham gave to him and his posterity after him the land of Canaan, which was to be the land of his inheritance, and this promise was renewed to Isaac, and to Jacob, and the Lord, through the latter, enlarged this promise to Joseph, his heritage, like a fruitful bough by a well, whose roots are well watered, ran over the wall, and extended beyond the heritage of Judah to the utmost bounds of the Everlasting Hills, to America, where the Zion of our God is to be established. 

THE DESTINY OF ISRAEL PLAINLY INDICATED 

The scripture which I have just read indicates plainly the unchangable decree of the Lord regarding the destiny of the Israelitish people. Scattered and lost to the world as they have been, they are not lost to the Lord, nor has he forgotten the covenant which he made with their father Abraham, and which was reconfirmed upon the heads of Isaac and Jacob. 

THE WORK BEGUN IN THIS DISPENSATION 

With the opening of the present gospel dispensation, now nearly one hundred years ago, the Lord commenced the work which is destined to result in the establishment of Ephraim, and other descendants of Joseph upon this continent, where the Zion of our God is to be established, and the restoration of the Jews to Palestine, the land of their fathers. 

With the organization of the Church the Lord made plain the duty of its members. Men holding the restored priesthood, with its keys of authority, were sent into every country where they were permitted to go, proclaiming the opening of a new gospel dispensation, calling the people to repentance, and bearing witness that the mountain of the Lord's House was to be established in the tops of the mountains, and to be exalted above the hills, where we are today and that people from all nations should flow unto it, in order that they might be taught the way of the Lord, and learn to walk in his paths. 

THE JEWS TO BE RESTORED TO THE PROMISED LAND 

The promise made by the Lord, regarding the restoration of the Jews to the Promised Land was not overlooked. At the conference of the Church, held on the 6th of April, 1840, now eighty-five years ago, Orson Hyde, a member of the Council of the Twelve, and Tohn E. Page were called to go on a special mission to Jerusalem, for the purpose of dedicating the Holy Land for the latter-day gathering of the remnant of Judah. John E. Page failed in the accomplishment of the mission which was assigned him, .but Orson Hyde, after surmounting-many difficulties, a year and a half later knelt upon the Mount of Olives, and dedicated Palestine as the gathering place of the scattered remnant of Judah, and this servant of the Lord, moved upon by the spirit of prophecy, declared that inasmuch as it was by political power and influence that the Jews were scattered, it would be by political power and influence that they would be gathered, and that England was destined to be the nation which would take the leading part in the work of restoration. 

More than seventy-five years had elapsed, almost a generation, as the scripture counts time, since the light of the gospel had broken forth among those who sat in darkness, since Orson Hyde dedicated the land of Palestine for the latter-day gathering of scattered Tudah, and the Holy Land still remained under the dominion of the Turk, the star and crescent still floated from the minaret of a Moslem Mosque, where the temple of Solomon once stood. 

THE GREAT WAR AND BRITISH PROTECTORATE 

Then came the great world war, and final peace at Versailles when Great Britain was given the responsibility of establishing and maintaining a protectorate over the Holy Land. The British armies, it is true, had already occupied Jerusalem, but it was with the signing of the treaty of Versailles that the first definite step was taken looking to the fulfilment of the words of the prophets, who had declared the redemption of Israel, and the restoration of Judah to the lands of their fathers, thousands of years ago. 

INTEREST OF THE JEWS IN THE RESTORATION 

The interest manifested by the Jewish people in the restoration of Palestine has few parallels in the history of the world. One is reminded of the zeal which their fathers showed as they returned from Babylon to Jerusalem to rebuild their city and temple, when women as well as men worked, and gave lavishly of their most cherished possessions that the task might be accomplished. 

Jewish societies have been organized in various parts of the world, having for their purpose the creation of a publicly recognized, legally acquired home in Palestine, and the building up of the Jewish homeland in the Canaan of their fathers. Many millions of dollars have been subscribed by Jews throughout the world, to be used in the purchase of land, and the development of the dormant resources of the country. 

WHAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED 

From statistics which I have gathered, I wish to read the following, which shows a part only of that which has been accomplished : 

Immigration 

At the close of the war there were about fifty thousand Jews in Palestine. At the close of 1924 this number had been doubled, and latest reports? tell us that Tews are pouring into Palestine at the rate of more than two thousand per month. 

Agriculture 

At the close of the war not more than one hundred thousand acre3 of land were in Jewish ownership in Palestine; since then through the Zionist movement as much more has been added by purchase. Swamps have been drained, sand dunes leveled, and agricultural exports, which before the war were practically nothing, now amount to more than twenty- five millions of dollars annually. Eighty-nine Jewish agricultural colonies are being developed. 

Schools 

One hundred and twenty schools have been established, as follows : 39 kindergartens, 65 elementary schools, 5 secondary schools, 3 teachers training colleges, 4 technical schools, and 5 manual training schools. These schools have 497 teachers, and a large number of students in attendance. Besides these schools several agricultural training schools have been established, and a University at Jerusalem which was dedicated last week by Lord Balfour, has been established on a site which cost sixty thousand dollars. 

Large sums have been expended in the construction of roads, hydro-electric power plants are in course of construction, hospitals have been erected, and provision made for the care of the indigent and unfortunate. According to the reports which have" been rendered there was expended from the first of April, 1921, to June 30, 1924, more than thirty five millions of dollars in the development of this undertaking. 

A movement such as this cannot fail to excite the interest and admiration of the civilized world. The Hebrew people have suffered during the past centuries as no- other people have ever suffered, so far as my study and observation entitle me to judge. They have been scattered among strangers, where they have been denied the right of citizenship, and participation in the commercial and industrial activities of the people. They have been ruthlessly robbed of that which they have honestly acquired by the labor of their own hands. Worse than all, pogroms have been declared against them, when the protection of the law has been officially declared to be inoperative, and permission given to wicked men and women to despoil them of their goods, and even deprive them of life itself. 

THE MOVEMENT MUST ELICIT PRAISE AND SYMPATHY 

The wonder is that they have survived and maintained their nationality during all these centuries of affliction, and now that they are undertaking to establish a home in the land of their fathers, where they may live in peace, and be a blessing to the non-progressive people who have so long dominated it, they certainly must elicit the praise and sympathy of all right thinking people. 

THE HAND OF THE LORD IN IT 

From a human point of view it is a movement of great interest, but to me the one outstanding feature is the manifest hand-dealing of the Lord, which I see in it, and which they themselves do not fully realize. It will come in a natural way, it may be England, it may be some other nation, but it will be the Lord who will direct. 

THE LORD WILL USE THE NATIONS TO ACCOMPLISH HIS PURPOSE 

When Cyrus led the victorious Medio-Persian army to the overthrow of the great Babylonian kingdom he was not aware that he was fulfilling the words of the prophets who had lived long before, but he did so in wondrous detail. When Alexander of Macedon halted his army, after he had crossed the Dardanelles and won the battle of Granicus, and notwithstanding the protest of his gene)ral=> delayed his campaign against Persia, in order that he might besiege and finally destroy Tyre, he had no knowledge of the fact that the prophets had declared that the greatest maritime city of the world should be destroyed in just that manner, but it was nevertheless true. 

So will the Lord continue to use the nations for the accomplishment of his purposes, until the words of his servants the prophets have all been fulfilled, until Zion is established, Judea redeemed, and his will done upon earth, as it is done in heaven. 

God bless the Jews in this important work. May the eyes of their understanding be opened, and the time soon come when Shiloh, to whose coming they have so long looked forward, shall stand upon the Mount of Olives, and they recognize in him, Jesus of Nazareth, the Redeemer of the world, whom their fathers rejected. And may we, Latter-day Saints, we people who are of Ephraim, appreciate the part we are playing in this great latter-day drama, the like of which was never played before, and never will be again, is my earnest prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I saw President Ivins turn this book down. He said before he started to speak, he was going to read the last verse of the inspired hymn by Parley P. Pratt that we have heard sung today: 

"Lo, Israel filled, with joy Shall now be gathered home, Their wealth and means employ 

To build Jerusalem; While Zion shall arise and shine. And fill the earth with truth divine." 

Another prophecy that was uttered by Parley P. Pratt over three quarters of a century ago is being fulfilled. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

I do not believe that there is any other place in all the world where a gathering of people such as we have in this building this morning is possible. Every seat occupied, with thousands standing, and every person present listening for every word that falls from the mouth of the speaker, with every one interested in what may be said, and the prophecies that may be made, every soul having within herself or himself a testimony that God lives and that this is his Church. 

THE GREATEST JOY OF LIFE 

While President Ivins was speaking this morning I thought to myself how wonderful it would be if every soul that breathes could have heard the speech delivered by him, and how would it be possible for men and women hearing him to doubt that there is a living God, and that the testimonies and prophecies uttered by his servants from the beginning of the world down to the present have been or will be fulfilled. The greatest joy I have in my life is that I know that the servants of God, speaking under the inspiration of his Holy Spirit, utter those things that God wants his people to know, and also give notice to the world that they will surely happen. 

WHAT IT MEANS TO LIVE THE GOSPEL 

There is no other church on earth with so perfect an organization to look after the welfare of its members, not only spiritually but physically and temporally as well. I haven't the time to point to examples, but in making that statement I feel positive that no one who has studied the organization of the Church, bearing upon these three great activities of life, could do otherwise than testify to the statements I have just made. To live its laws and requirements means spiritual salvation, physical development and temporal advancement. It is well that at these conferences the people are instructed along these lines, for they are part of the whole, and without the whole men cannot enjoy the fulness of life. 

THE BURDENS OF DEBT 

How often at these conferences have we heard the voice of President Smith ring out, aye, not only as counsel and advice, but as a man clothed with authority to speak, pleading with the people to study and obey the temporal laws given to this Church! How often have we heard him and others pleading with the people to keep out of debt; and, if in debt, that we get out as soon as possible. That advice is not only good to our people and all people, but it is good to all nations and all countries, all states, all counties, all cities, for whoever dreamed a few years ago that the world would be in such a condition financially as it is today? Since the close of war I have exercised all my power to eliminate every unnecessary expense of our government with a view of lightening the burden of taxation upon the institutions of our country and individual taxpayers, and set an example, if you please, for states and for counties, and for cities, and foreign countries, as well, to follow. 

So, my brethren and sisters, for the few moments that I have at my command, I want to call briefly to your attention one subject that it seems to me will at least assist those who want assistance to keep out of debt and get out of debt. 

IDLENESS CONDEMNED 

I remember that in one of the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph the Lord said : "Thou shalt not be idle, for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." 

May I add that in idleness there is decay and early death, not only in man but in everything in all the universe. Take a piece of machinery, let it be idle, and what will happen? It will be made useless much earlier than if in constant use. And I might proceed and call your attention, my brethren and sisters, to other matters of the mind and the body, but time will not permit. As far as I am concerned I would prefer to work out rather than to rust out, and if I had followed the advice of my doctors just before leaving Washington, I would be up in some of these mountains, not receiving a telegram, or a letter, seeing iiq people, but resting for four or five months. When he gave me that advice, all I had to say was, "Doctor, I will not do it." 

HOW TO REACH HAPPINESS AND CONTENTMENT 

It is not altogether the number of years that you live that counts, but the result of your labors that you will be judged by, not only among the children of men, but in the hereafter as well. I want to see the "Mormon" people the most contented and the happiest people in all the world. And let me testify to you today that the way to reach that happy sphere is to live the commandments that God has given us, and obey the same. 

MEANING AND NECESSITY OF THRIFT 

Thrift is what we need among our own people and among the nations of the world, and when I say thrift I mean it in its broadest sense. In speaking of thrift I mean the kind that makes better men, better women and better children, a thrift that will build a better nation, a better world. Thrift means much more than the mere saving of money, it means prosperity, good husbandry, economical management, frugality; it means individual efficiency; it means order and system; it means self-control, and in many cases self-denial. It means selfconfidence; it means character -building in its broadest meaning, morally, temporally and spiritually. The thrift that I want to impress upon you does not mean stinginess nor miserliness, nor does it include extravagance. Thrift and thriving mean the same thing. A thriving child never suggests skimping and saving; a thrifty man is one who thrives on account of his own efforts. Many people have a wrong idea in thinking that thrift is the niggardly cutting down of necessary expenses; they urge that they would rather be spendthrifts than misers. 

WASTE THE ENEMY OF THRIFT AND PROGRESS 

In this connection remember that waste is the universal enemy of all forms of thrift and progress. What do we get out of smoking? No good whatever. It is a violation of the very principle of thrift, and many people in this counrty are now indulging in it. I once made a speech at the Utah stake conference, years ago, when I was second counselor to the president of that stake. It was often designated the, 

"garbage can speech of Reed Smoot." Now, my brethren and sisters, I want to say to you that into that can, many times at the homes of the people who can least afford it, you will find the waste, aye, the wicked waste of the very necessaries of life. 

This subject is so broad that I find it is impossible for me to cover it, but I do want to call attention to the fact that in the United States 66 out of every 100 people who die leave no estate; that out of the remaining 24 only nine leave an estate larger than fivethousand dollars. Think of this deplorable condition, that at the age of 65, 97 out of every 100 in America, are partially or wholly dependent on relatives or friends or the public for their daily bread for their clothing, and for a roof under which to sleep. 

A STORY OF LINLOLN AS AN ILLUSTRATION 

An eastern merchant once wrote Abraham Lincoln, when a young attorney, asking about the responsibilty and character of a fellow-townsman, and Mr. Lincoln answered as follows : 

"Dear Sir : — Yours of the 10th received. I am well acquainted with the gentleman named, and know his circumstances. First of all he has a wife and baby. Together they should be worth fifty thousand dollars to any man. Then he has an office in which there will be a table worth about a dollar and a half, and three chairs worth, say, one dollar. Last of all, there is in one corner a rat hole which will bear looking into. Yours respectfully, Abraham Lincoln." 

WHERE OUR DANGER LIES 

I see my time has expired. I do not know how it is possible for any man or woman to attend one of these conferences and hear the testimonies given under the inspiration of the Spirit of God that we have here, to leave a meeting and say the "Mormons" are dishonest in their belief. I believe all that has been revealed; I believe all that will yet be revealed; and I believe that this people will be instructed and directed under the influence of revelation from Almighty God. The only danger is ourselves. The Father will do his part, and desires that his children will do theirs. May God give us wisdom and judgment to fulfil every requirement made at our hands, that every calling, no matter were it may be, may be fulfilled in a way that evein the bitterest enemy that we have may see our works, and forever cease criticism of such a people. Go'd be with us forever. May his work grow and increase in the world for goodness, and in power, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Grant announced that brief testimonies would be given by a number of the brethren during the remainder of the time. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

Brethren and sisters, during the latter part of February and the early part of March, the Southern states mission was honored by a visit from President Heber J. Grant, As the President of the Church stood before those great audiences in Jacksonville, Florida, and Atlanta, Georgia, as a minister and a witness for Jesus Christ, I could feel in my heart that God had opened effectual doors for the President to deliver great messages to those large congregations. We have experienced, through the ministry of the President of the Church, a great spiritual uplift. The poet says: "Thy swift messengers are treading Thy high courts where princes dwell; And thy glorious light is spreading, Zion prospers; all is well." 

There is in this gospel the power to bring the pence of mind that is dearer than all. Not long ago a young lady in the south who had not attained her majority heard the gospel preached by two of the humble servants of the Lord. That message, spoken under the power of the Holy Ghost, went to the heart of this young woman. She appealed to her father for permission to be baptized, but he refused, and said, "The church of your father and your mother will afford you spiritual consolation." Her pleadings were of no avail. Some months afterwards the girl died. There came to the father a great awakening. Someone has said that "the awakening of the conscience is the grandeur of the. soul." His conscience began to trouble him; he felt in his heart that he had denied his daughter, the idol of his life, a sacred privilege to which she was entitled. He could have turned in his troubled state of mind to those outwardly magnificent but soul-unsatisfying institutions in which he had bidden her to remain, and said : "Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased? Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow?" But the response would have been, " 'Where the tree falleth, there shall it be.' Death fixes a period to man's progress." So he turned in his distress to the standard that God has set up for the Gentiles to seek to, and his rest was glorious. He considered the doctrine of salvation for the dead, and he wrote me, stating the circumstances of his refusal to permit his daughter to be baptized. He said : "I believe in the doctrine of salvation for the dead; I believe that there is in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the power to apply the grace of this gospel to those who have departed. And," said he, "you will relieve my mind, you will make me happy by having the temple work done for my darling daughter, who departed this life without receiving the gospel, because of my prejudice." And this was done. This man received peace. 

My brethren and sisters, it is my testimony that in this Church there is the power and the Priesthood to administer the saving ordinances of the gospel for those who have gone to the spirit world, who have not had the opportunity of receiving the gospel in this life. And this testimony I bear in humility and with gratitude of heart, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HUGH J. CANNON 

President of the Liberty Stake of Zion 

My brethren and sisters, this call came as a very great surprise, but it is always a pleasure to me to testify of the divinity of this gospel, no matter how much fright results from the calk 

When I see before me the thousands of people who share with me the knowledge that the gospel is true, when I contemplate their lives and think what the truth has done for them, I feel as Brother Smoot said, ''It is surprising that all the world cannot understand it." 

While waiting for this meeting to commence a little experience I had, not very long ago, came to my mind. You know the Church practice of having our families visited by the ward teachers, and I wondered how it is that people of the world have not thought of this simple means of keeping in touch with those whose spiritual welfare they are attempting to direct. 

A little while ago the Presidency of the Liberty stake suggested to the bishoprics that they would like to do- some visiting among the people and see how this work of ward teaching is being actually carried out. An invitation was extended to me to go out with two young boys in one of our wards. By appointment I met them on a certain street corner, and found them to be about fourteen years of age, The one in charge asked, "What would you like to do?" I replied,' "I would like to see how you do you teaching; just go ahead in your usual way." "Well, suppose we go into this house," he said, indicating his father's home, in front of which we were standing, "and have prayers together." We went in and they asked me to pray. From the time we entered that house until the work of teaching was finished for the night, not one word was spoken that did not pertain to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We went into one home, and the 'boys said to the head of the house who happened to be their bishop, "Are your children all together?" The bishop answered, "They will be, in a moment." We waited until all in the house were present and then we had prayers, after which the boys delivered their message, and in all my experience in the Church I have never seen such good teaching as those two fourteenyear-old boys did. When they got through in the first home, they turned to me and said, "Brother Cannon, haven't you something to say?" And I was obliged to say, "No." If I had opened my mouth to speak I would have broken down and cried, so deep was the Impression they made upon my heart. 

When we see simple things like this in the Church of Christ, and then compare them with the vain attempts which are made by the people of the world to put over their message, it seems to me that all mankind, if they will give it a moment's thought, must see in this Church the hand of a Divine Ruler, one who inspires his servants to direct and to institute in the Church the things which will make for salvation, I can testify, and I rejoice in the testimony which I possess, that God does live, and that the men who preside over us, and who have presided over this Church from the beginning, are divinely called and divinely inspired. I rejoice in the testimony which I have of these things, and which I bear to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HENRY H. BLOOD 

President of the North Davis Stake of Zion 

One unaccustomed to standing before a congregation of this size cannot fail to be overawed as he occupies, for the first time, this position, and his trust must be placed in the Lord for guidance in the few words of testimony that he would like to bear. 

This morning, as I listened to what President Ivins told us, to his reading of predictions that have been made with reference to ancient Israel, and to the complete fulfilment, so far as the fulfilment has at this time been made complete, of all those predictions, my mind went also to the predictions that have been made with reference to modern Israel. I thought of that wonderful prediction made by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the later years of his life, in which he said that the Latter-day Saints should be led to the Rocky Mountains, and that here in the midst of these valleys they should become a mighty people. It then was a wonderful prediction in itself, because he had never seen in his natural vision these valleys, and yet his prophetic eyes had been opened to understand what the future of this people should be. 

Later, when the people were led by the Prophet Brigham Young to these valleys, it is not surprising to me that when his eyes first beheld this spot upon which this tabernacle now is built, this valley in which this splendid city is located, he was able to say, "This is the place." 

I have watched within the short period of my own life that fulfilment of another prediction, which tradition says — I do not know that it is written — was made at the time the ward in which I live was first organized, very early in 1850. At that time it is said that President Brigham Young made a statement that the time would come when that section lying between Salt Lake City and Ogden would be so closely populated that it would be difficult to say when you left one settlement or town and entered another. At that time there was not much of a population in that particular district; indeed,. there was a section of that country lying between here and Ogden that did not at that time appear to lend itself to population — the Sand Ridge. We considered it to be a place where no one could reside, a place inhabited only by lizards and an occasional jack rabbit, and yet the prophet of the Lord had said that it should become populous. Go there now, my brethren and sisters, traverse the section between this city and Ogden, and witness the literal fulfilment of that prediction which I  heard mentioned all the years of my life. Indeed it had scarcely begun to be fulfilled when I first remember that particular district. Today some of the best and most productive gardens are located along that section of the country between here and Ogden. And a more intensively cultivated section cannot be found in the state of Utah. Literally, it is true that one going from here to Ogden can scarcely tell when he leaves one settlement and enters another. Verily these predictions of modern prophets have been fulfilled, and in their fulfilling there has also been fulfilled that wonderful prediction contained in the 35th chapter of Isaiah, wherein that prophet of old said, 

"The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose." 

Men will say, of course, that this has been brought about by the hands of men, and so it has, but God's purposes are always fulfilled by men, by the instrumentality of men whom he raises up to fulfil his purposes. Men have gone out into the mountains, conserved the water supply, poured it upon the parched land, and the land has been made fruitful because of the work of man, but that is literally the way the Lord fulfils the predictions of his prophets. 

My testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, is that God is guiding the destinies of this people, that every word that has been spoken with reference to ancient Israel, and with reference to modern Israel, will be fulfilled, and I bear this testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The hymn, "Let the mountains shout for joy," was sung by a quartette and the choir. 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Henry N. Mickleson, president of the Lost River stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


