Afternoon
05 04 1925

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, I am quite sure that this is the largest congregation of Latter-day Saints that I have ever had the privilege of standing before. I think there must be in this building at least nine thousand people, and in addition to that number there is a large audience in the Assembly Hall, and another congregation in the Barratt Hall, and still in addition to that there is a large congregation of people who are "listening in." I said to Brother John M. Knight, as we were leaving the building yesterday, that I sat right behind him on the stand and could hear every word he said. He seemed to be pleased with that information, and as he was able to make me hear him, I trust that I shall be able to make you hear me. 

TWO IMPORTANT DOCTRINES 

I have been deeply impressed with the sermons of the brethren who have spoken, both yesterday and today. President Grant in the opening address gave the key note to the conference. He explained clearly our belief in Deity; yes our belief in God the Father and in Jesus Christ, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, which is one God, the God of the Bible. He also stressed, with his usual force and precision, two very important doctrines of the gospel — one the Word of Wisdom and the other the law of tithing. In my talk this afternoon, if I can come somewhere within the range of the keynote address, I will not be going very far astray. Another thing, it should be remembered that the doctrines of the gospel may be approached at different angles, which gives a little spice and variety to the discourses of the brethren. This I think is acceptable to the Lord and pleasing to the Latter-day Saints. 

GREATER AND LESSER LAWS 

How wonderful is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul the Apostle describes it as the power of God unto salvation to all those who believe and obey it. But the question naturally arises : "What is this salvation the apostle was referring to? You will find among the writings and sermons of the Prophet Joseph Smith some information upon this very important subject. He said that a man could not be fully saved until he had put all enemies under his feet in this world, and subdued or dominated all evil spirits in the world to come, as it was written of Christ that he should reign until he put all enemies under his feet, the last enemy being death. 

Within the scope of the gospel there are very many doctrines or laws. There are some people who presume to determine which are great and which are small. As for instance, you may hear a person say: Well, this doctrine of the gospel is one of the greater doctrines, and this other doctrine, well that is one of the lesser laws, It seems  me it is presumptuous upon the part of any man to determine a matter of that kind. Who can say, except God himself, the author of the gospel, which are the greater and which are the lesser laws, if there be any difference. I have been reflecting somewhat upon the two important doctrines or laws that the President so beautifully and powerfully emphasized in his address. One is the law of health, the other is the law of revenue; or in other words the Word of Wisdom and the law of Tithing. 

AS TO THE WORD OF WISDOM 

Relative to the Word of Wisdom, brethren and sisters, we are told in the revelation itself, which was given February 27, 1833, that it was given to show forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of his people. That sounds very fine to me. It is wonderful if we can be saved temporally. It is necessary, it is essential, and this was given, it seems, for that very purpose. The Lord then proceeds to tell his people what is hurtful to the body. He knew; he has always known; therefore he advises his people. He tells us that strong drinks are not good for the body, that tobacco is not good for the body, but was intended for all sick cattle, and is to be used with judgment and skill. We are also told that not only strong drinks are not good for the body, but that hot drinks, meaning tea and coffee, are not good for the body. 

In giving this great revelation, the Lord has not left his people in the dark, After pointing out some of the things that are exceedingly hurtful to the body, he points out the articles of food that are good for the body, namely all wholesome herbs to be used with prudence and thanksgiving, the flesh of beasts and the fowls of the air, to be used sparingly and not to excess; all grain, the same being ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life. Here is a law that reaches out in opposite directions. It tells us on the one hand what is good for these our mortal bodies, on the other, what is bad for them. It is the law of health. Are the Latter-day Saints observing it ? Many are, some are not. Those who fail to keep it cannot plead ignorance, for the law has been in force upon the Church of Christ for ninety-two years, and is often mentioned in the congregations of the Saints. It should not be overlooked, nor forgotten, that this law was given with a promise of great blessings through its observance; for it is written down in the statute that, "all Saints who remember to keep and do these things, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures, and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass them by as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

ITS SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL CHARACTER 

This promise greatly emphasizes also the spiritual character of the law, as well as the temporal, and justifies one in saying that the Word of Wisdom is not only temporal in its nature, but is also spiritual, for surely wisdom and great treasures of knowledge are spiritual. In further evidence of this the Lord said to Joseph Smith in the revelation of the Three Glories, namely: 

"For thus saith the Lord— I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness, and in truth to the end. 

"Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory. And to them will I reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come, will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom. 

"Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know and tilings to come will I show them even the things of many generations. 

"And their wisdom shall be great and their understanding reach to heaven; and before them the wisdom of the wise shall perish and, the understanding of the prudent shall come to naught 

"For by my Spirit will I enlighten them and by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will — yea, .even those things which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man." 

THE PROMISE IS SURE 

Let me say here, in all solemnity, that those who fail to keep this law cannot justly claim the promise. 

I fancy I hear some one say : "Ah, Brother Clawson, my father was a good man, a faithful Latter-day Saint. He kept the commandments of God, he was an observer of the Word of Wisdom. At the age of seventy he died, and the destroying angel came and took him away." 

My answer to that is : "Brother, would you make the promise of God of non-effect? Would you intimate that the Lord who gave this law and this promise unto its people failed in your father's case to keep his promise ? Surely it was not so. True, the angel of death may have been in your father's home when he passed away, in fact, may have come for your father, but he was not a destroying angel, no, he was an angel of peace, of mercy, of hope, of love, and he came to open the door of light and life and everlasting joy to your good father." 

Death comes to all. The death of the righteous is sweet but the death of the wicked, of the rebellious, of those who are wilfully neglectful of their duty and treat lightly the sacred commandments of God, is bitter. Oh, Israel, God will not be mocked in these latter days. His house is a house of order. His will is supreme. He gives the law and demands of his children obedience thereto. 

CONCERNING THE USE OF TOBACCO 

Again referring to those things that are hurtful to the body, I quote from an article by Will H. Brown of Oakland, California, as follows : 

"Tobacco A Source of Inefficiency "Newspaper dispatches from Washington, D. C. state that the amount spent  tobacco in the United States for 1923, was $3,090,000,000. That -is more than $1,000,000 more than was spent fpr admission to movies and theatres, for imported silks, for candy and sweets, jewelry, face powder, lipsticks, perfumes, imported diamonds and precious stones, all combined. 

"The further statement is made that the tobacco bill of the United States for 1923 would pay the entire ordinary operating expenses of the Government for the next fiscal year, according to the new budget estimates. It has been well known for same time that the tobacco bill is far in excess of the total cost and valuation of the entire public school system of America. 

"But great as is the cost iin money, it is small in comparison with the cost in mental, moral and physical efficiency. The lack of care and thought on the part of many workers in many lines is a matter of common comment. A man who seated he had been a yardmaster for the last thirty-five years, wrote to one of the well known financial writers for the Hearst papers, saying : "There are only a few good men left in all the great railroad terminals." 

"The increase in crime and immorality, which is one of the alarming conditions now faced in this country, keeps pace with the increase in the use of tobacco. One prominent judge says he regrets to see a girl smoking, for he considers a cigarette in the ,mouth of a girl as a brand of the prostitute. Tens of thousands of women and girls are now smoking. We must remember, however, that tobacco is no more demoralizing for one sex than the other." 

In face of the fact that tobacco exerts a baneful and demoralizing effect on the body and the mind, there are some members of the Church and even young men and boys, who have acquired the habit and go on using tobacco. It appears to be a matter of deliberate and wilful disregard of God's commandment. And then what shall we say of members of the Church, if there be any, and I fear there are, who not only violate the law of God, but also the law of man, by using bootleg whiskey that in some cases paralyzes the body and blinds the eyes. If the Latter-day 'Saints will but do their simple duty, they will be living above and beyond the law of prohibition, which is a righteous and most beneficient law. 

THE LAW OF REVENUE FOR THE CHURCH 

The time is gone. I might say in conclusion that the other great law emphasized was the law of revenue for the Church. No church under the heavens can be fully established and have assurance that it will prosper without revenue, and therefore the churches of the world have planned in various ways to raise revenue to meet their current expenses, and to build up their institutions. In many instances, they have adopted the custom of passing around the plate during their religious services, or in other words taking up a collection. Now the Lord knew very well that, if he established his Church, there must be a way provided for gathering revenue for the Church. In his wisdom he gave to us the law of tithing. It is very simple, it is very beautiful, In reading that law nobody need to go astray or to misunderstand it. It bears down equally upon all, according to their circumstances, and that idea alone is very valuable. For instance, if a man is getting one thousand /dollars a month, he pays one tenth, or one hundred dollars, for tithing. If a man is getting five hundred dollars a month, he pays fifty dollars tithing. If he is getting thirty dollars a month, three dollars tithing. If a man is getting ten dollars a month, which is inconceivable, he should pay one dollar in tithing; and, as I have heard the law explained by our late President Joseph F. Smith, if a widow woman gathers ten eggs from her chickens, she should pay one egg for tithing, and will then have nine eggs left to go on with. Doubtless the widow woman will not miss that one egg. Doubtless the man that earns one thousand dollars a month, if he will be honest with the Lord and pay his tithing, will not miss the one hundred dollars. The Lord said to ancient Israel: "Why have you robbed me?" Ancient Israel said to him: "Lord, how have we robbed thee?" And the answer was : "You have robbed me in your tithes and offerings." Now, if we will pay our tithes and offerings, the Lord has said : "I will open the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." So there is a blessing and a promise that go with tithing as there is with the Word of Wisdom. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

The responsibility that rests upon one who occupies this position would be overpowering but for the knowledge that those who stand here do so in obedience to the requirement that has been made by our heavenly Father to convey to the children of men the message of the gospel. 

HOW MARVELOUS ARE THE WORKS OF GOD 

Many times during the sessions of this conference my eyes have been dimmed by tears, not necessarily because of the thing that was said, but because of the influence that has pervaded this great assembly. While enjoying the remarks of the brethren my mind has dwelt on the opportunities offered in this great and wonderful universe, and I have felt to exclaim : "How marvelous are thy works, O Lord!" You who are here today, if you will examine yourselves, if you will count your many blessings, will say with me, surely no people that have ever lived upon the earth have such occasion to be thankful for the mercies of our heavenly Father extended to them. Each of us a weak instrument, each of us comparatively helpless but for the mercy of the Lord that has been and is extended unto us. 

GRATITUDE FOR OUR MANY BLESSINGS 

I am reminded of a prophet of old who stated that he was born of goodly parents. How thankful we ought to be for that wonderful blessing. I stand here today as one of the humblest among you, thankful beyond expression for my ancestry, grateful for my wife and my children, appreciative of the opportunity I have of associating with the best men and the best women who live upon the earth. When I realize the former barrenness and sterility of the Western land, and now see this beautiful valley dotted by the homes of the children of our Lord,  meeting houses and temples erected to him, and when I behold these wonderful mountains capped by eternal snow, and realize that our heavenly Father decreed that here his children should have their feet planted, and from here should go forth the word of the Lord, I feel deeply grateful that I have my humble home among this people in the midst of these delightful surroundings with the privilege of entering into the House of the Lord to receive his blessings with my brethren and my sisters. 

When I look into your faces I realize that you represent a great group of people who are not here today, many of whom, yes most of whom, are of necessity as grateful as we for the blessings that the Lord has bestowed upon them. I have mentioned, only the physical comfort when 1 have referred to the surroundings, but the greater and more precious gift of our heavenly Father is the blessing that has come to us to know that he lives, that [Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is the prophet of this latter dispensation, and that there is upon this earth at the present time a priesthood endued with powef from on high. What would it mean to us if suddenly there were taken from us this knowledge ? How would it affect us if we had to part with the authority that God hab conferred upon us ? It would mean that there had been closed to us the doors of the celestial kingdom. It would mean that the crowning blessing toward which I have been taught to look since I was a child would not be realized. That of the companionship of my loved ones, the association of the father and the mother, and I may say mothers, for in my case I was fortunate to have two mothers, the companionship of many other good men and good women, who are dear to me almost as life itself, could not be enjoyed in' the celestial kingdom. I have been taught to look forward to the time when I may have their eternal companionship, and I rejoice and with deep gratitude thank my Father in heaven for that assurance. 

GRATEFUL FOR A LIVING TESTIMONY 

When I ponder over the condition of the people of this world, the doubt that is in the mind of the human family, I am reminded that it is only a repetition of history. Then people of the earth during past centuries have received the ministry of our heavenly Father, through his divinely-appointed servants, but because of their indifference, and carelessness, because of selfishness and evil, they have forfeited the knowledge that God lives, and they have turned from the worship of the true and living God to worship Baal, and the other false gods, that men have erected under the influence of the adversary of all righteousness. Today, as I think of the men who stand as religious leaders among the people, and observe how helpless they are to inspire faith in the minds and lives of individuals, and realize that in the mercy of the Lord the Latter-day Saints have received, not something that is uncertain, but a living individual testimony that has been born into the lives of each soul who has complied with the simple requirements of our heavenly Father, namely — faith in him, repentance of sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, I am profoundly grateful. Without exception, each repentant baptized believer who has complied with these requirements of the Lord has received a witness for himself that this is our Father's work. 

THE FAITHLESS CONDITION OF THE WORLD 

Observing the faithless condition of the world today I am constrained to read to you from a portion of the record of Mormon as contained in the Book of Mormon, and as inscribed on plates and buried in the Hill Cumorah by Moroni. He says : 

"And now, I speak also concerning those who do not believe in Christ "Behold, will ye believe in the day of your visitation — behold, when the Lord shall come, yea, even that great day when the earth shall be rolled together as a scroll, and the elements shall melt with fervent neat, yea, in that great day when he shall be brought to stand before the Lamb of God — then will ye say that there is no God? 

"Then will ye longer deny the Christ, or can ye behold tfie Lamb of God? Do ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him under a consciousness of your guilt? Do ye suppose that ye could be happy to dwell with that holy Being, when your souls are racked with a consciousness of guilt that ye have ever abused his laws? 

"Behold, I say unto you that ye would be more miserable to dwell with a holy and just God, under a consciousness of your filthiness before him, than ye would dwell with the damned souls in hell. 

"For behold, when ye shall be brought to see your nakedness before God, and also the glory of God, and the holiness of Jesus Christ, it will kindle a flame of unquenchable fire upon yyou." 

CALL TO REPENTANCE 

Brethren and sisters, this is the record that was written by this man hundreds of years ago. As I said, history repeats itself. If there had been time I might have referred to the various dispensations when the Lord has revealed himself. I am now reading from one of the dispensations as recorded in the Book of Mormon: 

"O then ye unbelieving, turn ye unto the Lord; cry mightily unto the Father in the name of Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless, pure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by the blood of the Lamb, at that great and last day. 

"And again I speak unto j r ou who deny the revelations of God, and say that they are done away, that there are no revelations, nor prophecies, nor gifts, nor healing, nor speaking with tongues, and the interpretation of tongues; 

"Behold I say unto you, he that denieth these things knoweth not the gospel of Christ; yea, he has not read the scriptures; if so, he does not understand them. 

"For do we not read that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and in him there is no variableness neither shadow of changing? 

"And now, if ye have imagined up unto yourselves a god who doth vary, and in whom there is a shadow of changing, then have ye imagined up unto yourselves a god who is not a God of miracles. 

"But behold, I will show unto you a God of miracles, even the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and it is that same God who created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. 

"Behold, he created Adam, and by Adam came the fall of man. And because of the fall of man came Jesus Christ, even the Father and the Son; and because of Jesus Christ came the redemption of man. 

"And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall be awakened by the power of God when the trumpet shall sound; and they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band of death, which death is a temporal death. 

"And then cometh the judgment of the Holy One upon them; and then cometh the time that he that is filthy shall be filthy still; and he that is righteous shall be righteous still; he that is happy shall be happy still; and he that is unhappy shall be unhappy still. 

"And now, O all ye that have imagined up unto yourselves a god who can do no miracles, I would ask of you, have all these things passed, of which J have spoken ? Has the end come yet ? Behold I say unto you, Nay; and God lias not ceased to be a God of miracles. 

"Behold, are not the things that God hath wrought marvelous in our eyes ? Yea, and who can comprehend the marvelous works of God? 

"Who shall say that it was not a miracle that by his word the heaven and the earth should be; and by the power of his word man was created of the dust of the earth; and by the power of his word have miracles been wrought? 

"And who shall say that Jesus Christ did not do many mighty miracles? And there were many mighty miracles wrought by the hands of the apostles. 

"And if there were miracles wrought then, why has God ceased to be a God of miracles and yet be an unchangable Being? And behold, I say unto you he changeth not; if so he would cease to be God; and he ceaseth not to be God; and is a God of miracles. 

"And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief." 

Remember he was preaching the gospel to the unbelievers. I want to repeat the last clause. 

"And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and depart from the right way, and know not;the God in whom they should trust. 

"Behold, I say unto you that whoso believeth in Christ, doubting nothing, whatsoever he shall ask the Father in the name of Christ it shall be granted him; and this promise is unto all, even unto the ends of the earth. 

"For behold, thus sairh Jesus Christ, the Sen of God, unto his disciples who should tarry, yea, and also to all his disciples, in the hearing of the multitude : Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. 

"And he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned; 

"And these signs shajl follow them that believe — in my name shall they cast " out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover; 

"And whosoever shall believe in my name, doubting nothing, unto him will I confirm all my words, even unto the ends of the earth. 

"And now, behold, who can stand against the works of the Lord? Who can deny his sayings? Who will rise up against the almighty power of the Lord? Who will despise the works of the Lord? Who will despise the children of Christ? Behold, all ye who are despisers of the works of the Lord, for ye shall wonder and perish. "O then despise not, and wonder not, but hearken unto the words of the Lord, and ask the Father in the name of Jesus for what things soever ye shall stand in need. Doubt not, but be believing', and begin as in times of old, and come unto the Lord with all your heart, and work out your own salvation with fear and trembling before him. 

"Be wise in the days of your probation; strip yourselves of all uncleanness; ask not that ye may consume it on your lusts,,\but ask with a firmness unshaken, that ye will yield to no temptation, but that ye will serve the true and living God. 

"See that ye are not baptized unworthily; see that ye partake not of the sacrament of Christ unworthily; but see that ye do all things in worthiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God; and if ye do this, and endure to the end, ye will in nowise be cast out. 

'^Behold, / speak unto you as though I spake from the dead; for I know that ye shall hear my zuords." 

This man was the one who completed the record. This man hid it away, and yet it seems almost as if it were his dying witness unto the children of men. He calls attention to the fact that these words will reach them, and by the power of God they have reached hundreds of thousands, yea millions, of the children of men who dwell upon the earth. He was a prophet of the Lord. He had the authority to speak in the name of the Lord. He did testify without fear of the things that he knew were necessary for the salvation of men. He bore witness of the power that comes to those who possess the holy Priesthood, and in this day in which we live, although hundreds of years have elapsed, his testimony has been brought forth by the gift and power of God, translated and printed and scattered broadcast among the human family, as another witness of the divinity of our Lord and Master. 

THE GOSPEL A PANACEA FOR THE ILLS OF MANKIND 

My brethren and sisters, I thank my heavenly Father for the blessing' that comes to me this day. I am grateful to him for everything that I enjoy. I thank him for your companionship, and for the comfort and satisfaction that I enjoy, as I visit to and fro in the stakes of Zion, and in the missionary field in seeing men and women like yourselves who are anxious to know the will of our heavenly Father, and who in their hearts are saying: "Father in heaven, show me thy will and I will endeavor to keep thy commandments." In the past two months I have traveled more than eleven thousand miles in this wonderful land of America, from the eastern seaboard to the western seaboard. I have borne witness of the divinity of this work, I have found great and good men outside the pale of this, or of any church, who are apparently anxious to know what the end will be as a result of the condition that this world finds itself in. It has been my privilege to explain to some of these my faith in the divine mission of Jesus Christ, my knowledge that our heavenly Father loves his children, as he always has done; the assurance that has burned into my soul, for which I am grateful, that I know that the work of our heavenly Father is upon the earth, that the gospel of Jesus Christ will solve the problem and be a pan- acea for the ills that afflict mankind. I have borne witness of this, and I  found response in the hearts of some of these our Father's children who do not understand the truth. Again let me express my gratitude for the blessings that I enjoy. My heart is full of thanksgiving for all that has been bestowed upon me and upon you. God grant that we may sustain his name and his Church, that we will uphold the hands of those who preside over us, and by so doing continue to be worthy of that assurance that passeth understanding, that we are indeed the children of God, heirs of salvation in his celestial kingdom, as a result of observing his laws and keeping his commandments, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A ladies' chorus sang, "Beneath the Lord's safe wing," accompanied by Mrs. Ellen Sheimer on the violin and Miss R. Matsen on the piano, John J. McClellan at the organ. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

A great orator standing before his audience made use of this appeal: "Friends, Romans, countrymen — lend me your ears." I have no thought of attempting an oration on this occasion, or on any occasion, but in a very humble way to speak to you. I am not asking for your attention, but I do crave your hearts, your faith and a silent prayer that the Lord, by his holy Spirit, will lead me to say the things he would have you, my brethren and sisters and friends, to hear. I feel very greatly honored in being called to address this large congregation on the afternoon of the Sunday of our general conference. I also feel a very great responsibility in undertaking to lead in thought those who are present, and others, perhaps hundreds of thousands, who are hearing my words this aftenoon as they are broadcasted over the nation. 

IN HARMONY WITH THE SPIRIT OF THE CONFERENCE 

I want to say that I rejoice exceedingly in the proceedings of this conference thus far, in the spirit of the occasion, in the beautiful music which has been rendered, the testimonies which have been borne, and the instructions which have been imparted. I feel that I am in complete harmony with this spirit, and with all the proceedings of the conference; that I can endorse without reservation the instructions which have been given, and that I can join my brethren with sincere testimony that I do- know that this is the work of the Lord, the plan and power of God for man's salvation. 

I rejoice exceedingly that I was born of Latter-day Saint parentage, and that my heart has been inclined to love and obey the truth. I sincerely regret my imperfections and follies of life, and trust f hat my repentance may be genuine and enduring that my sins may be forgiven. I desire to yield obedience unto every requirement of the gospel and to do the will of the Lord in all things and to use my influence with others persuading them to do likewise. 

LOVE OF GOD THE FIRST GREAT COMMANDMENT 

The ideals held up before us are greater perhaps than those possessed by any other people in the world. The gospel law which has come to us is that by which our Savior lived. It was the living of the gospel that made him what he was, and what he is, the glorified Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. It is our privilege to follow in his footsteps, observing the same high standard of life, yielding obedience unto law and 1 authority, and to fcecome joint heirs with him in all that our Father possesses. It is my constant desire and prayer that I may be able to obey fully that first great commandment — to love the Lord my iGod with all my heart, with all my soul, and with all my mind; and in order that I may do so, I need to count my "blessings often, naming them o'er and o'er, that by so doing I may appreciate more and more the mercy and kindness of my heavenly Father to me. This increases my love for him, and I believe it gives me strength and power better to meet the requirements of the gospel, that are made upon me. 

LOVE OF FELLOWMEN THE SECOND GREAT COMMANDMENT 

I desire also to observe, as fully as possible, that second great commandment, to love my neighbor as myself, and this is perhaps more difficult. I know that I should so love my fellowmen, that I would be able and willing to suffer for them, and even to die for them if necessary, as Christ has died for me. I ought so to love mankind that I would be willing to go to the ends of the earth in the preaching of this gospel of the kingdom to them. I should so love them that I would be abe to' meet insult and injury, persecution and even death without having in my soul the spirit of retaliation. If I were observing this second great commandment as I ought to do, I would feel as did the Prophet Stephen when he was being stoned to death, who prayed : "Lord, lay not this sin to their charge;" or as did the Savior, while upon the cross, who in his suffering and dying moments, prayed the Father to forgive those who were putting him to death, for, said he, "they know not what they do." Men of the world do not understand the things of the Spirit of God for they are known only by the Spirit of God, which gave them. Some men while thinking that they are doing God service, are working directly against his will and purposes, and some not only persecute but kill those who are trying to serve the Lord and to be messengers of righteousness for him. 

THE EXAMPLE OF PAUL 

There is the case of Saul of Tarsus. I think that his case should ever be before us — a man of intelligence, educated at the feet of Gamaliel, living among the Saints of his day, and yet he engaged with those who persecuted the Saints, even holding the clothes of those who stoned to death the Prophet Stephen, and yet when the Lord took him in hand and converted him, he became the great Paul the Apostle to the 

Gentiles, and was ready to endure any kind of persecution or death for the gospel's sake. After this conversion he made the declaration that what he did while persecuting the Saints he did conscientiously, believing that he was doing God service. So, brethren and sisters, we ought to look upon the world of mankind with a great degree of leniency and of charity. We should realize that while they may be zealous in their opposition to the work in which we are engaged and to us as a people, they may be conscientious and, if so, the mercy of God will reach out to them. 

IMPRESSED WITH THE GREAT NUMBERS OF THE SAINTS 

I have been impressed, in this conference, with the numbers of the Latter-day Saints, and with their faithfulness. This vast congregation, filling the tabernacle to overflowing, represents possibly two percent of the present population of the Church. I estimate that it would take about fifty such tabernacles to hold all of the present merribership of the Church. Then, remember that tomorrow will be the ninety-fifth anniversary of the birth of this Church organization. And think of all the faithful men and women who during these ninety-five years have been members of this Church, have lived their lives of faithfulness and have gone beyond, and we will then begin to realize the magnitude of this work and what has been accomplished. 

TEMPLE WORK THE PAST YEAR — ITS IMPORTANCE 

In the temples of the Church there have been 477,000 baptisms for the dead performed during the past year, and more than half that number of endowments have been administered. When we think of this and realize that with each succeeding year there j will be an increasing number of such 'baptisms, we will begin to realize the growth of the Church, especially if we may properly call those dead persons as members of the Church for whom baptism has been performed. 

President Wilford Woodruff, speaking from this stand, upon the importance of this work devolving upon the Latter-day Saints, the redeeming of their dead, said : 

"Ninety-nine out of every hundred," yea, said he, "nine hundred ninety-nine out of every thousand of those for whom this work is done vicariously will gladly receive the work." I feel sure the Lord is pleased with what the Saints have done in the way of preaching the gospel in all the world as a witness before the end shall come. If it is possible for us to increase our efforts and our numbers, and! do a greater work, of course we are anxious to do it. We should neglect no part of this great responsibility resting upon us, toward the living and the dead, looking to their salvation; for it is the work and purpose of the Eternal Father to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. 

AN EVIDENCE OF THE FAITH AND DEVOTION OF THE SAINTS 

I feel very happy, brethren and sisters, in the gospel of Jesus Christ, in your fellowship, and the association which I have with you and in observing your faithfulness. Just one week ago today, while I was visiting in the Uintah stake of Zion, a count was made of those present, which revealed the fact that twenty-seven percent of the entire population of that stake, were in attendance. ' We have had higher percentages and lower. Circumstances are not alike in all the stakes, but to me this is an evidence of faithfulness and devotion on the part of the people. We have hundreds and thousands of men in the various stakes of Zion who scrupulously observe to keep the Word of Wisdom, and who are paying their tithes and who are devoting days, months and years of their time, and giving of their ability to carry on this work. Men and women could not be expected to do such things if they did not know of the truth of this work, that it is God's work and not man's. I rejoice in the testimony which my brethren and sisters have of its divinity. 

AS TO MATTERS FINANCIAL 

I am happy today, 'brethren and sisters, because the day before the opening of this conference I issued my check in favor of the bishop of my ward for the amount of my tithing in full. Oh, some may say : What does that amount to ? It amounts only to a tenth of my interest, T>ut that is more than some do. I would to the Lord that all the members of this Church could say that they have paid their tithing in full, a tenth of their interest and of their earnings. It is only a little thing but it makes me very happy. The day before the opening of this conference I drew my check to redeem a note, the last note that stands against me, and today I am out of debt, a very happy man. I thank God for this. It is not much, is it ? I wish all the Latter-day Saints could say as much in truth. In my associations among the people in the stakes I have observed their financial distress, and bondage, and my heart has been made sore and in a sense to bleed because of this. I believe that much of it, brethren and sisters, might have been averted had we given a little more careful thought and consideration, and exercised a little more wisdom before making our investments and speculations. Oh, brethren, if we would go to the Lord in that same earnestness before making these speculations that we do when we find ourselves in trouble, asking him to help us to extricate ourselves, I am sure we would be kept out of much of this difficulty. Brethren, we ought not to invest in anything, nor to engage in any enterprise that we cannot take to the Lord or to our brethren and ask advice and counsel upon, and conscientiously ask God's blessings upon it. Now I admonish my brethren and sisters — for the brethren should take counsel with their wives — that they heed the admonition of the authorities of this Church, keep out of debt. If you are in debt, practice economy, pay your just debts and obligations as soon as you can, and make peace with your fellowmen, with the Lord, and with your own conscience; then you will be happy; also be faithful in meeting your obligations with the Lord and you shall be saved. 

May God help and bless all to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ/ Amen., 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"Then Jesus said to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my work, then are ye my disciples indeed; 

"And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." 

IN DEFENSE OF THE MISSION OF JESUS CHRIST 

We have heard during this conference from a number of the speakers concerning the condition that prevails throughout the world; a condition of unbelief in the mission of Jesus Christ and a division among those who profess to follow him. Some of those who have spoken at this conference have read from the Scriptures wherein the prophets of old refer to the condition which should prevail in the dispensation of the fullness of times. One of the speakers this afternoon read from the Book of Mormon certain prophecies concerning the latter days, which prophecies are very dear to me. In fact, as I read this volume of Scripture I am impressed more and more with its sacredness, with the message which it contains in defense of the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the gospel which has been restored in the dispensation of the fulness of times for the salvation of souls. This record endears itself to me more and more day by day as I see unfolded the fulfillment of prophecies uttered by these prophets who now speak from the dead, and from the dust to the nations of the earth, crying unto them repentance, and calling upon them to believe in Christ. 

PROPHECY CONCERNING CONDITIONS THAT WOULD PREVAIL 

I am going to read one or two other verses from a prophecy that was uttered several hundred years before the coming of Christ, concerning conditions that would prevail in the world in this our day: 

"For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they .which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish; 

"For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good. 

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say : All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them : I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance. 

"Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and hell, and the devil, and all that have been siezed therewith must stand before the throne of God, and be judged according to their works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them, even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment." 

THE MISSION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

That is the condition we find in the world today, just as Nephi declared it should be; but the mission of the Latter-day Saints is to preach Christ and him crucified. The passage from the 8th chapter of John is a key by which we may know the truth ,and by which we may walk in the light and in the understanding of the gospel of Jesus Christ, neither faltering, nor turning to the right hand nor to left, but pursuing our steady course in righteousness and in truth, in full knowledge that Christ lives and that he has spoken, that he has revealed the power of the Priesthood, that he has organized his Church, and that there is salvation upon the face of the earth for all who will repent and receive the gospel. We shall know the truth if we will only do his will, and the truth will make us free. There is no virtue in doubt. The man who doubts concerning the principles of the gospel, the revelations of the Lord, the plan of salvation, is unfortunate. There is no reason for it, because as I have said, the key has been given unto us by which the door may be unlocked to knowledge so that men may say: "I know," and all doubt is removed. 

CONCERNING DOUBTS AND DOUBTING 

I have been very grateful to the Lord for one blessing that I have received that I suppose was born with me, and that is the blessing of faith in the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in his mission. I do not doubt. I have always accepted fully, and received the inspiration, I believe, through the Spirit of the Lord, that these things are true, and I hope that I may always walk in the light, that 1 may always possess this spirit and this understanding. I know there are those even among us who are not so fortunate, they do have doubts arise in their minds, they are troubled at times. Many things pertaining to the dispensation in which we live, the revelations of the Lord, are to them mysterious, they cannot square them with other things that they have heard, or perhaps accepted, which are given through the spirit of man. The safe course is to follow the revelations of the Lord. It matters not what men have said, it matters not what they may teach in their own wisdom, if that is in conflict with the revelations of the Lord we need not accept it, for we have, as has been pointed out : "The more sure word of prophecy," by which we need not stumble nor falter nor be in doubt. Occasionally some one arises who feels that it is his duty to inform the world that the old members of the Church are still faithful in the doctrines that were taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and by President Brigham Young, but that the rising generation is departing from such things, that the children of these fathers are turning from the teachings of their fathers, as they put it. I am here to testify that this is not true. There may be, of course, and are, those among us who are not faithful, who do turn from the footsteps of their fathers. It has always been so. We may expect that in some cases it will continue, but so far as the Latter-day Saints are concerned, the majority of them will not turn from the faith of their fathers. It is not destined that such should be the case, for when this gospel was restored the Lord declared through his servants who came from the heavens with the message of salvation, that the gospel was restored for the last time, and that it must grow and increase and the knowledge grow and spread until it shall fill the whole earth. That is the destiny of the thing the world calls "Mormonism."  So they are wrong in their conclusions when they expect the children to depart from the teachings of their fathers. 

Now to return to the question of doubt, and the testimony of the truth : I desire to read to you a few passages upon this point which I consider to be significant and worthy of consideration. These words were uttered in the early years of the organization of the Church : 

"As faith, then, is the principle by which the heavenly hosts perform their works, and by which they enjoy all their felicity, we might expect to find it set forth in a revelation from God as the principle upon which his creatures here below must act in ord,er to obtain the felicities enjoyed by the saints in the eternal world." — Lectures on Faith, 7 :6. 

"And again: 

"Let us here observe that a religion that does not require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation; for, from the first existence of man, the faith necessary unto the enjoyment of life and salvation never could be obtained without the sacrifice of all earthly things. It was through this sacrifice, and this only, that God has ordained that men should enjoy eternal life; and it is through the medium of the sacrifice of all earthly things that men do actually know that they are doing the things that are well pleasing in the sight of God. When a man has offered in sacrifice all that he has for the truth's sake, not even withholding his life, and believing before God that he has been called to make this sacrifice because he seeks to do his will, he does know, most assuredly, that God does 'and will accept his sacrifice and offering, and that he has not sought, nor will he seek, his face in vain. Under these circumstances, then, he can obtain the faith necessary for him to lay hold on eternal life. 

"It is in vain for persons to fancy to themselves that they are heirs with those, or can be heirs with them, who have offered their all in sacrifice, and by this means obtained faith in God, and favor with him so as to obtain eternal life, unless they, in like manner, offer unto him the same sacrifice, and through that offering obtain the knowledge that they are accepted of him. 

"It was in offering sacrifices that Abel, the first martyr, obtained knowledge that he was accepted of God. And from the days of righteous Abel to the present time, the knowledge that men have that they are accepted in the sight of God is obtained by offering sacrifice. And in the last days, before the Lord comes, he is to gather together his saints who have made covenant with him by sacrifice. (Psalm 1, 3, 4, 5': 'Our God shall come and shall not keep silence : a fire shall devour him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.' 

"Those, then, who make sacrifice, will have the testimony that their course is pleasing in the sight of God; and those who have this testimony will have faith to lay hold on eternal life, and will be enabled, through faith, to endure unto the end, and receive the crown that is laid up for them that love the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. 

I would like to read all of this, but I will only take certain parts of 

it: * >. .'> ' H . '  , ' -. ' . i ...j "But those who have not made this sacrifice to God do not know that the course which they pursue is well pleasing in his sight; for whatever may be their belief or their opinion it is a matter of doubt and uncertainty in their mind; and where doubt and uncertainty are, there faith is not, nor can it be. For doubt and faith do not exist in the same person at the same time; so that persons whose minds are under doubts and fears cannot have unshaken confidence; and where unshaken confidence is not, there faith is weak; and where faith is weak the person will not be able to contend against all opposition, tribulations, and afflictions which they will have to encounter in order to be heirs of God, and joint heirs with Jesus Christ; and they will grow weary in their minds, and the adversary will have power over them and destroy them." — Lectures on Faith, 6:7-12. , , , 

MEANING OF SACRIFICE 

I believe that to be true, and let me add that in these passages ,that I have read, the term "Sacrifice" does not mean that we are to inflict punishment upon ourselves. It does not mean that we are to be persecuted, or to deprive ourselves of comforts and blessings; of mortal life, not in the least, but that we are willing to place upon the altar all things, even our lives, for the kingdom of God, and that we will accept in fulness all the principles of the gospel and put them into practice. Sacrifice of the world? Yes, if you want to call it such, and the things of the world, to a concentration of the mind and action upon the things of the kingdom of God, and therefore again I repeat that he who will do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrine. All doubt will be removed from the mind of the faithful believer, and he will stand in perfect light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He will be able to declare unto all the world : "I know, for God through his holy Spirit has revealed it unto me." That is the privilege of every member of this Church, and where a man doubts the truth then there is evidence, as it has been pointed out, that he has not accepted in his heart the fulness of the gospel, or he has not put it into practice to its fulness, and therefore has not reaped the benefits and blessings which otherwise would be his. We stand firmly for the truth in the face of the conditions now prevailing in the world, and teach mankind,, and call upon them to repent of their sins, and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. That all men may repent and accept him as the Redeemer of the world, the Only Begotten Son of God, I pray, for his is the only name given under heaven by which we may be saved. This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

ELDER REED SMOOTHS HEALTH AND LABORS 

I rejoice in the very wonderful attendance we have had today in this building, and in the Assembly Hall, and regret that we do not have accomodations for those who have been upon the ground. I have been made happy in the testimonies that have been borne thus far  this conference. I am particularly grateful that Elder Reed Smoot has had the privilege of being with us, and of bearing his testimony to us here today. From the reports that we received of his condition of health I little expected that we would have this privilege. I rejoice in the very remarkable and wonderful mission that he has been performing as a Senator of the United States. He has gained the confidence and the respect of men all over this country. In my trips from the Pacific Coast to the Atlantic I came in contact with many influential men, and in the Southern states I met many men whose training and their politics were in direct opposition to those of Senator Smoot. All these influential men expressed to me their admiration for his devotion to his work as a Seinator. I believe that few men have ever made a finer record for themselves in the Senate of the United States than Elder Smoot has done. I rejoice in his accomplishments. I have met influential men from away across the Atlantic who have said to me that they had a poor opinion of our people until they saw the remarkable and spleen-did work and upright, honest life of one of the apostles. One man said : "If you were not a good people I am sure that Senator Smoot would not permit himself to be associated with you as one of the leaders of your Church." I pray that the blessings of the Lord may 'be and abide with him, that he may be restored to perfect health and strength, and have the opportunity of continuing his labors for the benefit of the people of this great country that we, as Latter-day Saints, love so well, and believe that the Lord Almighty was at the helm when it gained its freedom, and as the revelations say, that he inspired the Constitution of our beloved country. 

The choir sang, "O great is the depths", from Mendelssohn's oratorio, "St. Paul." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Joseph J. Daynes, president of the Grant stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until Monday, 10 a. m„ April 6. 


