Morning
05 10 1912 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I wish I knew who it was that said, "In essentials let there be unity; in non-essentials, liberty; and in all things, charity." But if 

1 ever knew who said it I cannot now remember who it was, and I don't know that it matters, because the beauty and truth of the utterance is self-evident. It is one of those things which the world has accepted into its literature as being true and sensible, and it matters little who said it since it does not require other authority than the thing itself to commend it to men. 

Listening as I have at least in some of the meetings of this conference to the discourse of my brethren, I have felt to rejoice in a knowledge of the fact that so far as essentials, absolute and positive essentials, are concerned, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints stands on very firm and solid ground. We do know the things that concern the salvation of men. We know of God : not only of the fact of His being, but the kind of being He is, because He is fully revealed in the person and character of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is God manifested in the flesh. He is the Son of God, and as He was and is, so too, is the Father. As He acted and taught so the Father would have acted and taught had He come among men. The Lord Jesus Christ is not only the express image of the Father's person, and the brightness of the Father's glory, as the scriptures declare, but also He is a complete revelation of God, of all that is divine. So that we know God through the revelation of Himself in the person of Jesus Christ; and that the Father and the Son and the spirit-personage known as the Holy Ghost, constitute the supreme godhead for us men, to whom we owe allegiance : to whom we submit our judgment and our will, for this alone is true worship. We know these divine personages also through their chief functions. The Father primarily is Creator. The Son primarily is the Revelator  God, and the Redeemer of men; and the Holy Spirit is God's witness of the Father and of the Son, and of all truth, the whole volume of it; the divine Witness for God to the souls of men. Whatever divisions and opposite opinions may exist in the world concerning the Godhead, the Latter-day Saints are so blessed that there is perfect and absolute unity with reference to this great central truth of the Christian religion. 

We are equally at one in relation to the great fact of human redemption; we know that we are redeemed from the consequences of Adam's transgression through the atonement of the Christ, without condition, so far as that mere fact is concerned, that is without condition on our part; for as in Adam all died, even so in the Christ will all be made alive. We are redeemed from the consequences of our individual sins and transgressions also by acceptance of the atonement of the Christ; and by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel; and we know, from the revelations of God, without any doubt whatsoever, what those laws and ordinances are. We know that we must signify our acceptance of the atonement of the Christ by submitting to and performing the symbols of the atonement in our baptism; symbolizing therein the death and the resurrection of the Christ; and in confirmation by the laying on of hands we receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Being brought by that ordinance and a right disposition into complete fellowship with the Holy Ghost — to have Him for friend and guide and witness of the truth in our souls. 

In order to keep in memory the covenants and obligations that we , we repeat these symbols of the atonement in partaking of the holy sacrament; partaking of the broken bread in remembrance of the broken body of the Christ; partaking of the water or the wine in memory of the shed blood of the Christ, witnessing unto the Father that we will always remember Him, and keep His commandments that He has given us; in order that we might have all this crowned with the realization of that beautiful and splendid promise, that we shall have His Spirit always to be with us. 

In all these matters there is absolute, and must continue to be absolute unity among the Saints. There can be no variation. There can be no alteration. .There can be no detraction from nor addition to these things. They are essential. We know also that these ordinances of the gospel are to be performed, and can only be performed properly by those who have received divine commission from God, who hold divine authority. God has made of His Church a depository of His truth, and has commissioned that Church with a divine authority to teach, in the power and demonstration of His Spirit, these essential truths to all the inhabitants of the earth, our mission extending to every nation and kindred and tongue and people under the whole heaven — a universal church with a universal mission. In these essential things we are united. We know also that in addition to this commission received of God to teach the truth, it is the mission of the Church to perfect the lives of those who receive the truth she teaches; and that through teaching, persuation, patience, and long suffering. Such, in brief, is the mission of the Church of Christ; and we are united with reference to all these things. And not only are we united in relation to these things — these essentials — but in relation to the moral law of the gospel, the ethics of the Church of Christ, and of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think there exists no ground for division in relation to the law of righteousness. We know the law of righteousness — I had almost said, perfectly well; at least there is no ground for serious division among us in respect of what is truth, and justice, and righteousness, and morality in all things, and in all relations. 

The Latter-day Saints are a blest people. There does exist — I was about to say there can exist, but I would rather say there does exist — perfect unity in relation to all these essentials; in regard to the faith we have received, in regard to the dispensation of the fulness of times which God has revealed in these days unto us. And so I rejoice in these blessings, and can look forward with perfect confidence that in all these great and essential things, touching the salvation of men, the Church of Christ will remain absolutely united. Belief in and acceptance of these things are essential to the unity and integrity and the very existence of the Church. 

Now, when you contemplate that other division, the non-essentials, here you have a field wherein liberty should exist; wherein should exist tolerance : tolerance in our social relations and activities, in our commercial affairs, and in industrial pursuits; in the sphere of civil government. These things in which the judgment of men mav be exercised, and where it is merely a question, perhaps, of policy, or of ad. If only we can infuse into this sphere of the non-essentials, where one man's judgment may be as good as another's, if in that field we can only bring in the principle of charity, and of tolerance and the recognition of the liberty of all men, it seems to me then we shall have good reason to believe that in this sphere of nonessentials, we shall get along quite as happily as we may in the field where we are united in reference to absolute essentials. I believe that we are entitled to take an optimistic view with reference to these matters that make up the sphere of non-essentials; and especially in relation to the sphere of civil government. There is a passage in the Book of Mormon that to me has been very instructive, and also very encouraging. I think I will read to you this passage, since some of you may possibly have missed it. It occurs in the Book of Mosiah, where there is described a transition from a monarchial form of government to a reign of judges, which in reality was a sort of republic, or rule by the people. The value of this passage that I shall read is in that it expresses confidence in the ability of the people to rule, to govern themselves; and this inspired man, Mosiah, calls upon them to exercise that duty, and to do it in the fear of God. In recommending the changes in the form of the Nephite government, he said : 

"Therefore choose you by the voice of this people judges, that ye may be judged according to the laws which have been given you by our Fathers, which are correct, and which were given them by the hand of the Lord. Now, it is not common that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right; but it is common for the lesser  of the people to desire that which is not right. Therefore this shall ye observe, and make it your law, to do your business by the voice of the people. And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time that the judgments of God will come upon you, then is the time He will visit you with great 'destruction even as he hath hitherto visited this land. * * * And I command you to do these things in the fear of the Lord, and I command you to do these things, and that ye have no kings; that if this people commit sins and iniquities they shall be answered upon their own heads, for behold I say unto you, the sins of many people have been caused by the iniquities of their kings. Therefore their iniquities are answered upon the heads of their kings. And now I desire that this iniquity should be no more in this land, especially among this my people; but I desire that this land be a land of liberty, and every man may enjoy his rights and privileges alike, so long as the Lord sees fit that we may live and inherit the land, yea, even as long as any of our posterity remains upon the face of the land." 

To my mind Joseph Smith, in bringing forth that principle through the Book of Mormon — the principle of personal, moral, responsibility to God for the government that obtains in free republics — has contributed one of the mightiest thoughts to the political life of the age in which he lived, that any man has brought forth in all the contributions that have been made to political thought in America. Patrick Henry's idea that men had an inherent right to rebel against insufferable tyranny is not equal to it. Jefferson's great doctrine of the Declaration of Independence, that all men are created equal, and that they are endowed with the inalienable rights of life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness, is not greater than this Book .of Mormon doctrine. Webster's great contribution of "nationalism," viz., that this nation was an indestructible  of indestructible states, is not superior to it. And Lincoln's great thought, that the principle of the Declaration of Independence, that all men are of right free, must hold good as to the colored race as well as to the white race, does not surpass it. Because this great Book of Mormon thought is this: that while governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, there goes with that the awful, moral responsibility, direct to God, of every man and woman participating as sovereigns in a free government, for the kind of government that obtains in such country. The great doctrine of direct, moral responsibility to God of a free people is indeed a soul-inspiring utterance, but it is also an awe-inspiring condition, and on its face bears evidence of the divine source whence it comes. 

Tt was upon this principle of confidence in the ability of the people to govern themselves ttiat the Lord inspired those whom we call the "fathers of our republic," the founders of the constitution — it was upon this great principle of belief in the ability in the people for selfgovernment, that the corner stones of this republic were laid. Governments were announced in the Declaration of Independence to be the creatures of the people; and indeed it was further announced in the Declaration of Independence —  and you must remcmDer that the Declaration of Independence is the preface to the Constitution, the Constitution merely organized agencies for carrying out the principles of liberty announced in the document known as the Declaration of Independence — it is announced, I say, that if governments become destructive of the liberties and rights of the people, it is the right of the people to alter or even abolish them, and institute new forms that shall, in their judgment, tend better to preserve their rights and their liberties. 

Upon this subject I desire to read to you one declaration of President Brigham Young, who had some reputation for constructive statesmanship and intelligent grasp of things. In this document before me I might possibly read to you things which in our present status might be regarded as somewhat startling, but I do not desire to do that. I would rather not bring confusion, but peace; and since I am a man of peace, and desire it with all my heart — that is, that peace which is consistent with human liberty, and the preservation of human rights. But dear as peace is to me, it is not so dear that I would purchase it at the sacrifice of human rights and human liberty. But I read to you that which I am sure we will all be in accord with. "The general constitution of our country," said Brigham Young, "is good; and a wholesome government could be founded upon it; for it was dictated by the invisible operations of the Almighty. God's purpose in raising up these men and inspiring them with daring sufficient to surmount every opposing power, was to prepare the way for the formation of a true republican government. They laid the foundation, but when others came to build upon it they reared a superstructure far short of their privileges, if they had walked uprightly as they should have done. * * * * The signers of the Declaration of Independence and the framers of the Constitution were inspired from on high to do that work. But was that which was  to them perfect, not admitting of any addition whatever? No; for if men know anything they must kiiow that the Almighty never yet found a man in mortality that was capable at the first intimation, at the first impulse, to receive anything in a state of entire perfection. They laid the foundation, and it was for after generations to rear the superstructure upon it. It is a progressive and gradual work." 

I think it is divine wisdom manifested in the Constitution of our country that provision is made for its amendment, from time to time, as experience and larger views and changing conditions may warrant. However, upon this subject of change in the Constitution, I believe that the conservative spirit should prevail; that care, and very great concern ought to be exercised with reference to change in the fundamental law of our government; but let us not think because we believe in the great truth that the Constitution of our country was the product of divine inspiration, that new conditions and a constantly changing status would not warrant, .from time to time, changes in the fundamental law of the land. 

Now, in relation to all these matters, we are operating in the realm of the non-essentials, that is, the realm where human judgment may be exercised; and where men may not be able to come to absolute unity of understanding in relation to matters, and in that event, let us remember that it is the realm where liberty and tolerance prevail, and it is proper that charity also should abound. 

I thank the Lord and the brethren for this opportunity of saying so much in relation to these questions that are occupying the attention of  people. I rejoice that in the great field of the things which are essential, that the Lord has spoken, and that there is ground for absolute unity existing among us; and I sincerely trust that for this other field, in the realm of non-essentials, there will be liberty, and tolerance; and in both — in the exercise and administration of both essentials and in the realm of liberty — the great principle of charity — which is the pure love of God — may abound. 

In conclusion, my brethren and sisters, let me once more bear witness to you of the truth of the great latter day work, and proclaim once more my love and devotion for it. I love the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe and accept it with all my heart. If it is possible for the consciousness of man to be awakened to a knowledge of the truth of a thing, then I know, as I know I live, that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that men can form a companionship with the Holy Ghost; that forgiveness of sin is true; that the resurrection from the dead is a true doctrine; that the divinity of the 'Church is beyond question; that the power of the Holy Priesthood is divine : and that man may hope for immortality and eternal life in the realms of freedom under the law of God. I testify to you that my soul has a witness that all these things are true, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. TOTING 

(President of First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters : Indeed I am deeplv appreciative of the honor that I have in this privilege of addressing you for a few minutes this morning. I have listened with very much pleasure, and I hope some profit, to the remarks  my brethren, and especially the introductory remarks of our President at the beginning of this conference. A spirit of universal charity, of forbearance and brotherly love, has been characteristic of the speakers on this stand, and I take it that no better theme could be introduced, and that no better thought could be inspired by any other line of doctrine that could be taught. 

For the past few days, before the beginning of this our semi-annual conference, I have had the pleasure of being associated with the International Irrigation Congress, meeting with men who seem to be deeply interested in the welfare of these great communities of our western country. The Irrigation Congress brought to this city some very choice men, representatives from about thirty states of the Union, also from Canada, from Old Mexico, from some of the southern republics, and from far distant Japan. These gentlemen were unanimous in expressing their views in regard to the great benefits already attained, and that will be consummated in the future, through irrigation of the arid west, and through the reclamation services in which our great government is taking so prominent a part for the benefit of settlers upon the arid lands of this once desert country. All of those gentlemen that I heard express themselves were in one accord in stating their sincere regard, and appreciation, for the welcome extended to them by the people of our beautiful city, and especially commending the authorities of the "Mormon" church for the splendid reception in this great building, on the first day and the first session of the congress. 

The National Irrigation Ode, composed by Prof. J. J. McClellan, and that was rendered here by the excellent band of singers and musicians accompanying; the splendid performance of the choir, under Professor Stephens, all were regarded as efforts that were very fine indeed, arid received from the members of the congress, and from visitors generally, high encomiums, and praise unstinted. I heard one gentleman say, who was a representative from California, "When I listened to the organ recital that was tendered to us by Professor McClellan and heard that touching part in the Pilgrim's Song of Hope, the vox humana, so like to a human voice, it brought tears to my eyes," said he; and many more testified to the pleasure they had. 

Sixty-five years ago, the first Anglo-Saxon people introduced irrigation here on this very spot. The "Mormon" pioneers, under Brigham Young, our great pioneer President, started the scheme of irrigation. It was necessary before a plow could be made to enter the soil that the water be turned on to the ground to permeate its hard, encrusted surface, that had been undisturbed for centuries. When the water was thus turned on to the parched, arid soil, then it was possible for the plow-share to penetrate and to turn the furrow, that the seeds might find covering as they were planted. I remember very well hearing President Woodruff say — for he was one among the very first to plant seeds in the ground on this soil — "Why. Brother Young, I could have cried, and so my brethren felt, because we were planting all that we had into an untried soil, and but for our perfect faith in God we would have felt no hope to ever see products from that seed." The selfish thought was  it should not be planted, in order that if the time should come, that life must be preserved, they might be compelled to eat those precious grains of corn, wheat, barley, and vegetables to preserve life. But, their faith was greater than this; it was broad; in fact, unlimited, because the Prophet of God who led them, under the same inspiration that had come to the martyred Prophet Joseph Smith, was prompted to say, "This is the place," and, when he had said that, the brethren planted in faith and the harvest came. The second year, in '48, when the germinating seed was beginning to show green stalks of grain above the surface, then came the swarm of crickets to devastate and destroy wherever they had access to the growing crops. The green fields, after they had passed over, appeared as if a fire had consumed and left its black mark upon every spot of ground visited by these devouring hosts. The people fought them with brush, and by other methods tried to sweep them from the land, or stay them in their progress, but it was an impossibility; they could not be stayed by the hand of man. That was the appearance, that was the thought, and that was really the experience of the people. Saturday night, at midnight, they ceased their labors through sheer fatigue. Sunday morning they assembled, fasting and praying for deliverance, and as they came from their place of worship the heavens were darkened with flocks of wild birds, and some asked the question, "What are these coming now? Are these a new enemy to complete the entire destruction of our labors?" But when the sea-gulls alighted upon the green fields of growing crops they certainly began destruction, not of  crops of the suffering, praying people, but they began and continued to devour the enemy, the black crickets from the mountains, until they had swept the land clean from this formidable foe; then the Saints knew again that God lived, that He had not forsaken them. 

The Saints came out from Illinois, from their City Beautiful, Nauvoo. They were given an alternative to deny the faith of the gospel which they had obeyed, and for which they had suffered. They had seen their Prophet and Patriarch martyred for the cause they so manfully maintained. All these distressing things were constantly before their faces, and when the demand was made upon them, by a committee sent by the mob hordes surrounding the city of Nauvoo, either to give up their faith and, as a celebrated congressman has said since, "Be like us, or leave the country, or forfeit your lives." But the men to whom this address was made, the people who heard this alternative, were of the kind of which martyrs are made, and they said, "We cannot relinquish our faith. We know it is of God, we will sacrifice our homes, leave the lands that we have purchased and beautified, and seek a home where less hatred and opposition may exist." I believe that President Brigham Young felt as did our old friend Chief Washakie, when his braves gathered around and said to him, "All of our hunting grounds are gone; the white man has o'erspread the land and we have no more a place for our abode, where will you lead us now?" The old chief replied, "If I can find a spot so barren, so sterile that not a blade of grass shall grow upon it, and where nothing lies beneath to ex the cupidity of the white race, there would I place your feet, hoping that you might not be driven out." Possibly such a thought entered the heart of our pioneer President, Brigham Young. I have heard more than one of that sturdy band of pioneers say, "I wept; my heart was full of grief when I beheld the land, the appearance of which was so forbidding, the ground was so sterile." I heard that great pioneer, Wilford Woodruff, say that the little part that they did succeed in turning over before water was turned upon it, was just as dry as ashes fresh from the furnace. 

They did not leave the city of Nauvoo to get away from the Constitution of the United States. They brought the love of the Constitution with them, and the record that you have heard quoted today, is proof, if any other proof were needed — and there is plenty of just such all through the history of the pioneers of this great country — that they loved the Constitution, and that they knew and had always taught and accepted it as. a divine truth, that the Constitution was inspired of God. They did not leave Nauvoo to get away from the flag of our country. They brought Old Glory with them, and unfurled it to the breeze upon this' land, then Mexican territory, and by that act took possession of the land in the name of our common country. They did not leave the land of their nativity and the land of civilization because they were ashamed of their faith, of their religion, nor did they relinquish the hope that God had planted in their hearts. No, they fled to this western country to be free from persecution and bloodshed. When they arrived impressive services were held; the second day after their feet had trodden this arid desert, they assembled together, and their Prophet leader said to them, "We will dedicate this soil to Almighty God for the gathering of Israel, for the hope of a peaceful home for our people in all time to come." He said to Elder Orson Pratt, "Brother Pratt, offer our prayer to God, and dedicate this soil to Him for Israel's welfare, say to Him that from all that He giveth to us in the times to come, we will give to Him our tithes and offerings, of all the blessings of the soil, of the herds and flocks, of the orchards and gardens, and here we will build the temple of our God, for the salvation of the living and the dead." 

The members of the National Irrigation Congress went away from here imbued with a feeling of gratitude. They expressed their praise and admiration for this people, for the pioneers of this country, for the elegant reception that was tendered to them, and for the use of these great buildings in which they held the sessions of their congress. They have nothing in their hearts today, I believe — for T think they were honest in their expressions — but good will for you, my brethren and sisters, and especially for the Presidency of the Church. 

I pray God to bless you, and that He will endow our brethren who lead us in the future as they have been endowed in the past. T testify to you that "Mormonism" is true. It is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as testified by one of the mightiest prophets that ever lived, who sealed that testimony with his own blood. Obedience to this Gospel will bring to us salvation and eternal life. I pray God to bless  all forever, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, "The Crucifix," was rendered by Prof. Hugh Dougal and Miss Mary Haigh. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have been interested in the words of my brethren in the meeting this morning. I only regret that I did not hear all the words of yesterday. My academic duties at the Uuiversity of Utah prevented my being in attendance at the conference in the forenoon. 

I rejoice in seeing the people. As we all have our favorite themes and thoughts to speak about, I have mine, and the impressive thought that I have this morning is this fact, that no better people ever lived nor lives today, than the Latter-day Saints of the Church of Christ. I believe in you, and- 1 am always grateful when I can meet you, my brethren and sisters, feel your genial and hospitable spirits here in the center stake of Zion, or wherever you live in your homes throughout the State. I am proud of you, and I am proud to know that I am one of you. I believe in the goodness of your hearts, in your hospitality, in your charity, in your love for truth, wherever you live, and I only wish that we here in the center stake of Zion, may retain in our hearts the same honesty and sincerity of purpose, and truthloving character that seems to be so characteristic of you people who come from the remote parts of these states in the west. The rural districts today have a people that are honest. God-fearing, lovers of the truth, and I hope that spirit can be  in those comunities; and I also pray that we will get more of it right here in the city where we live. 

It has been pointed out briefly that we have had a great history. I believe our people have always been tolerant, charitable, and above all, constant to the principles which they hold to be true, and which they know with all their hearts. I am glad for all the organizations of this Church, for they have made history by their acts as well as their thoughts. I believe that the one great organization that has impressed the world with its charity and its bigness of activity has been the Relief Society, from the beginning to the present day. It was my privilege but a few weeks ago to listen to a man who had not been to Salt Lake City since 1856, He asked the question — How the Mormon Church had grown ? He wanted to know whether or not we hold to be sacred and true principles that we held to be sacred and true in 1856 when he came here on a visit on his way to California. I answered him as best I could, but one thing he said that impressed me, and I want to say it to the sisters of the Relief Society. He said that he landed here with some emigrants. They were penniless, they were hungry, they were without shoes and stockings; but he never forgot the time when some "Mormon" women came into camp, gave them stockings, brought them bacon and flour, and fehey did it because, said they, "Our prophet leader tells us to, and not only he told it, but greater still, we have the Spirit of God that dictates to us, and it says that no one must starve or be in need where there is plenty, and where we have the chance to give, and to live and let live." This  said that these woman were members of a society organized for charitable purposes. It was the Relief Society of one of the wards of Salt Lake City, which as early as 1850 was doing charitable acts and helping humanity in its need. I am grateful today for such an organization, and I am proud of it, for I think you have done great deeds, and manifested your faith in God by your acts. 

What we need today, my brethren and sisters, more than anything else, is honesty and integrity to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We can't get too much faith in our hearts. Faith, after all, is the moving force in the history of the world, and is today, and always will be; and I hold that faith in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ, must become the greatest moving force for humanity. It will be in the future, for I believe that the world is coming back, after all, to a belief in God the Eternal Father. In our schools, in all of our institutions of learning, there can't be too much of the teaching that God lives, and is the directive force and power behind the onward march of the human race. 

Not long ago some prominent educators in the United States came together in a meeting, and the question was asked : "What can we do that will bring the children of our schools to a higher standard of thought and action?" The question was answered in many, many ways. One brother of this city was asked the question, and the answer was that there are many practical ways but he believed that if in every school room throughout the world there could be on the right in gold letters the Ten Commandments, and on the left the Preamble of the Constitution of the United States, and on the front the words, "I believe in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ," he believed that the students and scholars of this country would receive an inspiration and a power in their work that would lift the standard of American life and American scholarship. So this is the thought I want to leave with you today. May I ask you to receive it and think about it. I know that we can get your support for it. 

There are today nineteen million students in the schools of the United States. This includes the university students, down to those of the kindergarten department; nineteen million students whom we hold to be educated, whom we hope to see go out into life as real citizens, true citzens of this republic and believers in God. The question comes up whether or not we are performing our duties as we should perform them. Being in the academic world I see on every hand great blunders, great mistakes made in the name of education. You see them in your homes, you see these blunders in the schools, but I believe that the glory of this country and the glory of this state, just the same, is the public school system, which is destined to grow and grow until men and women are truly educated. But I say that the one thing that will lift us up educationally and morally to higher standards in a general way throughout all this land, will be to teach our children the majesty, the greatness, the divinity, and the power of the Ten .Commandments, and the beauty, the justice and the grandeur and the greatness of the Preamble of the Constitution of the United States, together with the belief in God, and Jesus Christ as the 

Redeemer of the world. These three things I think are needed in our American schools. They are needed by men, women and children. We have never yet learned to live up to the Ten Commandments, and politically the Constitution of the United States is so far ahead of us that it will take ages to see its greatness and its power prevail. And so what has this to do with us, as followers of the Lord and the Redeemer of the world and the Christian faith? Only this, that as the great tenor and standard of morality are raised, our dreams are made higher, our ideals become greater; and people can only become great as they have great ideals to which they work. 

My brethren and sisters,to me the glory of "Mormonism" lies in this fact, that there is never a thing suggested for the uplift of humanity but what we are behind it with all our souls, and with all of our works as well. We believe that the human race will be redeemed if the human race will accept the law of the Gospel; and obedience to law is liberty. Let us remember that obedience to political law, to religious law, to social law, becomes our truest liberty after all, and when we learn to become liberty-loving we will be law-abiding, and when we are law-abiding we will be developed individually and socially, and become lights unto the world as holders of the Priesthood of God. "Mormonism" is the greatest movement in the history of the race. It stands today for the greatest intellectual moral and social uplift and political uplift that the race has today. It stands for everything good, everything noble. It stands, however, upon the principle of faith in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ; and let us as 

Latter-day Saints hold this sacredly in our hearts. Whatever we do, and think, there is always that truth within us that God is God, and that Jesus is the Christ, now and forever. We must, therefore, learn true charity, true love. We must learn to work and to pray, and not give up our simplicity of life. The other day I was asked what our institutions, human society, need more than anything else. My reply was that we need more of the faith, honesty, and sincerity of our fathers and mothers, more than we need anything else. We want to hark back to the honesty and the simplicity of what some call the common people. We need to get rid of the love for gold and show, and come back with all our souls to the knowledge that this gospel is true, and that we must be true to it. Then our standard of living will be raised, we will be united. W e will act more as God wants us to act. We will live nearer to the Savior as He taught the race to live, and as He teaches us today. I hope we may be united in the faith, in the law, and in tke knowledge of what is right and true; and I hope the day may come when in every schoolroom throughout this land, at least whenever we come into that schoolroom, there shall be placed in gold letters first, "I believe in God the Eternal Father and in His Son Jesus Christ," on the right the Ten Commandments, the greatest moral law of the human race; and on the left the Preamble of the greatest document ever given to the world, for the government of nations, the Preamble of the Constitution of the United States. When we do this we will raise our standard of thought, our standard of living, and we will approach what the Prophet 

Joseph Smith once said we must do, the higher soul, the higher life that naturally lies within. 

That God may help us to see these things one and all, and to work for great truths and live humbly and to work with a hunger for truth and light, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Divine guidance needed in all human affairs. 

If my brethren and sisters will indulge me just a moment I have this to say with reference to the discourses we have heard this morning: I believe in all that has been said, and I also believe a little farther than that which has been said. I would like just for a moment to try to express briefly and, very likely, very imperfectly the thought that has occurred to me in relation to one point especially that has been referred to. 

I think that in the realms of liberty, and the exercise of human judgment, all men should exercise extreme caution, that they do not change or abolish those things which God has willed and has inspired to be done. It has been in this realm of freedom, and the exercise of human judgment, that most of the evils that have occurred in the world have been done — the martyrdom of saints, the crucifixion of the Son of God Himself, and much of the apostasy and departure from the work of righteousness, and from the laws of God, have occurred in this realm of freedom and the exercise of human judgment. God in His boundless wisdom and gracious mercy has provided means, and has shown the way to the children of men whereby, even in the realms of freedom and the exercise of their own judgment, they may individually go unto God in faith and prayer, and find out what should guide and direct their human judgment and wisdom; and I do not want the Latter-day Saints to forget that this is their privilege. I would rather that they should seek God for a counselor and guide, than to follow the wild harangues of political leaders, or leaders of any other cult. I felt like I ought to say that much; and I know that I am right. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

There is beauty all around, When there's love at home. 

There is joy in every sound, When there's love at home, 

Peace and plenty there abide, 

Smiling sweet on every side. 

Time doth softly, sweetly flide, When there's love at home 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Samuel O. Bennion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


