Afternoon
05 10 1912 

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith presiding. The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Rey L. Pratt. The congregation sang the hymn : 

For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God, our fathers' God; Thou hast made Thy children mighty, By the touch of the mountain sod. 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

The Holy Spirit a spiritual and temporal guide. — All can, and should be continuously doing good.— Splendid accomplishments of "Mormons" in Mexico. — A plea for fraternal assistance to refugees from Mexico. 

I am very greatly pleased, my brethren and sisters, with this opportunity of meeting with the Saints in conference, and trust that the same good spirit that has attended the brethren who have spoken to us may be enjoyed during this meeting. 

The work of the Lord is very remarkable among the peoples of the earth. It is attracting attention from every direction, and the doctrines that we have embraced, which have been revealed through the Prophet Joseph, attract the consideration of many people throughout the earth. These doctrines are true, and it is the trutn that gives strength to this work. Their truth is discovered by many who have hardly the courage to embrace the principles, and to undertake to live them. Some people I have known feel that the truths we proclaim are too good to be true, and remark that they proffer too .much, and offer more than is reasonable for mortal men to anticipate and expect in this world, or the world to come. But, all who embrace the Gospel, with full purpose of heart, obtain a testimony of the truth of the doctrines. They obtain a witness also from the Lord Himself, a witness of the Father and of the Son, and the record is borne in the hearts of the children of men by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. That Spirit has the mission not only to bear record of the Father and the Son, and the truth and divinity of the doctrines that we have embraced,, but He will abide with us, not only in spiritual matters — matters pertaming to the church — but in regard to all things, for the truth of all things, temporal and spiritual, is known by the Holy Ghost. Those who enter into covenant with the Lord, having humbled themselves before Him and repented of their sins, as a result of their faith, and have taken upon them the name of Jesus Christ, and have undertaken to serve Him to the end, having repented of all their sins, they receive that witness and testimony, and that Spirit abides with them always through their faithfulness. It gives them stability of character; it gives them understanding and light that is not possessed otherwise, and that does not remain with Latter-day Saints unless they continue to be faithful and very humble, meek and lowly of heart. The Spirit of the Lord is easily offended, easily grieved, and it is quite an undertaking for men to so live that that Spirit can always be a fountain of inspiration, of revelation and light to them. It is a difficult thing for men to do good always, and I want to show you, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord expects us to do so. 

Now, I do not want to take too much time, I do not want to lay too broad a foundation, but I will read one , little text. I think I shall be satisfied with this one small text, if I can expound it to your understanding, which I believe I can with the help of the Lord, and possibly bring to your understanding an improvement that we may engage in for the future, possibly having lived something near it in the past, but may do so more perfectly in the future. The Lord says : 

"Verily I say men" — that is all men; I desire to expound to you  word in this scripture, that men, all men, Latter-day Saints and everybody else — "should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness, for the power is in them" — the power is in all men — "wherein they are agents unto themselves; and inasmuch as men do good they shall in no wise lose their reward." 

Now, I desire to make this impression, my brethren and sisters, for men, the term, the word, includes the sisters as well as the brethren — all mankind, men and women — should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, because they are agents unto themselves and are so empowered by the Lord, who is our Father, so that we should be thus occupied always. We should not be employed at any time, on any occasion, anywhere, doing anything that is not a good cause. Where we have done things that were not proper and right, and were not a good cause, we have departed from the obligation and undertaking that we entered into in the beginning, and our beginning was when we entered into covenant with the Lord. I am speaking now of our beginning with this latter-day work. This Church began on the 6th of April, 1830, and you began when you entered into covenant with the Lord. Your end will be when you have laid off this mortal body, when your work has been finished and your undertaking with the Lord has been completed. We undertook at the beginning to serve the Lord to the end, to the end of our mortal mission, our probation, hence I desire to make this impression upon all Latter-day Saints; and if there should be some here who are not Latter-day Saints I would like to make the impression upon them also that they, too, should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and bring to pass much righteousness. That is being done today in the world by very many people, for much righteousness is accomplished by people who are not of our faith. A great deal of good is being done; there is a great deal of virtue and morality, uprightness and humility, love of the Lord, love of the truth, love of righteousness, in the hearts of the children of men. So that my appeal is not to Latter-day Saints alone this afternoon, but to all men and all women. If any man or any woman does good in this world, they shall not lose their reward, whether they be Latter-day Saints or not. But, if they would have all the good, all that the Lord has to bestow upon them, it is necessary for them to have faith in Him, repent of their sins, humble themselves before God and enter into covenant with Him, as the Latterday Saints have done, and then endure in the faith to the end of their lives. It is possible in this world, I take it from the example and history of our elder brother, Jesus, it is possible for men to do good; I believe it is quite possible for all men to do good, to work righteousness. I believe that it is quite possible for all men to repent of their sins, through faith. The Lord is generous and willing to bestow upon all men the principle of faith, and by their repentance, turning from sin and working righteousness, it is quite possible for them to get into fellowship with the Lord. It is really possible for men to do what is right, and to be perfect as God Himself is perfect. 

In the range of thought, in looking over my own experience, and  opportunities about me in the field of activity in this world, I have wondered what on earth there is that a man cannot do that is right, and that ought to be done, so far as morality and purity and righteousness is concerned. There may be heights that men may not easily reach, there may be works that are difficult to accomplish, but so far as being perfect in our lives in the service of the Lord, .in serving our brethren, working for them and blessing them, and doing good to others as we would that others should do to us, is there anything that we cannot do ? Can we not be sober? Can we not be honest, moral and upright? Can we not work righteousness and deal justly? I can think of nothing of this sort but what is possible for us to do. I can't think of a wrong that I ever did in my life, nor a wrong that you have ever done, that I have known about, but what we could just as well, and better, have done what was right. It has always been so with me, I could have done better. It was always easier for me to do right than to do wrong. The things that have tried me, and have been difficult for me, are the wrongs I have done; but where I have done right I have felt well paid, well rewarded, it has made me feel comfortable and happy, it has made me free. I have always felt free and comfortable when I have done right, and always felt uncomfortable, unhappy and a slave when I have done wrong. Hence I have concluded not to do wrong any more. I am not going to wrong anybody; and I don't want to wrong myself, but just do exactly what is right, and I want my brethren and sisters, the Latter-day Saints, so to do. 

The Lord has given us a perfect , commencing with the Aaronic Priesthood as it was revealed to us in this day, and dividing the labors that they have to perform, from the deacon to the priest; and in the Melchisedek Priesthood, from the office of the elder to the chiefest among us, those who have the greatest power and authority upon the earth. The Lord has so designed and arranged that all men embracing the gospel may receive divine authority from Him, and power that will aid tnem and help them far above what men can naturally do. The natural man is a very unsafe quantity, he must be assisted by the Lord. I don't know of anything that a man can do that will be quite pleasing and satisfactory, unless the Lord helps him, and then he can be perfectly safe. There are many things that men need to be enlightened upon, and the Spirit of the Lord occupies the whole field, and will enlighten our minds and enable us to see alike in all matters, and make us one with the Father and the Son. That Spirit should dwell richly in our hearts; when it does, and abides with us, it will draw us together, unite us, enlighten us, and strengthen -us in the performance of the duties that devolve upon us, our lives will then be successful, and we will be anxiously occupied and engaged in works of righteousness. A man with the Spirit of the Lord is not offensive, he is not offensive in his home and family, or neighborhood, he is a pleasant and agreeable companion, as a father, as a brother, as a husband, and as a neighbor, if he enjoys the Spirit of the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord should be enjoyed by all men; and when men possess that Spirit their difficulties disappear; they see the right. The 

Spirit of the Lord always prompts us to do our full duty, all that is required of us, and to be willing to make some little sacrifice in order to be at peace. It will enable us to endure wrong if it comes upon us, and submit so far as we need and have occasion to; to endure but never do wrong, never to wrong any one else; if needs be to suffer wrong and evil at the hand of others, but always do what is right ourselves. 

I want, at the closing of my remarks, to draw attention to the conditions that have been spoken of here in this conference, first by the President, and then referred to by others. I want to state my views, briefly, in regard to our refugee brethren and sisters from Mexico. They are not a numerous people, possibly only four thousand. Of course four thousand people is quite a community, would be considered a large ward. If we have four thousand in a ward it is regarded as quite a little town; but four thousand are not very many of the people that are garnered together of the Latter-day Saints — maybe half a million of us — the four thousand would be but few. We have lots of land and water, and any amount of climate. It happens just now that we are living in pretty fruitful times, and we are well fixed with good crops, grains and fruit crops, everything of the kind. I judge so when I see the fruit covering the ground, and we cannot take proper care of it, to make good, profitable use of it. So I want to sound this note of advice to my brethren and sisters who are not refugees, who are at home and live in the United States, in Arizona, New Mexico, California, Nevada, Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming. It is our friends, and neighbors, our brothers and sisters that are down there, and who have been driven from the republic of Mexico. They have not been able to remain there. It seems they were not wanted there. I happened to be among the first of the brethren who went as missionaries into that country, to pioneer the country- I went with President Taylor, President Joseph F. Smith and others of the brethren; quite a company of us went from here into Mexico in about 1885, as I remember. I went three times that year from Salt Lake City to the City of Mexico, and into the hot country beyond. I spent some time there with Erastus Snow, Brigham Young, Jr., John W. Taylor, Moses Thatcher, and others of the brethren. We visited the president of the republic, and we were made welcome by him and by his ministers, and we learned to respect those leading men of that republic. They offered me soldiers when I went down to pioneer the country, for that was my purpose, on my second trip into Mexico. The Indian Chief Geronimo and his men were raiding that country, and raiding Arizona, and our soldiers were there as well as the Mexican soldiers, trying to capture the outlaw and his band. While we were there the Indians went down on the west of us, and on the south, and came out on the east of us, went almost round us, but we were out of sight; they did not happen to see us when we were pioneering the country. We had a little company of soldiers offered ns, but Mexican soldiers do not go until tomorrow, the} never go till "manana," that is, they do not go today but tomorrow, and we went today, and the soldiers following us could not find us. They thought  would make tracks, and so we did, but a tremendous storm of rain came and obliterated the tracks, and they could not find us. We thus pioneered the country. 

I want to say that when we say hard things about the people of that country we only say it about those who are a hard people, a bad people, not about those who are good. They have not had in Mexico, so far as I have known, a secure and stable government. There has not been protection and safety in that country, and a man always had to have a gun across his lap, or hanging on his back, so that it could be seen that he was armed, in order to take care of himself. I was given to understand, in the City of Mexico, that it was not safe for a man to walk across that valley, from one town or village to another, unless he was armed; that he would likely be killed by some one to get his suit of clothes, or a pair of boots, or the dollar in his pocket, if he had it. There were that class of people; but we were made welcome, they wanted us there. They wanted us because our people were thrifty, and prosperous, because we would build good brick houses, and good school buildings, and establish merchandise business and so forth in the country. Our people went there, and they built the finest villages, so far as I can judge and know, in Mexico, the finest considering the population occupying them, that can be found in the republic. I rather think that is correct, they really have built splendid houses, cities, and towns, and have conducted our district schools and high schools  there also. We have taken care of ourselves, and have set a good example, and the leading men of that nation were always proud of what  "Mormons" had done there. President Diaz, as long as he stayed there, and his ministers, always spoke well of the "Mormon" people, they could not say otherwise. But there was a man killed every little; while. It was dangerous, always more or less dangerous, and they could not be protected, they could not get justice, and the wicked could not be punished, as a rule they were not punished. 

Well, now our people have come away, they have been driven away because of the revolution in that country. It is a revolutionary country and a revolutionary people, and there is no telling, of course, as we learned from the President here, when peace will be declared and a good government established. I don't know when it will come, but I do want us, brethren and sisters, to open our hearts and homes, and open the way for the Latter-day Saints to come back to their friends, to come to their neighbors and kindred, they will be no tax on the people of this country. Those four thousand people can stay right here with us, and it will hardly be known that there is anybody extra. We have plenty of room, and everything to make them comfortable. They are a people that will make their way and pay as they go, and earn their living and establish themselves, and in a few years they will be just as wealthy as they were in Mexico, and they will be upon safe, solid ground, where they need not be afraid of anything on earth, no more than we are in Canada. I saw the contrast. I was down in Mexico in '85, and just a little later it fell to my lot to go to Canada to help the pioneers and give them counsel — Elder John W. Taylor and I. We went to the head of the Canadian , and we were welcomed there. They wanted us, they were glad to have us come, and we have been building there just as we built in Mexico, and just as we have built in Utah, in Arizona, in Nevada, Colorado and Idaho. 

Everywhere the Latter - day Saints go they are doing work that speaks well for them, and is a credit to them. They are a stable element — not quite perfect yet, but they are devoted to good works, and the Spirit of .the Lord that dwells in them makes them worthy citizens of any country and government. The government of any state or county is stronger for the "Mormon" people that .locate therein, or in any city or nation, for it has been proven that they are a good element. The Spirit of the Lord has made them this, and that Spirit will make them even more worthy than what they are now if they will continue faithful. I advise that we should invite our friends home, ask them to come home and take some of our land and work with us. Many of them come unclothed almost, and unfed. They have been robbed, and have nothing to bring with them, as a rule. There are some few that will be able to fight their own way and take care of themselves, but the others will be no burden upon us, we will be richer from taking care of them, helping them, for the Lord will compensate us for doing the good that we should be engaged in. He will reward us, for He says that we shall not lose our rewaid for any good thing that we do. We want to welcome home our brethren and sisters who have suffered, we want them to come back again into the United States, if they so desire. If they prefer to stay and try their chances again in Mexico, of course we make no objection, and our blessing and love will go with them where they go, and with the people who will open their hearts and homes to receive them and make them welcome. 

I wanted to say that much in regard to those people, for I was there in the country; I was with them when they were in their camps and tents. I was with them there and wrestled for their benefit with the government of the country. The Church has helped them attain what they could; that land was legally obtained for permanent settlement, and we have done our duty in the republic of Mexico. We have been preaching the gospel there also, and maintaining missions among them. We have been doing a good work for that republic, and we have not hurt them at all, but have done them a great deal of good; and that was the desire, I am sure, of the leading men of their nation. The Lord will bless those who have befriended our people and those who do befriend them hereafter. The Lord will bless us my brethren and sisters, in being anxiously engaged in this good cause. The Latter-day Saints who do not return to Mexico shall not feel that they are imposing on their kindred and friends, but that the latch string is out, or the door is open, and they are welcome to come and fare and share, with us until they can get on their feet,and it will not be a long time for them to do it. They are the right kind of element. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters. Let us remember the injunction of this text and be constantly, anxiously and earnestly engaged in a good cause, and bring to pass much righteousness every day of our lives, and the Lord will bless and sustain us, and  and redeem us, and make us eminently successful among the children of men. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and keep us faithful, and help us to endure in His service while we live in the flesh, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Diligence in preaching the Gospel increases faith of the preachers. — Unison in proclaiming Gospel truths. — The true Latter-day Saint an exemplar of every virtue. — Cheerful giving of time and means to God's work. 

I am happy in having the opportunity of again meeting with the Latter-day Saints in general conference. I have thoroughly enjoyed my labors during the past six months in traveling among the different stakes of Zion, and in visiting two of the missions in the east. I rejoice in finding the Latter-day Saints, who are faithful and diligent in serving the Lord, growing in the light and knowledge of the gospel, growing in a love of the truth and in a determination to do all in their power for the spread of the gospel at home and abroad. I am very happy in contemplating the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ brings peace, joy and happiness to every soul who embraces it, and who lives it. I rejoice in the fact that the more we do in the gospel of Jesus Christ, the more we love the truth, the stronger is our faith, the more perfect and absolute is our testimony regarding the divinity of this work. 

To me one of the greatest of all the great testimonies of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged is the fact that all those who  out to proclam it, and who live virtuous and upright lives, return to us with a burning testimony of this work, and bear witness to those at home that the most profitable and the happiest time of their lives has been while they have been proclaiming the truth. The Spirit of the Lord accompanies the elders. God blesses those who go forth to preach this gospel. If this gospel were not the truth, honest, prayerful, diligent, humble men would discover that fact, but I have yet to hear of one man in all the eighty odd years that this gospel has been preached, who has gone forth to proclaim it and who has been a diligent, faithful man, who has returned and announced that he has discovered that they have the gospel of Christ in some other land or some other clime. But I have heard of thousands who have studied other gospels, tens of thousands; I have known man}' who have been members of many different denominations, who never found peace and joy and perfect contentment until they embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is a very difficult thing to undertake to tell a lie and to maintain it. A writer in a book entitled "The Power of Truth" says that lies are fearsome things, and that thev have to travel in battalions, that they are like a lot of drunken men, one holding up the other. But, he says, truth can stand alone, it needs no chaperone; and this is true. 

This gospel of Jesus Christ has been taught during the past eighty odd years, and all of those who have gone forth to proclaim it have taught the one and the same gospel. There has been no schism, there has been no disagreement. There has been nothing but an increase of  and a love of the truth that has come to those who have gone forth in humility to spread this gospel of Jesus Christ. It is in very deed the power of God unto salvation, and the people know it, and the people love the truth. Wherever I go among them, whenever the Lord blesses me with liberty to preach this gospel to the people, I can see in their countenances that they rejoice in the witness of the Spirit; that they drink in the words that are given to them; and after meetings, and people shake hands with you, you feel that there is a determination in their hearts to serve God and keep His commandments. 

The Latter-day Saints do in very deed thank God for a prophet to guide them in these latter days. The Latter-day Saints do enjoy singing the song by Brother John Jaques, "O Say What Is Truth?" They rejoice in this gospel and all the teachings of it in the scriptures and in the inspired hymns that we have received. I rejoice in it beyond my power to tell. I enjoy mingling among the Latter-day Saints. I enjoy visiting the households of the Latter-day Saints and conversing with them, and I want to bear my testimony, in connection with that of the others whicli have been borne, that there are no better people in any land or in any clime. There are no more honest people than the Latter-day Saints. The business integrity of every true Latter-day Saint is perfect. No man who is a Latter-day Saint but what is living a virtuous, upright, honest and a true life. No matter what may be said against an individual, it has no effect upon tnat individual if it is false, and no man can say that any man who lives up to the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but what that man is a good citizen, that he is a good man, that he desires the welfare of his fellow men, and that his example is above reproach. 

I believe that the Latter-day Saints are endeavoring to live up to the teachings of the Savior. I believe that they follow more perfectly the admonitions of the Savior in His sermon upon the mount than any other people. I believe that there is a living, vital force among the people which cannot be found elsewhere. I not only believe this, but I know it. Where are there any other people who make the same sacrifices, that is, sacrifices in the eyes of the world? You and I cannot make any sacrifice for this gospel. Life eternal is the greatest of all of the gifts of God to man, therefore there is no labor that can be required of us whereby we can gain this greatest of all God's blessings, that can be called a sacrifice. It is a privilege for us to learn the lessons that devolve upon us. I thank God for the privilege of paying tithing. I rejoice in having the opportunity of showing my gratitude to my Heavenly Father for His mercies to me. I thank the Lord for the opportunity of contributing of the means that come to me for the erection of meeting-houses, of schoolhouses, of temples, and for the opportunity of going forth to proclaim this gospel. 

I have been suffering for several days with a slight cold, and I find that I am rasping my throat. I have pitched my voice a little bit too high, therefore I will close my remarks, by praying God to bless you. T know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the  and the living God, and that we have the truth; and I know that Joseph F. Smith is the prophet of God, and that the inspiration of God guides him. May the Latter-day Saints be loyal and true, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. . 

Miss Josie Hinckley sang a soprano solo, entitled, "Jesus, Our Savior." 

ELDER EEED SM00T. 

Great influence of music in religious and secular affairs. — Remarkable effects of the hymn, "O, My Father." — Advice to shun all get-rich-quick propositions. — Smokers, drinkers, and immoral men unfit for responsible positions. 

In a revelation given through the Prophet. Joseph Smith in July, 1830, the Lord, in speaking to Joseph's wife, Emma, said : "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." 

I could not help but think of this part of the revelation in listening to the beautiful hymns that have been sung during this conference. I believe that we can worship in song as acceptably to Him as in any other way. In reading the history of the world we find that music has been conspicuous, in all ages and among all nations. There are but few religious 'denominations that do not avail themselves of the sweet influence of music. It is not only a custom to worship God by singing His praises in song, but we find the power of music manifest in almost all the great affairs in life. It is made use of to encourage and inspire men in battle. It is depended upon on occasions when there is necessity for inspiring in the hearts of men enthusiasm or loyalty. The history of nations is, in part, told in song. I know of no people on earth who have written into their songs the principles of the gospel they believe in more than have the Latter-day Saints. It is true there are many beautiful hymns written by men that all Christians love to sing, and we sing them in devotion to our Maker. We often sing the hymn composed by Charles Wesley entitled, "Jesus Lover of My Soul." It is said that Charles Wesley was inspired to write this greatest of his hymns by a bird, frightened by a thunder storm, flying into his room, preferring to risk its life indoors with him than outside where the elements were disturbed. As it sat quivering on his mantel, frightened nearly to death, Wesley was inspired to write that hymn. Henry Ward Beecher, speaking at his father's funeral, referred to the hymn that had been composed by Charles Wesley, "Jesus Lover of My Soul," and made the statement that he would rather have been the author of that song than to have the wealth of the greatest millionaire, for in it was inspiration, in it was power. While wealth would perish and its possessor be forgotten, the memory of Wesley would live for ages to come, because the words of the song would be perpetuated. The opening hymn of this conference, 

"Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor 

labor fear, But with joy wend your way. Though hard to you this journey may 

appear, 

Grace shall be as your day," 

is filled with inspiration. Brother William Clayton, the author of this song, was inspired to write it, at a  when the people were crossing the plains, careworn, disheartened and in need of encouragement. President Young realized their condition and knew that music would inspire them to renewed energy. He therefore asked William Clayton to write a hymn suitable to the conditions, and the result was the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." It was inspired by God, and it has been an inspiration to God's people ever since. 

I believe that Sister Snow, when she composed that immortalized song, "O my Father, Thou that dwellest in the high and glorious place," was inspired of God the Eternal Father. The idea that we had a Mother, as well as a Father, in Heaven was first taught in this dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister Snow was convinced that he was right in so teaching, and embodied that principle of the Gospel in the song. I believe that hymn, "O My Father," has been the means of causing thousands of the people of the world to investigate "Mormonism." When I heard our choir sing it in the Capital of this nation I noticed many a wet 'eye. It seemd to me that it had the effect of a testimony to the people present; it certainly was listened to in song more intently than it would have been by word of mouth. 

The closing song of the first day's session of this conference, the hymn that President Woodruff loved so well, 

"God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform, He plants his footsteps in the sea 

And rides upon the storm," 

will live forever. It is said that Cowper, the author, was inspired to write it after he had made up his mind that life was not worth living. The story is that he called a London cabby and asked him to drive to London Bridge, with the avowed purpose of throwing himself in the Thames river and ending his life. It is reported that the cabby, driving around the city, landed at last before the door of the house where he took the poet from. Cowper got out of the cab and went to the room which he had left a short time before for the purpose of ending his life. While contemplating the circumstance, the inspiration came to him and he wrote the song, "God moves in a mysterious way." 

There is one thing known to the people of all countries, whether they approve of our religion or not, that is the remarkable musical ability of the "Mormon" people. People, in general, appreciate the songs our missionaries sing, and the spirit with which they are sung. I have met many men in my travels, and in conversation some have said, "Yes, I remember hearing your elders sing upon the street corners of England, or in America, or in some other place as the case might be. In some cases Elders had visited a gentleman's home and had sung our gospel hymns. They pleased him, and impressed him with the thought that our songs carried with them the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am always proud, and it gives me joy to be able to testify to the world that the "Mormon" people as a whole are lovers of music, and that we have talented students in many of the musical academies of the world. 

In connection with the brethren, I have rejoiced exceedingly in the proceedings of this copference. There is one subject, my brethren  sisters, that I wish to call your attention to today. Perhaps some will think that it is out of place at a general conference, but I don't believe that it is. I speak of it now as this may be the only chance I will have. I notice in a report made by our government, through the post office department, that there was over $120,000,000 lost to the American people last year, through frauds carried on through the mails, by persons and companies formed for the purpose of fleecing the people of the United States. I want to say that I was sorry to find that tens of thousands of dollars of this vast amount had been secured from the people of this state. I want to advise the people attending this conference, and all the people of Utah, that whenever circular letters come to you, from unknown companies, with a promise that you can be made rich quick, such letters and promises should be given the most thorough investigation, for nine hundred and ninety-nine times out of one thousand they are frauds. I have received letters from all parts of this state, from men whom I was dumbfounded to learn had been influenced by unreasonable propositions, and invested in them. I call to mind a real estate firm, whose land was supposed to be near the city of Washington, D. C, selling building lots with a promise of enormous profits, and upon investigation as to the location of its land, I found that it was many miles from Washington. One might just as well put his money in a sand hill in the desert as to buy the lands which were described in the firm's circulars. Many, no doubt, receive circulars from all over the United States asking you to subscribe for stock in companies whose future  depends upon some patent, or supposed patent, that may be issued to some individual, which, if investigated, would probably be found worthless. 1 say to the good people of Utah that there are plenty of opportunities for good investments in this state, and it is far better to invest in them than to send your hard earned money abroad, and virtually give it to a lot of crooks who are living on their wits, and robbing the people of the United States. 

I rejoice in the fact that there is a compensation in living the laws of God, not for the world to come only, but in this life, and the world will sooner or later acknowledge it. Business men are beginning to understand it, especially men who require the full strength and faculties of their employees. Responsible positions require not only physical, but intellectual strength, and many employers are demanding that neither be impaired by the use of liquor or tobacco. Managers in the American baseball league will not select a player who has acquired the habit of liquor drinking. Every player is closely examined as to his moral habits. I have heard it stated that Walter Johnson, the swiftest and best pitcher in the American League, can always be depended upon as he is free from all bad habits. The mountain air of Idaho gave him a splendid constitution, and it has not been destroyed by the use of liquor; he lives a clean life. The managers of the great railroads are not employing men who drink and smoke. They have learned through experience that the engineers, who have in their hands the lives of millions of people, cannot be trusted with that great responsibility if they dull their intel by the use of tobacco or liquor. This is going to be the rule not only with the great railroads, but with many of the great business concerns requiring men of ability in responsible positions. I could not help but think of similar cases when Brother Wells was speaking of the boy who could not refuse to drink with his companions, and did not have the moral strength to withstand temptation. I never lost a thing in this world, not even the respect of a single person that I know of, by refusing to smoke or drink upon any occasion; and I know that I have won the respect and confidence of thousands by refusing to do so, and by living up to what I profess. I don't care where tobacco or liquors are offered or served, whether it be at a dinner, or a gathering of any kind, they have been no temptation to me. The oftener you refuse the easier it is to do so. My Father in heaven has given me strength to do so. My mother taught me in my young days the evils that would follow any man who did not have the strength to resist temptation. When I was eighteen years of age I was manager of the Provo Co-operative Institution and I was thrown in the company of all classes of men. During that time I visited nearly every state in the Union on business, and I testify to you that I never lost one thing by refusing to drink, smoke, or to follow those inclined to evil habits. On the contrary I won their respect, and I have heard them so testify. So I say again, we are compensated in this life for obeying the temporal laws of God. 

I want to add my testimony that this is the work of God, and I know that He doth live, and that Jesus is the Christ. I have confidence in the predictions of the prophets of God; I know that this is His Church and that it will do all that He intends it to accomplish; and that we may be successful, and be loyal to it as long as we live, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Prevailing disposition to discredit the Bible. — "Private" interpretation of scripture denounced. — Principles of salvation plainly declared in scriptures. — Gift of the Holy Ghost most 'desirable. — Saints enjoined to become familiar with ancient and modern scriptures. 

There appears at the head of each number of the Millenial Star, which is published weekly in Liverpool, England, a quotation from scripture, or a wise saying of some man. I opened the "Star" of Thursday, September 19, 1912, a day or two ago, and read this particular passage, and the remarks of some of the brethren in this conference have directed my mind again to it. I would like to read it because it is a striking sentiment and it is true. It is as follows : 

"We must come to the study of the Bible as pupils, not as judges, to find, not what ought to be said, but what God has said, as enquirers after divine truth, not as advocates seeking arguments. It is the student and not the book that needs to be spiritualized." 

It is accredited to Dr. Liddon. I don't know who this gentleman is, and I don't know whether or not in his article from which this excerpt was taken he attempts to direct people how to become spiritualized. This is not altogether a new idea. The form of words may be new in which the idea is clothed, but the idea itself has been advocated by the elders of the Church for up of eighty years. Infidels have treated the Bible with the utmost contempt. They have read it only with the idea of condemning it. They have ridiculed it and have held in derision those who have professed to believe in it. Another class of men, calling themselves philosophers, or higher critics, have studied the scriptures very carefully, and have criticised them severely. They have discredited all in them that partakes of the supernatural or miraculous. They have raised grave questions concerning the authorship of the books of the Bible, and they contend among themselves over many of the things which are recorded in the Holy Writ. They argue over the question as to whether there was ever such a man as Job, or whether Mark wrote the gospel that bears his name, or whether Christ performed the miracles which are related of Him. This second class, I might say, have pretty thoroughly torn to fragments the holy scriptures. As a result of their work multitudes of men have come to doubt the divine nature of the Bible. Then there is still another class of men who are known as Christian ministers, who profess to believe the Bible to be the word of God entirely. They declare that it is the word of God, the whole word of God; that God had spoken nothing before the beginning; nor since the close of that record and will speak never again. They profess belief in the book, with their lips, and then straightway deny it in their acts and their lives by refusing, or at least failing to follow the teachings of the Bible, notwithstanding the book itself declares, "Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say ?" Now, these three classes of peo have pretty well succeeded, with their sophistries and their criticisms and their ridicule, in thoroughly sterilizing the whole Christian world as to spiritual life. Of course, no man can spiritualize the scriptures. Men subject the scriptures to a form or process which they term spiritualizing, but which is not spiritualizing at all, but is merely placing their own interpretation upon them, in order to make the scriptures conform to their own particular views, and this again, in the very face of the declaration of the book itself, "that no prophecy of the scripture is 'of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." And again, neither can the Bible spiritualize men. That is to say, the Bible has not the power to confer upon men the Holy Ghost, nor to give unto them that Spirit of God, which has been spoken of here in this conference by President Lyman and others. The Bible truly, as has been explained by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is the word of God, so far as it is translated correctly. The Latter-day Saints believe it to be such, and we are endeavoring to put into practice in our every-clay lives the principles and precepts that are made plain and clear in the holy scriptures, which things were indited by the Spirit of God, but which things must oe understood, and can only be understood by men who enjoy the Holy Spirit. Now, how shall men become spiritualized in very truth ? Well, the scriptures are plain on that matter. It is, first, by faith in God. We should believe in Him with all our heart, might, mind and strength, and, second, by repentance of our sins, a  of turning away from sin or being sorry for the evils we have done, calling upon the Lord to be merciful to us, and to accept us and acknowledge our repentance, and to help us to remain repentant to the extent that we shall no more return again to the works of evil. When we have thus repented and have purified our tabernacles and made them clean, that they may be indeed temples of the Lord our God, wherein may dwell the Holy Ghost, we are prepared for baptism in water by immersion for the remission of our sins, that through that ordinance our sins may be washed away and we be forgiven, being buried with Christ in baptism, in the similitude of His death, and being raised again cleansed and purified, to walk in newness of life, in the likeness of the glorious resurrection of the Son of God, then we are prepared to receive the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of truth, that takes of the things of God and reveals them unto the children of our Father in heaven. The Holy Ghost is received by the laying on of hands by one having authority, and then, and not until then, can the student of the scripture and the believer in God become truly spiritualized. 

When he has so received the gift of the Holy Ghost, or the Holy Ghost as a gift from God, he has received a comforter to his soul, a light to his path, a spirit that giveth understanding and knowledge, that brightens the mind, quickens the intellect and gives a proper comprehension of the things of God that have been revealed through the prophets, and are written in the holy scriptures. A man with this spirit, reading the scriptures will understand them. He will not wrest them to his own condemnation. He will accept the declaration of the Holy Scriptures that the Lord Jesus Christ was born of a woman, literally and naturally, like all other men have been born, and will not attempt, as some do, to spiritualize the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. He will believe in the ministry of the Redeemer of men, will accept the history of His ministry, of His death, of His burial, and will believe and understand, by the power and witness of the Holy Ghost, that Christ rose from the dead, that He again took up that very same body that was crucified and laid in the grave, and further, he will believe that as Christ rose from the dead so shall all men come forth in a resurrection from the dead, taking up the body that died and was buried. And he will not attempt to spiritualize it or to interpret the word of God into meaning something else — that it is a spiritual resurrection and not the resurrection of a mortal body into an immortal body. As he reads the scriptures all things spoken by the prophets of old shall be understood by him, by virtue of his possessing the Spirit of truth, and they will be clear to his understanding; and, as the multitude read who are possessed of this Spirit, having been spiritualized in this manner, they shall see and understand, believe and know alike, and there shall be no difference of opinion nor of understanding upon these great fundamental truths of the gospel of salvation. He, the spirit of truth, shall guide them into all truth, and shall abide with the faithful forever. 

My brethren and sisters, perchance there are spme among us who have been spiritualized in this way, who have received the Holy Ghost, by which our minds may be enlightened and our knowledge in, who have wandered away from daily companionship with the things that have been spoken and written by holy men of God, and which are found recorded in the Bible. If there are any who are not in close association and familiar with the word of the Lord as contained in the Bible, then I would invite all such to return again to that book, and to read it frequently, to be encouraged and comforted, enlightened and made wiser, more humble and true by daily converse with the inspired word of the Lord. ] f there are any among us who rarely, if ever, take up the Book of Mormon, another book containing the words and prophecies of holy men who spoke and wrote as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, which has been revealed to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the latter days, and contains the history of the dealings of God with His children who dwelt upon this continent — then I would say, return again to the Book of Mormon and become familiar with it. Read it and be instructed, and allow the Spirit of God, even the Holy Ghost, to open the. eyes of your understanding, to make clear unto you the precious words of life which it contains. And as you read the Book of* Mormon and come to comprehend its great message, you will come to love it, love it most dearly, as a direct communication of God to man. 

If there are any of the Saints who neglect to read the Doctrine and Covenants — which contains the revelations of our Lord to His children in the dispensation of the fulness of times — I would advise them to take it up oftener and read it carefully and prayerfully, because it contains indeed the words of eternal life. 

I might say the same of the Pearl of Great Price, which we might all read with great profit to ourselves. Now, I would advise you, my brethren, if in your communities there are members of the Church w,ho have long since ceased to be daily searchers of the scriptures, that you invite them to renew their acquaintance with the word of the Lord. If there are any among us who are not as faithful as they should be in attending to their meetings, where they may hear the word of God spoken, spoken too, by the promptings arid inspiration of the Holy Ghost; things which come fresh and new from the fountain of all truth, then I would say, labor among them and with them and invite them to come into the house of the Lord, where they may be comforted and instructed. Encourage them to repent and to commune with the Lord through the gift of the Spirit, and to associate more with the Saints who enjoy and possess that glorious Spirit. 

There is a cry that has gone forth from some of the leading statesmen of our land recently to those who crowd and congest the great cities of our country, it is "back to the farm," back to the soil, back to nature. It is good advice. It is wise counsel. And I would say, too, that if there are any of us who have wandered away from reading the scriptures and from acquaintance with the word of God, that we come back to the Bible, back to the Book of Mormon, back to the Doctrine and Covenants, and back to prayer; back to our knees, if not to our mother's knee, at least to our own knees before the Lord, in the spirit of prayer and repentance, that we might possess and en the companionship of the Holy Ghost. 

My brethren and sisters, I would say just this word farther, that the process of becoming despiritualized is just the reverse to that of becoming spiritualized, or of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost as we receive it through faith and repentance and baptism by immersion in water, and by the laying on of hands by one holding authority. Let us see to it that we do not lose the Spirit of God by lapsing into indifference, into neglect of duty, into failure to pray, into disobedience, and the breaking of the commandments; into the spirit of fault-finding and committing of sin. One step leads to another, until by and by the Spirit is grieved and will no longer strive with us. We can go to the extent, in our sinning and neglect, that the Spirit of God will altogether withdraw from us, and then when the light that is within us has become darkness, oh, how intense, indeed, is that darkness. Then we are left to the bufferings of Satan, to become like the waves of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed, to be carried about by every wind of doctrine, to be persuaded by all manner of men, never secure, never established in the truth, always full of anxiety and doubt, not knowing whither we are being enticed. That is a terrible condition, it has been said that it had been better never to have been born, than to have received the Holy Ghost, and then deny Him. "For if after we have escaped the pollution of the world through the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ we are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse than the beginning. For it had been better for us not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after we have known it to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto us." I would warn all the Latter-day Saints against getting into such a state through neglect of meetings, neglect of prayer, neglect to read the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the scriptures of modern times, lest they lose the Spirit of the Lord and are left in a darkened state of mind. If there are any taking such a course let them repent and return ere it is too late, for when once a man has enjoyed this Spirit and the witness thereof — and the chief mission of the Spirit is to bear record and witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and to bring and reveal to man this knowledge, which is eternal life — I say that when a man has once enjoyed that Spirit and had that witness and then through sin and neglect, and wickedness, has that Spirit withdrawn from him, so that he cannot repent, he is in a terrible condition, and it is practically impossible, either in this life or the life to come, for that man ever again to get possession of the Spirit of God and the witness of Jesus Christ. It is impossible, either in this life or the life to come, for a man who commits such a crime, to obtain forgiveness, for there is no forgiveness without true repentance. 

I bear testimony to you of the truth of these things. I rejoice in the truth, and I love it, as my brethren have declared they love it, and I trust that I shall have sufficient courage and sufficient of the Spirit of God and the light of truth always to guide me in that path which leadeth again into the presence of God the Eternal Father. May that Spirit be kept alive and free within every one of us. May we keep our tabernacles pure and holy as temples of the Lord our God, that we all may be led back into the presence of the Father to enjoy for eternity the association of loved ones and of the Saints who have confessed, both in their lives and with their tongues, that Jesus is the Christ. And O may God grant that not one of us may be lost, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A letter to President Joseph F. Smith, from the Presidency of Alberta Stake, was read by Elder Heber J. Grant, in which it was stated that the Cardston choir had been honored with an invitation to sing at the Dry Farming Congress meetings in Lethbridge. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Junius Romuey. 


