Overflow
06 10 1912 

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, Oct. 6th, 1912. The services were presided over by Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

The Seventeenth ward choir, under direction of James H. Neilson, rendered the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

A poor wayfaring man of grief 

Hath often crossed me on the way, 

Who sued so humbly for relief That I could never answer, Nay. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Ferdinand F. Hintze. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Oh, happy is the man who hears Instruction's warning voice! 

And who celestial wisdom makes His early, only choice. 

ELDER LEWIS ANDERSON. 

(President of South Sanpete Stake.) 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of attending this conference, for the opportunity of association with you, and for the privilege of hearing the splendid instructions that have been given unto us in the sessions of this conference. This morning, while I address you for a few moments, I greatly desire that I may have the Spirit of the Lord to suggest unto me something that may be of value to those that have assembled here, and that I may have your faith and prayers to this end. 

I am very grateful for . a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that He has revealed unto us in this dispensation the fulness of the everlasting gospel, with all its ordinances and blessings. The Church has been greatly prospered and blessed, in that so great a multitude of people have been brought together in these mountain vales, and for the prosperity of the work of the Lord, which bears testimony unto us that the Lord has answered the wishes of His servants, and the predictions of his Prophets have come to pass in these latter days. It is but a short time since the Lord spoke from the heavens unto his servant the Prophet Joseph, and revealed unto him the things that He was about to accomplish in the earth; and through him the gospel in its fulness, with all its gifts and blessings, has been bestowed upon thousands of the children of men in the earth. The predictions of His servants have been verified, which is a great testimony unto us; part of that fulfillment we see here today in the great gatherings that are now in session in this conference. 

We have been partakers of the blessings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have yielded obedience to the first principles thereof, having faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in God, the Eternal Father, having repented of our sins, showing that we desired to come near unto the Father; and we have received the ordinance of baptism for the remission of our sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift -of the Holy Ghost. We have also participated in all other blessings that have been given unto the Saints. I believe that there is a unanimous feeling among our people that these principles are essential unto salvation, that it needs be that we yield obedience to them in order to enter into the kingdom of our Father, that we might become members of the Church of Christ. We are united, I believe, in regard to all the principles and ordinances of the gospel that have been revealed. Naturally we feel that there is much that is required of us as Latter-day Saints, after receiving all these blessings, the living according to gospel laws, living up to these principles in our every day life. 

We covenant with God, our Heavenly Father, that we will do 

His will, that we will keep the commandments that He has given unto us, and by reason of yielding obedience to these requirements it is expected of us that our lives will conform to the principles revealed from heaven, not only outward ordinances, but in all the labors and duties that devolve upon us, and that are made known unto us from day to day by the servants of the Lord. Honorable lives ought to be led by 'us, absolute honesty with our fellow men, with all the world, that our light may thus shine forth to the inhabitants of the earth that they may really see our good works and glorify our Father. In these things, my brethren and sisters; living every day acording to the gospel, speaks volumes and is more impressive than word can tell. Performing our duties, whether home or abroad, preaching the gospel, delivering the message we have received to those that do not know nor understand the things of the Lord, these duties rest upon us as Latterday Saints. Also the building up of the Church of Christ at home— and how can this be done? It can be done by our good works, in remembering our tithes and our offerings unto the Lord, that we might be like unto Jacob of old, when he made ' a covenant with the Lord that, if He would pour out His blessings upon him, he would give unto Him that which belonged to Him, even one-tenth of all that the Lord should bless him with. We as Latter-day Saints should observe fully this command of the Lord, this revelation given unto us in these the latter days, that it be not a halfhearted deceiving of ourselves and the Lord, by reason of our unfaithfulness in this particular. 

The duties of Latter-day Saints  laboring for the betterment of mankind at home in our stakes of Zion, in the wards thereof, performing our duties as Latter-day Saints, servants and hand maidens of the Lord, that our lives may be clean, upright, and honorable before God and all men. To observe and keep holy the Sabbath day is enjoined upon us. I am sorry to say that there are those that profess to be Latter-day Saints who do not faithfully observe this command of the Lord, in gathering to the house of worship upon that day and holding sacred that which the Lord has commanded us to do. I feel that, unless we more strictly observe this duty, the Spirit of the Lord will in a great measure withdraw from us. When we fail to offer prayers unto our Father in Heaven, in the house of God and in our homes the Spirit of the Lord will be withdrawn, and a spirit of darkness come over us. 

I am persuaded that, unless we observe the commandments of the Lord, there is great danger of our losing His Spirit, and our minds consequently become darkened. We have found that, by reason of not observing these things in the time and season thereof, it leads to finding fault with those whom God has chosen to preside in the midst of His people, therefore we need to carefully observe all these commandments of the Lord. 

We also owe a great and important duty unto our kindred dead. The gospel of Jesus Christ is being preached not' only to the living but also to the dead, and it is a sacred duty of Latter-day Saints that they also perform the ordiances that are required to redeem the dead. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is not narrowed up to the few people who  obeyed it in life, but it extends to all the human family, to all of God's children that will accept its conditions in the spirit world. In this dispensation and time the Lord has graciously permitted us to rear temples wherein the ordinances necessary to the salvation of the dead may be attended to. I sometimes think that we do not fully appreciate all these blessings that we enjoy. 

I hope and pray that the spirit of the gospel of Christ may rest abundantly upon the Saints, that the spirit of temple work, may rest upon them, that they may diligently accomplish this work that is required at their hands, because, as the Scripture says, we cannot be made perfect without our ancestors, neither can they be made perfect without us. Therefore, this is a great responsibility that is resting upon us as Latter-day Saints. I contemplate with great pleasure and satisfaction what the Lord has done to open the way for His people to obtain their genealogies in the various lands of the earth, and in our glorious country, how that the Lord has moved upon the children of men to prepare the records of their kindred. It seems to me that this ought to be greatly appreciated by us. This spirit is manifest in all the nations of the earth, in every civilized land men are being moved upon to accomplished this work. We know and understand the great importance of this thing. We ought to be thankful for it, and while the day lasts we ought to be workers, because the time will come when no man can work along this line. Therefore, while it is today, it is our duty as well as our privilege to accomplish what we can for the salvation of our kindred dead, because we know that the Savior of the world laid the foundation of this work. We read of Him going to the spirit world, and preaching to the spirits that were in prison, those that were disobedient in times past, being given another opportunity to receive the Gospel message that He delivered to the living, and afterward delivered to the dead likewise. We know the reasons for these things. We know that this should be, because the dead will be judged just the same as the living, and we are privileged to do this glorious work for them vicariously. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, to ask the Lord to bless us to this end. May we do our full duty. May we uphold and sustain God's servants. I bear you my testimony that they are in the right place, and that they are inspired of Almighty God. I thank my Father in heaven for them, and may His blessing be upon us, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, my soul has been enlarged for the love of my fellow men through the teachings of our leaders during this conference, and it has been added upon with. the living word of the Lord, and a desire to serve Him and keep His commandments. 

In the remarks of President Smith, at the beginning of our conference, he made it clear to us that no untoward thing had come except it was designed for our experience and our good, that even when our people were driven from Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, as well as those that made an exodus from Mexico, it is for some purpose, to  the best good of the Saints at large. At first blush, we do not always recognize the hand of God in His providences in vicissitudes that come upon us; but when we look over the history of the nations, when we see the effect upon the lives of men in the generations that follow them, we can then determine more fully and more perfectly the influence that men have had, and the good that has come to the nations because of having wrought out their destiny. Apropos of this, we might look at ancient Israel. It was for their salvation, the salvation of the family of Jacob, that they were cabled down into Egypt. Again, it was for their salvation that they were called out, for doubtless in that land they would have become effeminate as the Egyptians have become effeminate. They would have followed after the fleshpots of Egypt that they hungered and yearned after when they were in the wilderness. It is the history of all nations who have lived in such countries as Egypt, and particularly in the low hot lands of any of the countries of the earth, that in time they have become effeminate, have lost their powers of resistance. They have become followers of pleasure rather than followers of God. They have become listless and indolent in their habits, instead of active and full of work. And so the Lord, with an outstretched arm and a strong hand, brought them out of Egypt into the mountains and plains of Palestine, where they might be taught the way of truth and righteousness. Those who knew the way of the Egyptians were permitted to die, or were kept at least in the wilderness until they died, and only the new generation, those who were possessed of new  and new habits and traditions were permitted to go to the promised land. 

From that people have come the most vigorous stock of all the world, a nation that has kept its race, its religion, its customs, through all time Though preyed upon by other nations, imprisoned and made slaves, a hiss and a by-word, scattered, driven and peeled, still for all that the Jew today is the Jew of David's time, and the Jew of the days of Jerusalem when it was the Holy City; and the doctrines which they were taught of sanitation, the doctrines in part of the gospel which would bring them as a schoolmaster to Christ, have kept them intact as a people until this day. The peoples who occupied the countries of Europe, who lived in the mountain sections have been the most indomitable in courage and in perseverence, and in maintaining and upholding human liberties. They have become the pioneers and explorers of the world. Little Switzerland, for 500 years surrounded by empires and kingdoms, preserved her indivduality and autonomy as a republic. From the hills of Sweden and Norway, and the vine-clad hills of Germany, even the chalk hills of little, sea-girt, England came the hardy peoples who have pioneered and explored the earth, and who have kept, more or less, their integrity, and their individuality, and their characteristics through all time so far as history accounts for them. 

So in this land of America, most of our great leaders have come from the uplands of New Hampshire, the Green Mountains of Vermont and the hills of Virginia. So we may well sing, as we did yesterday- — 

"For the strength of the hills we bless thee, 

Our God, our Fathers' God. Thou hast made thy children mighty By the touch of the mountain sod." 

This is in fulfillment of scripture. This is the destiny of the Latter-day Saints or modern Isreal, that they should come to these mountains, that in them and by them and through them, in part, they might partake of that same sturdy nature as the nations who have occupied the uplands and mountain plains of the old world, and who have got away from the low lands. And so today, I can see, my - brethren and sisters, the providences of God, in our people being called out from the low lands of Missouri and of Illinois and brought to these mountains, and too it was in fulfillment of scriptures. From reading some of the remarks of our early brethren in the Church, it appears they did not think that they were going away from Ohio, and when they had come to Far West, they felt that there was the boundary line and that our people were destined to build up the center stake of Zion, and not come into these mountains, and it was with aching hearts, and with tear dimmed eyes, and with lagging feet that many of them made their way across the great wilderness of the west to this land. I can understand how one of our pioneer sisters felt when she looked over this valley, which was then a sea of shimmering sage and salt — no place to rest the eye, no green to enliven the scene, but all a dead sage color, when she felt in her heart that she had been brought here to die, that she would rather have gone back and met mobocracy with all of its hate than to have sojourned here. But today we are made to rejoice, and the hills and the valleys sing because of us, and the fields pour forth of their fulness, and the deserts have blossomed, and in the wilderness spring's have broken forth. So Israel rejoices in the fact, and as one visitor said last week in our Congress here, "We rejoice in this incomparable city." Isaiah said "Beautiful for location is Mount Zion, situate upon the sides of the North. The joy of the whole earth is Zion." 

I want to read to you just a little from these scriptures to bear out my point that we came here not by accident. Nor is it merely an incident in our history, but it was the design of the Almighty that here might His children find a place of refuge and rest. David anciently declared : "Get thee up into the high mountains, thou that bring glad tidings and that publisheth peace." And Isaiah tells us : "Come, my people, into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee. Hide thyself, as it were, for a little moment, until the indignation be overpassed; for behold, the Lord cometh unto His people, to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain." 

If you will turn back to the early history of our Church, you will remember that immediately in the wake of our expatriation from Illinois, there came the four years of fratricidal strife when father fought against son, brother against brother, that terminated "in the death and -misery" of a million souls, and no 'end of property was destroyed. And it will be remembered that the contending bodies, those two great armies, came and made a camping ground and bivouac of the very  which our people inhabited, in Missouri and Illinois, especially in Missouri, and if any one will read the history of Missouri, he will see there the dread penalties they paid for the persecutions heaped upon the Saints of God in the forties and the latter part of the thirties of the last century. We did not understand it then, but how would it have been had we remained in that land? Would we have lost our individuality as a people, between the nether stone and the upper stone, the millstones of war and strife, of hatred, of plundering and guerilla warfare, when whole disaricts were plundered and houses burned, the only witness seeming to be the chimneys pointing as with a solitary finger to God, and asking for vengeance upon those who had despoiled the hearthstones of those once happy homes? But we were gathered here, and shut in the chambers of the mountains, as God ordained we should be, so many hundreds of years before, "till the indignation was overpassed," and the wicked and iniquitous of the earth had been made to suffer for their iniquity. 

Again, I want to say to you that we were to come here, for, Prophet as he was, David the King and sweet singer of Israel, foretold also the coming of Israel to this land, and sang in these words : 

"O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, and his mercy en'dureth forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy and gathered them out of the lands, from the east and from the west and from the north and from tha south." 

When Israel was brought out of Egypt they were not gathered from the east, nor out of the west, nor  the north; but they came up out of the land of the south, and so this does not apply to ancient Israel, as our ministerial friends of the world would have us believe. "He gathered them from the lands of the west, the north and the south. They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way," this Israel. "They found no cities to dwell in," and you remember ancient Israel found cities prepared for them. They overturned Jericho, and they even came in and occupied the Holy City itself, the place where David dwelt, the place where Melchisedek doubtless had reigned as king, when Abraham paid tithes to him. But this Israel "wandered in a solitary way," where there was no place prepared for them. "They found no city to dwell in, hungering and thirsty, their soul fainted in them." They were not fed by manna from heaven. The bitter waters were not made sweet for latter-day Israel, but they hungered and thirsted in their journey, and "they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses, and he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation." "O that men would praise the Lord, for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men." Again, he says : 

"O that men would praise the Lord for His goodness; let them exalt Him also in the congregation of the people and praise Him in the assembly of the elders. He turneth the wilderness into standing water and dry ground into water springs, and there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city of habitation, and sow the field, and plant the vineyards which may yield the fruit of increase. He blesseth them also so that they are multiplied greatly, and suffereth not their cattle to decrease." 

I want to read just a little further  Isaiah, along this same line: 

"The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them, and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and dancing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God." 

It was not to be Lebanon, nor was it to be Carmel or the plains of Sharon in Palestine that they should occupy, this latter-day Israel; but their country should be made fruitful as Sharon, and as rich as her plain, and as rich in its strength and beauty as Lebanon with its forests, or as Carmel with her richness. 

"Strengthen the weak hands," said Isaiah, "and confirm the feeble knees. Say to them that are of fearful heart, Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense. He will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb man shall sing, for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert; and the barren ground shall become a pool; and an highway shall be there, and it shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it shall be for those, the wayfaring man, though a fool, shall not err therein. No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast. The redeemed of the Lord shall walk there, and the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with songs of everlasting joy upon their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." 

Tsaiah goes on to tell of this latter-day Israel, saying: 

"Thy watchman shall lift up the voice, and with a voice together shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord shall bring again Zion," proving in this statement that a Zion was to be brought again. It was not the old Zion he was speaking of, but a Zion that was to be brought again when the watchmen should see eye to eye — discourse with the same testimony, preach the same gospel, tell of the same providences of God and should be united in their faith. That was to be the condition "when the Lord should bring again Zion." "Sorrow and sadness were to flee away," and there was to be heard therein the song of praise with the psalter and with the harp, and even with the dance. There should be heard also the voice of singing and of melody. These things are characteristic of our people, and go to prove what I said in the beginning, in quoting the President in the opening address of conference, that it is not by accident but by design, in fulfillment of prophecy and in the providences of our God that these things have come to us, which, at first blush, we look upon as an untoward ill; and if we can see His providences, should we not look upon it as an earnest for our future, and that we should not question the providence of God nor doubt His infinite love, remembering that we are just "as close to Him as any child to the nursing place," as one of the poets has said, and that He loves us, and counts us, and cares for us as he cares for the least of all His creatures, for He is a compassionate Father and is not unmindful of the least of His creatures. 

I have had much to build up my faith in the providences of the Lord in meeting with our people upon the borderland of Mexico, having been commissioned to assist in bringing them out of that republic, and it might do you a little good if you knew some of the proofs that I received that made me so proud of  people, a people whose interests are my interests and with whom my children are identified. I met some of them at the station as they came in from Mexico. I looked down into the afrighted eyes of little children, and could see that, despite the fact that it was their first visit to a modern city of electric lights, automobiles, street cars and all that is incident to the traffic and turmoil of a busy city, it did not wean them away from the fear, and the dread and the terror that was seen in their little eyes, as they lifted up their faces to greet friends who awaited them at the station. As I looked in the faces of the women I read the tale told by tears dried upon their cheeks as they drew their little ones to their breasts and hurried through the crowd, seeking shelter in this blessed land of liberty. I could tell just a little of the stress under which they labored; and when men stalked by, heedless of all things about them, silent, gaunt, and redeyed through w T atching, with lips split and blistered with the dust and winds of the mountains and plains — I could understand, I say, a little of the stress that had driven them out from that country. When I heard men, grown grey in the faith, men who have borne the burden in the heat of the day, men who have laid their all upon the altar of God, men who have spent thirty years and more in that land, for the sake of that people, and who love them as a man loves his firstborn, for that is the way that missionaries learn to love the people they labor among; and I heard men of that kind say that if they had not left that land there would have been bloodshed, I felt what they meant. It was not because they were afraid their lives would be taken, but they were  they would kill some Mexican. That was the proposition, and to keep their hands clean and unstained of blood they came out with their wives and children, and left all their possessions behind them. I sought the family of an elder in the mission field, and found his wife with her little ones, gathered together in one house of sixteen rooms, with 115 souls and not a curtain at a window, nor a blind, not a chair to sit upon, not a rug, not one thing for comfort, the little ones lying upon the bare floor, with a few blankets that the mothers were able to gather hastily about them when they made their exodus; and, when they greeted me, what do you think was the first thing they said to me — "Sing to us, Brother Robinson; sing 'We will go wher.e you want us to go, dear Lord." I couldn't sing for tears. But it was to me a new testimony of the integrity and the worth, the courage and devotion, the unbounded faith of the Latter-day Saints. Where else under the sun could you go and find a people who were driven and peeled as they were there, as some of you were when you were driven from Illinois, when you were scattered from Cottage Grove to Florence or Winter Quarters, as you called it ? — when, in the brief season you stayed in Florence, you had dug 600 graves, and yet you could say: 

"Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wend your way. Though hard to you this journey may appear 

Grace shall be as your day." 

And then add, in your refrain as you made your way over the dreary plain, unmarked save try the graves of those who had preceded you —  

"And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day, all is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow, too, 

With the just we shall dwell." 

And I heard them sing this song in the camps at El Paso and on the plains of Hachita in New Mexico, and Douglas, Arizona. I heard some of them singing this same hymn, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord," and "My Father knows how frail I am to meet my foes," and yet He gave them strength. These were the hymns they sang; these were the prayers they said, and this was the faith they exhibited. And does it not make one feel that his lot is cast with the best people of the earth, a God-fearing people, a people that trust God and question not His providences? It may be that modern Israel has been called out of Egypt for a purpose. For a purpose they went into Mexico. It may be now they are called out because the purpose for which our people went into Mexico was achieved. Now they have been given an opportunity, perchance, as ancient Israel was, to find better homes and to answer best the end of their creation and destiny, with an assurance and a success that may never have come to them in that land. 

I bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel. I bear testimony to the truthfulness of the testimony of our brethren who stand at the head of the Church. I bear testimony to the truth of God's word as revealed in ancient and in modern scriptures. My heart is made to exult in the fact that I am able to see in the promises that are vouchsafed to us, if we are but faithful and true, the glorious reward for which we seek. "Let us," my brethren and sisters, "keep the faith, finish the course, fight the good fight, and henceforth there is laid up for us a crown of righteousness, which God, the just judge, will give to all those that love Him and His appearance," which may it be our happy lot to realize, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The anthem, "Praise to God, immortal praise," was rendered by the choir, Jennie U. Davis and Jacob A. Van Dueren sang the duets. 

ELDEE BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I realize that the time is growing short, and there is another speaker to follow me, hence the necessity of being as brief as possible in the remarks that I may make. 

In this congregation, I see a number of young men who have labored under my direction as missionaries during the past fourteen and a half years, and I have received the consent of Brother Joseph F. Smith, Jr., who presides over this meeting, to call here to my side, if they are present in the congregation, Elders W. A. Casper and Ray Gardner. If those two young men are here I desire them to come forward at once, and stand by my side for a few moments. I want to introduce to you these two young men, and make a few remarks. (A young man came forward and stood beside the speaker.) This is Elder Ray Gardner; I suppose that Elder Casper is in the Tabernacle. 

These two young men that I have named have been very faithful missionaries, in the Eastern States Mission. From time to time we transferred them from one conference  another, and quite usually we allowed them to walk to their new fields of labor. A little over six months ago these two young men were transferred from the conference in which they were then laboring, in West Virginia, and were instructed to travel to Salt Lake City without purse or scrip, and to report to me at this conference. Six months ago yesterday, they took their grips, and set their faces toward the setting sun, and traveled toward Zion. They reached here yesterday. They made the journey on foot. They have made their reports to the Eastern States mission, like other missionaries do, once a week. They have preached the gospel, and sought food and shelter while on their way, and during that six months' traveling, without purse or scrip, ordering their literature from the mission headquarters, in New York City, they have slept out, or failed to receive entertainment only four nights. They have had occasion to spend less money in their travel homeward than they have done in any other portion of their missionary experience. Their missionary trail carried them to Kirtland, Ohio, to Nauvoo, and through other places where our fathers and mothers dwelt. They sought entertainment at the place where the .Prophet and Patriarch were murdered; and in all of those places they met with a hearty welcome. During these six months they have been energetic in preaching the gospel in the open air, and at the firesides of the people. They have been treated well. Of the thousands of missionaries that it has been my privilege to give an honorable release to, it is the first time that I have had the privilege of honorably releasing Elder's while here  a general conference. These young men are willing' to take their grips and go back again, and report once more in their former field of labor. I thought I would like you brethren and sisters to see a living evidence of the simple energy, the faithfulness, the enthusiasm that dwells, generally, in the heart of a missionary. The missionaries are willing, any of them, to do as these young men have done. Sometimes I have thought that if more of them were directed to travel homeward, as these two young men have done, it would help to scatter the seeds of the gospel, and create even more energy in the hearts of the young men of Zion, and thus more might be accomplished in spreading a knowledge of the gospel that has done so much for us. 

In listening to the words of President Robinson, I was reminded of the gospel sermons that were given in the missionary field, and that were common in the early days of this Church, when the Elders in the Church opened the scriptures and spoke of this great latter-day work as simply being the fulfillment of what God has declared through the mouths of His servants who have lived in different dispensations of this world's history. I was specially interested from the fact that, in the missionary labors of Brother Robinson, I have learned to love him for his integrity, for the great work that he is accomplishing in the missionary field, and for the good that I myself have witnessed he has done among great and prominent men with whom he has labored. I have heard him preach when the Spirit of God has thrilled my system, and every fiber felt the testimony that God is with Elder Robinson when he bears witness to  work that God Almighty is doing in the day and age in which we live. 

It has been my privilege, recently, to have a remarkaDle experience, one that I have often dreamed might come to me, but it has always appeared to me to be among the impossibilities. Within the last three months, I have had the privilege of visiting my old field of labor, where I labored in the midland counties of England as a boy missionary, places where I was mobbed. I have had the chance of holding open air meetings, and speaking to thousands, not only in open air meetings but in hall meetings. I have had the privilege, recently also, of speaking in the open air upon the soil from which my grandmother came. I have stood in Dublin, Ireland, with a minister forty feet away holding an anti-" Mormon" meeting, and felt to rejoice that the Spirit of God moved upon the parents of Nancy O'Neil, and brought them to this land, where she became acquainted with the principles of the gospel. One of the individuals at that meeting, filled with rage, shook his fist in my face and said I had no right there. I asked the crowd to show me the color of an Irishman's hair who would say that a grandson of Nancy O'Neil had no right to speak upon the old sod. One fellow yelled out, and said : "Let him alone, he has got a good Irish tongue in his head;" and I made friends. I felt the spirit of my old missionary days as I spoke in the streets of Glasgow, Scotland, and in London, and as I continued my journey down through France, and met with the Saints of the Swiss and German Mission. I felt there, although they could not understand me, only by means of an interpreter, that the Spirit of God burned in the breasts of all nationalities when they are baptized into our faith, serving one Lord, receiving one baptism. 

It was my privilege to visit Rome, and as I stood in the ruins of the Coliseum, I remembered the history of the faithful former-day Saints who, refusing to deny the faith, stood there in the arena where the Romans opened the cages of the wild beasts that had purposely been starved for several days, and turned them loose upon those Christians who would not deny the faith. As I looked upon the ruins of that ancient city, I could perceive that the wrath of God had been poured forth upon that nation who had caused His saints to suffer so much, and who had, under their laws, crucified the Redeemer of mankind. I wondered if the blood of the proud Romans could be found now in the places where, so few centuries ago, it was said "To be a Roman isgreater than to be a king." You have to search today among the lowest of "dagos" to find the blood of the proud Roman. I felt in my heart that it is not a prosperous thing to disobey or to fight against God Almighty. I went farther south, and walked for hours through the streets of the City of Pompeii that, on account of wickedness, had been covered up by a terrible catastrophe, 79 years after Christ. But twothirds of it is yet excavated. When I looked at the beautiful streets, and saw the grooves that had been worn in the rocks by the wheels of the vehicles, and looked upon the beautiful pictures upon the walls, and noted the wonderful manner in which the colors had been preserved, then again I thought, here is another city that has suffered the wrath of God. 

When I listened to the words of President Robinson, concerning the trials and tribulations that the mothers and children, and men have passed through in Mexico, and thought of the trials of our fathers and mothers in coming here, I wondered in my soul if there was one person in this congregation that would not be willing to do anything, suffer anything, to perpetuate the faith of these great men and women, who were our fathers and mothers, and who brought us here to this goodly land. 

I pray God Almighty to bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Edna Crowther, and the choir, sang the hymn : 

School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm, impulsive soul: 

Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. 

ELDER ANDREW KIMBALL. 

(President of St. Joseph Stake.) 

As the closest neighbor of Old Mexico, the Latter-day Saint people and those not of our faith, in the St. Joseph Stake of Zion have had considerable to do with our refugee brethren and sisters from that unfortunate country. Immediately upon receiving word from President Smith concerning the distress of our people, we invited the committee to send as many as they desired into our stake, and we would take care of them. Within a few hours, our Bishops, through trie acting teachers, ascertained that we could take care of a thousand of the people throughout the stake, if necessary, and they would be entertained in our homes. On the arrival of those unfortunate people- in our stake, they were immediately taken care of  provided with the necessary comforts of life. Not satisfied with this, for we knew that it would cost a great deal to keep them, and pay for their transportation, we immediately telegraphed our Congressmen from Arizona, and urged that they should get an appropriation from the government to assist us. Accordingly, aided by the Utah Senators, the Arizona Senators and Representatives succeeded in getting an appropriation of one hundred thousand dollars from the United States government to pay for the transportation of these good people to wherever they desired to go. A little later, we appealed to our Congressmen, and they secured the privilege of setting aside twenty thousand dollars of the one hundred thousand for the maintenance "of these people, and a little later they sent us some tents from the government quarters at Hachita. An officer of the United States government is now visiting from house to house among these refugees, and serving them with the necessary comforts of life. 

We have thought much of how conditions have changed. Once, many years ago, a President of the U. S., when appealed to by our people, said to the Prophet Joseph Smith and his followers, "Your cause is just, but I can do nothing for you." Today the whole Congress of the United States has been warmed up in feelings of sympathy for the "Mormon" refugees from Mexico. Representative Howell has told me that it was no difficulty to get the appropritation, we could get almost anything we wanted for the benefit of that people. The Governor of Arizona wrote to me, and sent a nice liberal contribution, and said. "Mr. Kimball, we are ready  help you in any way. I guarantee to you the influence that I have as the Executive of this State for anything that you desire us to do. I will issue a proclamation if you desire it." I thanked him kindly, and said we would endeavor to take care of our own people. He renewed the same offer later. Many who are not Latter-day Saints offered assistance. We have done the work almost entirely, with other than those means furnished by the government, in entertaining and looking after our people. Senator Ashworth wrote to me from Washington, and said, "Mr. Kimball, the example your people have shown is the strongest representation of magnanimity, of generosity and of hospitality that I have ever seen, it is an example to our state and nation, and to the world." 

I have thought of a scripture statement ebneering the interview between Ruth and Naomi, on the occasion of Ruth's separation from her mother in law, when she said: "Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest I will go, and whither thou lodgest I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God." The exemplification of this sentiment, this beautiful, sweet kindred spirit, is one of the strongest testimonies of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which inculcates the principles of brotherly love and kindness to each other. I wanted to call the attentation of this conference to this. President Smith and President Lyman have recommended that the refugees from Mexico shall now scatter among the various stakes of Zion. I recommend and hope the brethren and sisters throughout the various stakes of Zion will take this principle to heart, and let these people move into your stakes of Zion, while they yet have the means with which to move. It costs something to move from Mexico to the North, and now that they have the means that was appropriated for that purpose, we hope you will open your doors to them. We cannot take care of all these people in Arizona for a great length of time, and it is not wholesome for them to be idle. In our agricultural districts the harvest season is nearly over, and there will be nothing for them to do. Winter is approaching, and I beg of you, brethren and sisters throughout the Church, that you now open up your homes to those unfortunate refugees, and that you write about this to the President of that stake, or to me, as we have a great many under our supervision at this time. Let us send some of these afflicted families to you that they may be absorbed in the Church, and not want for the comforts and necessaries of life. I mention this to you who are assembled here, not that we do not want to entertain them longer, but it is not proper for so many of them to be together without employment, they sympathize with each other, and look back to their deserted homes. It would make you sad to look upon the pictures we have seen in the last two or three months, in consequence of the terrible disaster that has come to them. 

One of those good brethren, who has spent 15 years of his life in endeavoring to proclaim the gospel and bring the Mexican people to a knowledge of the truth, who was well established in his home and could ill afford to leave it, was telling me how two of those rebles came into his home, and with a revolver pointed at. his body, told  to open up his house and show them the treasures of his home. This good brother went with them through the eight rooms of his house, and they ransacked everything. They found a trunk, the key of which his wife had carried away, and they were about to murder him because he could not open that trunk, they then brought an ax and chopped it open, and took therefrom the hard earned savings of this good family, $500.00. 

When the first train load of these people came into our stake, we took them down to the meeting house, and distributed them among the people. I took one family to my home, and they stayed there and ate at my table for several days, and then I procured a tent and fixed them comfortably in my house yard. I just mention this one circumstance which is only one out of hundreds. There was in the neighborhood of four thousand of these people, who were comfortably situated; they had fine homes. We are almost ashamed to think that many of us in the United States, with the advantages that we have, are not surrounded with the comforts that these good people had in that foreign country, because of their industry and thrift. The family that came to my home had left 130 acres of well tilled and cultivated land; the good wife was making cheese and realizing 25 cents a pound for it. Her butter was bringing one dollar a pound in Mexican money, (50 cents in our money,) and they had their chickens and orchard and every comfort that they could enjoy. This family had grown up from childhood in the Southern States, and 17 years ago had gone from there to Mexico. I have seen that good, sweet woman go out in the garden, and weep bit. They had left a home that had been very sacred to them, made so by 17 years of hard work, and all the associations that home could give, and they possessed every comfort that they could desire, and suddenly, within a few moments, they picked up what they could throw into a trunk, and away they went, leaving everything else behind, a big drove of chickens, about 20 splendid milch cows, a waving field of grain, their garden and everything.' They had to come to a condition of absolute dependence. In many instances those good people, in answer to our questions: "Why is it we don't see you in our meetings?" have said, "We haven't clothes fit to appear in the society of our brethren and sisters in Thatcher." We appealed to our Relief Society, and they have made clothing for them. The most of these people are still in El Paso, Texas, others in the field of President Robinson's mission, and in our country, the St. Joseph Stake of Zion, and in the Maracopa Stake of Zion. 

Now, brethren and sisters, these people ought, by all means, to remove to the North. Many of them come from an altitude of 6500 feet, where they dressed in warm clothing, as you do today, and they came down into our valley where it is very warm, and suffered there by reason of the heat. They ought, by all means, to be brought into the North. Do not be afraid of hurting them by inviting them to Canada, as suggested by Elder W oods in his letter yesterday. Do not be afraid of inviting them to Idaho, or any other locality, for they can accommodate themselves to whatever climate or condition they locate in. Open up your hearts and feelings, brethren and sisters, and let us ab the people of this disorganized Stake of Zion amongst us, that they shall have employment, and be made to feel that they are not dependent, and God will bless you for it. Remember the splendid principle suggested in the conversation between Ruth and Naomi, "for thy people shall be my people, and your God my God." 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, with the splendid feeling of fellowship and love that is exemplified in the discoures at this conference. May the influence thereof sink deep in our hearts, that we may be instruments in the hands of God in perpetuating the principles of brotherly love and fellowship to all humanity, that the world may with us, glorify God for bringing to pass this great work and a wonder in the last days, and this I ask in the name of Jesus 'Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JK. 

Prophecies fulfilled in Saints locating in the Rocky Mountain region. 

I trust that our brethren and sisters will bear with us for just a moment longer. 

I have been pleased with the testimonies of the brethren. I desire to add one quotation in connection with that which was given by Brother Robinson, concerning the gathering of the Latter-day Saints in these valleys of the Rocky Mountains. The Lord says : 

"Wherefore, be not deceived, but continue in steadfastness, looking forth for the heavens to be shaken, and the earth to tremble and to reel to and fro as a drunken man. for the valleys to be exalted, and for the mountains to be made low, and for the rough places to become smooth; and all this when the angel shall sound his trump. But before the great day of the Lord shall come, Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall blossom as the rose . Zion shall flourish upon the hills and rejoice upon the mountains, and shall be assembled together unto the place which I have appointed." 

In my travels among the people, I have seen, in part at least, the fulfillment of the words of the Lord. I have seen where the water has been increased, where the deserts have been made to blossom; pools of water have sprung forth, and barren places had become fruitful fields. This has been through the activity and industry of the Latterday Saints and the blessings of the Lord which have attended them. I feel that we should honor the Lord, and sing praises unto him, be true and faithful to our covenants, honor the priesthood, love the Lord our God. and seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, giving him all the honor the praise and the glory for the blessings he has poured out upon us as Latter-day Saints; for they are many, and will be continued, as we know, from day to day if we are faithful. The Lord will bless us abundantly, granting us all things we need, and in His own due time rightousness shall prevail upon the earth, truth spread among the people, wickedness shall not be found,and the righteous shall inherit the earth. May we go home from the Conference with renewed energy and determination to serve the Lord, which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Tames H. Neilson, and choir, sang the hymn : 

O Zion, when I think of thee, I long for pinions like the dove. 

And mourn to think that I should be So distant from the land I love. 

The music for all the pieces rendered during the service was composed by Prof. J. J. McClellan. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Rea Gardner. 


