Overflow
08 04 1922

An overflow meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 o'clock, Sunday morning, April 9, 1922. 

Elder Charles A. Callis, president of the Southern States mission, presided. 

The music and singing were furnished by the Richards and WaterGENERAL CONFERENCE  combined choirs, Granite stake of Zion, and by a string quintette, Lon Fisher and Arthur McFarland, conductors. Members of the quintette are; Thorwald Jorgensen, W. N. Morris, Murray Snow, A. H. Kirschner, and Oge Jorgensen. Professor E. P. Kimball, organist. 

The combined choir sang the anthem, "The Lord of Heaven," solo parts by Mrs. Minnie Eckard and Mrs. Nettie Swortwood. 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Hyrum L. Nelson. 

The combined choir sang the anthem, "Heavenly Father," so'o parts by Joseph Kjar, Ruby Childs, and Agnes M. Bolto. 

ELDER JAMES W. FUNK 

(President of the Benson Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and Sisters, I have rejoiced in the proceedings of this conference thus far, and after the next few moments, I am sure I shall rejoice in the remainder of the proceedings. In the midst of my surprise at being called upon, and in the fact that I had never thought that it should fall to my lot to be called upon, I trust that you will bear with me, my brethren and sisters, and that the testimony which I may express may find a response in your hearts, and that we may have occasion to rejoice together, feeling that God is blessing us as He has blessed us in the past, in the worthy work in which we are engaged. We are truly grateful for the opportunities we have of drawing near unto the Lord through our service in His cause, because He said, that if we will draw near unto Him He will draw near unto us. And I am sure the experience of every Latter-day Saint will confirm that statement of the Lord, that every Latter-day Saint who is in His service are, in their humility, drawn near unto Him. It is inevitable that, under such circumstances, the Lord will draw near unto us. It is the only way of approach to the Lord and to receive the blessings of His Spirit, which brings consolation and peace and happiness. For, after all, I think little genuine happiness comes to us and permanently remains with us, except that it be through the Spirit of the Lord, and that sweet influence that comes with association with the Spirit of the Lord. No other organization, perhaps, in the world affords to its members opportunity for individual effort, and the privilege of drawing near unto the Lord by service, as does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Every member of the Church has an opportunity to show faith in the principles of the gospel which they have espoused, to show forth faith in God and in His goodness and mercy, by their obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Not only that, but he has opportunity to show faith in his willingness to lend a helping hand to his fellow man, and in his desire to be of service in this great dispensation of the fulness of times. I am sure that those who have had experience in the work of the Lord will 105  testimony to this fact, that it is a wonderful work and that wonderful blessings follow those who put their heart into it. 

I come from Benson stake, as was announced; and perhaps some of you are inquiring where the Benson stake is. It is not a new stake, having been taken from a part of the Cache stake, in the year 1901, if I remember correctly the year. It is composed of the northern part of Cache county, and was named in honor of Elder Ezra T. Benson of the Council of the Twelve at one time, and who resided in Logan, in the Cache stake, from which Benson stake was taken. Cache stake was divided into four stakes. The work is growing there, my brethren and sisters, as it is growing in other parts of the vineyard of the Lord. This is a day of financial distress, which some of us are inclined to call hard times and in fact they are hard times. I sometimes believe, however, that hard times are more a matter of mental attitude than of actual conditions. 

It is hard times because in times of plenty, and a particularly easy money market, some of us indulged in the things that we would like to avoid, and which we thought, by reason of our prospects, we were entitled to; hard times because, in great measure we ignored the counsels that were given us, from time to time, by those who' had been called to preside over us. In the face of these conditions, I feel that the people of the Church have drawn nearer unto the Lord than they have done in many years past, and sometimes I have rejocied that conditions have so shaped themseves that we are inclined to 1 turn toward the Lord, and that we are more inclined to turn toward religion, and to be more neighborly, and more sympathetic to our 1 brethren and sisters than we have been before. 

As a result of the conditions that I have mentioned, I feel that the Latter-day Saints are drawing nearer to the Lord today than they have drawp before in years past; and the Lord is making good His promise to draw near unto the people. 

My brethren and sisters, I know that we are engaged in the work of the Lord; that this gospel which has been restored to the earth in these the last days is the plan of life and salvation to those who believe and do; that the line of succession from the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Prophet and President, Heber J. Grant, has been unbroken; that the truth which was established in the earth with the restoration of the gospel remains upon the earth; that those who preside over the Church have that same authority that was conferred upon Joseph Smith; and that we as a people will be saved and exalted just in proportion to our obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel as promulgated from time to time by the mouthpiece of God upon the earth, and his associates. 

May God bless us as Latter-day Saints, and the people of the world generally. May He draw, us near unto Him at all times, is my prayer, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER HUGH B. BROWN 

(President of the Lethbridge Stake of Zion.) 

I have been shivering ever since I left Canada, and I will be glad to get back there, where I can get warm again. I have shivered more since I came into this building than before. 

The Lethbridge stake, brethren and sisters, comprises the whole of the north end of the world (laughter.) The southern boundary of the Lethbridge stake is fifteen miles north of the international boundary line, between Canada and the United States. I think the northern boundary of our stake is, perhaps, the southern boundary of South America. We have a very large stake, geographically speaking; and I believe, if we were able to discover all of our people there, we would have the largest stake in the Church, numerically speaking, because I believe we have in our stake the Ten Tribes. They are up there somewhere, although we haven't found them yet. I received a letter the other day from some member of the Church, asking me to go up into the Peace river country, and organize a branch there. That is about 600 miles north of Lethbridge, and Lethbridge is about 700 miles north of Salt Lake City. We have nine wards and eleven branches in the new stake (Lethbridge), and we have some splendid people. 

I rejoice in this great work. I thank the Lord for the opportunity of working in this cause. I have come to/ realize, in the last few years, that men sometimes place high values on things that are not really worth while. Sometimes we are found chasing bubbles. 

If you will pardon me, I will refer to a personal experience that I had during the late war. It appealed to me more than anything else I ever had in my life — some things that are really worth while. I had taken a few years in school, in Canada, preparing for military work, at the request of the president of the stake; and at the outbreak of the war I held a commission in the Canadian army, and it became my duty to put on a uniform, and go and do what little I could during the war. And I had the opportunity of serving, in a weak way, for a little over three years, and during that time I had the opportunity of preaching the gospel of Christ more than I had during my missionary experience in England, some seventeen years ago. And while I was in uniform, I had the oportunity of extending a helping hand to some of our boys. Quite a number of Latter-dav Saint boys went from southern Lethbridge, from our stake there, and some of them did not return. And upon several occasions, while I was in England and France, appeals came to me from some of the boys who had been wounded who were sick in the hospital, asking me to intercede for them with officers higher up to make an appeal, if need be, to His Majesty, the King, asking that they might be returned home while they were convalescing; asking, perhaps, that they might have leave of absence. And on 107  occasions it was my privilege to intercede for the boys and to get favors for them. When in London, one morning, I received a message that some boy wanted to see me in the hospital; and immediately I thought, here is another boy who would like to return to his mother, who perhaps is asking me to intercede for him with the powers higher up, by reason of the authority that I held as an officer in the army. And as I went in response to that call to the hospital referred to, I believed that I felt just a little pride in my heart because I had the honor of wearing the uniform; and as I went down to that hospital I believe that my head was working, feeling that I was going in to do a favor to one of my brethren, by virtue of the fact that I held the right to ask for a favor, perhaps, for him from the king. With this feeling I went into the hospital, and -as I was ushered into the little ward where that boy was sick, with a feeble hand he reached out and said, Brother Brown, I sent for you to come and administer to me; I'm afraid I'm going to die, and I want you to ask God to spare my life that I can return home to my mother. Upon, that occasion it seemed to me my uniform fell from me. All the pride that I had felt in standing in that uniform of the king vanished. And at that moment I was made to realize, that there is an authority, there is a power inestimably greater than any authority or power that can be given by man. And as I laid my hands upon the head of that boy, I interceded for him, not, with the king of England, not with any man, and not by virtue of my authority as an officer in that army. But as I laid my hands upon his head, I said, "In the name of Jesus Christ, and by authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood." 

Brethren and sisters, I came to realize that the most valuable thing in this world is the Priesthood of God, the right tot speak and to act in the name of God. And as I stood there, as it were clasping hands with that boy and his Maker, by virtue of the Priesthood that had been given unto me, I forgot any honor that had come to me in tht army. And as I knelt at his bedside, my prayer to God was, that never again in my life would I be found seeking the honors of men, that I would remember that the things that are really worth while in this life come to us through the gospel of Jesu3 Christ. 

I thank the Lord for that experience, my brethren and sisters. I bear you my testimony that I know that this work is true. That time, after a vear "over there," when I came and endeavored to raise my voice in defense of this work, I had the joy, the satisfaction, the consolation of testifying to the men of the world, that here in the west there were a people who were living clean lives, who were obeying the commandments of God. 

I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart for the work and' the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I thank the Lord for the testimony that I have as to the mission of Brigham Younp". the mission of Lorenzo Snow, of John Taylor, of Wilford Woodruff, of Joseph F'. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Smith; and I thank the Lord, from the bottom of my heart, for the mission and the life of Heber J. Grant today. I don't want to be classed among the poeple of whom it was said, "You build altars to dead prophets, and you hate the living." I honor today men whom God has called. I pray you, brethren and sisters, to sustain and support these men, for they are ordained of God. 

I hope w,e look upon men from a deeper experience, and judge them by that. God looketh upon the heart. He looks into the hearts of these men, and he has honored them, and called them to lead this people. The Lord makes no mistakes. Let us support these men; let us rally round them; let us let them know that we support them. And let us not be found questioning the wisdom of God in any choice that He makes. Remember what He said to Samuel, when he went down to anoint a king of Israel. When the oldest son of Jesse came up, he said: Why, this is the man; look at him; just a fine looking fellow, he should be king. But the Lord, said Samuel, did not look upon the outward appearance; God looketh upon the heart. Brethren and sisters, let us remember, let us try to do that. But remember that God alone possesses the perfect power to look into the hearts of men; and He has chosen these men. May we never be found chasing bubbles. May we get the real value fixed in reference to these men. Let us go for those things that are really worth while in life. 

Let us pray God for the spirit of humility and meekness. Let us keep clean, doing the right as God has given us light to see it, and to do your duty. Let us have the courage of our conviction. This work is strong, and it will continue to grow. It must go on. The good ship Zion has set sail, and if any man wishes to jump overboard, he must take the consequence. The good ship will go on. God help us to remember that, and to be true to our covenants, true to the trust that has been given to us, and always found in the line of duty, so that when the call comes, as it came to me on that occasion — the call to duty, we will be worthy and ready to respond. Amen. 

ELDER LEWIS R. ANDERSON 

(President of the North Sanpete Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, if I did not have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I do not think that I would have the courage to face this audience at this time. But I feel I know that I am in the house of my friends, associated with my brethren and sisters in this great work in which we are engaged, and that their love and faith and sympathy go out to one who is placed in this responsible position. I had not dreamed of being called to address you here today. But I have learned in my experience in the work of the Lord to go where I am sent, and I would rather be where I am at this time than any place on earth, because I have been called to be here. 109 

I remember, more than twenty years ago, I received a letter of inquiry, asking" if I would accept a mission. It came from President Wilford Woodruff, and after I had answered that I would be pleased to accept a mission, if I was thought worthy of it, I remember that I hoped that when the call came it would not be to the Southern States. I had considerable prejudice in my heart against the people of those states, because so many of our elders had been mobbed and mistreated in that section. And so I hoped in my heart that I would be sent to some other part of the world. But when my call came, it read to the Southern States mission. And when I got to the headquarters of that mission, I was assigned to the middle Tennessee conference, and I expected then that I would next be assigned to labor in Lewis county, Tenn., where our brethren, Gibbs and Berry, as you remember, were killed. But I came to know the Southern people and to appreciate their worth, to love the people with whom I had been called to work. And, like all missionaries who enjoy their mission and get the spirit of their office and calling, I felt that I would rather be working in the Southern States than in any other' mission in the world. 

I have been imbued with the spirit of this conference. It has been a conference of the foundation of things — getting back to normalcy, and I appreciate it. The instruction that we have received from President Grant, and the other speakers of this conference, have been by the inspiration of the Lord Jesus Christ, and have treated of repentance, of integrity, dependability, thrift — things which go to make up a true life. 

I was impressed with a remark that was made by President Rudger Clawson, in the talk he gave upon the Bible, admonishing us to* study it; for, said he, if we study it and get a good hold of it, it is equal to a college! education, because it treats of every phase of hum^an nature, and it contains some of the most beautiful literature that was ever penned. And I thought of our great President of this nation, Abraham Lincoln, and the books that he had. He had the Bible, and was a close student of it. He also had, we are told, the life of George Washington, and also had access, I believe, to Aesop's Fables, Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and possibly one or two other books. Now Abraham Lincoln undoubtedly was a learned man. These books which he had access to contain the fundamental things, and they were ground into his soul, and made him great. And sometimes I think that is one of the things that is the matter with us in these troublous times, that we do not hold to, and have not had ground into' ouc souls, the fundamental things. 

Up at the University the other day, as has been said, we listened? to a very notable address by Dr. Carver, Professor of Political Economy in H-fvard University. And in one of his comparisons, he likened the ho-rs'. hrifty community with one that was dishonest and unGENERAL CONFERENCE; and the thought came to me there, that if all the bad people — unthrifty, dishonest — were put together in one place where they could not take advantage and deceive the good people, they would have about all the hell that they are entitled to. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the gospel, and in all the principles thereof, and, as President Brown has said, I trust that we will give every loyal support in every way to those who were placed over us to lead and to guide us at this time. In that remarkable address of president Ivins, the other day, he pointed out to us in a very clear manner, the administrations of the respective prophets who have presided over us since the organization of the Church, and that each had his special work to perform. Now it is up to us. President Grant is our Prophet. We have our problems to solve. We love and appreciate the brethren, those in authority who have gone before; but this is our day, let us make the best of it. Let us give full support to the living prophets, and may we be able to do so with all our might, mind and strength, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The combined choir sang the anthem, "The nations bow to Satan's thrall," solo parts by Mrs. Josephine Brower and August Glissmeyer. 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

(President of the Northern States Mission) How wonderful is the gospel of Jesus Christ! When I say this I refer, not to the religions of the world as we find them, but to the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, as it is found in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — the gospel as it was given to us, the children of our Father, with the grave responsibility of bearing its glad message to all the world. In it, I see not only a religion for Sunday, which merely brings us together in our place of worship for the purpose of singing the praises of our Maker, and listening to the words of advice and counsel, but I see in it a religion suited to the weakest and the strongest, to the unlearned and the most profound student, to the wisest of us all, and yet adapted to the needs of every boy and girl. I see in it a force that fits you and me for every walk of life. I see in the working of the great Church, which God has commissioned to teach this gospel, a vital interest in the spiritual and temporal welfare of every one of its members. 

I have rejoiced during this conference to hear divinely commissioned servants of the Lord admonish the Latter-day Saints in temporal affairs. I have rejoiced in the counsel of President Grant, that the Saints should rally in the support of the institutions of Zion to the fullest of their capacity; build them up and strengthen them, that there might be means all through the land to carry on the great work, and fill the mission that the Church has. When we realize that we must buy many things from the outside and ponder the fact that every cent we pay for these things, of necessity, must go to the outside, shall we not support home institutions; buy the things that can be made here and that can be grown here, so that every dollar that these products bring may remain at home to build up the institutions that are ours and in turn enrich us as a people? 

I believe God inspired Wilford Woodruff to back the great sugar industry with the credit of the Church; and I believe that in these trying times, when the men at the head of the Church have placed the resources of this people back of these great institutions, it has been done with one thought only, and that thought is, that the institutions that have made us prosperous shall be preserved to the people here at home, and shall not fall into the hands of capitalists not interested in us. 

I have listened to criticisms of the policy of the Church in these matters, and I am free to say, that I have, in each and every case, expressed my opinion that at this time the Saints dare not resort to any criticism,, lest they lose their faith. Criticism of the men God sustains is the beginning of the loss of faith, and the children of our Father who have been called from all the nations of the earth to love and rejoice in all the wonderful blessings of the gospel, should realize that these men have, deep in their hearts, the interests of every one of us. 

I wish every one of you could have come into close contact with President Grant in the trying times that we have been passing through, when it looked as if our great industries might go to the wall. He was in my home in Chicago, in the mission home, weighed down with worry and trouble — not personal trouble, but anxiety for the interests of the people God has called him to preside over; and I believe that if every true Latter-day Saint realized what President Grant went through for the people, in trying to save their interests for them, they would be more loyal to the work of God and to his divinely appointed servants than they have been in the past. I hope and pray that the Saints will consider this matter and will awaken to the realization that this difficulty has been met largely by the work of the man that God sustains as President of His Church upon the earth, and that he should be sustained by every member of the Church. 

What does the gospel mean to you? What does the Church mean to you ? Is it merely an opportunity that you have of mingling together socially, in coming out and studying in the various organizations and auxiliary associations the outlines that are placed before you? Does it mean merely an opportuntiy for you to get forward in the world? If it does, then you have failed to grasp the great mission and the wonderful message and power of the gospel of GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Jesus Christ. It is, my brethren and sisters, not for our spirits only, but for our bodies. It is not for time only, but for all eternity. It did not begin for you and me when we came here to receive it, but it began when time began, and it will continue through all the ages. The gospel of Jesus Christ was and is planned for the eternal salvation and exaltation of His children, a scheme that was devised in the heavens, a plan that was laid down with definite laws, with commandments, with ordinances that we must hearken unto and to which obedience must be rendered, if we will have the blessings that this gospel promises. 

God has made us free, has placed us here on earth to live our lives just exactly as we want to live them. This gospel of Jesus Christ is the perfect law of liberty, and no man, be he weak or be he strong, is forced to obey its behests; but every man is given the opportunity, is given the privilege of obtaining perfect liberty contingent upon rendering obedience to its laws. We came here free, free as the very air we breathe, and can elect to go forward along the path of righteousness, or can follow along the path of unrighteousness and error. But we cannot look for, we cannot hope for, nor will we receive, the blessings predicated upon the keeping of these laws unless we live them. It is necessary that we live righteously to gain eternal life. I tell you, my friends, it is a serious thing and the temptations that come to us must be met. We hear people say, occasionally, "What a terrible thing it was that Adam sinned." They do not realize that the sin of Adam, socalled, was in fact a great blessing to you and me, for it made possible the establishing of the human family; the bringing of our souls into mortality, and permiting us to enjoy the experiences of this earth life. By successfully completing the course in this school of experiences, we qualify ourselves to live eternally with God and Christ in the everlasting kingdom of our Father. "Adam fell that men might be, and men are that they might have joy." And so it rests with us, whether we will measure up to the standard, avoid the temptations that come in our way, and gain that experience, that wonderful experience, of the school of mortality, which is absolutely necessary to an exaltation in the kingdom of God, our Father. 

When we see temptation round about us, we have the duty of meeting it; of fighting against it and of triumphing over it. If we will meet it nobly and exert ourselves to the fullest, giving every measure of strength that we have to the great work, then there will come to our lives the wonderful joy that God has promised. And truly, the happiest man, the happiest woman, on the earth, are they who keep the commandments of God. The worth while thing is not the wealth of the world, not the honors of men, but that genuine, deep-seated joy that comes into our hearts, placed there by God the eternal Father through the Holy Spirit, when we do our 113 . O that every child of our heavenly Father, and every member of His Church in particular, might realize what it means to keep the commandments of the Lord, and that we, as one united whole, might put forth a mighty effort to combat evil in its every form. Then day by day we would approach nearer to our heavenly Father, and our righteous example would draw into our ranks many souls to aid us in the great work of redemption, and the joy of all would be increased many, many fold. 

It was my privilege recently to visit the site of the City of Nauvoo. As I stood on Temple Hill and looked down upon the majestic sweep of the river, and recalled that there the Saints had been established and had been prospered, only to be driven away and to make that memorable journey across the plains, I thanked my heavenly Father for the class of men and women who came out of the world to accept the gospel, who lived their religion, near to their heavenly Father, and who withstood the persecutions that were heaped upon them. I thanked God for my parentage. Arid as I looked upon the old homes of my ancestors, and the old residences of ethers with whose names you are familiar, I could not help saying, God knew what He was doing when He permitted persecutions to come to those people, for they were tried in the fiery furnace; they grew stronger under opposition; they were victorious over temptations and trials that were placed before them; and they were blessed and sustained, and though they came into' this wilderness with hardly enough food to sustain them through the first season, and though they were opposed by the nation and harassed by the Indians; yet they were true to their covenants, to their heavenly Father, and He blessed them and sustained them, and buoyed them up, and now we are enjoying the fruits of their faithfulness. 

If we could only heed that admonition of our president to leave those things alone that come from the outside, that are a curse to us, — I refer to those things decried in the Word of Wisdom — and could the money that we send away from home for tea, coffee, tobacco, liquors and coco-cola be applied to the establishment of industrial institutions, and in the carrying on of the work of the Lord, and if we were to live this holy law, then the peoples of the earth would have to look up in admiration to the people of God. 

My brethren and sisters, this gospel is for you and me. It is a reality, a genuine thing, and not a passing fancy Those who keep every one of the commandments of our Father and live near to Him, and do the things that He has laid down for them, are happy. All others receive joy in a direct ratio to the effort they put forth. 

We are today passing through a period of persecution. In the British Isles it is especially severe and trying, while in our own country there are some who attempt to injure us by their malicious GENERAL CONFERENCE. . The lives of the Saints and the achievements of the Church stand up before the world greater and more glorious than ever, despite the vituperations of the hirelings who do that work. The gospel of Jesus Christ is genuine. It is the power of God unto salvation. It is the true way for you and for me. It stands for good citizenship. Good Latter-day Saints are loyal citizens ill the country, regardless of the party they may individually belong to. A good Latter-day Saint is a credit to his nation, for he upholds the men in power and he is striving continually to do his part as a man, being honest with his fellow men, and with his Master. I believe that this great nation of ours was divinely brought forth, that it might be a place for the coming forth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe that that grand old flag of ours, the red, the white and blue, will always shine out as an emblem of liberty to the nations of the earth. I believe that God will not permit men to come into power as leaders in our nation who will disgrace those jnoble colors. That banner of liberty was given to the world that under it the gospel of Jesus Christ might come forth; and when the time had arrived, when the hour had struck, when the world was ready, God chose a humble boy in the backwoods of New York and gave him the divine commission to go forth and establish His Church. 

He did as commanded, and though the Church has been persecuted, and men have heaped upon it all manner of opposition; yet, after ninety years, it stands unimpeached and unimpeachable, because it is the work of Almighty God. Its destiny is to fill the earth; its mission is to preach the gospel to all mankind; its purpose is to prepare the human family for the coming of Jesus Christ to reign as king of kings and Lord of Lords. And we, who remain true, who keep the commandments of the living God, will when Christ comes to take His place be found in our places, glorified, blessed of our heavenly Father, and He will say unto us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." 

Let us be true, my brethren and sisters. Let us be loyal to our state and to our. nation; loyal to ourselves and to the Church. Stand back of the men God chooses and sustains to preside over us. 

If we will do this, our hearts will be joyful; our lives will be filled with blessings, and the fame of the Latter-day Saints will go forth to all the world. Then nothing can stop the onward march and the work of God will triumph. 

A duet, "Grant us peace," was sung by Agnes Bolto and Don Priestly, obligato part by Ruby Childs, and a mixed double quartette. 115 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

{President of the Southern States Mission) 

I humbly pray that I may be blessed with the Spirit of the Lord and speak lunder that divine power by which words are carried unto the hearts of the children of men. 

"The rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven." This comforting truth has been abundantly manifested in this conference thus far, for by the rights of the Priesthood, the President of the Church, his counselors, and other general authorities have spoken unto Israel, and the powers of heaven have responded, to the instruction and comfort of the Latter-day Saints. We are half in heaven and half on earth when we do the will of the Father; for there is no liberty so sweet and enduring as the liberty of the gospel; and the wealth, the honors, the dignities of the world cannot equal nor bring that peace which comes from a still and quiet conscience, 

Isaiah said: 

"For unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given; and the government shall be upon His shoulder; and His name sholl be called Wonderful,, Counsellor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace." 

It was the Prince of Peace who inspired President Warren G. Harding to call that notable assembly, the Disarmament Conference. Under the Spirit of the Prince of Peace, that conference labored to do away with the horrors of war, and 'bring peace to a troubled world. Is it not the beginning of the fulfilment of that great prediction that swords shall be beaten into plowshares and spears into pruninghooks? As the Lord can send peace to the nations who seek him t so can he send peace to the laboring conscience. In the beginning of this dispensation God commanded that the elders of this Church should preach repentance unto the people, because if people do not repent, they become ripened in iniquity, and then their doom is sealed, for the fulness of the wrath of God comes upon people and nations when they are ripened in iniquity. 

By the word of the Lord this land was designated as the land of promise, which was choice above all other land's, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people * * * whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve Him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them.. * * * And the fulness of His wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. Moroni, in the second chapter of the book of Ether, gives this solemn warning to the people of this dispensation. He had in mind the people of the world today when "he spoke this word of warning: 

"And this cometh unto you,, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

In the same book is a fateful prophecy. The prophets "testified that a great curse should come upon the land, and also upon the people, and that there should be a great destruction among them, such an one as never had been upon the face of the earth, and their bones should become as heaps of earth upon the face of the land, except they should repent of their wickedness.'' On the banks of the Tennessee river, near Chattanooga, is an artificial hill, called the Citico Mound. The officials of the county in which the mound is situated were building a road and had commenced to plow away the mound; but the leading Presbyterian minister of that city protested against it as an act of desecration. Why? Because scientists who had explored that mound discovered it to be a vast tomb filled with the hones of men and women upon whom judgments had fallen because of their iniquity. This is one evidence of the fulfilment of that prophecy. I ask you, is that not a proof that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that the Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God? 

What sin brings men and women in the ripeness of iniquity? I tell you, my brethren and sisters, it is immorality. Coming from Miami, a few weeks ago, to Jacksonville, in an automobile, a distance of four hundred miles, we saw many automobiles on the road in the dead' of night, after the clock had tolled the hour of midnight, and in these automobiles we could see by the light of the moon, girls of tender age, young women and young men, ofut riding that time of night in the country over lonely roads. Such practice will result in disaster. Young men and young women, who go automobile riding in the dead of night, when it is not necessary to make such journeys, so sure as God lives are sowing the seeds of misery and sorrow. "Woe to them," says the prophet, "that are at ease in Zion." Woe to the parent who is at ease when his sons and daughters are out pleasure-riding at night. Woe to the parents who are lulled into a sense of fancied security concerning their sons and daughters. These precious and splendid young men and women who come to the missions to preach the word of God are choice spirits — the greatest blessing that God has given to His people. ' Isaiah declared that Jesus was "a man of sorrows." 

"But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon Him; and with His stripes we are healed." 

Physicians find diseases that baffle their skill, but 

"Earth holds no sorrow that heaven cannot heal." 

Jesus Christ is the 

"Joy of the desolate, light of the straying, Hope of the penitent, fadeless and pure." 

He, hy His gospel, will heal the diseased mind; He will pluck from 117  repentant heart the sting of sin and wickedness. He will remove that awful torture of remorse of conscience, if the sinner will surrender unconditionally to Him and obey the gospel. The Apostle John says, 

"But if we walk in the light, as He is in the light,, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanseth us from all sin." 

But suppose the sinner elects to take the downward path and become a law unto himself. What then? Listen to what the Lord says : 

"For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all that they might not suffer if they would repent." 

What wonderful goodness! Well might Paul say, 

"For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty, might be rich." 

Not rich according to the things of the world, but rich as to the things of God — the gift of salvation, the boon of eternal life, which will exalt us in the presence of God. 

"But if they would not repent, they must suffer even as I." 

Now Jesus describes the suffering of the sinner. Listen to Him : 

"Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit; and would that I might not drink the bitter cup and shrink. 

"Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men: 

"Wherefore, I command you again to repent,, lest I humble you with my almighty power, and that you confess your sins, lest you suffer these punishments of which I have spoken, of which in the smallest, yea, even in the least degree you have tasted at the time I withdrew my Spirit." 

What makes an apostate bitter? What makes a man rebellious at heart, and fight with fury and bitterness of soul the Church and the leaders whom God hath appointed?. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, it is the sins which were forgiven him at baptism that have returned unto him; for so hath the Lord said. He commands men to retain by a godly life the remission of their sins, but if they sin, he withdraws His Spirit; they are left to themselves, they are filled with bitterness and hate for the work of God; no matter how bright, how glowing, how strong the testimony of the gospel, it cannot live, it will not abide, when men who had that testimony do wickedly. And they return to their former sins, as the dog to his vomit, and the sow to her wallowing in the mire, their former sins return to them and they are left in the bitterness of sin and in the thralldom and bondage of Satan. 

"Salvation," said the prophet Joseph Smith, "is for a man to be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  from all his enemies; for until a man can triumph over death he is not saved. A knowledge of the Priesthood alone will do this." By the power of Jesus Christ the faithful Saints shall arise in the glory of the resurrection, clothed in white, heirs of God, and joint heirs of Jesus. 

Brethren and sisters, I bear you my testimony that this gospel is the power of God unto salvation. Just as surely as I know that I stand here, I know that Jesus is our Redeemer, and that He liveth and maketh intercession with God for the children of men. By the same Spirit I know that this gospel is the power of God Unto salvation — that salvation which shall conquer death and bring light, immortality, and glory and exaltation in the kingdom of God. 

Those here who do not belong to this Church, who have not tasted of the sweetness of the fruits of the gospel, I invite to repent and to be baptized for the remission of their sins, and they shall receive, by the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, a testimony that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, and that this gospel is in truth and in deed the power of God unto salvation, which I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The anthem, "Send out Thy light," was sung by the combined choir. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder George J. Cannon, a member of the General Board Y. M. M. I. A. 


