Morning
07 10 1921


ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very humble, indeed, to stand before you on this occasion,^ for, I recognize how very inadequate any man is who attempts, on these occasions, to do wholly the will of God; but I desire to say to my brethren and sisters that I consider it a very high privilege, at any time, to be allowed to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored in these latter days by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know, my brethren and sisters, that this is God's work. I know 1 that God lives; that he has instituted the great plan of salvation for the 'benefit of his children : that he is watching over us and that we may rest ourselves and our troubles on him and that he will lead us safely to the destined end. There is nothing in my life of greater value than this: testimony. There is no assurance in my life more certain than that this is the work of God, and I am happy, as I have said, to be allowed to bear this testimony to my brethren and sisters assembled. I feel tremendously the responsibility of standing before you. 

PEOPLE RESPONDING TO THE REQUIREMENTS MADE OF THE LORD. 

During the last three or four months, I have been allowed to visit nine or ten stakes of Zion, in conference and convention capacity assembled, and I have been greatly impressed by the abundance of the Spirit of God which prevails among the people throughout the stakes of Zion. I have marveled at the devotion and the faith of many whom I have met. It has warmed my heart to see the vigor with which the work of the Lord is being conducted by young and old. It is difficult for me to say which has impressed me most, the thorough devotion of those who are old in the cause, or the eagerness, of the young to take upon themselves the harness of the Lord to carry onward the work of the Church. I feel, my brethren and sisters, that while we may have many weaknesses — indeed I am sure we dO' have many weaknesses — and may need constant exhortation, advice and suggestions, such as 'we receive at these and other conferences throughout the Church, yet this people is so strong in faith and in good works that God has made us — and I praise him for it — good material with which to build this latter-day work. I believe the spirit of God is with this people, and that the people are responding,! perhaps in weak human ways, but are responding, to the demands and requirements made upon us by our heavenly Father. 

A WONDERFUL FEAST AT THIS CONFERENCE. 

We have had set before us during the meetings of this conference a wonderful feast. Admonitions have been given, instructions presented, and doctrines taught, ranging from the very highest, if you so choose to call it, to the very lowest; from the highest spiritual truths to the common, every-day, material needs of man. It has always seemed to me that in no particular does this work more appear to be a marvelous work and a wonder than in the great body of knowledge which has been given through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors in office. It must be a man of many troubles indeed who has sat through these two meetings of our conference and has not found, in the words spoken, some key for the solution of his needs. As I understand the body of knowledge which has been given to this people by God, it is so vast and so comprehensive that it makes light the remotest corners of human needs. There is no place in the world, no condition of human affairs, which may not be made alive, really alive, by the knowledge which God has revealed in these latter days. 

Nevertheless, I am impressed to say, that although we have so wonderful a body of knowledge, the most known to any people on the face of the earth, yet knowledge of itself is a lifeless and unsatisfactory thing. Every once in a while, as we journey through life, we. meet some man who is rich in knowledge, but uses his knowledge only as an ornament on his intellectual mantel-shelf simply to be looked at, to be enjoyed as an ornament and nothing more. There is no truth more certain in all the world, than that in order to make knowledge: — the things that have been taught us, of value, and really beautiful, and helpful in making our lives real living lives, knowledge must be put to some use. Knowledge unused is scarcely worth the having; but knowledge once used leaps into light and life and becomes a bright flame to guide and to help man. 

TWO CLASSES OF SCHOLARS. j 

, The question that has come before me continuously, during the two sessions of our conference, has been, as I have heard the instructions from the stand: "Will I be able so to apply these truths as to make them a living force in my life?" All humanity today may be classified, I suppose, into two great classes as far as knowledge is concerned — those who have knowledge and use it not, and those who have, perhaps, lesser knowledge anjd use it well Those 



ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 47 

who use the knowledge are the ones who today are leading the world in every proper human activity. We have in our universities and colleges two great classes of scholars; the non-productive and the productive scholar. We have the scholar who merely teaches what he has learned, and never attempts to use it. He is held in low esteem. We have the man, on the other hand, who believes in -using knowledge as it is given, to him, and he becomes a productive scholar. He carries onward the realm of knowledge, expands it, increases it, and becomes of great renown. 

However, there are many ways of using knowledge. To my mind the greatest manner of using knowledge, the eternal divine knowledge which we have and which we call frequently the gospel of Jesus Christ, is to use it in such a way as to benefit the whole human race. Many men use knowledge for their own sakes. That makes it of less value. Indeed I suspect that one real difference between religion and ethics is in the manner in which truth is used. When truth is used for all men, for the carrying out of some great scheme of salvation, such as God has provided, then knowledge has its noblest use and worth. When it is used only for a few, for me and my family and those near me, the religious element tends to disappear. 

ETHICS VS. A LIVING, VITAL RELIGION. 

I remember that, a few years ago, we had in this city a visit from three or four members of 'the Chinese republic, distinguished men who came here to study the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by this people, for the express purpose of taking back to China, if they could, some of the conclusions that we had reached, for the upbuilding of the Chinese republic. I remember the question was put to one of them at one of our gatherings : "Do you not have in your country a sufficient amount of truth to guide you? Do you need to come to this far western land, and to this far western state, to this humble people, to gain information that will help you in building the new China of which you dream ?" And the wisest of them, an .old man, rich in the experiences of life, through his interpreter, said to the small company assembled : "We have in China a system, of ethics and that is all; we have no real religion. Our system of ethics is not so organized, does not have such life as to be of service for the whole people; and," said he, "the conclusion of four thousand years of Chinese civilization is that ethics will never save a people or make a people fully happy and contented. We need a living, vital religion." 

I am impressed always with the fact, as I think about these matters, that the thing that gives us life and vigor, and makes us a peculiar people, different from all other people, that makes it possible for us to have 'such a great assembly twice a year as we have in this o-reat tabernacle, is that we do know a plan of salvation that enables us and requires us to use all our knowledge for all people of all time — past, present and future— and that we do this work by the authority of the Priesthood, which means simply that back of the plan and back of our efforts is a great, intelligent Will who has laid out the plan, who is carrying it onward, and whose agents we are in conducting the work on earth. It is the Priesthood, my brethren and sisters, given to all honorable, faithful male members of the Church, the blessings of which the women share with their husbands, which gi^es us life, which makes this Church a living, growing Church and kingdom, which separates us, if you choose, from all other kingdoms on the face of the earth, from all other churches; for no other organization, so far as I know, makes the same claim in regard' to Priesthood that we make. The conception of God held by any group of people may well be understood by the nature of the priesthood which that people respects. In fact, the priesthood of any people is really a definition of the God in which that people believes. If we find an impotent priesthood, a priesthood that dallies Sunday mornings, in the pulpit, with the vital issues of life, the chances are that that church also has a conception of an impotent God who also dallies, Sunday mornings, with the vital issues of life. If we find a vigorous priesthood which concerns itself with man's needs and life, day and night, from the week's beginning to the week's end; which attempts to understand man, and to serve the every need of man, and which guides the conduct of man into large dreams of life; then in all probability the group of people sustaining such a priesthood has a conception of a God who is real, a true Father of the men and women of the earth, who teaches the brotherhood of man. The priesthood of this Church which deals with all the affairs, temporal and spiritual, of the members of the Church, is an evidence of our conception of God: God is our Father: we are his children: he understands us since he has had, perhaps, experiences similar to ours : he looks into our daily life, and unto him we can go day by day, with the common, ordinary troubles of life and lay them before him, feeling assured that the God we worship desires us to approach him in all things, and that he will answer our prayer, even though that prayer concerns itself with the humble, simple affairs of life. The grandest conception of "Mormonism" is' our conception of God. It was by divine purpose that the first great vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith was of the Father himself in person, who to the boy explained the order of things, and gave to the world again, forever, as I believe, the true knowledge of God. It was by divine purpose when the Prophet Joseph Smith was instructed as to the real condition in the world that necessitated the re-establishment of the Church and kingdom of God, that God said to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

They have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; 

They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol * * *. 

THE GREAT NEED OF THE WORLD IS A TRUE CONCEPTION OF GOD. 

The first great message of this latter-day work has been with respect to God, and my testimony to you is, my brethren and sisters, that the great need of the world today is a correct understanding of God. this world is in turmoil and strife. The old paths seem insufficient. Men are seeking new ways to solve new problems. They are looking for safe principles or guides which they can apply to these new problems and test proposed new solutions. The only path to peace and happiness is through the proper knowledge of God, including his plan of salvation; and therein, and therein only, will the nations of the world find what they are seeking today. It is our duty to teach the word of God to the world. We shall have, as I view it, no real peace, no full satisfaction among the nations, until the knowledge of the true God is re-established and accepted among the nations of the earth. Many have made fun, in our day, of those who are seeking for God. H. G. Wells, the great novelist of England, has been ridiculed because, during the last few years, he has been seeking for God — a God he could understand and that his fellows could understand; a God who could help the nations in their trials; but I believe that H. G. Wells stands for a great group of men and women throughout the world who are God-hungry, who understand that the God they have been worshiping is incomplete, insufficient, mystifying and mysterious. They want a God, or a, conception of a God, who may be understood by plain and simple people; who undertsands humanity and who, in a measure, perhaps, is of humanity. 

May God bless us and help us to carry to the nations the great and wonderful truths we possess, and may we be given strength, from time to time, so to use the knowledge that we have, that it may burn as a living fire within our breasts, throughout this Church and before all the world, I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 11 

ELDER GEORGE W. McCUNE 

(President of the 1 Eastern States Mission) 

My brethren and sisters, I have a high sense of appreciation for this privilege of standing 1 before you to bear my testimony; and I sincerely desire to have the Spirit of the Lord to direct me; to that end' I beseech of you, sustain me by your sympathy and your love. I have enjoyed more than I can tell you the remarks that have already been made during our conference. I feel that they are timely. They are those principles which we need to apply in our lives. I am glad that I have been considered worthy to be associated with these good men who are directing the work of the Lord in this day; that I have been called into the world to preach the gospel, for I know it is the gospel of our Redeemer, that has all the elements of salvation within it, that gospel which will save us, not only spiritually at some distant far off time, but now and forever. It will save us temporally, physically, intellectually and morally as well as spiritually, and I feel highly honored to be called of God to go into the world to proclaim these glad tidings to my fellowmen. 

We are meeting with fair success in the Eastern States Mission. We are being handicapped for lack of sufficient help just now. We made a good start in many places, but had to withdraw our forces from a number of localities. This I regret very much. Therefore, I appreciate the remarks of President Grant to you regarding this matter, showing you the importance of allowing your sons and daughters to stay in the field as long as possible to the completion of their missions. They have been' called of the Lord and they will be released by the same authority in due time when you have done your part. O, my brethren and sisters, you cannot invest your means to a better purpose. You cannot invest them in a way that will bring you greater dividends than in sustaining your sons and daughters while they are proclaiming these glad tidings throughout the world. I beg of you, do your part and put your trust in God. Consult the bishop, as you have been instructed when you find it impossible to maintain your sons longer, and I believe you will find that the way will be opened up so you can sustain them until they have completed their misson. 

I know that this is the work of the Lord, and O, the joy this sweet .sentence gives : "I know that my Redeemer lives." It is the greatest blessing that has come into my life; nothing else gives me so much pleasure as to bear testimony of this. I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the living God, sent in the latter days again to establish in the earth the Church and kingdom of God; and I wish I could burn that testimony into the hearts of all men with whom I come in contact, that they might partake of the joy that we experience in bearing witness of it, and the joy that it brings into my life every day. I cannot tell you how I know this. I know that I see you before me, and that is through the power of my mortal sense; but I believe it is possible for the mortal sense to be deceived; but, my brethren and sisters, it is not possible to deceive that which is divine by which power these glorious truths are revealed to my soul. It is true that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that we have embraced the true gosple of our Redeemer, and if we only apply it to our lives w& will earn our salvation in God's kingdom. We are being saved now, not in the sense that the world understands it; for they say we are saved, and  sin, that there is nothing more to do. That is not true; it is a misunderstanding, as I see it; but we are being saved just as fast as we apply to our lives the glorious principles of the gospel of our Redeemer. We are being saved temporally just as fast as we live the laws pertaining to our temporal salvation; and if we continue therein we shall earn our salvation and exaltation in God's kingdom. 

I feel that I ought not to take more time this morning. I am glad I am here, and to bear testimony , of these things. My heart is filled with love for you, my brethren and sisters, and for the brethren who are directing the work of the Lord in the latter days. T realize it is an honor to be associated with them. T love them, and T too, sustain them by my faith and prayers and 1 hope also by my works. Brethren and sisters, let us be free in giving expression of our love in our daily lives. I sometimes think we are too backward in this matter. I would rather have the expressions of your good will now than your bouquets upon my casket when I am gone. Let us be free in facing our fathers arid mothers, putting our arms about them and telling them, face to face, that we love them. Let us greet our brothers and sisters cordially and whole-heartedly and tell them we love them and delight to be associated with them. This should bring to their hearts good cheer. 

Now, may the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. May his peace and blessings be with you in your homes, that you may apply in your lives the wonderful truths that have been spoken in our conference, is my sincere prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church.) 

I feel a deep sense of responsibility in trying to express my thoughts to this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints. The one thought above all others that has come to my- mind is how thankful I am to my heavenly Father that I am permitted to be a Latter-day Saint; that I, as a member of the Church of God, have ian opportunity of mingling with you. How thankful I am, too, that the Lord permits me to hold the holy Priesthood, with the privilege of ministering among my brethren and sisters. I feel that a tremendous responsibility rests upon all who hold this Priesthood; that it shall be magnified righteously before our heavenly Father; that we shall labor in the ministry with kindness, sympathy, helpfulness, and with love unfeigned, so that the great work of our heavenly Father may progress in the earth and accomplish its mission among the children of men. 

I am thankful for the opportunity of mingling my voice in song and prayer, and to listen to the iadvice and counsel of my brethren. I hope we shall all go home determined to follow the splendid instructions to which we have listened, all of which are for our spiritual and temporal welfare. 

I am particularly impressed by President Grant's advice that we get out of debt. Indebtedness is one of the great problems of the day facing the Latter-day Saints. We are today living under a commercial system of competition which has come from the world, and has replaced the conditions which prevailed in the early settlement of the valleys. 

Our present financial situation should set us all to Serious thinking. Is not the time coming when it will be necessary for the Latterday Saints to return to those earlier methods of living — the old rules of co-operation and mutual helpfulness — each doing his share in the community? It was this system of co-operation that built the roads, canals, bridges, cleared away the brush, organized towns and villages, and laid the foundation for the great communities of Latterday Saints who now occupy these mountain valleys. Co-operation results from the great truth that human beings must depend upon one another. Now we finance all undertakings with money in the form of bonds. These bonds and certificates of indebtedness are usually sold outside the state, and must be paid by our labor, whether we are engaged in the office, on the farm, or on the range. Are we not overreaching ourselves and becoming the "hewers of wood and drawers . of water"? 

 We cooperate wonderfully in spiritujal things. Our system of organization, and the operation of the stakes, wards and missions, are the admiration of all unbiased investigators. In all the pffairs of the wards and stakes, cooperation is the basic idea. But when it comes to business, we are actuated purely by the spirit of competition. Th|at competition is for the profit of individuals or groups of individuals, and not in the interest of the community. Under our present competitive system of living, you will find in the small communities a number of people in commercial pursuits, supplying our needs for the purpose of making profit for themselves. Why not develop the spirit by which the community owns these institutions? Why not develop cooperative purchasing as we are now developing cooperative selling? This coopeiative spirit could be developed in the cultivation of large tracts of land, in flocks and herds, merchandising, banking, canals and water problems, and in many other ways, some of which have already been developed in the older states and in the countries of Europe. 

I just want to leave this thought to set us thinking more about this great problem of living, to see if, in the near future, we can put into' operation some of the earlier methods in vogue among the Pioneers and early-comers to these valleys; when there was no money, when labor was wealth, and the ability to work and apply labor intelligently created wealth for the community. 

I again testify to you, my brethren and sisters, of miy thankfulness and appreciation for the gospel. I know this to be the work of God, for the Lord has manifested it to me in many ways, and I thank  with all my heart, and with all my mind and with all my soul that I am a Latter-day Saint. 

May he bless us with the disposition to understand the gospel, to manifest it in our daily lives, so that we may grow spirtiually day by day stronger in the faith and more willing to keep his commandments, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

{President of the Mexican Mission.) 

I esteem) it a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to stand before you this morning and bear my testimony because I know that the gospel is true. I know that it has been restored to us in this day and age in which we live, with all the gifts and blessings and the powers and privileges that have .ever pertained to it in any age of the world. I am very grateful to the Lord that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints. I am thankful to the Lord for the holy Priesthood that I bear and for the calling that has come to me to minister in the world as a missionary. The happiest time of my life- and I think the most, profitable to me, has been spent in missionary labors among the children of men who have not been acquainted with these glorious principles, of the gospel that we as a people enjoy. I feel that if the Lord requires it at my hands, I can feel happy in spending the rest of my life, or as much of it as he requires of me, in ministering the gospel to the people of the world who are not acquainted with these gjorious and saving principles. I am very grateful that at this conference the president of the Church, whom we sustain as prophet, seer and revelator, has spoken to Israel concerning the missionary work that is expected of us. I think that there is no work or responsibility resting so heavily upon the membership of this Church today as that of disseminating the gospel among the children of men. As I travel up and down the country and see the millions of people who are in spiritual darkness but who are honest in heart, who are desirous of doing right, and who, if they err, err in ignorance, I feel greatly resting upon me, my brethren and sisters, the responsibility of carrying to them the gospel. We are grateful to have your sons and daughters laboring with us in the mission field and I trust that the admonitions that have come from the president of the Church at this conference, will be followed by the fathers, mothers and brothers and sisters, and by the bishops of this Church, in that they will encourage their sons and daughters and the members of the wards to remain in the mission, rather than to suggest to them that they discontinue their labors at an early date. When we are cultivating the fruits of the field, my brothers and sisters, we do not pick the peach or apple, or garner the wheat before it is ripe. 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I sometimes think that those fathers and mothers who are so anxious for their sons to come home are doing - that very thing, and their boys have not ripened in the service of the Lord. They come home and sometimes are not in as fair a way to make a success after they return as they would be were they left a little longer in the missionary field. 

Our work has prospered during the year that has passed, in the Mexican mission. We have never baptized in any single year of the history of that mission so many people as w.e have baptised during the months that have passed of this year of 1921. With sixty missionaries laboring we have baptized two hundred and twenty-five people, and they are wonderfully faithful in their living of the gospel. I am grateful to the Lord that he has privileged me with my brethern to re-open the mission in the Republic of Mexico, after a term of years that we have not been able to labor there due to the revolutionary conditions; and I am thankful to him for the faithfulness and integrity and the faithful lives of the Saints who were left there for years, as it were, as sheep without a shepherd. They have remained faithful. We have been able to hold conferences with them recently as in the years that are past and they gather around the elders and' are anxious to hear again the gospel taught among them, and their^ lives are an example worthy of imitation before the people with whom they are surrounded. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives; and that Jesus Christ is his Son and is the Redeemer of the world. I bear 1 you my testimony that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, raised up to establish this work in the day and age we live in, and I know that he who stands at the head of the Church today is in very deed a prophet, seer and revelator unto the world, and I for one wish to| follow his counsel and advice and admonition and put my life, so far as I can, in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and help us all to serve him with full purpose of heart, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

{President of the Northern States Mission) 

I believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe that when God opened the heavens, one hundred years ago, and gave to the children of men thq knowledge of himself and his purposes, he commenced a most momentous work, and that when he gave to us, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the responsibility of carrying his message to all corners of the earth, he meant that we should do the work. I believe in the principles of the gospel, not only in the first principles of faith, repentance, baptism by immersion, and the laying on of hands for the  of the Holy Ghost, but I believe also in the temporal principles of the gospel, those all important ordinances, those vital laws, those rigid 'rules of conduct that have been given to us by which we should order our lives, and I believe implicitly that God had a purpose when he gave to us a strict and a rigid plan for us to live. He will have a tried people and in order for us to be a tried people we must keep his commandments and live up to the rigid law he has given. I believe that the purpose of the gospel of Jesus Christ is not only to save the souls of men, but to save also their bodies, and that if we strive to save our bodies and shape our lives here on earth in harmony with the temporal plan, the rest will take care of itself. In the Book of Alma we read : 

Behold, now 7 say unto you that he commandeth you to repent; and except ye repent, y.e can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God. But behold, this is not all — he has commanded you to repent, or he will utterly destroy you frcpi off the face of the earth; yea, he will visit you in his anger, and in his fierce anger he will not turn away. Behold do ye not remember the words which he spake unto Lehi, saying that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper in the land? And again it is said that: Inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord. 

I believe the Lord knew whereof he spoke and that he had a purpose, a definite and a positive purpose, in giving to us the commandments, that we have. I believe also that unless we strive to keep these commandments; unless we exert ourselves to the utmost to obey his divine law, we cannot look for, hope for, nor will we receive, the blessings that are promised upon the keeping of those laws. We have been blessed as a people. We have been gathered from all the corners of the earth. We have been sustained by our heavenly Father in times of adversity. We have triumphed, as it were, over the most momentous obstacles, and today the light of Zion stands here shining from the tops of the mountains, and (he world is looking up and .admiring the wonderful work we aredoing. We dare not, my brethren and sisters, feel that we have accomplished all. No, we have merely begun. The work stands before us. The great field is here to be harvested. The world must be prepared. God has given us the responsibility. The charge is on our heads, and the burden is ours. Our duty is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ by precept and by example. Our calling is to prepare the world for the coming of the Lord, and if we will do our duty, if we will exert ourselves to the utmost, if we will work, full of faith, full of zeal, full of determination, and give everything that we have, our hearts, our souls and our strength, the world will be prepared, and when the Lord Jesus Christ comes to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords, we, his people, will be accepted by him. God help us and sustain us to do that which he has given us- to do, is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission.) , 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of attending this conference; I feel that the Lord has greatly blessed all who have been here. The success which comes to this Church I think is largely the result of its members meeting together, in general conferences and in local gatherings, where they can receive instructions and counsel which they try to carry out in performing the work they have been sent into the world to do. 

A great responsibility rests upon the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: The gospel which our Savior gave to his apostles in the dispensation of time in which he lived has been revealed anew in this dispensation and the same Priesthood that has been in the earth always under his direction is here today in the valleys of the mountains in Israel, where Israel is gathered and centered to carry out the great plan which our Father in heaven made before the earth was. This people are a great people; I feel that we owe a great debt to our Father in heaven for what he has done. We have assuredly been blessed. There isn't any doubt in the mind of any man or woman, I am sure, who has followed in his life the authority of the .Lord Jesus Christ but that he has seen the return of the Lord's blessings to latter-day Israel With greater force than they were bestowed in former days. I am sure that the Church of Christ in the earth is stronger today than it was yesterday, but that it will never be weaker than it has been in the past, but that it will grow; and as the days come and go, the strength of the Almighty will be manifested in greater power upon the children of men than it has ever been before, until he comes. 

When I look into the faces of men and women who are not of this Church, I feel that I owe unto them a testimony, if it is within my power to give it. For they lived at a former time and they kept their first estate- I often tell this to our missionaries in the field — that when they look upon the face of any man or woman they must remember one thing, that that man or woman kept the first estate. They may not have kept their estate as well as others have, but the fact nevertheless remains that they lived and were advanced as a result of their obedience. They received the blessings of the Almighty which gave them the privilege of living here in the flesh and receiving the blessings of the flesh, for it is a blessing to be permitted to live in a body of flesh and bone. It is our duty to warn them, to warn ourselves, to receive admonition and to give it unto others; for just so surely as the sun shines, as the Lord has said, there will come a time when men will be rewarded according to their works; and when men and women find out what they have lost as a result of their disobedience, the Lord's word will be fulfilled, and' there will be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. 

it is the duty and labor of Latter-day' Saints to deliver unto the  of men the message which the Lord has revealed in these the last days. He spoke unto Joseph Smith. He said the things Joseph Smith declared he said. He delivered unto him the gospel, and the Prophet wrote and preached it. There isn't any doubt about it. I know as I stand here, and I say it to all the world : If there is an honest man, a man or a woman with a heart that desires to know the truth, that knowledge can come unto them. It is easy to receive, easy to understand. The gospel is not full of mysticisms or of things that cannot be understood, but it is a plain and simple plan which the children of men may follow and thereby go back into the presence of our Father in heaven. And unless they do this they cannot return where he is, worlds without end; so says the scripture given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

These things are given to the world and the words that he gave to the world have stood the test ever since they came into the earth. For nearly one hundred years the Book of Mormon has been before the people, and it has never been proved to be untrue; but, on the contrary, as every year comes and goes it is proved to be a truth by many hundreds of men and women. More witnesses are added to the divinity of that work. And so it is with the revelations of the Lord in this dispensation of time. This gathering itself is a witness — it is a witness unto any man or woman who might walk into this building with a desire in his heart to know whether this is the work of God — this great congregation and the Spirit and power of God felt here are witnesses and will stand for or against men at some future day. 

May the Lord give us the privilege to live faithfully unto the end of our lives, that we may return unto him, that we may send our sons, and daughters, and our message unto the world to bring as many souls unto Christ as is possible in the few short years we remain on the earth, I humbly pray, in the name of Christ. Amen. 

A cello solo, "Andante," was rendered by Seymour Fisher, accompanied on the great organ by Edward P. Kimball, Assistant organist. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church) 

I feel weighing heavily upon me, my brethren and sisters, the responsibility that comes to me at this time. Nevertheless, I am grateful unto God for this privilege of bearing testimony to you, and I sincerely pray that he will give me strength to speak words of encouragement. It is a wonderful privilege to stand here and look into the faces of those gathered together in this conference, and a great responsibility to endeavor to instruct you in your duties. This truly is a marvelous work and a wonder. I thought yesterday, when President Grant mentioned the fact that we have nearly eighteen hundred missionaries in the world, preaching the gospel, how many of us here at home fully realize, or in a sense realize, the great missionary work that is being done. Every man holding the Priesthood of this Church, who is magnifying his calling before God, is preaching the gospel, and when I have seen the work that is being done on this block by Brother Goddard and his associates, directed by the Spirit of God, I am sure I am safe in saying that the missionary work being done right here, where the temple of the living God is located, "the mountain of the House of the Lord established in the tops of the mountains, exalted above the hills," is a "marvelous work and a wonder." How many of us realize that hundreds of thousands are coming here to our very doors each year to hear the word of the Lord. I wonder sometimes if the power of the Priesthood, and the manifestations of 1 the power of God through it. are not so common to us that we pass them by, day by day, giving little heed to the warnings and encouragement they bring. 

The other day it was my privilege to meet a reverend gentleman on this block. After discussing some of the principles of the gospel with Mm, he expressed a wish to know something more concerning "Mormonism," so called. It was my privilege later to take him to visit one of our Sabbath schools where those holding the Priesthood were meeting as quorums. He passed from one class to another, ending where the High Priests were in session. In going from the classes where he saw young men ranging from twelve to twenty years of age present in goodly numbers, he said, "Bishop Smith, how do you do it? How do you get them here? We can't do it, iwe can't touch men of this age." I answered : "See what they are studying. These young men hold the Priesthood; they are deacons, teachers and priests, having been ordained by those who have authority from God to do so. This Priesthood fills them, if they keep themselves clean, with a desire to study the principles of the gospel. There is a place in the Church for them to function.. Their greatest desire is to honor the Priesthood and magnify their calling so that some day they will "be found ready and worthy to go into the world to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ — this gospel which they are studying. That is the desire that actuates them and brings them here Sunday after Sunday". He said, "How do you get these young men here who are acting as instructors ? How much do you pay them for this work ?" I referred this question to the superintendent of the Sunday school, who answered: "There is only one man in this building who receives a salary for his work, and he is paid for doing the janitor work." The gentleman's reply was: "It is marvelous! It is a wonder! I am bewildered with it all. The only thing I can compare it with is, if you will pardon the comparison, a three ring circus. You have given me so much to think about, I am bewildered. I think I am safe in saying that you have here in this house today more people assembled for the 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH .. 59 

purpose of worshiping- God than we have in the whole county where I live." His home is in another state. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, those of us who hold the Priesthood have great responsibility. . You, fathers and mothers, have a great responsibility. My special calling in this Church is tq guard and guide the youth of Zion, and to encourage those who have been ordained to the Lesser Priesthood, which Priesthood holds the keys to the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel, which is the gospel of repentance, and of baptism, and the remission of sins. It prepares young men to do the greater work required of them in later life. In that Priesthood, as we are today, the duties of the priest are to preach, teach, expound, exhort, to baptize and administer the Sacrament; to visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray, vocally and in secret, and to attend to all family duties. The, duty of a teacher is to watch over the Church always, and be with and strengthen them, to see that there is no iniquity in the Church, no backbiting, evil speaking or lying. The duty of the deacon, the little fellow, the beginner, is to assist the teacher, to keep order in the meeting house, and be on hand at all times to labor as directed by the bishop, to perform outward ordinances which help him to grow and become strong in the faith and useful in the hands of God. How many of us realize the blessings that have been promised to us through the Priesthood ? 

And the inhabtants of Zion, also, shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. (Doc. & Cov. 68:30-31.) 

There is work provided for all, and all are expected to work, and are rewarded according to their faithfulness. 

For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; they become the sons of Moses and of Aaron, and the seed of Abraham, and rue Church and Kingdom and the elect of God; and also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; for he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; and he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him"; [not a part, not a portion, but all that my Father hath shall be given unto him], "and this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. Therefore* all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved; but whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come. (Doc. & Cov. 84:33, 41.) Oh, I sincerely pray, my brethren and sisters, that we. will magnify our calling in the Priesthood. Oh, elders of Israel, let us see that there is work for those holding the Lesser Priesthood. See that these young men whose mission is to labor in the Lesser Priesthood have work to do, and as we are commanded here, take them with us : 

And if any man among you be strong in the spirit, let him take with him he that is weak, that he may be edified in all meekness, that he may become strong also. Therefore, take with you those who are ordained unto the Lesser Priesthood, and send them bfeore you to make appointments, and to prepare the way, and to fill appointments that you yourselves are not able to fill. Behold, this is the way that mine apostles, in ancient days, built up my Church unto me. Therefore, let every man stand in his own office, and labor in his own calling; and Jet not the head say unto the feet, it hath no need of the feet, for without the feet how shall the body be able to stand? Also the body hath need of every member that ' all may be edified together, that the system may be kept perfect." (Doc. & Cov. 84:106-110.) 

God help us to do our duty, is my prayer, and I ask it inj the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

{President of the Canadian Mission.) 

With all my heart I am thankful for membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful that I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is in this Church. I am thankful that I have had the privilege of telling, in a humble way, some of the children of men of the great things which God has wrought in our day and time. I sincerely pray in my heart that I shall always have the strength and the desire to do my part in proclaiming the knowledge of these great things to the children of men. 

I have had occasion, frequently, while laboring in the Canadian Mission, to discover the marks of truth in the gospel which we teach. Jesus said, "I came not to bring peace but a sword." Carlyle stated the same idea in the terse phrase, "Every fact is a battle." The greater the fact, the greater the battle. Truth is the greatest fact in the world. I have noticed that the truth that we teach does have the characteristics of a battle. Just a few weeks ago a very intelligent gentleman in the city of Toronto visited three street meetings upon the same evening. These three meetings were all being conducted at the same time. In two of them bitter attacks were being made upon the Latter-day Saints. The other meeting was being conducted by our elders. The gentleman visited the two anti-"Mormon" meetings and then finally came to the meeting in which our elders were preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. He remained at this meeting to the close. At the conclusion of the service, he approached one of the elders and told of  attendance at the other two meetings and asked the question, "Are the 'Mormons' the only people in the world?" Well, I hardly think that the Mormons are the only people in the world, but I am quite sure that they have the only religion in the world that has substance enough in it to keep the devil awake at nights. 

I have had occasion to witness the purifying and ennobling power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Some months ago a young man came to our mission. He was a graduate of the University of Utah. In the course of our conversation I asked him how he was going to maintain himself in the field and he said, "I have been teaching school for four years and I have saved a little money. I am going to spend this money in maintaining myself in the mission field." That remark is one of the most eloquent sermons I have ever heard. It is also one of the best testimonies of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Christ I have ever heard. 

I have also had occasion to notice the greatness and generosity of the Saints at home, in maintaining their sons and daughters upon the firing line of truth. A few days ago one of my companions came to me regarding his release. In the course of our conversation he said, "I have just received a letter from my father, in which he writes : 'It is hard to get money at the present time. I have kept five sons in the mission field, but I don't want you to think about coming homle until you receive an honorable release.' " 

I recall another letter which was received from a good mother in Israel, who had reared ten children. This letter was written to a sister of one of our missionaries. The good mother wrote his sister, "I would rather take in washing every day to keep my son in the field, than to think of his coming home until he has completed his mission." 

I want you to know that I treasure the memory of these things above the price of rubies. They testify of great souls, of souls that have been made pure and great by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With all my heart I am thankful for my membership in the Church that produces this kind of souls. I am thankful for the testimony of the truth which God has written upon my heart by the fire of the Holy Ghost. I know that this is the kingdom of the living God. I know that there is in this Church the power and tjhe Priesthood of God. I know that there is in this Church the riches of God's truth and God's wisdom. I do know that Heber J. Grant is a Prophet of God. The promise which he sealed upon my head when I was set apart for my last mission has been fulfilled — a promise which no human power could make come true. 

My brothers and my sisters, let us remember who we are and what our mission is in the world, and let us humbly and faithfully do our part, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

( Of the First Council of Seventy ) 

No doubt all of us who have had the privilege of attending these conference meetings have felt that it was good for us to be here. I think that upon .each occasion of one of these annual or semi-annual conferences a little different situation confronts the people. They are in need of a little different line of advice; and I felt, as President Grant gave his opening speech, that we! had heard the right word, and that it only remained for us to follow the good' advice, and that the work of the Lord, spiritually and temporally, in this intermountain country, would be greatly heightened thereby, I think the one thing that we need, perhaps more than any other, is obedience. Our third article of faith declares that salvation by the atonement is conditioned upon obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Another article of faith calls for obedience to the sovereign civil power and its laws. Many of the evils of the day result from the lack of obedience to the gospel and to the laws which govern us. Our modern, scriptures, (he revelations unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, are particularly strong in expressions as tq the necessity of obedience, in order for us! to have the benefit of the great sacrifice made by our Lord and Redeemer. In simplest form, perhaps, it is expressed thus: "My blood shall not cleanse them if they hear me not." 

In the Old Testament there are many strong passages indicating the necessity of obedience in order for us to have the benefit of the principles of the gospel and of the atonement and of the promises. When our 'brother quoted from the Book of Mormon, from Alma, I thought of a similar doctrine, as expressed in the eleventh chapter of Deuteronomy, in the twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth verses, that there would be a blessing by obedience, and a curse for those; who did not obey. We have some very striking examples in scripture of the view which the Lord took of disobedience. In the instance of the taking of Jericho, the very taking of it was based upon obedience. It would not have been sufficient if they had not complied with the direction as to the number of times that they should march around the city before it would be their privilege to take it. They were under strict command that it was not an expedition for spoils, and when one Achan disregarded that injunction and had to confess later that he had within his tent, the Babylonish robe, and the wedge of gold, and the shekels of silver, he was taken out and stoned by his comrades, because they realized then the necessity of obedience. King Saul no doubt learned his bitter lesson when the same rule applied to him, that it was not an expedition for private profit that he entered upon in proceeding against one of the heathen nations that merited destruction. When there could be heard the bleating of the sheep and the lowing of the cattle, which he had saved contrary to instructions, and he felt that  had incurred the, displeasure of Samuel and also of the Lord, how deep must have been his regret; how he would have retained Samuel to have him, if possible, wipe out the penalty for the act of disobedience. Another instance is the healing of the blind man by bathing in the pool under the directions of the Savior. Of course, be could not have received his sight by disobeying or any failure to) comply with the directions that had been given him whereby he might receive his sight. So, not only in the Church, but in the family circle, there is need of obedience. If time permitted I think we might read with profit at this point, the second epistle of the Apostle Paul to his "son in the common faith," as he called Titus, but time will not permit. Let the Latter-day Saints read this scripture and read more of thei scriptures, for I feel that there is great profit to us in so doing. 

We are living in a time of commotion. We are still in the struggle of what has been called the "back-wash of the war." It is a time of unsettled conditions. The right of suffrage has been widely extended throughout the earth. There has come within the scope of governmental powers increased duties and increased powers, and men are trying to keep their bearings by fixing their gaze upon the land marks. I thank the Lord for the marks that we have in this latter-day revealed religion of ours; that we have been kept steady, just as an ex-secretary of state found during the war evidences of steadiness here among our people. We might now have fewer instances of suffering and more evidences that we are prepared, to stand not only the shock of war but thq shock of war's aftermath, if there had been more obedience. People have passed through a stressful time during the last few years. You people within the sound of my voice can testify to that, if not from personal experience, from the instances in the lives of your friends, some of whom have gone down in the financial struggle. I know of one instance of creditors pursuing their debtor, and after the struggle of the debtor had been so severe that he in the meridian of his life had been a victim of adverse circumstances, and had given his life as forfeit, the merciful creditor then greatly rejoiced. In speaking to me of it, he expressed great joy that he had exercised mercy and forbearance and had not contributed in any way to the untimely taking off of his brother. Some find themselves in the position they now are in as the result of disobedience, failure to hearken to the counsel of their stake presidents. I know of some neighborhoods where there is financial distress, and the people feel the pinch of indebtness, just now as a result of failing to obey the caution given them by their respective stake presidents. I feel sure that the remedy has been offered for any little, or any considerable, inconvenience that the people may be passing through just now, if they will hearken to the voice of our prophet, seer and revelator. You are familiar with the story of the necessity for the cleaning up of a municipality in olden times, in order to properly receive certain guests; and the consideration 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

by the municipal authorities as to how they could do it upon short notice. Someone suggested that each one clean in front of his own property. That is all we have to do, it seems to me, each one of us, whether we belong to the Church or not, each one to whom this message of the opening address of this conference comes, to be obedient, to give heed to the suggestions, and the distress and discomfiture, if any exists, will surely disappear. 

I rejoice in the blessings and truths of the gospel. I felt, as Elder Widtsoe gave his testimony at the opening of his speech this morning, that that would be my testimony, and I would like it as such, without taking your time more to repeat it. I would simply like to> make his testimony and the testimony of others of the brethren whom we have listened to today, my testimony. I rejoice in the knowledge of the truth. I marvel as I read the scriptures at the evidences that have been given, line upon line, chapter upon chapter, section upon section, of the fact that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God : that not only knowledge, but wisdom dwelt with him. Someone has given us the distinction between the two and said. : "Knowledge dwells in heads replete with thoughts of other men: wisdom in minds attentive to their own. Knowledge is proud that it knows so much; wisdom is humble that it knows no more." 

We can learn even from that people whose representatives were referred to by Elder Widtsoe. I have often admired the emphasis they place upon honoring parents. They have said that out of a hundred virtues, the first to be listed would be "filial piety," the honoring of parenthood; and they also said that "out of ten thousand evils, lewdness would be placed as the first," as the most offensive. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to be obedient to the will of our Father, and to live according to the conditions upon which blessings are predicated, that we may be the happy recipients of the same, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT Elder Hart has asked you to read from the scripture. I thought I would do the same; and then, while considering it, I believe that nine out of ten of you would not do it, so I am going to read an entire section of the Doctrine and Covenants : Remember this is the word of the Lord Almighty, a revelation from God to his people, the very first section in the Doctrine and Covenants: 

Hearken. O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells o,n high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

For verily, the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, ior I, the Lord, have commanded them. 

Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I, the Lord, have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

And verily, I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to- seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

Yea., verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure; 

Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, [not according to his profession, not according to his knowledge,, mot according to the testimonies he bears, but according to his work] and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: 

Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; 

And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword Is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth; 

And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the. day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles shall be cut off from among the people; 

For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; 

They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall. 

Wherefore I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith,, Jr., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; 

And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets; 

The weak things of the world shall' come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh, 

But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; 

That faith also might increase in the earth; 

That mine everlasting covenants might be established; 

That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. 

Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding, 

And inasmuch as they erred it might be made known: 

And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed: And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent; 

And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time: 

And after having received the record of the Nephites, yea, even my servant Joseph Smith, Jr., might have power to translate through the mercy of God, by the power of God, the Book of Mormon; 

And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually, 

For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; 

Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

And he that repents not, from him, shall be taken even the light which he has received, for my spirit shall not always strive with man,, saith the' Lord of Hosts. 

And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh, 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion; 

And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself: and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same; 

For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth for ever and ever. Amen. 

A revelation from the Lord God to the Latter-day Saints. 

Elder Melvin J. Ballard, the choir, and the congregation sang, "Who's on the Lord's side, who?" 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John A. Elison, President of the Raft River stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


