Third Overflow
08 10 1921 


A third overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, Sunday afternoon, at 2 o'clock, October 9, 1921. Elder George Albert Smith of the Twelve presided. The music was furnished by the Cottonwood ward choir, Cottonwood stake; instrumental music by an orchestra conducted by Adelbert Beesley. 

The choir sang an anthem, "In our Redeemer's name." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Lawrence Fullmer. 

Ada McDonald and the choir sang "Inflammatus." 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

T am sure it will interest you all to know that a cable has just been received from Calcutta, India, informing us that Brothers David O. McKay and Hugh J. Cannon have arrived there safely on their tour around the world to visit missions. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD 

(In charge, for many years, of the Bureau of Information) 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may not only have your attention, but your faith and prayers. The last few days I have not been strong, but I feel that through your faith and supplications to the Lord he will aid me in performing this task that has been assigned to me. 

It is my privilege, day by day, to meet many thousands of people who are coming from all parts of the world; and while we sat in the tabernacle this morning, I observed some distinguished reprepresentatives from foreign countries. I watched them, as they gazed steadfastly over that vast congregation, and observed that they listened very intently to the inspiring remarks that were made by the speakers. I felt in my soul that they must have been impressed with the wonderful faith on the part of this people. They must have marveled at what they witnessed. 

I am convinced that there is more vitality in "Mormonism," more vigor and evidence of the rich outpouring of the Spirit of God, more demonstration of spiritual life than can be found among any other people that I know of. When our brethren spoke from the stand with such eloquence, such power, inspired as by the Spirit of God, I felt that those fervent testimonies were not merely demonstrations of the ordinary intelligence of man; but that their minds were quickened, their words were made eloquent, by the influence of the Spirit of Almighty God, and we had a spiritual feast. 

As I think upon this subject, I wonder if it occurs to any of our stranger friends, why there is so much vitality, so much inspiration in "Mormonism;." I have thought of the wonderful revelations given to us of the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and Book of Mormon, I have begun to realize why there is this vitality, and why the Latter-day Saints ought to praise God that he has given unto us in these last days so many revelations of his will. I call the attention of the Latter-day Sainjts to this, and of course it is an old story. It is nevertheless true, and if in our family circles we could get our children around us a little more frequently, and tell them these old, old sitories, it would do a wonderful amount of good. We ought to go back to Holy Writ, with regard to the labors of the Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and interprete his great mission for the benefit of our young people. We can testify also that we are living today in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Latter-day Saints realize that God has given to them many wonderful truths, and marvelous demonstrations of his power. 

We have taught to our children the actual manifestations of the 145 

Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to that young man at the inception of this work. But we want to tell them the story, time and time again, in such a way that they will feel impressed with the truth of it, that they will realize that what we tell them we feel in our souls and believe it to be true. We remember the wonderful manifestations given to the Prophet Joseph. Smith through the angel Moroni, of his appear- ' ing and giving to us, through that young prophet, this sacred record, the Book of Mormon. We realize how we have received the Aaronic Priesthhod through the ministration of John the Baptist, and received the Melchizedek Priesthood through the ministrations of Peter James, and John to the prophet Joseph Smith, And then as we tell the story of these wonderful events in Church history unjto our children, they will realize that this is a "marvelous work and a wonder," established by remarkable revelations of God's power, and they certainly will realize that we have abiding faith in these things. I believe that Moroni, an ancient prophet who lived on this continent, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to this we are indebted, for the Book of Mormon, the word of God containing the fulness of the gospel, and we are inspired by its teachings. 

I believe that that which is stated in the 13th section of the Doctrine and Covenants actually took place; that John the Baptist, who held the authority anciently, actually appeared before Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and bestowed upon them the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood; and then, as recorded in section 27, Peter, James, and John came with the greater power, giving them the keys of that authority and bestowing upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood, we bear testimony to these truths, and we exhort our people to study these sacred volumes. God has done well for us. He has fulfilled his promise. He has caused his word to go forth with power unto the nations of the earth. He has blessed our elders who have labored in the various mission fields, and today upon the temple block there are tens of thousands who have been gathered from the nations (or their parents, perhaps), and have been brought to these beautiful valleys by the preaching of the gospel to the nations of the earth. Now all these things we believe in. You believe in them, I know, just as fervently as I do. But God has so blessed us, and so wonderfully inspired our prophets to give us demonstrations of his power, that it has placed upon us obligations greater than ever to him. He expects more from us than from any other people that ever lived in the wide world. 

In the days of the Savior very few were brought to the knowledge cf the gospel. In this day thousands upon thousands have been brought to the knowledge of that same gospel and into the fold of his Church through the ministrations of humble elders going forth in weakness, and often unqualified for the labor, but they have had the authority of the Holy Priesthood and (by virtue of that God has blessed their GENERAL CONFERENCE. , and they have convinced the honest in heart and brought many to a knowledge of the truth; and now, in all the nations of the earth, they are saying, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." By virtue of this, God's people have been gathered in this dispensation. 

Now, in view of these great blessings, what manner of men and women should we be? Should we not make our lives conform to the teaching of this great work? The strangers here, our neighbors surrounding us, know not the truths we believe in and what lives we are supposed to live. I wonder if. by our consistent labor, |by the righteousness of our conduct, we are bearing testimony, day by day, that we are really inspired of God? 

There comes to my mind one instance where wonderful results came from faithful and consistent living. I love our presiding officer here, Brother George Albert Smith, as I love very few men here on earth; but I loved his, father, I believe, as much as I can ever love him. Let me give you an instance in his life. Many years ago, in the early morning before many had eaten breakfast, several people came into the Bureau in almost a blustering manner, they evidently were, "hail fellows well met." One of them, approaching me said, "Can you tell me if John Henry is in town?" Sometimes such familiarity with the names of our leaders is objectionable, but his manner was such that I could not take exception to it. I asked, "Who do you mean?" He replied, "John Henry Smith." I answered that I thought he was at home, and accordingly I telephoned him. President John Henry Smith asked, "What do you want, Brother Goddard; I am just getting up, just shaving." I said, "I scarcely know, tout there is a gentleman here who wants to see you." He asked his name, and I replied, "Mr. Case of Kansas." He promptly said, "Hold him right there until I can come." I detained the gentleman, conversed with him and found he was a very prominent official of the Irrigation Congress, and that he and Brother Smith had been associated for many years. They had attended the Congress sessions, the banquets and other functions. Finally President Smith came in. Have you ever observed Jolm Henry Smith when he was going up to an old friend, putting forth his arms and encircling his comrade with those arms? He did it with this particular visitor. He hugged him as if he had teen his own brother, and said, "1 am mighty jgJad you are here." The stranger seemed equally affectionate toward President Smith. A few years later this visitor came a second time, and as he and his party came in, he remarked, ''Mr. Goddard, I want you to meet my son." He continued, "I want to tell you w r hy I love John Henry Smith. All his associates know he is a 'Mormon,' that he stands by his convictions, that he is sincere, that he believes in all that he says. This boy of mine was with me at a banquet we attended some time ago in Kansas City. At the table ] placed the boy near John Henry Smith, and I sat a little further 147 . I knew what was going to happen. I knew what Mr. Smith would do. When he sat at the table he very quietly and without ostentation took his glass and placed it upside down. Oh, I tell youI watched this boy. I wanted to know how my boy was going to be impressed with that example; and when I saw him at John Henry's left hand take up the glass that was before him and turn it upside down, as an indication that he wanted neither wine nor champagne, nor any other kind of liquor, I felt to thank God for the influence that John Henry had upon him." 

We shed tears together, as we were talking over some of these circumstances. This incident impressed upon me the necessity of living an upright and consistent life, that we believe in and fully sense what we profess, and that we are endeavoring to live in accordance therewith. 

I had the privilege, a few days ago, of meeting a very large number of representatives from the Eastern states, and as we stood under the shadow of the temple they asked many questions regarding that sacred edifice, and just what it stands for. I explained the gospel principles, with regard to pur own salvation anl exaltation, and the salvation of our dead, the unselfish labors performed in the temple and the baptisms for the dead, how the Saints labor therein for their ancestors, as far back as they can trace their genealogies. I felt that they were impressed with what the Latter-day Saints are doing and with the breadth of the revealed plan of salvation. While we were thus conversing the east gate opened and a large number of people passed in carrying their valises and going to the temple. "What are they going to do?" was the query. I dwelt at some length upon the devotion of the people who were going to be baptized for their ancestry, in the faith and belief that when the gospel is preached behind the veil unto the dead, they may have the blessings pertaining to that holy ordinance. Many expressed their deep interest in these and other truths expounded to them:. About a year ago a young lady came to the Bureau and in an earnest and intelligent manner, investigated the gospel; ultimately after months of prayerful study she applied for baptism-. Soon afterwards she secured volumes on genealogy and learned that her family was linked up for centuries with some great characters known in American history. One of these volumes was loaned to me, and I took note of a stanza that impressed me as having a lesson for the Latter-day Saints generally. I submit it to you in conclusion, and trust that we may be alive to the responsibilities God has placed upon us : If you could see your ancestors 

All standing in a row. Would you be proud of them, or not, 

Or don't you really know? Some strange discoveries are made 

In climbing family trees, GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

And some of them you know, do not Particularly please. 

If you could see your ancestors, 

All standing in a row, There might be some of them, perhaps, 

You wouldn't care to know; But here's another question, which 

Requires a different view, If you could meet your ancestors, 

Would they be proud of you? I submit to you, that the work now being done in the temples for our ancestors will cause thousands upon thousands to be proud of these who perform the work, and eternal blessings will be received for the diligent performance of these labors, tout the Lord have mercy upon those who neglect this sacred duty. 

May God give us a full appreciation of his Work and an intelligent comprehension of it, that we may all merit and receive the Spirit to enable us to labor for the accomplishment of his purposes, and that we may labor zealously for the salvation of our families and our kindred that have passed away. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH H. DYE 

{President of the Shelley Stake of Zion, Idaho) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that while speaking to you I may enjoy the spirit that has prevailed during this conference. I would not like to occupy this position without it being of some benefit to you as well as to myself. I feel that time is very valuabe, that you have come here to be blessed of the Spirit of the Lord, and that ycu should receive that blessing in your gathering. 

Brother Goddard referred to the spiritual part of our religion, the inspiration which directs this people. I want to> bear my testimony, as one of the humble servants of the Lord, that in my ministry have I noticed this inspiration upon the brethren who are somewhat far from the center stake of Zion. The instructions that are given in this conference come very forcibly to my mind, something that I valued two months ago. I have noticed that on other occasions when there have been special instructions given to us as a people, they have come to us in our stakes as an inspiration from the Lord. I do not speak of this with any praise to myself, but I speak of it to show to you, that it is a testimony to me that the Spirit of the Lord is permeating this great assembly, and that its influences extend throughout the length and breadth of this great land of ours, where the people are worthy to receive it; and I think that under the influence of this Holy Spirit we are bound to succeed, especially if we put into practice that which we are taught. 149 

One of the ancient apostles in teaching the people in his time made a statement like this : "Today is the day of salvation for you"; and I have had a thought during this conference, and from the report of the instructions given that will go out among the people, and especially when these thoughts go out to the young people, that today is your day of salvation; today is the day that the Lord has given you to prepare not only for life in the future, but to prepare for this life, in order that you may have the blessings here as well as hereafter. 

For illustration, where is there a greater blessing than health to our people, to any people ? Without health we are helpless. We are of very little use unless we have health and strength, and the Lord has told us how to obtain that health and strength. Yet many of our own people do not cherish these words of the Lord as they should do, because they are breaking these laws of health and depriving themselves of the blessings that they might enjoy. Is not today the day of salvation for these young people? Certainly it is — not to wait till they get old for their salvation, going on in a reckless way, being out late at nights, using those things which are forbidden, as they grow older they will realize this, but this opportunity will be gone. The period) of youth will have passed, and opportunity neglected, and the result is they have lost that salvation that they could have secured. 

"Of all sad words of tongue or pen, 

The saddest are these, it might have been." 

I often think of our young people as well as many of our older ones, that they will see the day when they will look back and sigh for that which might have been. And where we have neglected to take advantage of these opportunities, that, sometime, either in this life or the hereafter we will think what we have missed, and then these words will come forcibly to us, "The saddest are these, it might have been." 

Many times our young boys, and older ones too, have had a chance to receive the Priesthood, one of the greatest opportunities that can come to a mortal man; and yet many of them would prefer, perhaps, some of the things they cherished in the flesh, such as the use of tobacco, the pleasures of the world. They would rather have them than receive the Priesthood. And it strikes me, O what are we doing as members of the Church when we take such a course, when we fail to receive the things that are of greater value unto us, both here and hereafter. Will there not come a time of reckoning and is not today the day of salvation to us ? A time to prepare not only for this lifq but for the life to come? 

I read here in the Doctrine and Covenants, that those who receive these two Priesthoods (the Aaronic Priesthood and the Melchizedek Priesthood) become joint heirs with God the Father and with his son Jesus Christ, and that all the blessings that they have to give are theirs, inasmuch as they receive these two Priesthoods GENERAL CONFERENCE.  remain faithful to them. O what a blessing to become joint heirs of God with his Son Jesus Christ in all these glorious things. That is further than eternity, and yet those blessings are within our reach if we will take the opportunity that is presented to us. So again, let. me say, today is the day of salvation, for you and for me, and we should not neglect these things, and should not have to look back and say — 

"Of all sad words of tongue or pen, 

The saddest are these, it might have been." 

I see a few young people here hefore me this afternoon. I wish there were more, because I love to speak to the young people, because they are the people whose course I feel we should direct. The young people sometimes give way to pleasures that suround them, the environments which are about them; they partake of them more or less, and they do not think, I feel, as seriously of the gospel and of the future as they should do. There comes a period 1 in their lives when they want to get married, and we do not blame them for wanting to be married. If there is anything that I despise, in the walks of life, it is the old bachelor or the old maid. And so I think that our boys and girls should have this opportunity when young, especially when they are married in the right way, and that is coming to the temples which have been provided where they may be sealed together for time and for all eternity. Now, for illustration, we will say, here are two boys raised in the same community, taught by good parents. One of them, when the opportunity comes, goes to the temple, as all good boys should go, and there he receives his companion for time and eternity. The other thinks, "Well, I believe I will be married by the justice of the peace, or by my bishop. What a difference between those two' marriages! Don't you see at once that one is cutting himself off from the salvation, the glory, that he might attain to? I imagine that I can see these two young boys with their wives, as time goes on, one going" into eternal glory and eternal lives, the other deprived of those blessings, because he has neglected those privileges he had while in the flesh. What will it be to that young man? Is not today his opportunity for salvation, is not today the day to prepare for salvation, not only in this life but in the life to come? I certainly think it is; and, should they neglect this opportunity, when they go to the other side they will look back and regret the course they have taken; or, on the other hand, be glad that they had the opportunity and improved it in this life, for salvation in this life and also in the life to come. 

I rejoice that this Church calls us all into the service, gives us all a chance to receive the blessings of the Lord, and if we neglected it, we deprive ourselves of the blessings of the Lord. In one of the beautiful hymns in our hymn book, Sister Eliza R. Snow says, and we so often sing: 15-1 

For a wise and glorious purpose 

Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection 

Of my former friends and birth. 

W.e came to this world for a wise and glorious purpose for which God sent us here. We should take advantage of the opportunity. 

May the Lord bless us, and help us to realize our advantages in this life, and by improving our opportunities maj we realize his blessings, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS N. TAYLOR 

(President of the Utah Stake of '/.ion) 

 My brethren and sisters, indeed T feel the great responsibility of attempting to address you here this afternoon. I realize, perhaps, that many of you have come from long distances, in order to be fed the bread of life, and I pray God the eternal Father that he will inspire me that some thought may be left with you that perhaps will stimulate you to go ahead and do the things that you ought to do and that we all ought to do. 

I rejoiced very much in hearing Brother Goddard refer to that universal lover of the Church, Apostle John Henry Smith. Most of us have in our lives some dark days, some days of trial, some days when we feel that we can hardly stand the load that we have to bear, and when we have had the privilege of having a man so full of faith, so full of love, of humanity, as to throw his arm around us and give us an embrace that we need, we love to think of his memory. There is no reason why he should not have been loved as he was loved throughout this whole community, and more. It is a beautiful thing to be a universal lover of men, and be loved for good deeds. He was a wonderful example, a powerful man, who could exercise forbearance towards his fellow men. 

This conference to me has been a very unusual one, a very inspiring one. One of the brethren, excusing himself from coming up to conference, said, "I dislike having to be excused from going to conference, because everyone feels that each conference is just a little better than the one before. I feel that inspiration has come to everyone of us. I feel that the Lord has answered the prayers of his people in this conference. I feel what a splendid thing it is that the temporal things of life can be so beautifully blended in the spiritual things of life, and that the two can be considered and appreciated together. 

Since coming to this house, I have been reminded of one of the most remarkable things that ever came to my attention. I shall take the liberty of telling the story, one that is coupled with the building of this assembly hall. It entered into the life of a boy friend of mine, whose parents had come from the old world. His mother was a member GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Church, but his father was not. His father was very much in love with his mother, and felt she would be happier if she gathered with her people. They came and settled in this city, with the understanding that if the mother ever became dissatisfied they would return, and with that understanding the father had made provisions that they should go back. They had not been here long before they met with a very sad misfortune; the little home they had was burned down, and all they had was destroyed. The boy got work on this block, helping with this building during its erection, running errands here and there for his first month. I remember for that period he received $16 on the old tithing office in this city. He went home with that order. The first thing his father said was, "Have you paid your tithing on that, my son?" The lad said, "No, I have worked pretty hard for that and I don't propose to pay any part of it." The father asked, "How do the people get the money to build that assembly hall?" He said, "I don't know how they get it, but I have worked pretty hard for this $16, and I don't propose to give any of it up." The father took him by the hand, and said : "I am not a member of the Church that you have seen fit to be baptized into. I have not been able to understand their principles to such an extent that I have felt like joining it, but' 1 want to ask you a few questions: Am I rearing a boy who would try, if they had a little sociable, to climb through a window, or climb under a tent? Am I rearing a boy who would avoid paying his obligations as a man? I want to say to you, as long as you are a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, I want you to be an honorable man, and I want you to pay your tithing on that month's earnings. Ten per cent of that should be paid to the Church, in order that they may build such buildings as you are working on. I want you, my boy, to be honest. Before there is anything done with that order, I want you to go to your bishop and pay to him, who has the collection of these things, the amount that he is entitled to." 

Why, you s|ay, that hasn't very much to do with the spiritual development of that man. Do you know what it has done for him ? He has grown up in this community, and he is now one of the most honored in this community, a man whose integrity and whose honor never has been and can never be questioned, a man full of devotion and integrity; and wh|at started him? Suppose his father had been a little careless, suppose his father had decided, "Why, we have had a great misfortune. I don't think they need what little you have worked for?" What effect would that have had? I don't think there has ever been a dollar in his hands, from that time until this, that he has not paid a tithing on. I thank God for my privilege of being associated with him. I thank God for the instructions given by that father, although he was not able to see all the truth of this work. O, I have wondered so many times, how many fathers and mothers in Israel have embraced the gospel of Christ, who have known how to teach their children what it means to live the gospel. Many, so many, of us like to consider the law of tithing, to construe that law, more or 153  as a voluntary donation because we do not have to give quite so much. 

I remember one man in the ward where I had occasion to labor in the bishopric; I went through the questions with him, "Shall I mark this as a full tithing?" "Yes, I think you'd better mark it full," he replied, "I h^ve been in the habit of paying about that much, and I think you'd better mark it in full." I said, "Is it in full?" He said, "Yes, I think you'd better mark, in full." "Well," said I, "I am a little afraid you don't understand the law of tithing?" "Well," he answered, "I think you'd better mark it in full; I think it is all I can afford this ye|ar." I simply want to call your attention to this, that you cannot compromise; the laws of God must be lived up to in one thing as well as another, and when you come to construe them to suit yourself, your own convenience, you are shutting out yourself from the blessings that you ought to enjoy, from the full love that comes to a man who does his duty and keeps the commandments of God, the blessings that, I feel, have come to that boy. 

Are we kind to our boys? Are you kind to your boys? Do we get them around us at night, and tell them such things as I have told you, teach them the truth, and show them what is right? Do we try to encourage them to read the biographies of men who have conducted their lives in conformity with this work? If we do, we are having a family circle th|at is very enjoyable. If we are talking to them of family prayer; if we are talking to the boys or girls, and say, We are talking to our Father in heaven. How many of you have called on your little boy or girl, and said, "Will you lead us in prayer to-night? The tears almost come to your eyes to hear a little child ask the Lord to bless some one near to their heart, to bless Brother Smith who is sick, bless my little companion, make him well, Father, that we may play together." Is that prayer worth anything to hear from your little boy? 

I beseech of you, my brethren and sisters, to encourage it. I beseech of you to teach your children correct principles. Teach them the laws of God; teach them that he has revealed those laws for their development and for the building up of his Church and kingdom. Of course, that is a very important thing, but the great thing in their lives is to teach them obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ, those means that are absolutely necessary in order to come into God's Church, and these are the things that are absolutely necessary to come into their lives that they may be strengthened and developed and prepared to meet their neighbors as they live here, and to meet eternal beings and exaltation in the hereafter. 

I wonder how many of you, mothers, are kind to your girls! I wonder how many mothers are able to set aside some of the affairs of life, to take a few minutes to talk to their girls. How many fathers are willing to put their arms around them, and ask them what their troubles are? Do you encourage that confidence, do you make the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Wjay open and pleasant that they can come and talk to you ? You know sometimes we get in the habit of kissing our boys and girls. I don't know, but I feel it is a very sweet ending of the day when one of my boys or girls comes to me at night and gives me a good-night kiss. O what it is to encourage these young people that God has blessed us with and placed in our hands to raise. 

A very unfortunate thing occurred once in my experience of some 28 years in the bishopric in the ward where I lived. A beautiful young lady came to the house one night, and she said : "Bishop, 1 would like to go to the temple." It has been my habit to talk to boys and girls when they are going to the temple, and try to impress upon them the importance of that great principle that has come into their lives, and offer to them, if possible, words of encouragement. This young lady, after carefully questioning her as to whether her life was such that she felt that she could go to the house of the Lord and receive the sacred blessings that are given there, broke down and began to cry. I said, "My girl, what is the matter ?" She sobbed. I said, "Can't you tell me what is the matter?" I said, "Does your mother know of your trouble?" She said, "No, I can't tell her, it would kill mo'her." I said. "You have told me, and I am almost a stranger to you." She said, "Yes, but I can't tell mother." I said, "Is it possible that your mother is not close enough, that she is not the one to go to with all your troubles?" She said, "I can't tell my mother." I said, "Yes, I will tell your mother." She said, "Don't.' I ,said, "Yes, I will." I said, "You go and tell your mother, and then come and tell me." She came back to see me the next day. The mother, a very proud, demanding woman, came and asked me why I talked to her daughter as I had talked. I bad her sit down, and I told her the story. She started to fly at the girl. I said, "One moment, if there is ever a time in her life that she needs a mother, needs the sweet influence of a mother, it is now. Now, I pray you, not one harsh word to that beautiful girl, whatever you do, and whatever she has been doing. I am not criticising you before your girl, but I pray you, put your arms around that girl, and make her life sweet and wholesome." I was very happy to meet her a year or two afterward. 

It is only one of the things that come up. And while we are criticising our boys and girls, I want to ask the parents in all sincerity, in all the fervor of my soul, are we doing our part? Are we able to say we are doing what we ought to do? If we are, then God will help us. Sorrows and trials will come, we- cannot stop them. But let us remember the beautiful things we have heard during this conference. O God, help us to live for the things that we know are true. Let us stand true to the obligations that we have entered into, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 155 

ELDER JAMES GUNN McKAY 

{Recent President of the Combined London, Norwich and Bristol 

Conferences) 

My brethren and sisters, I am very glad! to ibe with - you here in conference. I am happy to feel the inspiration that is attending this conference, and know that God is attending this people. I know that from the bottom of my heart. I know that from all the experience that I have had in this Church. There are no doubts in my mind concerning this fact, that this is God's church, and that he is guiding its destiny, not only its destiny but its officers, and what they teach and direct his people. 

When called to the British mission I had occasion to find out that its late president, Hyrum M. Smith, was a chosen vessel of the Lord to preside over that mission, when the great war broke out, well nigh .engulfing all the European missions, I know of no man among all the authorities of the Church that could have stood against that great wave of excitement .and held those missions together, as well as that great son of God, Hyrum M. Smith. He stood as a stone wall against the excitement and the fears of the Saints and the elders. AVhen the time came to close that mission he had the inspiration upon him. He was qualified although his difficulties were great, yet he was able to rise to every occasion. Soon the time came when those elders who were under his administration "were to be released, and we were pondering our hearts who was the one who should preside over the European mission to succeed President Smith. Soon the word came that Elder George F. Richards was to be appointed. I had occasion to say that God is guiding this Church, and whoever is appointed, that man is fitted for the time and place. In the course of time, President Richards came. He was the one who had to gather in the local people, and place them as presidents of branches and other officers. He was the man who was qualified, by his experience and his makeup and his care and caution, full of the inspiration of the Lord, to meet the conditions under which he was called to preside. Not only that. When he went about his duties, you could see as he went into a conference how the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him, and when he suggested a local man for a position that required experience and understanding, you could not have suggested a better man than he chose under those conditions and circumstances, and he could not have chosen a better man for that place. It shows quite well, that even this people are not guiding themselves, neither are their officers guiding this people through their reason, '{but they are receiving inspiration, as they are entitled to, to lead this people. 

When President Richards was about to be released, of course all were excited. There weren't very many of us elders. We wondered who would be the man for that purpose. Well, when the cable came, 



156 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

that President George Albert Smith was appointed, we knew at once that the way was opening for the missions to be rejuvenated again. There was no better man. And I want to say this, I may not be able to attend his funeral — he may live longer than I, so I am going to give him a few bouquets now. I believe in that. I don't know that corpses care very much for flowers. President George A. Smith came over there and under his training men among the nations of the earth were led. He was able to go among those officials, he was able to procure concessions and permits for the elders to come, because he was a man best qualified, in my judgment among all the authorities of the Church to preside over that great mission at that particular time. Look at the wonderful work that he accomplished. There were only a few elders there. The way seemed to be hedged up, and yet he came imbued with the inspiration of the Lord, and .was able to knock at the doors of the officials, to gain their confidence; and eventually we obtained the privileges we wanted, that elders might come to take up their work and fulfil their missions in furthering the cause of God and accomplishing his work, and in that way he secured to us a testimony that God directs that work. 

There are some who ridicule and say our officers are appointed by the wisdom and favoritism of men. I want to tell you if there are such cases they are few in this Church. If a man is living as he should live, he is entitled to go before the Lord and ask him for what he needs, what knowledge he may desire, and the Lord will place it in his way. 

I remember on one occasion when President Smith came to London to appoint a new conference president. He had written to me . about the elders there, and finally he came; and we met together to counsel over the matter. He said he thought so-and-so is the man, and you know that man's name had been in my mind ever since I had begun to pray about the matter. He had prayed also, and the Lord had designated to him the man who was to preside. That man was chosen, and he has made a wbnderful success, and is still there. I know the Lord does not make mistakes. 

My good father labored in the Southern states. When he was released, the President said, "You are now appointel to go to Scotland." My father said to himself, "A man should not he appointed to go on two missions without going home." So he went into the woods and praved, to learn if it was the mind and will of the Lord that he should go to Scotland 'before returning home. When he prayed the third time, the word of the Lord came to him, "The words of my seivants unto you are my words; do as they instruct you, and my blessings shall attend you." He made his way to New York and there met John Henry Smith. He said, "I am not prepared, Brother Smith, tf go. I havn't any means. I have been preaching in the south without purse or scrip." Brother Smith said. "Come with me." They went into 157  large mercantile house. He met the manager. The manager patted my father on the back, and said, "I want you to try on a new overcoat, that we have in the office." He said, "I haven't seen you before, but I want you to take that overcoat with my compliments." Father had been praying that his way should be opened up. His passage across the ocean was paid by strangers. So I say, we are not left alone. We are not left in doubt, and if any of you are left in Idoubt concerning the counsel of the authorities of this Church, and you will obtain his mind and will in no uncertain terms. Just as sure as the Latter-day Saints will seek God they will be guided aright, and they will know that the Lord has placed the right man in the right place. I know that God lives, and that I can approach him, and that I can receive answers from him, as I have done in many, many cases. Missionaries have a great many experiences which teach them these things. 

There was an elder who was sent for by two companions who were in trouble. He was running to catch the train, the station master saw him and held the door of the car open as the train left the station; but as soon as this elder got to the door something said to him, "Don't go." He stopped. The station master said, "Why don't you go? You have run two or three blocks; you are the strangest men on earth, you 'Mormons', I don't know what is the matter with you. Why, you have come running down here out of breath, and just when you see your way clear to go on, you are not going." He said, "I know where you will end your days if you are not careful." The elder took the next train, and later that day he found that the train which he had refused to board had broken through a bridge and every soul had perished. Had he not listened to the inspiration of the Spirit of God, had he not been guided by a heavenly influence, he, too, would have been one of the victims. See how an elder may be guided by inspiration. God help us that we may feel that inspiration that is in his Church, and if we do not feel it, let us get in tune with it, for God is speaking unto his people, privately and otherwise; and if you have not a testimony, seek him that you may obtain it, just like Samuel said when the Lord called him, "Samuel, Samuel," three times. Samuel arose and said, "Speak; for thy servant heareth." The Lord is anxious >o speak to us through the means that he has. We need to be in communication individually with the Lord as well as with the authorities of the Church, that we may have inspiration, that we may have the blessings and the gifts of God with us continually. 

It is well enough to read the story of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; but to sit at a table of spiritual feasting, to dine with the Lord on a few of the things that you know have come from heaven direct is worth all of the scriptures, valuable as the scripture may be; and if you have not had that, and if your testimony has not been added upon and added upon, I beseech you to turn that door that 1 Heaven may speak to you in your work and in your life, so that you will have hc doubt that God has established his Church never to be thrown down. May we fulfil our covenant. May we feel this inspiration in our lives, for this is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I have rejoiced today, as I have during- the other days of our conference, in the Spirit of the Lord that has been poured out upon the people. It has been a time of feasting- to me, greeting my friends and looking into the faces of men and women who have come to wait upon the Lord. 

THE WORLD IGNORANT OF CONDITIONS CONFRONTING IT. 

I am thankful that we are not in doubt as to what the attitude of our heavenly Father is toward his children, and I am thankful that those who have been called to address us in this conference have been inspired to tell us things that give us courage and hope. The people of this world, generally speaking, are not aware of the real condition that confronts them, but you have been advised of what awaits you. You have heeded the call and have partaken of the ordinances of the gospel and many of you have received a witness that your action is approved of the Lord. The brethren who have addressed you this afternoon have borne testimony of the divinity of this work; but the most important testimony to you, the most important testimony to me, is that individual witness that comes' to us that we have done well, and that we feel that our heavenly Father has approved our action. 

OUR RELIGIOUS BELIEF. 

We believe in God the eternal Father and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. That is not incomprehensible to us. It has been made plain to us, that these are the Godhead that we worship. We believe that our Redeemer has revealed himself to the children of men in the days that are past, that the Old and New Testaments contain his wise counsels, and in addition to that, we believe that he revealed himself to the people who dwelt on this Western continent after his resurrection. The Savior appeared and directed the organization of his Church in the western hemisphere, as he had done in the eastern hemisphere. We believe that our heavenly Father has spoken in our own day also, that he heard the humble prayer of a youth in Palmyra, and answered his prayer and blessed him with a knowledge of his personality, that all people might know the Lord, if they will. 159 

NATURAL THAT THE PROPHET JOSEPH SHOULD SEEK THE LORD. 

It was a very natural thing that Joseph Smith should seek the Lord. He came of a race of people who believed in our heavenly Father, in the divine mission of the Savior, in the efficacy of prayer, and that Gbd would hear and answer his people if they went before him with a proper spirit. It was easy for this young man to believe, because he had been born and reared in a believing household; and when he went out into the woods in response to the injunction of the scripture (James 1:5): "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him," he believed that his prayer would be answered, and our heavenly Father has promised his children from the beginning, that, "by faith ye may know all things." The result was that wonderful manifestation, unlike any other that we have ever heard of in the history of the world. We have heard of instances where our heavenly Father has manifested himself; we have read of instances where the Redeemer of mankind has manifested himself; but we have never read of any instance where the Father and the Son before have appeared to any living being and have spoken to that individual. People of the world do not believe it. Men and women have been taught that the heavens are sealed. They have accepted the scripture because they have been taught that the Bible is the word of the Lord. Many of our Father's children have never given thought to the teachings of the Lord, and when this youth declared that in our day, at the very time when we needed light most of all, when men and women were running to and fro for the word of God and could not find it, as predicted by the old prophets, the Lord had manifested himself, he was ridiculed. Faith prompted Joseph to seek God in prayer and ask which church he should identify himself with. What was the response? Did the Lord say, "My boy, they are all good, they are all striving to keep my commandments, the men who are leaders of all these churches are approved of me, any church will do, they will all lead you back into the presence of our heavenly Father?'* The boy might have expected such an answer from the conditions that existed. But he wanted to know what to do, and he had full faith that the Lord would tell him. So when he prayed, he asked which of the churches he should join, and I presume he was astonished when our heavenly Father said to him, "Join none of them; they teach for doctrine the commandments of men; they draw near to me with their lips but their hearts are far from me; they have a form of godliness, but deny the power thereof." Think of a boy fourteen years of age arising from his knees in the woods near his home and announcing to the world such a message at that! Can you imagine that a youth would have dared GENERAL CONFERENCE.  do such a thing as that? But with the witness that had been given unto him by his heavenly Father, with that commandment from the Lord himself, dared he do anything else than make the announcement that the Lord had spoken to him? It is true, his statement was rejected, and those who should have been his friends turned away from him and even said it was of the evil one. What was the boy's testimony? 

So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision, and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it, at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation. 

THE RESULTS OF JOSEPH'S VISION. 

What of the results? From that boy who, at fourteen years of age, beheld the Father and the Son, there came that wonderful message that our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ are glorified men. That the Savior of the world had been resurrected from the dead; that youth beheld what the world had known, but for some reason had forgotten, and he began bearing witness of it to the children of men. He went about, performing his duty, and in due time, by the power of God translated and gave to the world the Book of Mormon, a faith-promoting record, second to none. Under the direction of the Lord he organized the Church with the same officers that were placed in it in Judea. The Lord recognized and approved them. He directed those possessing divine authority, to confer it upon them, and by his instruction the Church was organized in the year 1830. From that time it has continued to grow. The people of the world have generally refused to recognize this? Church as divine. All the so-called Christian churches have been allied against it. What have been the results? By the thousands, men have accepted the truth and have been willing to go into the world bearing their testimony of it, paying their own expenses, working without money, trusting in God, the eternal Father, to lead them on their way. Why do this? Because that testimony was burned into their souls. Would brethren and sisters have filled missions in the world, have departed from their homes, left their loved ones, and gone into the world without purse or scrip, or paying their own way, had they not known, as you know, that our heavenly Father would reward them for it ? The result of this work has been marvelous in its development, despite the opposition of all the forces of the world. Our Father in his mercy, has led this people over the 161  snares and pitfalls that the adversary has prepared. The world have seen the development of the Church and they have marveled, and people have said, "What has made its people what they are?" The answer comes ringing true, because it is our Father's work, and no power on the earth can stay its progress. 

OUR GRATITUDE DUE TO FATHER IN HEAVEN. 

Oh, my brethren and sisters, those who have received the same witness that God has burned in upon my soul, be grateful and show it by your lives. You men and women who have been gathered from the nations of the earth as a branch from the burning, be sure that you are mindful of his glorious gift unto you, and that you are indeed grateful unto him. 

We- will not be popular with those who are unrighteous. This Church is opposed by the same power that sought the life of the Savior, it has followed the prophets of this dispensation, and many of you have lived' to see the hand of the Lord as he has thwarted the powers of evil that they have not been able to overthrow this work. I am grateful for the knowledge that has come to me. I am not dependent upon the testimony of anybody else. It is not necessary that my brethren and sisters declare this work to be true. But it is music to my ears when they do so. From my childhood I have sought to serve the Lord; from my youth. I have been taught to keep his commandments. And since I have been called into the ministry I have sought to do what the Lord would have me do, making mistakes as others make mistakes, but through it all I have had the sure witness that my heavenly Father knows I was trying to do my best, and have felt all the time that he would preserve me, if I would honor him and magnify those whom he has called to preside over this Church. I have known that by obedience to his teachings to the children of men, no power could stay the effort that I was making, and that in the end' I would obtain eternal life. That has been my testimony. 

THE SWEETEST TESTIMONY OF ALL. 

We have listened to a variety of narratives, but I want to say, the testimony that is sweetest of all to me is the testimony that my Father lives, and that he, my heavenly Father, has placed this work on the earth, that he has called men to act in his name, and that all men who will believe and comply with the requirements of the gospel will eventually be redeemed in his presence and obtain glory, immortality and eternal life. 

What can we give in return for that wonderful information that has come to us? I feel as humble as a little child, and I am grateful that at my time of life (and I have passed the meridian) I see more clearly than I have ever seen before, our Father's love and mercy extended toward the children of men. 

162 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

COMFORTING TESTIMONY. 

I testify that I know that God lives. I know that Jesus of Nazareth is the Redeemer of mankind, and there is no other name under heaven whereby we may gain a salvation but his. And there is no way by which we can obtain an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God but by obeying the laws and ordinances that he has laid down. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. He gave his life as his testimony to the truth of the gospel, and it will be borne to all the world. He was a prophet, and those who have succeeded him have been prophets. President Grant is a man of God, and I desire to sustain him and hold up his hands that all Israel may be blessed by his ministry, and I say that every man and woman who will do that will enjoy the blessings of the Almighty. 

This is our Father's work. He has pointed out the way whereby we may gain an exaltation. He has organized his Church. He has instituted the authority of this Church in his own way, and all the wisdom of the world cannot change it, and all the opposition of this world cannot overthrow it. 

A PRAYER FOR PEACE, LOVE AND ORDER. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may find place in the hearts of the children of men, that in the great gathering about to be held in the city of Washington the representatives of the nations may be inspired to so organize and so arrange that many of the evil conditions in this world may be set aside, and that the awful calamity that befell us in the late war may not be repeated. It is our duty to pray for good men and wise men, and to hold up their hands in their attempts to perpetuate peace and law and order among the nations of the earth. 

Now any man who refuses to assist in carrying into effect the constitutional law of the land not only is he a lawbreaker in the sense that he consents to things that are evil, but I want to say that he is in opposition to the will of our heavenly Father. (Read Section 134 of Doctrine and Covenants.) 

May God add his blessing. May peace be in the homes and at the firesides of the Latter-day Saints. When conference clones, let all return to our homes determined that, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." And if we will do that, the blessing of the Almighty will rest upon us, Zion will arise and shine, she will put on her beautiful garments, and all the world will turn their faces to the land where men are keeping the commandments of God. That this may be our happy lot, and that we may be worthy of the blessings that are bestowed upon us by our Father in heaven, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 



ELDER WALTER P. MONSON 163 

The general authorities of the Church were presented and unanimously sustained as in the Tabernacle. 

The choir sang an anthem, "Glory to God in the highest." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles W. Hatch, late President of the Birmingham conference, England. 


