Afternoon
07 10 1921


ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

To the man who communed with Jehovah was given a wonderful promise. The Lord said to him: "Thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." This promise has been enjoyed, is enjoyed, and will be enjoyed by every president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and with our leaders we will go on to victory, the victory which will win for us eternal life, growing up in all good things, perfected in doctrine, in Jesus Christ, our head. 

It was a soul-thrilling message that our president delivered unto us yesterday morning. He stirred up our minds by way of remembrance to the divine mission of this Church: this mission is — "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come." "Where there is no vision, the people perish." In this Church this vision is a broad and glowing light, and whenever we do not sense sufficiently our mission of preaching the gospel, it is a sign that our vision is dimming, and hence the necessity of prophets and apostles to remind jus of oua* duties, and to make more clear this glorious vision which should always be before the eyes of every Latter-day Saint. 

The testimony of Jesus Christ abides in this Church. Some of our young men may grow slack, seemingly indifferent; but sooner or later will come in their lives a great awakening. The testimony will flame up in their hearts in time of need. It may be that it will require the winds of opposition to make this flame spring up in their souls, but sooner or later, in their direst need, it will come to them; and this is a comfort and joy to the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. A young man laboring in the Georgia conference, several years ago, said he believed in the gosped, came on a mission because he felt it was his duty to come, but he could not say in! his heart that he knew the gospel was the power of God unto salvation. After he had labored in the conference a couple of weeks, he and his companion were attacked by a mob. The mobocrats chased these young men for about two miles, and when the young man who said he had not a .testimony, had outdistanced his pursuers, he faced about and, pointing his hand in the direction of the mob, said : "I know this gospel is true." Thus there came into that young man's soul the great awakening light. , ( 

The Church is the mother of men grown strong in giving. I believe that affiliation and adversity play an important part in our lives. I am reminded of the words of Alma, the Nephite prophet, in the thirty-second chapter of the book bearing his name. Some poor people came to him and declared that they had been cast out of their synagogues because of their exceeding 1 poverty. Alma had the courage to give them the counsel they most needed. I believe it takes as much moral courage sometimes to teach the poor as it does to counsel the rich. These people were poor in this "world's goods, and poor in spirit. God said: "Blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me." Unto these poor in heart Alma said: 

I say unto you, it is well that ye are cast out of your synagogues, that ye may be humble, and that ye may learn wisdom; for it is necessary that ye should learn wisdom; for it is because that ye are cast out, that ye are despised of your brethren, because of your exceeding poverty, that ye are brought to a lowliness of heart; for y.e are necessarily brought to be humble, blessed are ye; for a man sometimes, if he is compelled to be humble, seeketh repentance; and now surely, whosoever repenteth, shall find mercy; and he that findeth mercy and endureth to the end, the same shall be saved. And now as I said unto you, that because ye were compelled to be humble, ye were blessed, do ye not suppose that they are more blessed who truly humble themselves because of the word." 

Brethren and sisters, will future historians write the melancholy story that the Latter-day Saints were compelled to be humble ? I don't think they will. I believe that, aside from afflictions, from prosperity, we should always humble ourselves because of the word, because we know that this gospel is the power of God unto salvation. This personal testimony that comes to our sons and daughters, this testimony that they receive when they are baptized, when eight years of age and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands by the servants of God, this testimony is the secret and the reason for the steadfastness of the members of this Church. Against this testimony — which is the heritage of God's sons and daughters — the gates of hell shall never, no never, prevail. Amen. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

(Late President of the South African Mission.) 

What an inspiration it is to look; upon this sea of faces, of people who have lived the gospel and who are striving to live it. What a joy it is, I say, to be here in your midst. I come as a foreigner. For eight years I have been in the South African mission. I remember when I was called to go there some of my friends said : "O, get it changed. Don't go down am'ong the heathen," and I said to them: "But who am I that I can have my mission changed? I believe that the authorities of this Church are men called of God, and if they ask us to do anything ilt is from God himself, and who am I that I can tell the Lord that he does not want me in South Africa? These men who preside over the Church are God's servants and when they speak to us they speak with authority: and we have no right to suggest to them, or to the Lord, that he does not know where he  us. Wonderful has been the manifestations of the Lord shown to me in that land. They said I was going down there among the heathen. How surprised I was to find out the laws and rules under which they live! When I came home I discovered that in some respects we are following in the footsteps of the heathen. I found when we landed in New York, that we wore just about as many clothes as the heathen did in South Africa (Laughter). They have some other customs that would be well for us to copy after, as well as this custom. They have a rule or law down there which compels all the stores to close down one-half day each week; and upon that halfday the populace go out, and they have their sports and their games. They have another law which compels every store, even the drug stores, to close upon the Sabbath day — down amongst the heathen, if you please; and there are no moving pictures there upon the Sabbath day. Why, I was preaching in one of the wards one evening when an ice-cream wagon came along, clanging its bell, and some of the folks went out and bought a cone: — I suppose to keep themselves awake until I finished talking. But these things are not right to my mind — speaking as a foreigner, as one of the members of the Church who comes from a foreign country to Zion, to learn of uplifting laws and ways; why can't we, Latter-day Saints, see to it that the Sabbath clay is honored' and respected in our midst? Why, the law should go out of Zion, and the word of the Lord from, Jerusalem. Then why do we not have these rules in our own places of residence 1 — right here in Zion? Another law they have down there; no one can buy fire-arms in that country who has not a permit from the magistrate; so that only loyal citizens are enabled to secure fire-arms. I never heard of a hold-up in that country all the while I was there. Think of it. Here in Zion, every time I pick up a paper, I read of dozens of them. Why is it? We might well copy after some of the laws and rules that the heathen have. Let me tell you, down there they have good laws, for it is one of the dominions of the British Empire, and the people make their own laws. 

The Lord did not fail us in that mission, thank heaven. He sent a man down there in my place who is in very deed a servant of God, and now the way is opened up so more missionaries can go to South Africa. One of them has already arrived there, a young lad who went 

all the way to South Africa; he has been permitted to enter, and he is there now with President J. Wyley Sessions, who is presiding over that mission. And let me say to you, brethren and sisters, if youi have a son who is called to that mission, rejoice in the fact, for he is down there with a man of God, and there is no better place to be in all the world. 

By way of closing I desire to bear my testimony to you, to show you all how the Lord! takes care of his own. You remember in that awful October when the "flu" came over the earth, we had it down there. My mother wrote me from Salt Lake City and said: "Son, nearly one hundred people have died here during October." In return I answered and said : "O mother, if only one hundred had died in a day how happpy we would have been here; but it was one hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, five hundred in a day; and when a week had passed five thousand people had died in the city of Cape Town alone, which is about the size of Salt Lake City. When the second week had ended ten thousand people had been taken by the scourge." 

. Think of it, brethren and sisters; and yet here we complain because one hundred had died in a month). During this time of death and desolation, it crept into the mission house. Out elders went down with the dread disease. Only one besides myself was left upon his feet — Elder Aaron U. Merrill, a grandson of the late Apostle Merrill, of Cache valley. I said to Elder Merrill: "Are you prepared to go with me to bless the people?" He said: "I will go, President." Mind you, we saw children dragging their parents' coffins along the street. But soon the coffins were all gone, and then we saw forty and fifty bodies wrapped in sack-cloth, placed upon motor trucks and taken off to the cemetery and thrown into trenches. Some' of our friends we carried away in bread wagons, others in wheel barrows, others were carried away on the shoulders of men. Death and desolation all about us! When it came, there were fifty-seven members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who went down to their beds with this dread sickness. Elder Merrill and I went from door to door. Half of these people should have died, according to the rules of the game. The first door we came to we found a young woman, a girl, who had married a man outside the Church. We opened the door and walked in, because, mind you, people were unable to answer knocks. Some places they went into, they found as many as eight dead lying around in different rooms, some in the bed room, others out by the water, where they had been trying to get a drink, and where they had died. When this man saw us, he told us, in his delirium, to get out; but we refused. We got him on to the bed. We saw that he was dangerously ill. The doctor had been there just a| little while before, and had said that both of them were dying. We administered to this younsj woman, according to the pattern which was set by our Lord and Savior, and which James tells us of; and the Lord raised her up. We went from house to house administering to the members of the Church who were sick with that dread disease, and the Lord raised up every one of therm. Not one Latter-day Saint died in the citv of Cape Town. One of the elders, Elder Charles Elmer Sessions from Kimberly, wrote to me and said: "President, the Lord has not refused to acknowledge a single one administration." Think of it, brethren and sisters. Why, we have God  us here, here in Zion. We have the Priesthood here. The miracles are not to be read about in only the! scriptures. Christ did not perform the last one, nor his apostles; but he said that greater things than he. did should we do; and we have that power here with us. Let us exercise our faith, to the end that we might raise even the dead; because I testify to you that I have seen thq dead raised. God bless us here in Zion, help us to live the gospel and to follow in the foot-steps and take the advice of the leaders of this Church, is my prayer, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

I feel I can do no better during the brief moments I occupy this position than to . add my humble testimony to the inspiring one to which we have just listened, concerning the spirit and power of the Almighty in the Church of Christ, wherein his authority is recognized and his blessing bestowed upon those who receive, through the ordinances of the gospel, the administration of the elders. I shall refer briefly to an incident of recent occurrence in my own home, in which, as many of my friends here know, Sister Iverson was seriously ill, and the manifestation of God's power on her* behalf was marvelous in very deed. I think of it with unspeakable gratitude in my heart; but I shall pass to another incident even more striking than this one, though this was a marvelous manifestation of our Father's love and power in response to the prayers that were offered and the fast that was observed, not alone in the mission field but by the hundreds of kind, sympathetic friends here in Zion. To them we feel obligated and extend our sincere thanks and gratitude. 

The incident T desire to refer to is an experience which came to a sister residing in Portland, the president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, who, when set apart by President Melvin J. Ballard, shortly before I came into the mission, protested that she should not accept the position because of the state of her health. But by him she was promised, in a blessing given in connection with her setting apart, that if she would accept the position the Lord would give her sufficient strength to attend to the duties of this calling and the meetings of the organizations. Her testimony is that she has never absented herself from these meetings, notwithstanding she has made equally great efforts on other occasions to attend Sunday evening services, but often was unable so to do. Her health seemed to continue to fail her and last November her condition became serious, and grew rapidly more serious until June of the present year. In the meanwhile many eminent physicians were consulted, and lastly a clinic of specialists, the senior member of which is a very distinguished surgeon and physician, concerning whom the Mayos have said so long as they have him in the northwest, it is useless to send patients to Rochester. Under these specialists, she passed for examination from nine o'clock one morning until five in the afternoon, seven men having; examined her, and the conclusions were that she was afflicted with cancer of the abdomen. I do not know the exact location, hut every indication and every conclusion of these men was that she was suffering from cancer. Moreover I am told that she was also suffering from a dropping of the stomach and bowels. The growth in the abdomen was not only perceptible to the touch but plainly visible to the eye. When it was decided that she undergo an operation, after she had been administered to, about two weeks before her going to the hospital for this examination, and the decision was reached on the afternoon preceding the morning on which the operation was to be performed, word was sent out to the Saints and the elders, requesting that they meet in fasting and prayer on that particular morning. At nine o'clock in the morning she was placed upon the table, the anaesthetic was administered, and the surgeon rolled down the sheet and he was just about to make the incision when the abdomen, inflated highly as it was, deflated before his eyes. In perfect amazement he shook his head and said: "I have never seen anything like that before in my life. I can't understand it." He made a hasty examination which revealed nothing but normal conditions. He turned away and the nurses looked into each other's faces in astonishment. They too turned away. She was taken to her room, and when she regained consciousness she began to inquire as to why they had not operated. The nurses said : "We do not know. The physician said it was unnecessary." Shortly thereafter the physician appeared and she said : "Doctor, what is the reason you have not performed the operation?" He said: "Because I think it unnecessary, and I cannot tell you the reason why." She said : "I can. It is because the Lord has healed me in answer to the prayers offered by the members of the Church," and she bore her testimony to him. 

He was a little fearful as to subsequent developments and desired she should remain there for two weeks for safety; but the following day she insisted that she return to her home. To him she said : "I am here on borrowed money. I am well. The Lord has made me well, and I desire to return to my home and children. If you do not believe I am well, you may call any physician you desire, or any number of nurses, and make a thorough examination, and if you decide I am not thoroughly healed and well, I shall remain as long as you desire me to." He said : "That is fair enough." They made a thorough examination, only to find that every organ of the body had resumed its normal position and condition, so to her he said : "Go home." Since that day she has enjoyed health that she never before enjoyed in her life. She looks ten years younger, has put on fifteen pounds of flesh and looks almost like a different being. The doctor said: "I cannot account for it," but I know, as she knows, that it was the power of the Lord in answer to the prayer of faith that healed this woman. I have heard upon several occasions, though I have not verified this , that to this circumstance the doctor has referred, while 

speaking to some of his professional associates, as the " 'Mormon' miracle." 

I testify that the power of the Lord is in this Church, that he hears and answers prayers, that our Father rules on high; that his Son is the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith is his prophet, and this is the Lord's work. This is my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California 

Mission. ) 

I am glad, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity of attending this conference. My soul has been made to rejoice in listening to the splendid counsels that have been imparted, and in hearing the testimonies that have been delivered concerning the wonderful work of the Lord'. It falls to my lot, at the present time, to labor in the California mission. California, as you all know, is a state of considerable renown. There are things transpiring there that perhaps do not occur anywhere else in the world, as far as I know. There are a great many people in California who are there for pleasure, who have come from other sections of the nation, and from other nations, in order to enjoy the wonderful climate of California, and to spend the money that they gathered together. It is a common thing in Southern California for Canadian people to hold a reunion, and people who are from New York, and from Iowa, and from Illinois, and practically all of the other states of the Union; they come together in large numbers. It is astonishing at times, to note the number who congregate in these various reunions from other nations and states in the United States. I do not know whether anything of this character is found elsewhere in the nation or not. 

I think there is a general feeling that the people of California are not seeking for religion. Nevertheless, I am very happy to be able to report that there are many very excellent people in the State, of California, and that many of them give the missionaries opportunity to expound the principles of the gospel which they have been sent to teach; and there are a few who are convinced of the truth of that message, who yield obedience to the doctrines and become identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There are many people of our own faith who appear to be attracted to that state, and we are receiving hundreds of men and women who come from the various wards and stakes here in Zion to identify themselves with the branches of the Church that are located in California. We have some very excellent Latter-day Saints, just as good as can be found in any other part of the Church or in any 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

other mission, men and women who are devoted to the service of the Lord, who feel that they are under obligation to live the principles of the gospel and to convince others, by the example they set, they have indeed received the truth; men and women who are that willing to give their time for the building up of the Church and for the strengthening of the organizations that have been effected in various parts of the mission. In fact, there is a spirit, in connection with missionary work, which seems to seize hold of many people who have been indifferent' to their religious duties here in the wards at home, and they become aroused to the necessity of devoting a little of their time to the service of God and the advancement of his work. We have had the joy of seeing a good many who formerly have been quite careless and neglectful, turn their attention to the work of God and render special service in advancing our Master's interests. I am very glad to be able to report that we have a corps of missionaries who are interested in preaching the gospel, and who, notwithstanding they feel weak, are bearing testimony, to the truth as it has been revealed; and even in California, the power of God is made manifest. 

Just a few weeks ago, a telephone message was received, answered by a young elder of just a few months' experience. A person desired to know if he could be administered to. He was not a member of the Church, but expressed a belief in the truths of the gospel as it has been taught by the missionaries. He was informed that if he had faith to believe that God, our Father in heaven, would hear and answer the prayers of his servants, there would be no objection to his coming to receive the healing ordinance. He came into the office on crutches, and two young boys, in the fear of God, annointed him with holy oil, and laid their hands upon him. They rebuked the trouble that had been preying upon him for a) long period of time, and when the ordinance was completed and one of those elders took his crutches and offered them to the man, he looked up into his face, smiled, and said: "My brother, you don't know what has taken place. I am healed!" He walked from the building without his crutches; and, on the following day he accompanied the missionaries on a ten-block walk to show them the residence of a person they were seeking; and he has continued free from the ailment that held him down for a long time. 

So that, God is in California, notwithstanding its pleasures, and the fact that there are tens of thousands of people who think little of him, and who are not seeking for religion. There are other men who love the Lord, who are willing to listen to the testimonies borne by his servants, who hearken to the doctrines that are expounded, who are going to believe by the power of God and the Holy Ghost that they come in contact with the truth, who have the courage, even in pleasure-seeking California, to cast their lot with the people of God,  to give of their time and their substance that the purposes of God may be accomplished. 

In California, in this time of stress, we have asked the people to think of the missionaries. I would like to say to the fathers and mothers.., here at home and in that mission, that Latter-day Saints have responded quite liberally and have contributed of their means, that others who were in distressed financial conditions might be aided, and possibly prevented from returning home. I am glad to say that we have missionaries today who are faithfully pursuing their labors, who have been preserved in the mission field by the faith and liberality of the Latter-day Saints who are in California; for, in every conference of the California mission, there are people who have contributed of their substance, that they might help the missionaries, that none of them should return home before their labors are completed. Of course, they have not been able to prevent some of the missionaries from returning; but they are helping, according to their substance, to provide for them. 

I suppose it is natural, when one is engaged in missionary work, that he feels that the important thing, as announced in this conference, is the message that has been delivered by President Heber J. Grant in relation to missionary work. I hope fathers and mothers will take to their hearts the message as it has fallen from the lips of the prophet of the Lord. I think there is very great necessity for such a message. I have never before come in contact with a spirit like the spirit which prevails in some sections, at the present time — (the spirit of the missionaries and some fathers and mothers, that they know when their sons and daughters should be released from the mission field. I have had considerable experience in the mission field and I have never before come in contact, in any other missionary labor, with a spirit of this sort. I know what my own feelings were and the feelings of my companions, in my early missionary experience. Why, we would have died in the mission field before we would have suggested to the mission president that we ought to be released to return home. I myself have recommended men to he released because of ill health, when I have had fear in my heart that they would lay their bodies down in a foreign land, and they have pleaded, in tears, that they might be permitted to remain in the mission field. They had an absolute feeling of opposition to such a release, and a determination to remain and fulfil the mission to which they had been appointed. I have had men, right on this temple block, almost command me as the president of the California mission, to release their sons to return home. I have received letters from fathers, from various sections, intimating that they will no longer provide the means to sustain their sons in the mission field. I recognize the fact that we do live in strenuous times, that fathers and mothers are having great difficulty to provide the necessary means to meet the expenses of tbeir missionary sons and daughters, but I do not believe that it is the right or the prerogative of any father to write to the mission president demanding the release of his son or daughter. I believe the proper course to pursue is to confer with the authorities at home, those who know the conditions and circumstances, and if it be necessary for them to be called from the missionary field, let them be called because of recommendations that have been made by the bishops, or stake presidents, who are familiar with all the circumstances. There is no desire to hold men in the missionary field to the injury of fathers and mothers; but there is a desire, a strong desire, that when the Lord God Almighty has touched the souls of young men, has made them know the truth, and has fired them with a desire to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, they shall be given the opportunity, and not be called home to their sorrow and disappointment, and to the weakening of their own faith. I would that the men of Israel might sense the obligation that rests upon them in relation to the preaching of the gospel. It is not only the call of the president of the Church, but, as he quoted from the Scriptures, it is the call of God. He that is warned, let him warn his neighbor. When I think of the great hosts of men who have been specially ordained as witnesses of the Lord, Jesus Christ, men of power, men of experience, men of capacity, and not one of them in the missionary field, I do not think that a very extravagant statement. 

There are only boys in the mission field, boys in their teens. You men of thirty years of age, forty years of age, filled with physical power, and the power of God, is there not responsibility upon you in relation to the preaching of the gospel? I think there is, and I think it ought to be possible, in the midst of the hosts of men who have this experience and ability, for a few of them to be standing by the side of the boys and girls who manifest their faith and their willingness to preach the gospel of the Redeemer. I thank God that notwithstanding their feeling of weakness, wonderful development takes place among these young men and women. I thank God that the boys and girls in the mission field have been made to know the truth of the gospel just as thoroughly as their fathers and mothers know it, by the experience that has come to them as preachers of righteousness. We ask for help, I wonder if there is any mission president who could say, when one of his missionaries found financial difficulty, that a bishop has felt that responsibility was upon the community that he represented, and that the people have been 1 called upon to contribute a little of their means, that their boy or girl might preach the gospel? There are many of that kind, I fear, but I believe this responsibility is upon every ward, and upon every stake; and that, notwithstanding financial stress, there are means in the land to provide for missionaries, if the people have the disposition. I think this  should be cultivated, that the gospel message might he carried to the people, that repentance may be 1 called among the people, and men and women may be invited to the waters of baptism, to receive, by the holy ordinance, the remission of their sins, and by the laying on of hands, be brought in communication with the Holy Ghost and receive from God our Father a knowledge of the truth as it has been revealed. 

That is your business just as much as it it my business. I happen to be in the mission field today; in may be your turn tomorrow. All of us should be lending assistance, that our skirts may be free from the blood of our fellow men. I thank God for the gospel. I rejoice in preaching it. I am glad to be a missionary. I am proud of my associates. I am glad to bring to fathers and mothers the glad news that their sons and daughters love the truth, and that they comprehend, measurably, the great plan of salvation. I bear record to the work of God, to the power of God. I bear record of the truth of the promises of God, in relation to the development of his purposes and the triumph of his work. God help us all to do this, for ever and for ever, and be found at the post of duty by night and by day, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A duet, entitled, "Glory Forever," was sung by Emily Grant Young and Elma Young, violin obligato by Willard Weihe, with Tracy Y. Cannon at the organ. 

ELDER JUNIUS F. WELLS 

{Assistant Church Historian.) 

I esteem it a very high privelege to mingle my voice with the voices of my brethren, in declaring the kingdom of God and his righteousness before the great congregations of his people. I esteem it a very great privilege to be present at this conference, the first I have attended since President Grant succeeded to the presidency of the Church. I rejoice in seeing the manifestation of the spirit and power of his bigh office resting upon him, as I have witnessed it resting upon all of his predecessors, except Joseph Smith, the prophet, whom I did not know. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the progress, of the work of the Lord. I recall fifty years ago sitting in this house listening to that great prophet and apostle of our Lord Jesus Christ,, Elder Orson Pratt. Upon that occasion he told of his conversion to the gospel at the age of nineteen, immediately after which heset out afoot, on a journey of between two hundred and three hundred miles, that he might visit Joseph Smith and gaze upon theface of that remarkable man. He was satisfied, when he did so, that; he stood in the presence of a prophet of God, and he received the ministry of that prophet. He was called immediately into the service of the Lord and the prophet told him that it was his destiny to be a preacher of the gospel; that the time should come- — this was only five months after the organization of the church, in 1830 — when twelve apostles should be chosen such as there had been in the days of Christ, and that he should be one of them. This astonished Elder Pratt, beyond measure, but he lived to realize the fulfilment of that prophecy, within five years, in 1835, when the apostles' quorum was organized. I recall upon the occasion of this wonderful discourse that Elder Pratt expressed his happiness and joy in the great progress that the work of the Lord had made up to that time. He foretold, in quoting from the scriptures, from the prophets and from the Psalms, the time when the fulness of times of the gentiles should come in. He still declared, after preaching for forty years, ever . since the organization of the Church, that the time was coming and should be fulfilled within the generation in which the Church was organized. He did not pretend to say just how soon it should be fulfilled, but he said : "Forty years have passed since we commenced to declare that this time was approaching. I do not know that I shall live to see the fulfilment of the prophecy concerning it, when the ambassadors of the Church, the elders, shall go 1 forth, not so particularly to the gentiles, but shall turn from therm and go forth particularly to declare the word of the Lord to the Jews and to the descendants of Jacob, others of the house of Israel. That time is coming, he said, when there shall come forth from God a direct commandment to His servants that they should carry this message to the house of Israel, and, that they should go swiftly. They should be welcome when they then go in their ministry. He said that hundreds would receive them, and thousands and tens of thousands would welcome them for they should go in power: "In the day of my power, saith the Lord, my people shall welcome me." He pointed to the young men who were assembled in the congregation. I happened to be one of them, and it seemed to me that he was pointing at me. Anyway, I was thrilled to the marrow of my bones, for he said : "You young men, who are sitting before me, will see the fulfilment of the times of the gentiles, when this message shall be taken to all the house of Israel. The responsibility of carrying it rests upon you, and God will require it at your hands." A year after that, very much to my surprise, I was called to go on a mission. I was but a boy, and I desired to go to college instead; but my father said he could not send me to college, and proposed that I should go on a mission. I said: "Very well, I will go, get through with my mission, come home and go to college on my own account." He placed his hands on my shoulders and said: "You will never get through going on a mission, not as long as you are a Latter£L££tf JUNIUS F. WELLS . 79 

day Saint." That seemed a hard saying. Instead of then giving me two or three hours' instruction he said : "Get the spirit of your mission. Don't know too much but believe all you can. I guess I needed that. I had not been in my field of labor, in old England, more than a few weeks when I obtained the spirit of my mission; then I understood what my father meant, and I declare to you, my brethren and sisters, that froml the moment I received the testimony of my mission, of my calling in the priesthood, and of my right to speak in the name of the Lord to my fellow creatures, it has been inconceivable down to the present moment when I should not be a missionary— in one fashion or another. I believe I have been, sometimes not very useful, but at other times perhaps more so, in different ways engaged in promulgating this work now for fifty years, and I thank God for it with all my soul, that I have been, in His mercy and providence, thought fit to perform some part in carrying on this great wprk. 

I rejoice in the greatness of this work, in the prosperity of this people, in the approach of that condition of power that its message w'l! be welcome throughout the length and breadth of the earth, when it shall be carried as it has never been carried before, when it shall be taken on swift wings, through the clouds, on the wings of the wind. I was telling a Catholic priest the other day that some of those angels the Apostle John saw flying in the midst of heaven, did not have feathers; but they were in flying machines, and that we Latter-day Saints expected to carry the gospel like the angels sung of by the prophets of old, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, flying with the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth. I have seen that partly fulfilled already in watching President George Albert Smith and his son soar up from the Hangar in Brussels and fly away to London in an aeroplane — angels, ambassadors of the Lord, having the gospel of Jesus Christ to preach to them that dwell in Great Britain. We will send many of our missionaries that way, in the time of many of you, young men. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony the. Lord has given me. I know that his power, that his Priesthood is upon the earth and that we who bear it have a message that mankind stands in dire need of. There is no salvation outside of the ministry of the Church of Jesus Christ to the children of men, and no other people possess it, but this people, to whom it was given through the ministry of Joseph Smith the prophet. 

May God help us to be worthy and stand firmly, and assist in promulgating the truth, to the salvation of our fellow creatures, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 



80 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

When I look out over this vast congregation of men and women,I am deeply impressed with the benefits, as well as the obligations, that come to us by reason of that wonderful association which we have with one another. I am also led to reflect that with every association that we form thene will come certain obligations and we may derive certain benefits. When our father Adam was placed in the garden of Eden, he was there alone. He formed no association with other men, for there were none, but he stood alone. Under conditions of that kind, isolated as he was , it became his solemn duty to make of himself a splendid and suitable companion. This everyone can do when he becomes isolated, by the development of holy meditation, by keeping himself clean and unspotted from sin, by being worthy, by taking proper care of himself, both bodily and spiritually. But the Lord saw that it was not good for man to be alone and he gave Eve unto Adam to be his wife, and thus a new association was formed, and with that association came additional benefits and likewise additional obligations, the obligation of husband to wife and wife to husband. When children came, a new and enlarged association was formed and with it came the additional benefits of the family organization, and also the obligation of father and mother to their children and the obligations of the children to their father and to their mother. It is then incumlbent upon all who form this family association that they shall discharge with fidelity the obligations resting upon them in order that they may receive the benefits that come by reason of it. 

So it is with every association that we form and there are many of them. There are business associations, co-partnerships, joint stock institutions, and whenever such associations are formed they likewise have their obligations and benefits, and it becomes incumbent upon all to discharge, with fidelity and with honor, those obligations and thereby reap the benefits. Human beings, essentially social in their nature, continue to enlarge the scope of their association and form themselves into civil governments. All nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples together with their subdivisions into states, counties, municipalities constitute such associations, some better than others, because they are better governed or organized under better laws than others, but responsibilities and obligations come to each member of such association commensurate with the amount of power or influence that the individual member of that association exercises and can or is permitted to exercise for the benefit of those with whom he is associated. 

In a despotism, an absolute monarchy, where the king rules, and the people only submit, great is the obligation of the king, but the individual citizen's obligation is correspondingly less. In our own government, where the people rule, each individual citizen is a ruler in the 

. nation and great is his responsibility; great are the obligations that rest upon him by reason of that citizenship, for he himself is a ruler, a sovereign, and helps to form and fashion the government of which he is one of its rulers. If we have good government it is because the individual citizens are good. If we have a bad government it is because the individual citizens are bad. That applies not only to the nation at large, but to the state, to the county and to the city. 

In this great republic, where all just powers are derived from the consent of the governed, how great is the responsibility of the individual citizen. How we ought to discharge, with fidelity, the obligations incumbent upon us as citizens! 'No citizen of this republic has the right to find fault with his government, unless he has exercized his power and his rights as one of those citizens, endeavoring to make the government what it ought to be. No citizen who has not exercised this power has the right to blame the sheriff or the mayor or the governor or any other officer of the state if, perchance, the laws of his state are not being enforced within the state or the county or the city in which he lives, for it is his own fault and he can blame no other; but when he has done his part, then he can be justified, and not otherwise. 

What a wonderful privilege it is to' be a citizen of a republic where every citizen has an equal right. He should then exercise the same for the welfare and exaltation of the people. "Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people." Sin should not be permitted to go rampant when it is a violation of law, and every good citizen will see that he does his part to have wholesome laws passed, and that they are executed and administered as they should be, in the spirit of right and in opposition to wrong. When we read in our newspaper files of the gross transgression of law all over the land, the people violating the provisions of the Constitution, which we believe has been inspired of God, how our hearts must be filled with indignation against this wanton violation of law. When we see such wholesome legislation, as the law prohibiting the sale and manufacture of intoxicating liquor,, wantonly being violated, and how many officers there are who perhaps are not in sympathy with the law or, what is worse, corrupted by the bribes of the law breakers, wink at such violations, how humiliated we must feel when we realize that these are the men whom we have chosen to execute the laws, and we are therefore ourselves to blame. Indifference to politics, neglect to attend primaries, apathy in matters of such vital importance as the government for which we are directly responsible, will not exonerate us from this blame. 

There is another association to which I desire to call your Mention, a still grander and greater one than those which form the nations of the earth. It is all-embracing in its scope. It is the Church and kingdom of God; and in looking out upon this congregation, made up of men and women coming from every nation andf r heaven, formed under a supreme law, the perfect law of liberty, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, designed to exalt the children of God, to liberate them from the bondage of sin, governed by the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the only plan by which men and women can be brought in harmony with the will of their Creator, Low my heart thrills with joy and my bosom swells with pride to feel that I am a member of it. Then I think of the obligations; and Oh, how great the benefits! Our obligations to God; the Giver of all good, a life of devotion and obedience to his law; our obligations to one another as members of this great association; a life of honesty and integrity, of virtue, of brotherly love; our obligation to ourselves, to keep ourselves clean and unspotted from the sins of the world. In short, the obligations of this Association are so all-embracing that they include within them all the obligations of every proper association which we may form, and preclude our membership in any other. 

Those who faithfully discharge the obligation of this association will incidentally fulfil those of all the rest, the obligations of husbands and' wives, of parents, and children, business obligations, and the obligations of citizenship. Unfaithful husbands and' wives are not good members of the Church. Parents who fail to teach their children, both by precept , and example, are not good members. Men and women who violate the laws of their country, state and city, and especially officers who wink at such violation, or who conspire or join in their violation are not only not good citizens, but they are likewise not good Latter-day Saints. Not only is it an obligation to lead' a clean and virtuous life, an honest and moral life in our association as members of the Church, but also in every other association. No man is a good citizen if he leads an immoral life. No officer is a good citizen who winks at and condones the violations of law. Such men may be found who will cry themselves hoarse in lauding the "Stars and Stripes," and prate about the Constitution and the principles of human liberty, and are frequently found at the primaries and conventions seeking nominations to public office, but if they are unclean they are not good citizens. "When the wicked rule the people mourn." Hence the obligation to choose good men and wise men for places of public trust 

Many and great are the blessings to be derived from our association in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but they may only be realized when we fulfil the obligations in connection therewith, the obligations of faith in God and repentance from sin, the works of obedience to the law of the gospel. Then shall we be cleansed from sin in the blood of the Lamb of God, then shall we be enlightened by his Holy Spirit, then shall we grow in the knowledge of God and good works day by day, and finally receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him, even "Eternal Life," 

God's greatest gift to his faithful sons and daughters. May they all be yours, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, the Lord. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

During our two day's conference I have listened with a great deal of interest to what our brethren have said to us. My mind has been very active during the conference, and I have thought about a great many wonderful things, to me, that might sound very flat to you; but for some reason, this afternoon, I feel like a fellow who had run entirely out of material, having exhausted the material that I had, in thought. I think of what Elbert Hubbard said. It struck me rather strangely the other day. He said : "If you are going to reform the world you had better begin with yourself, and there will be one rogue less in the world." Of course, I did not want to apply that to myself, but I would not object to japplying it to you. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I shall address you for a short period of time, only a few minutes — although it seems a long time to you, and does to ffie; it certainly will before I get through. My voice has been heard among this people for nearly thirty years. I think I have been in the ministry here at home for nearly that length of time. I would not give my experience and the association I have had with the brethren of the authorities for all the riches in the world. I hope, brethren and sisters, that during these thirty years, I' have created an impression in your minds — at, least I have tried to do that — that I am trying to be honest. I am trying to be truthful. I am trying to be sincere and loyal and unafraid. There is nothing that I desire more, outside of the Spirit of God and the honoring of the Priesthood and the sustaining of this work, than to have an honest mind. It seems to me during the past few years that the minds of many are warped. We do not think honest; we do not hear straight, nor do' we see straight. I am sure, from the experience I have had in the Church, that the Lord can do very little for a man who persists in being dishonest and untruthful; and, of course, it goes without saying that no man or woman in the Church of Jesus Christ can be immoral, and have the Spirit of God to be with them. I read in the Doctrine and Covenants the message that was given to the elders in early days. The Lord said : "But with some I am not well pleased." Now, what was their trouble? "Because they will not open their mouths but hide the talent which I have given unto them, because of the fear of man. Woe unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them, and it shall come to pass if they are not more faithful unto me it shall be taken away even that which they have." I realize, my brethren and sisters, that, during the past thirty years I may have said some foolish things. I have, in my own way, given the people a good deal of chaff to get them to take a little wheat, but some of them haven't got sense enough to pick the wheat out from the chaff. If a man in this Church ever does say a foolish thing, they will remember it to the very day of their death; and it is the only thing some of them do remember. I think they do mighty well to remember that. . 

I find out some things by reading the Doctrine and Covenants — which, by the way, I do read. I am familiar with the Bible, a little, and the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. I have wished, sometimes, that there would be a big fire and burn all the rest of the books so that we would read these books more. Sometimes I feel that a man ought to be imprisoned for writing any more books; because I got my experience mostly by reading the books which contain the revelations of the Lord. I got my first experience in the Southern states in two years, and I read the Bible; I read the Book of Mormon; and I read the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. I don't believe the man lives, unless God inspires him, who can ever breathe into a book what you can get out of the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants £nd' Pearl of Great Price. That is my testimony. Joseph Smith said that a man will live nearer to the gospel of Christ reading the Book of Mormon than any other book that has ever been written. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that according to my judgment and experience — I am old enough to know a few things, and I am old enough to remember some things — some of the greatest inspired men we have ever had in the history of this Church have been men who have read the Bible, the Book of Morroon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. Now, brethren, I do not want to say anything to hurt anyone's feelings about books that are written. I read the Bible through once, and when I got through I said : "I will never tackle it again in the flesh;" but I have read in it, and I am acquainted with it, and I have marked it. I would not give my Bible for all the Bibles in the world, because it is the only Bible I can find anything in. 

The first council ordained one thousand and forty seventies last year. The Lord has said in the Doctrine and Covenants : "There are many called and few are chosen." As I said, there were one thousand and forty seventies ordained last year; and why are they not chosen? The Lord gives us the answer clear and plain. I am glad he talks plainly. Why are they not chosen? "Because their hearts are so much set upon the things of the world, and they aspire to the honors of men." They would break their blamed necks to get an office in the state or in the nation. I haven't heard of anyone breaking his neck to go on a mission — not lately. Now brethren, I know what the trouble is. You remember not very long ago that Brother Hyrum M. Smith, when he presided over the European mission, sent word to us and gave the sign of distress, like all these mission presidents are doing now. He wanted one hundred capable, efficient, competent men — just what they need in every mission in the world. So the First Council started out to get them. We made a thorough canvas, and we never dreamed  what we could get one hundred out of the councils of quorums, the presidents of seventies, without any trouble at all. We interviewed those seventies by the hundreds, personally interviewed them, looked them in the face, and we never found one single president that was not willing to go, not one that I remember, but when we looked into their financial affairs they could not go. They seemed to be alright spiritually, but it was their financial troubles. That is the trouble now. 

I believe in all that President Grant said. I preached it years ago, after I went broke, with just as much vehemence as he ever did in his life. I preached until I was almost exhausted. I remember a sermon. I think it was a very wonderful discourse, too. I was up in Smithfield at a conference, and I preached to the people on the subject of debt. I had just been through the mill of the gods, and they ground me to powder. I went "over the hill to the poor house," and I think I was able to tell them a pathetic story; they sold me out, just like they would sell cattle; and yet I was in the missionary field at that. I told my story, and told it very plaintively; and there was a salesman at this meeting. I saw him the other day at one of our conference meetings. That made me think of it. He was a salesman of the Co-operative Wagon and Machine Company. After I preached my discourse I met this man and he said: "Brother Kimball, that is the best sermon I ever heard. I never sold as many implements in my life as I did after you preached that sermon." After I had warned the people and forewarned them, that to be in debt was to be in hell — I don't know anything about hell, but that is the worst hell I have ever been in — to be in debt. I can tell you how you can keep out of debt; but I can't tell you how to get out after you get in. I had a man come to me the other day who wanted me to indorse his note. I had sworn, almost on an oath, I would never sign another note, not even for my wife. But he looked at me so pitifully, and was in such dire distress, and I had so much confidence in him, that I told him I would sign it, although I was quite sure I could not pay it if he did not. He applied at one of our banks. They did not know me, for which I was very thankful. I went to the bank and looked the man in the face. He said: "Mr. Kimball, haven't you got any collaterals?" I said: "Collaterals — I should say not! I haven't got a collateral of any kind." He said, "How do you expect me to take your indorsement?" I replied, "On my looks and general character. That is all I have got." And he turned me down; and I have been tickled to death ever since. That is the way to keep out of debt. 

I thought I would like to read some scripture as a closing of my remarks : I am sure I can make it in two minutes. It is something my father read, in reading from his old Book of Mormon, that was published or printed in 1830. I found this page worn almost out, and I wondered what it was. This is what I found. It was just such a condition that we are now in. They had had war, and they had had famine, and then they went to the prophet and appealed to the Lord, so that the famine was withdrawn, and it says: "That ended the 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

eighty and fifth year." In thirteen years that people fell down two or three times, and yet they were God's people. This is what he said. I want to read it to you and impress you, if I can, with this one thought : "And thus we can behold how false and also the unsteadiness of the hearts of the children of men; yea, we can see the Lord in his great infinite goodness doth bless and prosper those who put their trust in him. Yea, and we may see at the very time when he doth prosper his people, yea, in the increase of their fields, their flocks and their herds, and in gold, and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives, and delivering them out of the hands of their enemies; softening the hearts of their enemies that they should not declare wars against them; yea, and in fine, doing all things for the welfare and happiness of his people; yea, then is the time," — Now that strikes me as a strange thing. After God has done all that for his children, and it could not be written any better if it was written of this people, how God had blessed them — "then is the time that they do harden their hearts, and do forget the Lord their God and do trample under their feet the Holy One — yea, and this because of their ease, and their exceedingly great prosperity. 

"And thus we see that except the Lord doth chasten his people with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit them with death and with terror and with famine and with all manner of pestilence, they will not remember him." 

We are just like all other children of God, in all other dispensations. Notwithstanding the fact that we are a chosen people, for a special purpose, our hearts have been hardened and we have forgotten our God — some of us. Now, brethren, I think you 1 will have no trouble in getting out of debt. At least you can get out as well as I have. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I am glad; I thank my God that he chastened mle. I thank God that I have had the love and affection of my brethren. I thank God that I am alive. I know the gospel is true. I know it because I learned it through adversity and through suffering and through hardships. I never learned it because I w]as Heber C. Kimball's son, because I was the son of a prophet. I learned it just as he learned it. I may not have paid as big a price as my f|ather did, but I paid for pretty nearly everything I have. I paid well for it, but I am satisfied. I sustain the brethren of the authorities, and I uphold their hands. I never felt better in all my ministry in this Church than I do today. I thank God the sun shines. I thank God the grass is green, and the water runs down hill; as it did not for a long while. Now the Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel," and Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock, a. m., Sunday, October 9. The closing prayer was offered by Elder C. Alvin Orme, President of the Tooele stake of Zion.