16
Afternoon
05 10 1918
Elder Stephen L. Richards 
96
63-66

None

The gospel in application — Necessity of utilizing all existing organizations of the Church — Eminent need of counteracting the influences of the world — Our opportunity and obligation to cultivate the spiritual in man — The high mission of America in the world, to be accomplished largely as the Church fulfills its destiny among God's children.  
  
Great truths have been declared in our hearing at this conference; the eternal principles of the gospel have been pronounced with marked and impressive emphasis. I have been built up in my spirit, and stimulated in my resolution to keep the commandments of God, and to do his will; and I am certain that the feeling that has come to my heart has come to the hearts of all those who have heard the inspired words of this conference.  
  
The excellent themes of the gospel, however, can save the souls of men only as they find application in their lives. The spiritual refreshing that we get from a consideration of these great truths cannot be effectual in bringing the exaltation and the glory that we hope for, unless we incorporate them into our lives. I have been thinking, as I have listened to the exposition of these great principles of truth, how it may be possible for the men and women here gathered to disseminate them in such a manner as to bring them home to those who so sorely need them, and upon whom the Church and the country and all depend for advancement and progress. I have looked through this great congregation, and so far as I am able to see in to this sea of faces there are substantially none of the young men to whom our beloved Elder McKay addressed his stirring appeal here this morning: I can discern scarcely one of the whole number present who has not reached maturity, whose life and habits are not substantially formed, and who, according to the best of my opinion, is not conducting himself in substantial conformity to the principles of the gospel and attempting to live according to its teachings. But we know that there are thousands of young men and young women in the Church of Christ who do need the refreshing and the upbuilding which comes from the exposition of these great truths. We do know that there are many who need to have the word of God brought home to them, so that they may live according to it and entitle themselves to the rich blessings which are promised to the faithful and the good. Not only do we know that there are to be found thousands of such young men and young women within the Church, who are sorely in need of these saving gospel principles, but we know that there are countless millions, both of young and old in the world, who need these great truths and their adoption in their lives. Hence we are confronted with this momentous question: how shall we perform our service and our obligation to those who are not here, and who do not come within the sound pi the inspired voices which have so eloquently and impressively declared the great truths of the gospel?  
  
Some one said yesterday that this was a representative gathering. I think it is indeed representative, because as you look over the faces of the men and women here you see that they are in the main the officers of the Church, the officers of the various organizations which make up the Church; and it is fortunate indeed that these men and women come to receive the word of the Lord, and are able to carry it back to those whom they represent. We have been given these Church organizations to provide for all the needs of the people. There is the great organization of the priesthood, with the various quorums, appointed by the Lord. How eminently proper and fit it is that these quorums of the priesthood should see to it that the word of God is taught to their members, and that they use their good offices to see that these great principles of the priesthood and of the gospel of Jesus Christ are made applicable in the lives of those to whom this delegation of authority is given. To my brethren who preside over these quorums I suggest that when they go to their homes they try to give to those who have not come to this great gathering of the Saints, something of the Spirit and of the words of instruction that have been here so forcibly and impressively given.  
  
Aside from the quorums of the priesthood there are the auxiliary organizations of the Church, given through the providence of the Lord as helps to the priesthood, for the establishment of his word and truth in the hearts of the people. These organizations are chiefly devoted to the care and nurture of the young in the principles of the gospel. What remarkable opportunities we enjoy in these splendid organizations, but how essential it is that every one of them be used to its full extent. To my thinking, there has never been a time in the history of the Church when there was more real need of using these great auxiliary organizations of the Church to the full measure of their capacity, than there is today. Our young people are surrounded with influences, the like of which have seldom, if ever, been brought to them in such large measure as we see now. Everywhere and on every hand come the influences of the world. In our schools, in the work in which our young people engage, in every environment of their lives is to be found prominently and predominantly the influence of the world. Our schools are devoted to the culture that comes to the mind. They do something to help improve the bodies of the boys and girls, but they eliminate every single thing that would contribute to their spiritual growth and advancement. They will not even permit the reading of the word of God without comment in many of them, and they place the ban upon any teaching that tends to teach boys and girls their relationship to God, and their true relationship to each other. All that partakes of the Spirit has been banished from the schools. What a great need there is for something to take the place of this great loss in the educational processes of the clay. How necessary it is then that the Sunday Schools, the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Religion Classes, and the Primary Associations, receive the support and the cooperative assistance of every man and every woman in this Church.  
  
I tell you, my brethren and sisters, we cannot hope to counteract these outside influences unless we unite in bringing to bear upon the minds and the hearts and the souls of our boys and girls the precious influences of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We must let them know the beauty, the comprehensiveness, the desirability of the incorporation of these great principles of the gospel in their lives. We must counteract this environment. We must let them know that the spirit of the world will lead them away from the Spirit of God, and we must infuse into them a testimony of the truth of this gospel, and a desire to live it and to keep the commandments of God. To that end I take it we must use the utmost of our endeavor to teach our boys and girls to keep themselves ever clean and pure and wholesome, so that they may be in condition to receive of the Spirit of God and a testimony of the truth. The Spirit of God cannot dwell in unclean persons, and whenever our boys and girls are permitted to go astray, they alienate themselves from this benign Spirit which keeps them true, and which will lead them back into the presence of their Father in heaven.  
  
I plead for the young people of the Church. We have all the agencies that we need. Unlike the people of the world, we have every organization that is necessary for the care and the protection of our youth. I have heard men and women engaged in the social work of the world wonder what on earth they could do to meet the emergency that has arisen at this time of war, and to provide methods and means of protection against the evils that war always brings to people. We have that protection; all of these means are at our disposal, and it seems to me that it is for us here highly to resolve that each and every one of us, as the representatives of the people of God, will use our best effort, will devote ourselves and lend ourselves to the great task of keeping our boys and girls free from the influences of the world, and of implanting in their hearts the sacred principles of truth which have been enunciated here at this great conference of the Church.  
  
No man can do a bigger thing, nor a better thing in this world, than to save his fellowmen. No man can do a bigger job than to teach boys and girls the principles of truth. We are essentially a great body of teachers. We ought to devote ourselves to our callings. We ought to equip ourselves with everything that we can get in order to help us counteract the evils that come into our midst, and to keep our boys and girls true. We have heard, in a most impressive way, of the destiny of America. We believe that which has been said. We all know that this is the land of Zion, and that from this great country shall go forth the saving principles of liberty and freedom to the ends of the earth.  
  
Is it presumptuous to say that this great land of America can only accomplish its high mission in the world, just to the extent that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accomplishes and fulfills its great destiny among God's children? I believe it to be the truth. I believe that right here is the nucleus of the great principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that must spread out from these mountain valleys into this great land of America, and from thence to the very remote corners of the earth, in order that people may be given the opportunity of embracing the gospel of Christ, which is the true law of liberty. God help us, my brethren and sisters, to so live this gospel that the sermon of our lives shall preach it everywhere we are known and spoken of, and help us to protect ourselves against the incursion of the follies and the sins of the world, to keep ourselves immaculate and spotless before God, that his Spirit may be with us and go out from among us. These are the desires of my heart, and I believe that they are the desires of the men and women who are here assembled. May we all go forth and keep the commandments of God, and teach our children in their homes and the organizations of the Church the truth of the everlasting gospel, and prevail upon them to live clear and free from the sins of the world, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 