2
Morning
04 10 1918
President Anthon H. Lund.
15
4-9

None

None

I believe I can answer for all present that we are most happy to have the privilege to see our beloved President with us again. I know that he has the prayers of his people who are asking the Lord to restore him, to strengthen him and to relieve him of his sickness, and I hope that the prayers of the Saints will be heard in his behalf, that we may again see him able to be with us, and again sit under his voice and hear his inspired instructions to us. The Lord bless President Smith and make him well.  
  
ZION IS PROSPERING  
  
I am glad this morning to see this sea of faces beaming with joy at beholding our President in the conference, and I believe that the Lord will bless his servants who shall address us this day. We can bring you the glad tidings that Zion is prospering, that the work is going forward, and, I believe that the Saints are making headway, both spiritually and temporally.  
  
I received a few notes from Brother Wells, of the Presiding Bishopric. He tells us there has been an increase in the births, blessings and baptisms in the stakes of Zion compared with the corresponding period of the previous year. A larger number of recommends for the temples have been issued for the first six months of this year than in the same length of time of any previous year. During the six months ending June 30, there were performed in the temples 119,166 baptisms, and 119,400 endowments, sealings and other ordinances.  
  
We are pleased to see the people flocking to the temples. We know that they do this for an unselfish purpose. They go there to labor for others, and spend their means to get to the temples, and yet I believe that all who attend to this work feel that they are paid in the present, though there will be a great reward for them in the future, when they shall meet their ancestors and friends, and be able to tell them what they have done for them in the temples. In working for others in the temples they themselves get strengthened in their faith. They feel that thy are indeed helpers in the great work of salvation. Our Redeemer is the Author of the plan of salvation, he has given his life for us all, and has accomplished and finished the work given him by his Father for the redemption of all his children who are willing to believe in him as the Savior of the world. His is the only name given whereby salvation can be obtained. We are helping in this great work by doing for others that which they cannot do for themselves in their present condition. Millions of spirits who have occupied tabernacles upon the earth have not had the opportunity of hearing the voice of the servants of God, and have not even heard the name of Jesus Christ; but the plan of salvation, as framed in the eternal councils, was so broad that it provides the means of redemption for every soul that has lived or shall live upon this earth, who will accept its conditions.  
  
The subject of doing work for the dead was revealed very early to the Prophet Joseph. In the first visit made to him by the angel, when Joseph was about eighteen years old, the angel explained the scriptures to him and quoted the last chapter in the Old Testament, where Malachi refers to the coming of Elijah who should turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children's hearts to the fathers. Joseph may not have fully understood it then, but before his death the spirit worked upon him to make things plain, and to give the keys of this great principle to his fellow laborers, the apostles. And he was so impressed with the work that he calls it the "most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel." So I am glad to state to you that there has been progress in this matter; that the Saints are influenced by the spirit of salvation for the dead, and are accomplishing a great work in the temples.  
  
ATTENDANCE AT SACRAMENT MEETINGS  
  
There has been a larger attendance at sacrament meetings in the six months ending June 30, than during any other similar period since reports were kept. We are pleased to hear this, and we want to say to the Latter-day Saints that none of them should be satisfied to stay at home and not attend the sacrament meetings. Don't feel that you can get along just as well without as with attendance at these meetings. It is a great loss to those who stay away. You go there to worship God, to be instructed in his ways, and to renew your covenants with him. In partaking of the sacrament you make the promise that you will take upon you the name of the Son of God, that you will always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given you, and then the promise is that you will have his Spirit to be with you. You cannot progress spiritually if you do not partake of these holy things, and doing it will strengthen and inspire you during the week days; and, therefore, let us all feel that it is our duty to attend sacrament meetings and thereby help to build up one another in our holy faith.  
  
PRIESTHOOD MEETING AND MILITARY SERVICE  
  
The attendance at the weekly priesthood meetings has fallen off, in consequence of a large number being in military service. Many of our boys who hold the priesthood have been called to go in defense of our Country. Willingly they have accepted the call, and, I believe that they will do honor to their parents by noble devotion to the cause of their Country, by their righteous living, and by the example they will show to others. We pray that God will be with them, shield and protect them, and that we may have the joy to see them come back pure and good, as they left us.  
  
There are fifty-six thousand holding the priesthood. Of these there are fifteen thousand who are not able to do much active labor, mostly on account of age, infirmity or sickness, or by reason of their occupation or absence from home on military service.  
  
I thought these few items would be interesting to us all. They were just handed to me.  
  
THE WORK IN THE MISSIONS  
  
Our missionary work, brethren and sisters, is still progressing. In the different missions of the United States, a good work is being done. We still have a goodly number laboring in these missions, and they are meeting with success and performing their labors to the satisfaction of their presidents. In the neutral countries, in Europe, we are hindered somewhat in keeping up the usual number of missionaries. At present we have very few in the Scandinavian countries and in Holland, and we haven't any over in Turkey. The elders have been withdrawn from there on account of the unsafety of strangers, and especially Americans, in that country. In Norway, Denmark, and Sweden, we have but thirteen missionaries left, where we used to have a hundred or more. Much work, therefore, is resting upon these few men, and most of them have been longer than usual in the missionary field. The expenses now are double what they used to be, and this makes it quite hard for them to meet the cost of living, but they are willing to do what they can to keep up the work. At present the governments of these countries do not want aliens to come and take up residence with them. I suppose the reason for this is mostly of an economic nature. They want to save provisions at home, and not have aliens come from other countries to settle there and thus increase their burdens. I do not think it is on account of their being "Mormons" that our elders cannot be admitted. I believe they are just as free to come as other people, but when one comes into a city in Norway, he is only allowed to stay two or three days, and then he must travel further. This would prevent our missionaries from taking charge of branches and conferences. We hope that some arrangement can be made whereby a few experienced elders may be permitted to go there and take charge of the work. We can use quite a number of our local men there to labor in the work, but very few of them are able to support themselves like our missionaries from home do, hence we are limited in using many of them, but the work will go ahead. I remember the time when we had no elders from Zion laboring with us in Scandinavia, and yet the work progressed. The Lord cannot be stayed in carrying out his purposes.  
  
In Australia and New Zealand we were prohibited from sending more elders there, but this has been modified. The matter has been taken up in Washington with the ambassadors from those countries, and they have given us permission to send elders to replace those who are released, so that we can keep up the work on that side of the globe. On the islands of the sea we have not been hindered much, and the work is progressing there. Our elders who go there are a blessing to the natives, not only in preaching and in spiritual matters, but also in temporal things. For instance, in Tahiti, at the pearl-fishing season, it has been the custom for the natives to get their supplies from the merchants who allow them to keep an open account. The natives are not careful in their buying and often find their indebtedness far in excess of their wages, and therefore are under the necessity of working another season to pay the bills due their creditors, and then again obtain their supplies on credit. President Ernest Rossiter, who presides over the members of our Church in Tahiti, and some of the elders laboring there, now accompany those of our people who are engaged in diving for the pearl oysters. They encourage the natives not to run in debt, and they help them to get their supplies at wholesale rates. The consequence has been that when the fishing season is over they draw their wages and are no longer in the bondage of debt. The elders hold meetings and encourage their members to resist temptations and live lives of Latter-day Saints. Workers, not members of the Church, see the beneficial results of this move and are trying to follow the same course. The same way on other islands, the Elders are trying to teach the people a better way of living, temporally as well as spiritually.  
  
THE TEMPLE BLOCK MISSION  
  
We have one of the best mission fields right here on this temple block where Brother Goddard and his assistants are laboring diligently in explaining the principles to tourists who come here to see what the "'Mormons" have done and learn what they believe. They ask many questions, which guides are always ready to answer in explanation of our belief, and many of them go away without the prejudice against us which they entertained when they came. We have found the effect of this temple block service in the different missions. When our elders chance to enter the homes of these visitors they have invited them in, treated them kindly, and told them what a splendid time they had in Salt Lake City, and how pleased they were to hear the gospel explained to them by our guides. In this tabernacle we have recitals during the summer. Brother McClellan and his assistant organists are doing a splendid work here. People come and listen to the great organ, they hear the beautiful music, and many have been moved even to tears. So that when they go away they cannot believe the stories that the "Mormons" are such an ignorant, uncultured people as some have tried to portray them. They remember with pleasure what has been done for them.  
  
LABORS OF LADY MISSIONARIES  
  
In the mission fields, now that so many of our young men have had to come home and go into the army, we have been assisted very much by our young women, who have gone out and filled missions. They also are successful in tracting, in meeting the people and getting into their homes. Those who may be afraid of the elders, cannot believe that these innocent girls can come for any purpose of deceiving, and they are willing to listen to them, and many have been brought to believe in the truth by the simple testimonies borne by these young women who have accepted missions. The Lord bless them and make them successful in their labors.  
 
OUR DUTY IN WARNING AND HELPING TO WARN  
  
This duty of informing the world concerning our belief and warning them of what is coming, rests upon the Latter-day Saints. If you read the 33rd chapter of Ezekiel, you can see what the Lord says against those who are watchmen and not performing their duties. If the people are warned and do not heed the warning, the Lord says their blood will be upon themselves, but if they are not warned and the watchman has been careless in failing to give them the warning, the blood will be on his skirts. Now, we elders of Israel do not want to incur any blame or punishment because of neglect of duties in regard to informing the world. We cannot send our young men. We will be obliged therefore to call on our experienced elders, many of whom have performed excellent missions before. When we ask them to go today we find in some cases that their circumstances are such that they cannot go. But we have a great many who have not been on missions, and perhaps are not suitable for missionary life, but who could do their duty by helping some of these able and experienced men to go and preach the gospel. It would not cost much; it is a good way of using the mammon of unrighteousness to make friends for us hereafter, as alluded to by Jesus. Why, in early days of the Church when we sent men out as missionaries, they went without purse or scrip. I remember two elders who were sent to a large city in Norway; one was a good speaker, the other was not much of a speaker, but he was a good tailor. He took work and he supported his fellow missionary, and they laid the foundation of a splendid branch, and so wherever the elders were sent they were willing to work for the furtherance of the cause, they would labor with their hands and give all they made to help in this work. However, we do not go so far as this at home. Many of our brethren who have been blessed temporally would feel more blessed if they would use some of their means to have a good elder go on. a mission and labor where we are under the necessity of sending missionaries.  
   
THE ADVATAGES AND BLESSINGS OF CHURCH GATHERINGS  
  
Now, brethren, I am afraid my voice doesn't reach you all. I am glad to see this congregation. I know that you came to learn more of the ways of the Lord and to worship him. What a splendid thing it was that the Lord in the very opening revelation in April, 1830, gave us the command, that we should meet in conference every three months, or at times appointed. We come together, we meet friends, we talk over past times; those who are a little wayward get strengthened and encouraged to take a right course, and the Saints rejoice in learning what the Church is doing, and to know that they are in accord with the spirit of the work.  
  
When the tribes of Israel rebelled in the days of Rehoboam they followed Jeroboam, who led them into idolatry. A few years before, they had helped to build that beautiful temple, Solomon's temple, and they had rejoiced in going there. It was a command of God that they should go every year and make an offering in the temple of the Lord. Jeroboam realized what that meant. If his subjects should go to Jerusalem, they would soon go back again and join with the two tribes in their worship, and his power over them would be lost, so he established places of worship on mountains in his own country to keep them away from the temple, of God in Jerusalem.  
  
Now, we love to see our people come here to our conferences, and we know that they feel blessed in coming, and that when they return home the spirit of the conference will follow them.  
  
God bless you, brethren and sisters, help us to be faithful and true in our covenants with the Lord, and to so live that when life is ended we may feel that we have done the best we have understood, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 