25
Overflow
06 10 1918
Elder Joseph B. Keeler. 
71
88-90

None

None

(President of the Utah Stake of Zion.) 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord is here, because of the words that have been uttered in our hearing and the thoughts that have been going through our minds. Some of them have been passing through my mind, and likely through your minds, and to a great extent we are one in the Lord this day. May this Spirit continue to be with us throughout the sessions of this conference, as it has been through the sessions that have preceded this.  
  
A great deal has been said, and will be said, regarding the patriotism and the loyalty that has been manifested toward our Government and the cause of the allies in which we are now engaged to bring about freedom and justice in the world. We have another loyalty and patriotism that we should never forget, and that is to the Church of Jesus Christ to which we belong. Peace would be in the earth today if all the inhabitants thereof were members in full fellowship in Christ's Church. There would be no war, there would be no trouble, no famine, no pestilence, if there were a brotherhood of man, if we could say truly that we are citizens of this world.  
  
I said to a German brother the other day, it is impossible for us to be at war. It is impossible for us to hate each other. We cannot do it, and why? Because we are members of the Church of Christ. And so the millennium would be here today if men and women were obedient to the principles of the everlasting gospel. Now this thing that is so much desired, peace and good will in the earth will come to the extent that men will forsake unrighteousness and cling unto that which is good. This Church is so organized that these principles of love, of intelligence, may be disseminated throughout the earth. And how thankful we should be, my brethren and sisters, that we are members of the Church of Christ, the only true Church that God recognizes upon the face of this earth.  
  
We have institutions in the Church that are intended for our development and our education. Elder Stephen L. Richards remarked yesterday that we are all teachers, that is, the priesthood, and we can well include in that class the sisters now, to the extent that we will be patriotic and loyal to these institutions. To that extent will this Church grow and increase in the earth, and we will not only become teachers of one another, but we will become teachers of the world. But I apprehend that in preparing ourselves to become teachers, we are doing as much or more for ouselves individually than we are to others. Really, the Lord does not intend men and women to preach this gospel more than men and women need themselves to be obedient to this call to be teachers.  
  
Let us read the ninth and tenth chapters of III Nephi, and there see how completely Jehovah preached the gospel to the people then upon this continent, to half a world, we may say. Every soul, whether he was in the open field or in the home, or in the fastnesses of the mountains, heard his voice. He preached to all the world with one voice, and all the world at that time heard his voice. I mean now, of course, the earth. That was then understood by that people to whom he preached. We need the Lord, we need the institutions of his Church, and therefore it would be well for us to sustain every organization. I always feel to bless the sisters who so faithfully perform their labor in the Primary organizations among these young and budding children. Our Father in heaven notices them, notwithstanding the fact that we sometimes almost forget them as parents. I say to you, my sisters, go on in this good work. God notices you. and will bless you. So with the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations. What a wonderful organization for good! What a social function it performs among the Latter-day Saints. So with the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations. What a grand opportunity it is there for every voting man to become acquainted with the principles of the gospel and to learn how to deliver those principles in such a way that they may be listened to and understood by others. The Religion Class organization, that organization which has not, I feel, received the support that it ought to receive, O that is a wonderful organization, my brethren and sisters. There is no organization in the world like it. It comes to our children in the day time, in the week clay. It comes to them alongside of their school work while they are getting this secular training. Here is an opportunity for them to be truly built up and trained.  
  
I feel that we do not appreciate the wonderful blessings and opportunities that we enjoy as Latter-day Saints through these organizations.  
  
And then there is that wonderful organization of the young, the Sunday School. The churches, the school houses, the assembly halls could not hold, as they are able to do, all of these young people, if they would embrace the opportunity presented to them in attending this wonderful institution.  
  
And then the Relief Society. There is another institution, humble in its action, but very efficient in everything that it does. I am glad indeed to learn now that it is coming more to the notice of Latter-day Saints and of the world. God bless that institution. May it prosper.  
  
We have another organization in our midst, and that is the Church schools. The Church, through the Trustee-in-Trust, is taking something like a third of a million dollars annually, and giving it for the support of these institutions.  
  
I feel that sometimes the Latter-day Saints do not fully appreciate this wonderful blessing which we have, especially in these regions where they are located. Why, these school rooms ought to be filled to overflowing, so that each teacher who is employed there should be able to teach to his or her full capacity, that the Latter-day Saints should be there so that there would not be empty benches nor small classes. It is a great thing, a great blessing, to be able at the same time that our young people are receiving secular knowledge and training, to be also trained in the principles of the everlasting gospel, and be immersed, as it were, in the Spirit of the Lord at the same time, which gives light and understanding to the human mind.  
  
One thing in this connection that I will take the liberty of mentioning. The United States Government, through its liberality and generosity, has established one of the units of the Students' Army Training Corps in one of our Latter-day Saint institutions, that of the Brigham Young University, at Provo. Now here is an opportunity along with the other institutions of this day for our young men to go, who are nineteen or twenty years old, who are about to be called now to go into the service of their country for the cause of liberty and justice in the world, to receive a training in the world and to be under the influence of this institution, and be prepared to take very active part, even that of officers, if their work so qualifies them. I hope that the Latter-day Saints will take advantage of this and see to it that no young man is deprived of the opportunity. Now then, my brethren and sisters, we need these institutions more than the institutions need us, and it behooves us to take advantage, while our day lasts, so that we may regard the opportunities that have been given to us.  
  
I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the Church and kingdom of God. All things will be shaken that can be shaken, thrones will totter, because earthly nations as they are now constructed will pass away, and there will be an end of such nations, but the Church and kingdom of God will not pass away. It will endure through all of the vicissitudes that this poor world is called to pass through. We belong to this Church, and if we adhere to its principles we will weather the gale with it, which may God grant, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 