26
Overflow
06 10 1918
Elder Nephi L. Morris. 
69
90-92

None

None

(President of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.) 

I was strongly tempted to put my hand out to steady the ark by suggesting to Elder Richards that my time be given to President Seymour B. Young and to himself; but I thought that obedience, after listening to President Rees' remarks, was the better.  
  
I have greatly rejoiced in the inspiring discourses of this most excellent conference. I wish that all the young men and young women of Zion could have heard what Elder David O. McKay had to say yesterday in his great appeal for better morals. I deplore, with elder Richards, that there were so few of the young men and young women who were present on that occasion; and I hope that something will develop that will bring about a reform with respect to the attendance at the meetings of the Saints. There should be, and can be, I believe, a great improvement, when we consider that there is so small a percentage of attendance at our priesthood meetings, and a correspondingly small attendance of the membership of the Saints at the regular meetings. It was a great height that Elder McKay reached, but unfortunately it will only reach a few of us, with his soul-burning and soul-moving words. I rejoiced in the very enlightening discourse of Elder Orson F. Whitney, regarding the discovery of America. I appreciate, perhaps as never before, what a great thing it is to be Latter-day Saints and to have the Latter-day Saints' comprehension of things, and to know something of America and its origin; to know that it was the very cradle of humanity; to know that it was not the new world but the old; to know that God has held it in reserve until this day and age for the consummation of his great and mighty purposes in the earth.  
  
I am a better American because of my being a Latter-day Saint, and so are you all, and America is enriched and benefited by the fact that the "Mormon" people have these exalted conceptions of the mission and destiny of America in the world.  
  
I rejoice in these things, because they reflect to me the inspiration of God and the providence of God over mankind and particularly over his people in this dispensation.  
  
I rejoice that we are living in a land of peace and security, a land to which war has not yet come, although we have gone to war. There is an infinite difference between those two propositions.  
  
Listening to those inspiring addresses in the tabernacle last evening, I could not help but feel and my soul went out in gratitude to God for his mercy in gathering this people in these western mountain regions, yet I feel thankful that we can take part in this great and terrible conflict, which means the great turning point in human history.  
  
I rejoice in the hymn, which I have never heard sung, written by that estimable little Latter-day Saint, Sister Emily Hill Woodmansee, on page 434 of our hymn book, and which I will take the liberty here to read:  
  
Uphold the right, tho' fierce the fight, And powerful is the foe;  
 
As freedom's friend, her cause defend, Nor fear nor favor show.  
  
No coward can be called a man — No friend will friends betray;  
  
Who would be free, alert must be; Indifference will not pay.  
  
Note how they toil whose aim is spoil, Who plundering plots devise;  
 
Yet time will teach, that fool's o'erreach The mark, and lose the prize.  
  
Can justice deign to wrong maintain, Whoever wills it so?  
 
Can honor mate with treacherous hate? Can figs on thistles grow?  
  
Dare to be true, and hopeful too; Be watchful, brave and shrewd;  
 
Weigh every act; be wise, in fact, To serve the general good.  
  
Nor basely yield, nor quit a field — Important is the fray;  
 
Scorn to recede, there is no need To give our rights away.  
  
Left handed fraud let those applaud Who would by fraud prevail;  
  
In freedom's name, contest their claim, Use no such word as fail;  
  
Honor we must each sacred trust, And rightful zeal display;  
 
Our part fulfill, then, come what will, High heaven will clear the way."  
  
Such sentiments, my brethren and sisters, are in beautiful contrast to the spirit of selfishness, hate, desire for dominion and glory.  
  
We were all moved greatly and deeply by the dispatches which reached us last night; but these things should not move us from duty. We should not quit the field, because it is an important fray.  
  
I have thought the day would come, and I hope soon, when there would be a declaration of peace, when the world would be restored not only to a normal condition, but to a far better condition than it has even known. But the ends of justice must be met, and though France and England and Belgium and Italy have been glorified by the baptism of blood and fire through which they have passed, I fear that the lesson has not yet been written deep enough in the heart of America to make of us the nation God would have us be. I don't believe that peace is quite at our doors as yet. If it is a lesson God would have us to learn, it has not been fully learned.  
  
I have hoped for some weeks that when the time for a dictated peace come, that America would prove herself the great, big magnanimous nation that she is, and bring back her two to four millions of men from France to their homes, where they should be just as soon as conditions in Europe will permit; and then let this great army of industrials, workers and artisans of all kinds, go back there as volunteers to help build devastated Belgium and France. England cannot do it; France cannot do it; Italy cannot do it; America can do it. Such an act of magnanimity, such an evidence of human love and fraternal spirit and disposition would forever revolutionize the world. I do not believe we shall see such a thing accomplished; but while sitting here this morning this thought came to me. Yes, Germany, if you are ready for peace, stay where you are, in Belgium and in France. Lay down your arms and pile them mountain high, and utilize your efficiency and your ingenuity for the reduction or transformation of those arms into plows and pruning hooks and the various implements of husbandry, and break up and put in tillable shape the soil that you have torn up, and plant the trees that you have chopped down, and construct the highways and the cottages and the buildings which you have destroyed. Remain there, and make restitution now, and undo as far as you can that which you did in your mad rush for glory, conquest and power. Make restitution as far as you can. You cannot restore those husbands, those fathers, to the children of that land; you cannot, in the least degree, repair the broken hearts, the deserted firesides, the desolate homes; but you can, and if I had my way, you would, restore Belgium and France completely, in terms of bricks and mortar, and macadamized roads, and farms and orchards and vineyards, and make full restitution. Justice demands that of you.  
  
God hasten the day when Justice shall rule in the world and selfishness shall hide its head and stand subdued, for selfishness is always destructive of self, and the only hope of the great and goodly race, the German people, is that contrition of heart shall be given them, till they are willing to make restitution. If not, they must be continued in the conflict until they are brought to their knees. Amen. 