31
Outdoor
06 10 1918
Elder David Halls. 
201
98-99

None

None

(President of the Young Stake of Zion, Colorado.) 

I am reminded of a saying of the Savior, "Come unto me, ye that labor and are heavy laden." We can take that as we desire to take it. If we are sick, we think of that and seek our heavenly Father. If we are weary in mind or body, and think of that admonition, we turn to our heavenly Father. So we can construe that just as we please, according to our attitude and according to our needs.  
  
I am reminded of the time when Cornelius needed assistance, and he went to his heavenly Father, and he was directed what to do. He sent for the servants of the Lord, and they directed him what to do, and he was baptized, he and his whole household, and no doubt they were saved in the kingdom of heaven.  
  
I am reminded of another instance at another time and place, when a man went to his heavenly Father. You remember one time in the history of the Nephites that one Alma was converted by Abinadi the Prophet, and performed a wonderful work and brought souls almost everywhere, so far as he knew everywhere, to repentance, and established the Church. After a while his son and others, sons of Mosiah, went about trying to undo that work; and it worried Alma very much, and he importuned the Lord, and finally his prayer was answered. The Lord came to his rescue, and Alma, his son, and the sons of Mosiah were converted, and much good resulted. Through their efforts, many of the Lamanites received the gospel. All this through the blessings of the Lord listening to his servant Alma and answering his prayer. So we find these instances, one on one continent, and one on the other, where the Lord was willing to listen to his servants and do what they asked him to do, inasmuch as it was asked in righteousness.  
  
I want to call attention to another time in the history of the world, in our day, when a boy importuned his heavenly Father to know what was right. He wanted to know which of the denominations that he was acquainted with was the denomination of the Almighty. He did not have any doubt but what one of them belonged to God. It was all he knew, and, of course, he thought that he had heard the truth among some of them. And so, according to his faith and his prayer and the trusting nature of his soul, the Lord came to him, and the Son was revealed to him, and after that, angels came to him and established this gospel; and so thousands of people have been made partakers of the truth through that humble boy's seeking his heavenly Father to know that which was the truth. So the Lord has blessed his people through the faith and fidelity of the boy prophet.  
  
I have quoted these three instances, on two continents and at various periods of time, to show unto us that the Lord is no respecter of persons, but that in every age and to every people, those who seek him in righteousness will be heard of him, and find him; and so we find him today, in these trying times — because some of us labor and are heavy laden. Into the homes of the Latter-day Saints, as well as in the nations of the earth, sorrow comes, and probbaly will come, and we need to seek our heavenly Father and importune him for his blessings.  
  
I want, before I close, to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel. Not long ago I found myself in a hospital, surrounded by strangers, people not of our faith; and I want to testify that I desired more than anything at that time, to see an elder in Israel; and after a few days, one of my friends heard I was there, and came. The greatest blessing I received at that time was for that elder of Israel to come there and lay his hands upon me and bless me; and I know that the Lord blessed me, and I thank my heavenly Father for this manifestation of his goodness. I thank him that he answers my prayers, and that he answers your prayers, and the prayers of the honest in heart in all ages of the world.  
  
So may he answer our prayers in the future, that we may have peace in the land, that iniquity may cease, that war and bloodshed may be banished from the face of the earth, and the people of the earth and the rulers of the earth may be willing to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. And may truth and righteousness go out from Zion, and spread over all the earth, and the knowledge of the Lord cover the earth as the waters cover the sea; and may all people hear of the boy prophet, Joseph, and of the wonderful message that we have; and that the honest in heart may hear and obey the gospel, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 