41
Second Outdoor
06 10 1918
Elder Edward W. Croft. 
205
130-133

None

None

(President of the Big Horn Stake of Zion.)

If there was ever a moment in my life, my brethren and sisters, when I deeply felt to appreciate the fact that I am a member of the Church, it is at this particular time. During this conference there has not been one moment that it has been my privilege to listen to the servants of God, that the prayer has not been in my heart, "Thank God for my humble standing in the Church." If there has been a minute during the conference, that I have not enjoyed so very much, it might be termed the one that I am living right now.  
  
I feel this afternoon that of all the history of the Church that should be inspiring to the Latter-day Saints, the hours spent in a general conference should be considered the most important. I thought yesterday during the meetings, what a glorious interpretation we have of the mission of this country! I thought, too, yesterday afternoon, what could we ask, as citizens of this country, of our flag, that it has not given to us, and does not give to us every day? Along with that thought, there was a kindred thought that went through my mind, what is there in the experience of mortal man, that he could ask for, pray for, possess, as a mortal being, that this great organization of ours does not give us?  
  
I thought, too, what a glorious thing it is to be reared in this Church, what a glorious privilege it is to be born under the new and everlasting covenant, what a blessing it is to hold the priesthood, what a protection it is to know where we came from, what we are doing here, and what our life's mission is, and what will be the ultimate result of our actions in this life, and to know where we are going!  
  
There is an old story that is told of a king who had certain individuals to perform before him to make him laugh and be happy when he seemed to be downcast, otherwise than happy. A particular fool, for so they were called, had presented to him a token, I believe a cane; and the king told him whenever he found a bigger fool than he was, to hand him the cane. The story tells us that after a number of years, this fool was called before the king, and the king was going to take his final journey, the journey that we all will take sooner or later; and the fool stood before the king and said, "Where are you going? Where do you expect to go, now that you are dying?" And the king said, "I do not know." And the fool said, "Take the cane."  
  
As I sat yesterday and heard the plea of the man who presides over our meeting today, to the young men of Israel, I thought of some of the experiences that I have encountered as a practicing physician. I have watched all my life some of the things that my mother taught me as a boy, and I have found that she told me the truth about this great latter-day work, and about some other things about my nature that I did not understand as a boy. She told me that the Lord had given me appetites and passions, that if properly controlled and governed, they were to be a blessing to me all my life; but, on the other hand, if I ever became the slave to any of them, that I would be in the most abject slavery. She talked about them as masters, who when once they have the fetters of slavery wrapped about a human being, have no mercy and are the downfall of thousands of boys and girls. Yesterday, while Brother McKay made that beautiful plea to the youth of Zion to conserve their manhood, their minds, and their bodies for the great and glorious work of God in which we are engaged, I thought of the things that my mother told me; and this afternoon, in the moment that is left me, I would like to say a word to our boys, the youth of Zion.  
  
I believe that I have had experiences that have taught me one thing that I want to give you here this afternoon.  
  
I heard a great man make this statement to a class of his students, "Boys, there are certain conditions in you as human beings, certain passions, that unless taken care of, will become the master of you; and there is one the gratification of which is stronger than the desire for self-preservation." I have watched in my experience as a physician, and I know that man spoke the truth! and I testify to you, my young brethren and sisters, as a man of experience in this regard, that there is no protection you can give a young man that will equip him like the protection that this Church gives.  
  
Up in our stake the other night, we had the Attorney General of Wyoming, Mr. Preston, talk to us on the Liberty Loan. I know he will not care if I repeat his thought to you, because he spoke in all earnestness, and he told me after the meeting that he spoke from the bottom of his heart. He said: "I have watched during this great war, especially since Uncle Sam called his sons to the colors and we sent them across the seas to fight in this great ant glorious cause of ours, in the districts where your 'Mormon' people live, and I have discovered that in all the requirements in the matter of Thrift Stamps and War Savings Stamps and Liberty Bonds, and volunteering, and in the selective draft, that the Latter-day Saint people have gone over the top in a more glorious way than anything that I have ever seen in my life."  
  
"Now," I told him, "Mr. Preston, that is not surprising to me, and it would not be surprising to you if you knew the hearts of our people as I know them, and if you knew what we think of the flag and what we think of the Constitution, as I know."  
  
You will remember last April a prominent man stood in the Tabernacle here and spoke of the divinity of the Constitution of the United States. I heard him make a similar talk in the theatre in Cheyenne, and came to Salt Lake with him; and I told him after he was through with his talk, in a conversation with him, "Your talk certainly found lodgment in my heart, for I have been taught as a boy to honor the Constitution of the United States as the greatest document that has guided any government in the history of the world, and, more than that, I have been taught to believe that it was divinely given to the world."  
  
My brethren and sisters, it is no wonder that Latter-day Saints appreciate the position our country is in, and appreciate the opportunity that comes to them to aid our Government, for we know what it is, and we know that while there are mistakes on the part of men who administer the laws, we know as God knows, and he gave us this Constitution, that it is divine, and we know that when we turned our eyes toward poor stricken Europe, we were doing God's service. We saw early in the war, those of us who stopped to think, only one thing, and that was the adversary endeavoring once more to throttle the liberty that God gave us when "the stars of morning sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." We knew that there never was, and perhaps can never be a man, closer to the being who proposed to make you and me go back whether we wanted to or not, and be saved. There never has been a mortal, as far as my judgment can go, that has been as close to that individual as the present ruler of Germany.  
  
As I look at this war, I can see so many good things that will come. I can see, too, that the Lord is with his people. Out there in my little home town at Cowley, we have not a boy left. Practically all of them volunteered, there have been very few of them drafted; and I know what is in their hearts. I know that they have not gone over there with any intention of slaughtering their fellow men unnecessarily; I know, too, that they have not gone over there with the purpose in their hearts of changing the boundaries of countries; but their mission, as they know it, and we know it, is to change the hearts of men; and when they see that we have done that, they will be willing to say Amen to their work across the water, and will come back here and again be sifted into the Church and into our country. They will have learned some of the lessons of life that you and I could not teach them, and their fathers and mothers could not teach them. They will have learned things that will make them some of the best boys and some of the best men that we will ever have in our country.  
  
Now, my brothers and sisters, I am thankful above all things, this afternoon, that I can sit in that grand old building [the Tabernacle], in this one, or any other place, and have go into my heart the words of the servants of God. I am not so particular about how it is said, or who says it: the thing that I am particular about is that my own heart be a receptacle for the word of God and a place in which the teachings of this Church can find lodgment, for I testify to you in words of soberness, that you cannot find anything like it outside of this Church, you cannot find anything that can direct you as can this Church and the servants of God whom he has chosen.  
  
So I am thankful, today, above all other things, that my father and my mother, in the little old isle of England, saw and heard a "Mormon" elder, and came to this country, and that I have had the privilege of over thirty years of work in the Church; and I say to you that while I love my profession, and while I love to work in the town, in the city, in the state, or in the nation, or anywhere else that I can do anything for humanity — it is the work in this Church that brings joy to my soul and satisfaction to life.  
  
I know, too, that there has, never been a thing taught me that I have had to be retaught, or had to relearn; and I cannot say that for anything else that I have ever studied. I have dug and plugged along in school, and gotten things from what I supposed to be science, and I have had to absolutely remodel my learning, and adjust it to the development of that particular science. But, with the work of God, the science of theology, as directed by our Lord and Master Jesus Christ, ever since that memorable day when he shone the light of truth and knowledge of a living God into the heart of Joseph Smith, those things have not been in doubt; and from that clay to the present, we Latter-day Saints have not had to relearn anything that the Church has ever given us; but we can sit down with it and study it and measure it by any measurement that man might hand us to use, and it never fails to follow along with any true science or any truth that has ever been given to the world.  
  
May God grant that we may have his Spirit always with us, for I assure you and testify to you, that I know that there is no other guide to our feet, there is no other lamp to our faith, there is no security but direction by the Spirit of God; and you brethren of the priesthood, let me ask you this question as the last word, "Is there anything that you will take from this world — or you mothers, heirs to the priesthood with your husbands, is there anything you will take out of mortality — that you do not get through the priesthood that our brethren hold? If there is, name it. No, your hearts tell you that there are only a few things that you will ever get away from this world with, and those few things are the precious gifts of God to us and our children, who could not be bound to us for all time and all eternity but through the channels of the holy Melchizedek priesthood. May God grant that we may magnify it as brethren in the priesthood, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 