42
Second Outdoor
06 10 1918
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
133-137

None

None

(Of the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City.) 

I am very glad to be here for the second time today, worshiping the Lord in such an assembly. I have enjoyed listening to the testimonies of my brethren. I appreciate, as do they, my membership in this Church. In connection with my work upon this block, which is going on day after clay, year after year, I meet people from all countries, of all faiths and creeds; and every time I talk with regard to our work and the organization of the Church, my heart swells within me, for I am more proud of it than ever.  
  
A gentleman came here some time ago, the editor of the Baltimore Southern Methodist, administer of prominence. He spent a little time here, and went around with one of our business men who acted as a guide, and then he asked if he could not see the gentleman who had charge of the work, and came into my office. He was astonished at the work that we were doing. He was perfectly amazed at the information that had been given him with regard to the organization of our Church. He admired every phase of our work, and then he went home again, and in his own paper, wrote a very long article with regard to his visit here and the vitality of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Amongst other things, he said, "I was informed by a business man that he had leisure from time to time, and rejoiced in coming and giving his time unto the work of informing the strangers of the faith of the Latter-day Saints. And then," he said, "I was told that when a crowd of tourists came there, if none of these guides were present, the gentleman in charge could call upon the 'phone for a prominent business man, a prominent banker, or a lady of leisure, and they would respond readily, and go around with the tourists, describing to them the organization of the Church and the faith of the Latter-day Saints." And then he remarked, "I wonder how many Methodist business men there are in the city of Baltimore who would respond to my call, or who could give an intelligent exposition of their faith or the organization of my Church, if they should be called."  
  
Amongst all these churches and their membership, there is not the live spirit of testimony that there is among the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in this work. I rejoice that I am a member of this Church, that it is a living Church, that there is power in it. It is so organized that we can take hold of any movement and push it through to success; and hence the report that our brother brings us from the Big Horn stake, in Wyoming.  
  
In corroboration, in order that you young men many really feel as I feel with regard to the Church, I thought of a little paragraph that was published a short time ago. In July, 1917, a prominent Utahn, who had been appointed by the Government, for certain service in our State, made this statemnt in compliment to the people of Utah:  
 
"For me to undertake the reorganization of conservation forces in the State at this time would be like trying to 'paint the lily.' The forces now organized are doubtless working more effectively than similar committees will be able to work in any State of the Union; and while not a 'Mormon' myself, I cannot refrain from paying the 'Mormon' Church and the 'Mormon' people the compliment that they are now, through the professional and practical and energetic local defense committees, providing the government with a model of efficiency in organization for food conservation; and I only wish every state in the Union had the nucleus of such an organization in entering into this most important work."  
  
I am proud of the organization of our Church, and the way that we can handle matters for the benefit of our children, for the benefit of the United States. But I come back again to this thought; What is the Church? Not that monument of stone over there, not that oval shaped dome, the Tabernacle, not the Assembly Hall, not your chapels nor your churches that are built of stone and brick in various parts of the state, or wherever the Church exists. The Church is the membership thereof, you who are present, and all the rest of the live members of it; and the Church has vitality because we, the members of it, are willing to consecrate ourselves to its service, we are willing to respond to every call that is made upon us. If the Church calls for a tenth of our income, we are willing to give it, and witness our devotion by our giving.  
  
A minister came to me a short time ago. He was going to the Northwest. He had been appointed by one of the churches to investigate the tithing system of the "Mormon" Church. He came here to find out something about it. We showed him our system at the Presiding Bishop's office, and explained to him how it worked, how these bishops gave their time to the work, how many of the brethren were laboring in various capacities to perform their labors unselfishly and freely, and how liberally our members respond to that law of God in the payment of their tithing. After he had visited the Presiding Bishop's office, and we had discussed this tithing question at some length, he asked the very pertinent question, "How do you think that would work in our church? You know what I am here for. I am trying to find out just how you work this tithing question, and if possible, arrange so that it can be adapted to Methodism."  
  
"Well," I said, "frankly, do you want me to tell you just how I feel about it?"  
  
"O yes," was the reply, "tell me just how you feel."  
  
"I think it would be an utter failure. You cannot introduce it in your church and make a success of it. Why? In the first place, your membersip does not recognize it as a law of God given to them directly by revelation in this day. In the second place, they may not trust their leaders. They do not know how the money will be spent. They do not know but that numerous salaries will be paid to the very persons who are to administer the funds. The difference between your organization and ours stamps our organization as divine. Our membership know that the tithing which they pay unto the Lord comes back again to them; and with that tithing we go into southern Utah or elsewhere, and if a dam is washed out, and the people might starve without relief, we build their dam with the tithing. If our people need educational help, we establish our Church schools amongst them from our tithing fund. If we have widows and orphans that have to be maintained, or if we have distress of any nature, from our tithing funds we minister especially at such times to the people; and our membership recognize that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a grand fraternal organization for their benefit, for their relief — we need no others — and they have confidence in these bishops and in these presidents of stakes who are giving their time, who are giving their energies, who are laboring continuously for the good of their people; and not working for salaries, and they are not getting them. There is this difference between our Church and others. I do not believe it would work."  
  
With the Latter-day Saints, however, it is different, our membership recognizes tithing as a divine institution.  
  
Permit me to draw attention to a particular passage of Scripture that has always impressed me, as I have no doubt it does you. Commenting upon our Church again, the Apostle Peter, speaking with regard to the membership, says, "Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ." Who are we, therefore? We are the living stones in this great edifice, in this Church of God. It is built up of us.  
  
Now, what else is there to it? In the second chapter of Ephesians, the Apostle Peter says, "Ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone." This is the living Church Christ the foundation, Christ the revelator, Christ who gave unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the keys, who spake to him personally, with regard to the organization of this Church.  
  
And in this Church, what have we Latter-day Saints? An organization which we should be proud of. At the head, prophets and apostles whom we can sustain with all our souls, because we know that they are laboring with an eye single to the glory of God, and for the benefit of his people. O, we may think sometimes, these apostles have a grand time, they are traveling all the time, they are eating the best, etc. I admit that they are most hospitably entertained. You are glad to receive them. But my soul goes out in sympathy to these apostles of God. They have consecrated themselves to God's service; and from being accustomed to having the best their good wives could prepare for them, accustomed to good beds, accustomed to the comforts of home, they now go out visiting all the stakes of Zion, under various conditions and enduring many discomforts, accepting whatever is provided for them and thanking the Lord for it; or traveling 40 or 50 miles over rough roads, until they are almost shaken to pieces; and they come back home and in a day or two, off again. A wife of one of them told me one day that she hardly knew whether she had a husband or not, we call for so much of their time. But they are willing to give it. We love them because of their fidelity, because of their devotion, and it is their labors that make us strong.  
  
Prophets and apostles, pastors teachers, deacons, presidents of stakes, bishops; and in the various organizations, we have everything that could minister unto our wants — our Relief Society caring for the sick, and the dying, and burying the dead; our young men's organizations, seeking to save the boys and train them in chastity; our young women's organization, teaching virtue and purity unto the girls, and striving to lead them in the path of righteousness: our Sunday Schools, our Religion Classes, our Primary, good, "helps in government." I thank God that we have such a Church, and that it ministers unto us so many good things. God bless the man that stands at the head. If there ever was a time when Israel should bow in prayer and plead with God, it is now, for never could you find a man who would be more devoted, who would set a better example, who would live a cleaner life, who would do all that God would have him do, to the laying down of his life. than President Joseph F. Smith. We need him. In my heart I praise God that he has been able to be with us at this conference, that we have heard his voice. May God bless and strengthen him is the prayer of all Israel.  
  
And now, my brethren and sisters, my heart is full of thanksgiving for the blessings that have come to me and to mine in this Church. My hope and prayer is that I may so live that I may receive the blessings promised the faithful, and that I may have every member of my family forever with me.  
  
May God strengthen and sustain us, and lead us to the accomplishment of good, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 