43
Second Outdoor
06 10 1918
Elder David O. McKay.
18
137-139

None

(Of the Council of Twelve Apostles.) 

Ideals and character-building — A College illustration — Breaking ideals is breaking character — An illustration of a mother and her son who went to war — Make Prohibition safe, by voting in November to adopt the Prohibition amendment to the Utah state Constitution.  
  
At the conclusion of this pleasing, and most profitable session, which is one of ten general sessions held during this conference, I desire to say just this; that not one of us can go back to our homes with the same responsibility which we had when we left. Our presence, our impressions, our acceptance of the principles which have been enunciated throughout these various sessions, have placed greater obligations on us than we have ever had before. "To him who knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin." I never heard one of our brethren bear testimony to the divinity of this work, without feeling that the strength and growth of his character depends upon a consistent life with that testimony; and it makes character to live in harmony with man's ideals, or at least to strive to live in harmony with them.  
  
I can illustrate what I mean by relating an incident of what happened to two of our boys at college. They had been taught as you boys and I have been taught, that next to our lives, we should cherish the chastity referred to by Dr. Croft.  
  
One of these boys noticed that there was a laxity among his classmates, in regard to that cleanliness in association with other boys and girls; and after a few months at college, he partook of a different spirit from the one he had in his home, and one night, he said to his companion, who was older than he, "I am going out tonight with those fellows."  
  
"Well, you better not," said his companion.  
  
"Oh," he said, "I do not know! Those fellows have a good time, take their wine, have their cigarettes and their cigars, they enjoy themselves; and here we are restrained. They get their lessons, they are doing just as well in college as we are, and I am going out with them. I am not so sure that our ideals are necessary, anyhow."  
  
The older one walked up, put his hand on his companion's shoulder, and said, "Those boys may be getting along all right in school, they may do these things to which you refer with impunity, but you can't."  
  
"Why?"  
  
"Because you know better. And once you break through that ideal, your character is broken."  
  
It was the best lesson he learned in college, and I am very glad that he learned it and lived it.  
  
I have thought of the application of that principle to our boys who are at the front. These boys must be brave, they cannot shirk a duty, their blows must be mighty in defense of righteousness, their power of resistance must be great, or else they are going to weaken, weaken their characters, and come back men unfit to take their places in this great nation, to say nothing of this great Church. Why? Why, my brethren and sisters, because they know. They know what chastity means. They know what the righteousness of the cause for which they are fighting is. And when their mothers kissed them good-bye, they went with a last impression that they must maintain that ideal of purity. You let a boy fall down, and he is miserable, because he has not lived up to what he knows to be right.  
  
I shall never forget the picture of an Arizona mother's parting with her son. It was about a year and a half ago, when we first entered the war. He was one of the first to go. The mother, with her heart almost breaking, went with him to the recruiting office, and in the presence of a United States officer, when she was taking her last good-bye, said, "John, I want you to come back to me just as clean and sweet as you are now, or do not come back at all."  
  
And the officer said, "Why, madam, you must not expect that of your boy."  
  
"I do expect it of him," she returned, "and every 'Mormon' mother expects it of her boy. I do expect it of you, John, and I know you will;" and with that she gave him a caress and went back to her home, and he to fight for his country.  
  
Don't you think that boy will strike for righteousness, for the ideals of home, and the ideals of his character? He knows what is right; and if he is going to be a man of strong character, he must maintain those ideals.  
  
And so to us, I would like to say at parting that the thoughts that have been awakened in our minds, the resolutions that have been made in our hearts, have placed upon us greater responsibility than we have ever had before. God help us to be true to them, and to radiate that strength of character, that faith and confidence in God and his eternal work that will encourage others to seek higher ideals, and arouse in others' hearts higher hopes and aspirations.  
  
Brothers and sisters, I have rejoiced in this gathering, in every gathering of the Latter-day Saints, because the power of salvation is here — salvation here and now — happiness, peace and prosperity here.  
  
I leave my blessing with you, with the Latter-day Saints in all Israel, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.  
  
Brethren and sisters, on the next election day, the people of Utah are asked to vote on an amendment to the Constitution of the State of Utah. There are several amendments. I am going to mention only one. It pertains to Prohibition in our State. As you know, we have Prohibition by legislative enactment, but it is not a part of the Constitution of the State, now if we can make it a part of the Constitution of the State, Prohibition is safe. Now, the suggestion is that the prohibition statute be made a part of the Constitution of the State. I am sure there is not a member of the Church anywhere who does not approve of this, there is not a law-abiding citizen throughout the state who does not desire it. But here is the danger: we may not think of voting it! I am simply mentioning it so that when you go to the polls you will look at that amendment and vote "Yes."  
  
We desire to thank the brethren of this male chorus for the excellent service rendered this afternoon, and the organist, and you, my brethren and sisters, who have rendered your assistance here by your attention, and the spirit that has radiated from your good souls. We thank these brethren of the stake presidencies and appreciate the spirit they have manifested and the testimonies they have borne.  