45
Afternoon
06 10 1918
Elder Levi Edgar Young.
48
143-145

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.)  
  
While Elder Hart was speaking about the great world's war, I was thinking of the heroism of our soldiers, as well as the terrible sufferings of the people of Europe. Today, I feel more than ever the need of bowing our heads in the presence of a loving God, who is directing the world to a better life. This wild and distracted world is still his. The war will end in victory — a victory that will go down the ages. This consummation of human happiness shall be given us because we have desired to do our best, and to be our best. We are standing in the service of our King and Master, and we are obtaining new visions of a higher and newer life for ourselves and humanity. God grant that the day of peace may come, and the world may be governed by the Prince of Peace.  
  
And yet, I believe that after this great conflict of arms is over with, that a greater conflict is going to take place in the world, a conflict that you and I must prepare for with all our might and strength. It will be the conflict between intellience and ignorance, between morality and immorality, between the Spirit of God and the spirit of darkness. In the wake of all wars come ignorance and immorality. In fact, the history of the world proves that after great struggles of might, men are in darknkess, for war precipitates the greater evils in human society on one hand as well as the better spiritual attitude toward life on the other.  
  
The question with you and me is: which will prevail? The Latter-day Saints have a message to the world that the spiritual life must prevail; that the gospel of Jesus Christ must triumph. It will be through our lives, our words, and our actions, that the influence of the gospel of Jesus Christ will be felt in the world. I believe firmly what has been suggested in this conference, that one reason for this war is the false philosophies that have been rampant in the hearts of students of the European countries and of the world. The great message that you and I must bear must be prefaced with the divine thought that God made man in his own image, in the image of God made he him. This is a divine truth. Its divinity stamps divinity upon us. We are divine. The children of God in deed and in truth. We have not evolved from something lower. The vision of Moses as found in the Pearl of Great Price tells us this. I wish the message could be carried to the world, for we are distinctly told that man is in the image of God materially and spiritually. This great fundamental truth is what the world needs today. We are in the image of God, with a great spiritual outlook on life. What the world needs is idealism, religion, and faith in God, which humanity has long since lost. We need idealizing. Yet this congregation and conference, our acts and our words, certainly stamp the Latter-day Saints as a people with ideals. The gospel of Jesus Christ is idealistic. As a people we idealize the earth, we idealize man, we idealize everything pertaining to righteousness and truth, and we are convinced that the truth will pervail in all the world. This war now raging in Europe was not of God; but it has been permitted; it has come as a. result of the ignorance of humanity. God is a God of love for his children, and though this war is permitted, there will come out of it the great conflict of light against darkness. But light and truth will prevail. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the message to the world that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God in whom we have great faith.  
  
The question was asked me recently, "If God is a God of love, what will be the compensation for this war?" We can all judge what the ultimate outcome of it is to be. No one can tell when the compensation will come to us. But compensation will come, for the world is going to be made better, and prepared for the gospel of Christ.  
  
In 1777, the first Continental Congress sent Benjamin Franklin to the court of. France to ask for succor for the American cause. The Council of State voted to help America, and one young officer, Lafayette, asked permission to lead four or five thousand men to America. It was permitted, and a few weeks after, Lafayette, with his men, came into Philadelphia; they had been nine weeks on the sea. Lafayette was taken to the camp of Washington and was put on the staff of the commander-in-chief. He immediately went to work to train the American forces. After a long struggle, until 1781, the American colonies won their independence.  
  
They had fought for great ideals, and when independence was gained Lafayette bade farewell to General Washington on the banks of the Potomac, General Washington, grasping the hand of that young French officer, said in French, "God grant that your people may never need America's help, but always know that America will love your country." When those French soldiers left France, many a mother wondered when the compensation would come back, when their boys' work would be rewarded. Many French soldiers fell fighting for America's cause.  
  
Lafayette went back and reported to his government that many of his men had fallen for the cause of truth and liberty in America. The government passed a resolution of thanks, and one old man, a Catholic Father, prayed to God that France might receive a just compensation for her sacrifice.  
  
The compensation did not immediately come to the French people. Nearly a hundred and fifty years afterwards, on the sixth day of September, 1917, General Pershing of the American army had been programmed to give an address before the tomb of Lafayette. He went down to the tomb with his staff officers. General Pershing stepped before the tomb of Lafayette, and in French said, "Lafayette, we are here!" That is all that he said, but it is a speech that has gone into the hearts of humanity, and the compensation for what France did over a hundred years ago has gone back to France.  
  
My brethren and sisters, the world is in need of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Liberty, democracy, truth, light, intelligence, morality, is what we are fighting for. The American troops will never listen to peace, nor will Britain, or France, or Servia, or Belgium, until a new life, a new liberty, and a new democracy, strike deep into the hearts of the Germanic people of Europe. There will be no peace, it is our faith, until the world is partly slighted, and made safe for democracy, that the gospel of Jesus Christ may become supreme in the hearts of men.  
  
God made man in his own image, in the image of God made he him, is our message to the world. Amen. 
