46
Afternoon
06 10 1918
Elder Walter P. Monson. 
94
145-147

None

None

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

This is an inspiring sight, my brethren and sisters, to see so many Latter-day Saints gathered together in one place. In the Eastern States mission we have no such congregations, but ours is composed of twenty or thirty, sometimes one hundred, where we, in our weak way, and by the assistance of our heavenly Father, are attempting to proclaim to them the principles of life eternal.  
  
I have been greatly interested and edified in the remarks that have been made by the speakers at this conference. I am sure that they have been inspired by the Spirit of our heavenly Father; and it is the inspiration of that Spirit that I desire to enjoy for the few moments that I shall stand before you.  
  
Brother Levi Edgar Young said, "the thing that the world needs most is a knowledge of the true and the living God." Is it not a singular thing, but a thing that should give great joy and satisfaction to every Latter-day Saint's heart, to know that the prayer of faith was rewarded by the revelation of God himself and his Son Jesus Christ, nearly one hundred years ago, when Joseph Smith, the boy, went into the woods near Palmyra, New York, supplicated God in fervent prayer to know which of all the sects and denominations then existing in the world was right? When the Father and the Son appeared to him, the Savior, who had been introduced with the words, "This is my beloved Son; hear him," said that Joseph should join himself to none of the then existing organizations upon the earth, "for," said the Savior, "they have a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. They preach for hire, they divine for money, they draw near unto me with their lips and honor me with their mouths, but have removed their hearts far from me; they teach for doctrine the commandments of men."  
  
Despite the fact that one hundred years have passed, there has been no consistent attempt on the part of the representatives of the existing churches or organizations of that time to prove that they were not teaching for hire, that they were not divining for money, that they were not drawing near unto him with their lips and honoring him with their mouths, and that their hearts were not removed far from him; but rather, they have made vicious attacks upon the one who gave the message of Jesus Christ to the world. Are we to apologize for what the Savior said, in the face of the present condition of the world? No; a thousand times no. Let it be heralded to the world. God has revealed himself and his plan of life and salvation to the children of men, and it is our privilege, aye, it is our duty, to proclaim that message to the world.  
  
Among other attempts that have been made to discredit those who have been instrumental in the furthering of the purposes of the Lord, a recent attempt was made in one of the army camps, as published in the Boston Transcript. I desire to read to you from the Boston Transcript, of July 13, 1918:  
  
"While Father McQuaide, a popular chaplain of a well-known San Francisco regiment, was waiting a few days at Camp Mills, L. L, before embarking for France, many men from other regiments who were without Catholic chaplains, learning of his presence, visited him, almost invariably for confession. One day, after hearing many, Father McQuaide was conscious of the presence of another waiting soldier, and in his characteristic way he said: 'Now, kneel right here and bless yourself, my boy.' The soldier looked up meekly and said: 'I don't know how. I am an elder in the 'Mormon' Church.' "  
  
This is intended for a slur upon the Latter-day Saints, but oh, how they have misunderstood the message of Christ to the world. When the devil appeared to the Savior in his emaciated, hungry condition, he said: "If you are the Son of God, turn these stones into bread," or, in other words, "Bless your hungry self." Did he do so? No; he did not do it. He did not bless himself on that occasion; but out on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, where there were four thousand who were hungered, he took the loaves and small fishes, and blessed them and gave them to the multitude, thus extending the blessing of his authority to others. And in his dying moments upon the cross, while they wagged their heads and mockingly said: "If you are the Son of God, come down and save yourself," did he bless himself by saving his life? No. He went to a martyr's death, crucified. What for? That you and I might live. And yet they make ridicule and light of the fact that the Latter-day Saints do not know how to bless themselves. Why, bless your souls, the priesthood that has been given to the elders in this Church is not intended for blessing oneself, but for blessing others. How true this is, and in harmony with the statement of St. James, when he said: "Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up." He did not say, "Anoint yourself and bless yourself," but let the priesthood of others be operative in behalf of the afflicted.  
  
Now, I want to bear to you my testimony, my brothers and sisters, that I do know that this is the true work of God, and that if we will persist unto the end to proclaim this gospel to the world in holiness of life and purpose, that we shall be preserved from the pitfalls of the evil one, for he has preserved us amid the trials and persecutions that have been heaped upon this people from the earliest organization of the Church to the present time. We praise God that we live in this land of liberty, where we can worship God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and the opposition, for the most part, is from organizations that have found their origin under monarchial forms of civil government.  
  
God bless us all, that we might keep our covenants true and sacred, and ever be found with the faithful, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 