47
Afternoon
06 10 1918
Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 
1
147-150

None

None

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

While President Grant was reading the 121st section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, the other day, which contains the instructions from the Lord concerning the spirit that should actuate the priesthood of this Church, my mind went out to some of the statements which have been made by the enemies of this Church. One that impressed itself upon me was the utterance of a noted divine in the city of Portland, a few years ago, wherein he charged that the "Mormon" Church was the most perfect organization in the world, the most powerful; but he feared it, because of its power. He was afraid that this power would be utilized for unholy purposes. I recall at the same time that a noted official of the Government said that "the 'Mormon' Church and the German army are the most efficient organizations in the world;"and he deplored that, while we have efficiency in both these organizations, there was the surrender of individuality. He hoped that the day might come when we could have equal efficiency as shown in these two great institutions in the earth, and yet have freedom and liberty. These two systems, that is, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the German army, so far as the spirit that dominates and actuates them is concerned, are as far apart as the two poles can be. There are two methods by which efficiency may be obtained even in the home — one by the whip that brings immediate obedience from the child — you can get what you wish by fear, by punishment; the other method is to obtain it through love. If you will observe the rule, however, to punish and obtain obedience through that means, you can do it until the child becomes of your own age and size, and then your power is gone; but if you control by love, it will endure forever and ever, even into the eternal world. These two spirits respectively are characteristic of these two organizations — the one that rules by fear and punishment illustrates the spirit that dominates and actuates and controls the German army, and obtains the efficiency of that people. I rejoice to be a witness to the nations of the earth that the spirit that domintaes and controls the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the spirit of love. Here is liberty; here is freedom. No man has coerced me nor has he coerced you, and yet we have been united; we have thought alike we have believed alike; we have had one common teacher; it has not been the whip, nor the lash, nor the threat, but it has been the witness and the testimony of the Holy Ghost that has born to us all the same witness concerning the teachings of the leaders of this Church; and how, in my heart, I rejoice that I have always found it possible to yield, and gladly and willingly have I yielded, to the instructions and endorsed the counsel and advice, which have been given, and have always felt a perfectly free man.  
  
These two systems were in operation in the very beginning; on the one hand was he, who offered himself to redeem the world; but, said he, "I will save all men." By what means? Taking away their individual liberty. The right to think, the right to act; but said he, "I want the glory." It was a new scheme, and if it succeeded it was his, and he wanted the glory. On the other hand was the Christ, giving unto all men their free agency, holding them, nevertheless, accountable, but extending unto them the right of choice and the reward that should follow; and the honor and the glory were the Father's. There was war over that question when the Father's decision was appealed from, and the majority of the great body who were present voted against him who sought to take away the agency of man; there was war in heaven, actual combat. The forces of evil were cast down to Jhe earth, and here they have been and here the war wages and never have these combats ceased. When these two great characters in the drama of the world met in the hour of temptation, the great thing for which both were seeking — the right to preside over the Kingdoms of this world, was discussed; in panoramic view they passed before the mind of Jesus. Satan said, "Aren't they splendid? Wouldn't you like them?" In his heart he knew that it was what Jesus came to obtain — the right to rule over them, to die for them and to save them, and in his own heart he was saying: "You don't have to die for them if you will only do what I tell you now; you can have them on easy terms; you just fall down and worship me; behold they are mine and I will give them to you." Jesus knew who it was, however, and he said : 'Get thee behind me, Satan.' Jesus in his own heart no doubt realized that Satan's was only a squatter's claim upon the earth. It is true he had been ruling from the rivers to the ends of the earth, but his claim was no good; it was not valid at all; and if Jesus should bow down and worship him. Jesus would have a title that was worthless and at the same time lose his opportunity to redeem the world in the way God had decreed. So he died to win the right to rule and he is the only one who ever shall rule by "right Divine." Those powers are still in the world; they are arrayed against each other today. When shall the conflict end? There is no doubt in our minds what the result will be when that end shall come. Satan even steals the liveries of heaven to accomplish his purposes and he will give revelation — this is a wonderful time for revelation. He is giving revelations to some poor, deluded Latter-day Saints. I think that the greatest prophet of Baal in Europe today is the German Kaiser; I haven't any doubt but that he has received revelation. I haven't any doubts but that he feels in his own heart that he has been anointed as he said he was, and set apart by God to dominate and rule the earth.  
  
It is the power of the evil forces arrayed through a political form of government for the purpose of staying the fulfilment of these ancient predictions referred to in this conflict, when in the interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream Danial said, that in the days of these kingdoms, our days, the God of heaven should establish a Kingdom that should roll forth and fill the whole earth.  
  
My brethren and sisters, it warms my heart to be able to say and to feel that God is not only working in this Church, but outside of it, as indicated and as it has been referred to by the brethren here, that the Lord established the Constitution of the Linked States for the blessing of all flesh. In my soul I believe that that is part of the great Kingdom of God, the political part, for Jesus was to come as "King of kings and Lord of lords." In the capacity of King of kings he rules in a political way, and as Lord of lords in a spiritual way. He is the greatest statesman the world has ever seen, and that great kingdom, cut out of the mountain without hands, founded by God, has been rolling forth. Let me tell you, my weak-kneed brethren and sisters, if there are any of you here, take courage, for God's word shall not fail when he predicted that the instrument known as the Constitution of the United States, the Spirit of Liberty established here by a few weak colonists, was his order of things for the government of men, and it should roll forth to fill the whole earth. There were great kingdoms, in the world that refused to believe it, but it has rolled forth until it now bids fair to reach every nation, kindred and tongue and people in the earth, and bring God's form of political government for the delivery of the souls of men just as sure as that has been true, just so sure am I that this is God's spiritual part of the great kingdom that Daniel saw — the more sacred, the more holy part, the sanctifying thing that shall not only sanctify men, but shall sanctify nations, when at the peace table the sword shall be sheathed and the covenant and agreement of peace signed.  
  
We shall not have a lasting and enduring peace until men shall accept that other part of the Kingdom of God, the truth that has been delivered in the restoration of the everlasting gospel. My heart thrills when I look at our boys. I saw seven or eight hundred of them leaving Camp Lewis in the Ninety-first Division, going to France. Don't you fathers and mothers grieve any more about them as to whether or not they will keep themselves clean. I have this witness and testimony that they are doing it; about ninety per cent of them, are as clean and as pure as though they were missionaries performing their work in the mission field. I have had the sanction and opportunity to ordain scores of them to the priesthood, many who never had any priesthood, did not know anything about it nor care about it; but the Spirit of the Lord is working upon them, and I have a witness that they will keep themselves true to their covenants, though many of them shall in all probability lay down their lives. But I see them in the visions as of the future, men who today are clothed upon with the uniform of their country, going forth to offer their lives for the establishment of truth and liberty among the nations of the earth. I see the day when they will go forth as missionaries of the Church. Such a band of men God is preparing to do a work that never before has been done in the history of this Church; when they will stand in Germany, in Belgium, in France, in the islands of the sea, and in all the European nations, these very identical men, ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ, carrying the balm that will heal the wounds of the nations. There will not be a dog to wag its tail against them. They shall be honored. God is preparing them for another service.  
  
May the Lord bless this Church and the membership thereof, that we may get out of debt in this good time; seventies and elders, prepare yourselves for the great demand, for it will come and God's word shall be carried to the ends of the earth. We do not retract what has been said concerning that message which was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We reannounce it, not in a spirit of boastfulness, but in a spirit of deep gratitude to God our Father, and say to all the ends of the earth, this is essential for the salvation and peace of the world. God speed the time when the world will receive it, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 