Morning
05 04 1941 

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, April 5, at 10 o'clock. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The moment has arrived for opening the third session of this Conference. We are indeed grateful again this morning, notwithstanding the inclement weather, that President Grant is with us and is presiding. He has asked President Clark to conduct the services. 

Through the courtesy of Radio Station KSL and of the other Radio Stations cooperating the meetings of this Conference are being broadcast over KFXD at Nampa; KSEI at Pocatello; KTFI at Twin Falls; KID at Idaho Falls; KSUB at Cedar City; and KEUB at Price. 

The Presidents of Stakes in these localities are arranging meetings in various of their Ward meeting houses where Ward and Stake congregations can hear the Conference. A direct wire from the Tabernacle to the Los Angeles Stake Tabernacle in Los Angeles, California, will bring the services to that area. 

We were advised last evening that the reception was very good in all these areas, and that people were coming together and enjoying the services. 

There are present on the stand this morning President Grant and his two Counselors, the eleven Apostles, all of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and all of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The music today will be furnished by the Blackfoot Stake Choir, Elder Ronald Bitton, Director, Elder Frank W. Asper, Organist. 

The congregation and the Blackfoot Stake Choir sang the hymn, "Do What is Right." 

Elder Wilford W. Warnick, President of the Timpanogos Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang "Lift Up Your Heads" — Taylor. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Revelation is the rock upon which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is built. It is the basis of Mormonism — the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness. Using the term revelation in a broad sense, it is the means the Lord has always employed to acquaint His children with the plan of salvation, with a knowledge of His existence and of our relationship to Him. We believe the Bible and other scriptures are divinely inspired writings. 

JOSEPH SMITH, HEAVEN-TAUGHT 

The Prophet Joseph Smith was wonderfully favored by the Lord in the matter of revelation. So far as the records show, it began in what was the most marvelous vision ever given to mortal man. The Father and the Son not only showed themselves to Joseph but actually talked to him. In addition to these personages a number of others of the greatest personages in heaven also appeared and talked to him — Moses, Elias, Elijah, John the Baptist, the Apostles Peter, James and John, and the prophet Moroni — an imposing list of immortals. Thus to a remarkable degree Joseph Smith was heaven-taught by word of mouth as well as by inspiration of the Holy Ghost. We are entirely correct, therefore, when we say that divine revelation is basic to the organization and continued existence of this Church. 

REVELATION FOR THE CHURCH AND FOR INDIVIDUALS 

Without revelations other than the inspired teachings of the Bible this Church could never have been organized. There would have been no need for it, because it could not have been essentially different from existing churches. It would have had no more light than they have — no fuller truth to impart. 

Revelation is needed not only to guide the organization and teachings of the Church, but also to enable the members to function acceptably in their respective duties. One thing that is characteristic of the Latterday Saints is their assurance that God lives, that this is His accepted Church and that He helps His children according to their worthiness and 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

needs. Experience has taught them the validity of certain scriptural teachings relative to the individual receiving divine revelations. 

We remember what Jesus said to Peter when He asked His disciples "Whom say ye that I am ?" The answer came quickly from Peter, 

Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father, which is in heaven. (Matt. 16:15-17.) 

This indicates that Peter received his knowledge through divine revelation. 

THE PRAYER OF FAITH ANSWERED 

Joseph Smith's boyhood experience in this matter has been published world-wide. The lad most earnestly wanted to know which church to join. He decided to ask the Lord, for he read in the writings of the Apostle James the following : 

If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. 

However, James gave a caution in these words : 

But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. (James 1 : 5-7.) 

This biblical passage heartened the boy and he went into the nearby woods to pray. The sequel was the most marvelous vision ever given to mortal man. The Father and the Son appeared to Joseph in a column of transcendent light. He not only saw them, he heard their voices, for they spoke to him. He learned the truth that God hears and answers prayers. 

Many Latter-day Saints can and do bear witness to the truth of another saying of Jesus recorded by the Apostle John and stated in these words : 

If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. (John 7:17.) 

This of course indicates that revelation is the means of getting this knowledge. 

I give another scriptural reference on this point. It is clearly and explicitly written and is found in the Book of Mormon, recorded in the tenth chapter of Moroni and is as follows : 

And when ye shall receive these things, [those written in the Book of Mormon] I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye . shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth pf all things. (Moroni 10:4-5.) 

REVELATION FROM TWO SOURCES 

I call attention to this principle of revelation, not that all Latter-day Saints do not accept it, but to point out that there are certain dangers regarding it about which a few of our people seemingly need to be warned. The kind of revelation of which I have spoken is divine revelation. I know of no dangers associated with this kind of revelation. Its source is heaven and most commonly is a manifestation of the power of the Holy Ghost. But using the term in its broadest sense it will include the whisperings that come from evil sources through the power of Satan. 

According to our teachings, Satan and an army of supporters were cast down to earth from the premortal spirit world. They are spirit brothers of ours, and are real persons having spirit bodies. As surely as we live they live also. They are trying to handicap and thwart the work of the Lord. Wherever the Saints are found there the devil is also. If Satan can overcome the Saints, he will have all the world subject to him. He is a deceiver, the father of lies, the source of evil, the enemy of all righteousness. 

He has great power in the earth. He has deceived, and is deceiving, some people who have been and may now be members of the Church, but members in grave danger. One of his schemes is to give them a type of revelation, inducing them to believe that these come from heaven instead of from the devil. It is these people that are in urgent need of a warning. 

In writing to the Corinthians the Apostle Paul speaks of those opposing his labors as : 

false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves 

into the apostles of Christ. And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works. (II Cor. 11:13-15.) 

Do you notice the similarity in method used in Paul's day and in this day by emissaries of Satan ? 

In Matthew, Chapter 24, Jesus in speaking of the signs and condi tions preceding His second coming is reported as saying : 

There shall arise false Christs, and false prophets and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. (Matt. 24:24.) 

FALSE PROPHETS TODAY 

Do you know of any false prophets among us in these days — those misguided, lying, deceitful workers who claim to be the recipients of divine revelation? In the 7th Chapter of Matthew Jesus is again reported as saying : 

By their fruits ye shall know them. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonder50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

ful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity. (Matt. 7:20-23.) 

There are many scriptural references, particularly in the Doctrine and Covenants, that might be given of the deceiving power of Satan. One found in the Book of Mormon bears directly upon the point I have in mind. It is found in the 30th Chapter of Alma. Korihor, an anti-Christ, was arrested and brought before Alma, the governor and chief judge, for teaching infidelity and leading the people into wickedness. Before the judge Korihor refused to desist from his position and demanded from Alma a sign that there is a God. When struck dumb Korihor wrote : 

The devil hath deceived me; for he appeared unto me in the form of an angel, and said unto me: Go and reclaim this people, for they have all gone astray after an unknown God .... And he taught me that which I should say, and I have taught his words (Alma 30:53.) 

Are all of us not acquainted with instances essentially like the one Alma relates of Korihor ? 

THE DECEIVED 

Occasionally there comes to my office and presumably to other offices in the building, an individual who claims he has a divine message for the Church or for President Grant. Of course, we give no credence to their claims. But I refer to their claims in illustration of the statement that our belief in modern revelation may be the means of leading away some of the people unless they are on their guard. Perhaps at no time in history did Satan have power as great as he has today. There was no time in the past when so many people believed in revelation as today. Satan tempts us where we are most vulnerable. He misleads a few into believing that the promptings that come from him are divine revelations. These false prophets in turn are seemingly so devout, so humble, so earnest and sincere that they, with Satan's help, are able to deceive and mislead many others — only those, however, who profess a belief in modern revelation. Thus heresies spring up, faith in our leaders is destroyed and the devil laughs because of his successes. The foolish who have been blinded have been led to believe that they are serving the cause of the Master when the fact is they are dupes of the devil. I speak plainly to avoid being misunderstood. 

There are adulterous men going about lying to and trying to deceive people into believing that the President and leaders of the Church have lost the spirit of their callings and have repudiated some Gospel principles. This is one of the ways in which the devil is working. 

INDIVIDUAL GUIDANCE 

We believe that an individual is entitled to divine guidance in his personal and material affairs. President Joseph F. Smith was reported in a Conference sermon as saying the following : 

Every man has the privilege to exercise these gifts (of revelation) in the conduct of his own affairs .... in the management of his farm, . his flocks, his herds and in the management of his business. 

I was once reliably told that President Wilford Woodruff advised going ahead with building the Lehi sugar factory, even though a committee of business men had reported and decided against its feasibility. President Woodruff knew the project would be successful because the Lord had so indicated. But Satan has deceived many Church members by his devilish manifestations in matters of material projects. I called attention to one of those in a recent stake conference. No loyal Church member can logically expect a project to prosper when it has been disapproved by two presidents of the Church. 

THE WORTHY MAY DETECT EVIL, 

Yes, the devil is among the Saints. Let them beware. He uses various means and methods — those that are found to be most effective, depending on many pertinent factors. He catches often those who are off their guard. None of us is secure from his wiles. To be as secure as may be we must have the help of the Lord. This is available if we worthily seek it. Every one in the Church must have it if he does well the work authoritatively assigned him to do. But no officer, no missionary can fully enjoy the work of his calling in the Church without the spirit thereof, which is given through the Holy Ghost. 

Brethren and sisters, let us not be deceived. There are many agents of Satan abroad in the land and some of them may be self -deceived, not knowing that they are in the power of the evil one. However, the spirit of the devil among this people may be detected by all honest, sincere members who keep the commandments of the Lord. The spirit of the Lord is comforting, joy-producing, love-inspiring, help-giving. The spirit of the devil is manifested in fault-finding, envy, selfishness, hatred, deceit, dishonesty, and produces misery, sin and crime. 

GUIDANCE THROUGH PRAYER 

Do the people of the Church want a safe guide to what is well for them to do ? It is this : Keep in harmony with the Presidency of this Church. Accept and follow the teachings and advice of the President. At every Conference we raise our hands to sustain the President as prophet, seer and revelator. Is it consistent to do this and then go contrary to his advice? Is anyone so simple as to believe he is serving the Lord when he opposes the President? Of course, the President is not infallible. He makes no claims to infallibility. But when in his official capacity he teaches and advises the members of the Church relative to their duties, let' no man who wants to please the Lord say aught against the counsels of the President. 

In the spirit of helpfulness let me give you a key. When in doubt go on your knees in humility with an open mind and a pure heart with a real desire to do the Lord's will, and pray earnestly and sincerely for divine guidance. Persist in praying in this way until you get an answer that fills your bosom with joy and satisfaction. It will be God's answer. If obedient to this answer you will always act as 'the President indicates. You will then be safe. God help us all to act wisely I pray in Christ's name. Second Day 

ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

As always, I declare my dependence upon the Spirit that motivates all of these proceedings. 

I was happy yesterday to hear President Grant and President Clark address part of their remarks to the young men of my generation who face a breaking up of the pattern of their lives by those events which we now face, and I was happy to hear them remembered, in the opening prayer this morning. We have lived to see the day when the best laid plans of men have gone wrong, and these young men are facing the postponement or abandonment of many of their ambitions and most cherished dreams and plans for their own futures. And as the young men are affected, so are the young women. We sympathize with them greatly. 

I met with such a group a week ago today, a group of M Men, and I felt them reaching for a message on this subject. I should like to have the ability briefly to deliver that message to them. 

I think it shouldn't be a time for too much pessimism and discouragement, in spite of all the uncertainties. I think we should remind ourselves of the fact that there has always been uncertainty. No one ever lived in a static society. No one has ever had fixed guarantees that his way of life would not be interrupted, and I am sure that it is not a time for disrupting our plans. The time for preparation in the lives of our young men is altogether too short, and I feel in my heart that they should go forward with whatever they have in mind, and let interruption overtake them when and how it will. 

It certainly is not a time for living from hand to mouth. It is a time for laying broader foundations than ever before, because no matter what kind of world we find ourselves living in tomorrow, the best qualified men will always be in demand, and whether we are living here or not, we shall be living somewhere, and those intangible things that we acquire we shall take with us wherever we go. 

Some of our young men, and some of our mothers who are called upon to send them forth into service, wonder why they have to go. There have been some who have urged the Church and its members to declare themselves conscientious objectors. There may be some merits in this position. Perhaps we should reserve the right so to declare ourselves at some future time. I can think of possibilities and circumstances arising under which there could conceivably come some times and conditions for which we might want to reserve that right. But there are two sides to the question. Traditionally this has not been our position. In the century of our existence there is no people of like numbers that I know of anywhere in the world who have a better record for giving service when the call has come than this people. THE CALL TO ARMS 

No matter how ardently we may agree or disagree with those policies which have been and are being pursued in this regard, we are committed as a people to loyalty to constituted authority. That is true of our people in all the world, no matter what nation they may live in. 

There may be another reason why our young men should respond to this call. Many people, and we are among them I am sure, bitterly regret the fact that when war comes it takes the cream of our manhood, it does not take the physically or the mentally unfit. It takes those who are best capable of rendering service, and we regret this fact most gravely. 

But there is another side, and I would like to quote a paragraph from one of our nationally known commentators and columnists which appeared in the press a short time ago. Speaking of all our defense preparations and the creation of materials for defense, he stated that it also should be remembered that these things 

can be used against us by an inside enemy just as easily as we can use them against an outside foe. This means a character-building campaign should be a definite part of our defense program. Now, more than ever before in the history of warfare, it is vital that the people of the strongest character should furnish the men who are to be trained for this new and all-important branch of our national defense. Let religious and civic leaders who are serious in their prayers re-read this last sentence. 

I am sure that you and I, since an army appears to be a necessary evil — it has always been so far as history tells us anything, in ancient Israel, in Book of Mormon times, and down to the present — since it appears to be a necessary evil under the conditions in which we live, I am sure that you and I would not care to have an army in our midst made up of the worst elements of our society. And I am sure that our young men who remember who they are and what they are can be a leaven and a wholesome influence in this service into which they go. This applies of course only to those who keep in mind their principles and their ideals and who always conduct themselves in accordance therewith. 

A LESSON FROM THE LIFE OF JACOB 

I am reminded of the story of Jacob in the Old Testament, in Genesis, when he was traveling in a strange land. Up to that time he had had limited experience and had been held close to home ties. But in this strange place he awoke one night after a dream and said. "Surely the Lord is in this place; and I knew it not." (Genesis 28:16) I would like our young men to remember that wherever they are, God is in that place and they must take Him into their confidence and conduct themselves in His ways. 

We cannot departmentalize the eternal record of our lives. It is one continued story. As Latter-day Saints we don't behave one way in the army and one way in business and another in Church. That is, not if we give heed to our principles. We do not behave one way at home and another way away from home. Wherever we are, remember that God is in this place also, and when the final record is written and read, all that 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

we have done and thought, at home and abroad, in all the occupations and in all the pursuits that we may be called upon to undertake, is all a part of the eternal record of all of us, and it stands unalterably for us or against us. 

PREPARATION FOR LIFE SHOULD GO FORWARD 

And to those young people who are inclined to be discouraged by the course of events, those who are oppressed with the spirit of "What's the use?" we say to them, there will always be a future. Again quoting from Genesis a passage that is a comforting assurance: "While the earth remaineth, seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease." (Genesis 8:22.) And we must not cease in our preparations or in our living of life to the fullest that we are able to do it in accordance with the conditions and opportunities of our own generation. If we make the best of all our circumstances of our own generation and time the Lord will ask no more of us. 

Life is not very long, I think. In the normal course of events mine is now half over, and I feel that I have scarcely put my foot in the door. I am sure that it isn't long enough to gamble any of the values of eternity against the values of time. And this thought recalls one of the most impressive passages from the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the Lord spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith in one of his hours of deepest despair : 

My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. (Doctrine and Covenants 121 :7, 8.) 

And so I say to these young men of my generation : Go forth and live your lives in all of the fulness that is possible for you, and remember who you are and what you are, whether you are at home or abroad, in the army or out of it, and the Lord will bless you and prosper you and comfort you and reward you, and bring good out of all the circumstances of your lives. 

I leave you my testimony that I know that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith and all of his successors have been prophets of God, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

From "away down under" there is this that is said by that people : "A rain drop above and a chrysalis beneath," — their way of stating that God's beneficent kindness produces a beautiful race of human creatures. I think if that great race of lovely and intelligent people could have the privilege of seeing this gathering, they would know that what their forefathers and immediate ancestors declared to them is absolutely true. 

CONFERENCE GATHERINGS IN THE TABERNACLE 

We come here twice each year, in April and in October, and have been doing so since 1867, the year this Tabernacle was dedicated, and each Conference since has been fraught with the splendid advice, the wonderful counsel, and the lovely and beautiful testimonies which have been borne here in the past and given to us already in this great April gathering of 1941. We have had one hundred and forty-eight Conferences in this building since we started to hold Conferences here, and I think if there were gathered together that which has been expounded from this pulpit, the world would be greatly enriched as it never has been before, and we would know and understand better that which God desires us to understand, and feel assured of our future safety and of our daily and present actions. 

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR 

I am prompted somewhat along the line on which Brother Evans has just been speaking, for I have met with many mothers of boys who have been called away, and in my weak way I have tried to comfort them, and I fear all too hopelessly and inadequately. 

You know that in this old world and earth of ours today, mankind are running to and fro like ants whose hives have been disturbed, whose homes have been uprooted; and that over the great expanse of the oceans these monstrous steel vessels are zigzagging the lanes of travel, bearing their precious burdens, while underneath dives the submarine to lurk beneath the waves and wait to destroy the floating vessels. Over and above all come the hissing sound and the roar of the bombing planes, which spread destruction and bring to us such fear. 

There is, however, a thought which comes in connection with this, and that is this : that in China and Japan, in Italy, in England, in Germany, in Norway, in Rumania, in almost every spot of the earth men are preparing for that which Satan himself desires. He, if possible, would have his own way, and that is the death of mankind. Away down underneath us, in those beautiful jewel-like islands of the Pacific, even in them, men are dressing and robing themselves in the attire of the soldier, and the accouterments of war are being gathered by them. Their faces are stern; smiles have left their countenances, unless it is the smirk; and their hearts are as lead. The cries of their women-folk go up to heaven for the assuaging of their sorrows and the bringing of relief from that which they face. 

PROPHECIES OF WARNING AND OF COMFORT 

God has said some things in prophecies concerning this. All this evil is done in order that some may acquire that which they do not possess or rightfully claim. To each and every child born upon this earth God gave a portion of it. It has been bestowed upon him by right of heirship from Adam, and even before this earth was formed, the Lord said : GENERAL CONFERENCE We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. 

Now, out of all this greed and lust for power comes, as I say, this terrible confusion. I am impressed more each day with the fact that God is my refuge. 

We, the people of this Church — and I say this not in any way of arrogance, no, but from my youth and from my earliest recollections there has come ringing down to me, through the various voices of the Presidents of this Church whom I have known, this great cry — and I believe that you and I, we all of us have answered it; it is significant that from almost every nation of this earth there are people here assembled who have answered this cry : 

Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. 

So that, so far as we are concerned, unquestionably we have complied with and listened to the wisdom that is from above, for "the hearing ear and the seeing eye, God hath made them both." 

And then declares Isaiah this : 

He that walketh righteously and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil; 

He shall dwell on high; his place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks; bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure. 

THE PROMISES OF THE LORD SURE OF FULFILMENT 

God is not unmindful of His children. God will do that which in His own way He has seen from the beginning, that which is today and that which has come before, that which He directs and continues to control, as surely as we live upon this earth. 

There is a promise, and that promise has been repeated and reiterated from this stand hundreds of times. I would like all the Saints to remember that promise. It is this: 

And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 

So I say, let all of us draw in from our wanderings and distress of mind, and rely upon God and what He has promised. Surely there shall come to us comfort and there should come to us a greater knowledge than to any other people upon this earth, that if we do that which we profess, God is with us, His people, and all others that obey Him, and that all is right in the heavens above and on the earth beneath. 

THE STAKE MISSIONARY WORK 

We are doing not only all that we can do for our own beloved land, as a nation, but we are doing for those who dwell in our immediate vicinity that which God commanded us to do. Our missionaries are scattering abroad the truths which they have received. It was my pleasure to tell you, a year ago, that during the year 1939 the Stake missionaries had performed 2,220 baptisms; and again I say to you that last year, in 1940, the same missionary group of splendid men and women brought into this Church 2,203 converts. 

This work goes on apace, and God is calling more unto the fold each day and doing more for them and for our communities as a whole. With cheerful hearts these missionaries have gone out and performed this labor of love with the help and assistance of the splendid Stake presidencies which we have in the Church. So I say, with grateful hearts let us give unto God the honor and the glory and the praise. 

Above everything else may we have that sweet assurance which He has given through His servants to us, from this stand, and from His servant, Joseph Smith, and all the revelations of scripture which have been given to us, that we shall, through obedience to the laws and ordinances of this Gospel, not be destroyed but ultimately gain salvation and our reward. I ask that in Jesus' name, Amen. 

The Blackfoot Stake Choir sang an anthem, "J esu , Priceless Treasure" — Bach. 

ELDER MARVIN O. ASHTON 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

Some of you wonder why some of us who have the responsibility which is mine at this particular moment frequently ask for guidance from above. If some of you had this responsibility I believe you would be asking for the same help. 

It has just been my pleasure to make a visit to the Hawaiian Islands. I am sure those who have been to this beautiful country will not be at all surprised if, in the few weak words I may say on this particular occasion I refer to these islands and those wonderful people. 

A LESSON DRAWN FROM FISHING IN HAWAII 

In speaking of guidance from above, I am reminded that some of us take ourselves very seriously, in fact too seriously, sometimes. If we would continually seek for guidance from above, we would all be better off. In the Hawaiian Islands, they catch fish in different ways. One of the parts played in the most popular way of fishing is to have one of the natives go to a precipice or high mountain overlooking the bay, or the place where they fish, and he, from that particular viewpoint, directs the fishing. By the way, as you go over the islands in an airplane and you look down in the water, you find it as clear as crystal. You can see the coral below. Of course, he can see the schools of fish as they move 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day . This man on the heights scans the water below, locates the school of fish, signals to the natives below. They go out sometimes with a mile of net and corral, if you please, the fish, and, of course, all is accomplished by this continual signalling back and forth. Without this guidance from above the fishermen would make many a false move. Much of his work would be guesswork, there would be much lost motion because of a lack of vision. 

That little story of fishing has meant much to me. We can't get very far unless we have communication from above. There must be signalling going on between us on earth and One on high. We are sometimes so close to the forest we don't see the trees. Sometimes if the source of our guidance were farther away, we would see more clearly. Our work would be easier and our catch greater if we had communication from above. 

EXPERIENCE BROADENED BY PERSPECTIVE 

This trip to Hawaii and our contact with this new people reminded me of the story of a little bird. I think the story was in an old reader. The bird first lived in a pale blue shell and it thought the whole world was pale blue. Its next experience was a nest, and it thought the whole world was feathers and sticks. Its next vision was from the top of the nest. After the mother and father had crowded it out, it thought the whole world was green leaves. One day, in the course of the education by the parents, the children were pushed out of the tree and they found a big world before them. Sometimes I think we are like the little bird. Our thinking apparatus, if you please, works, depending on what our experience is. We sometimes think the whole world is a pale blue shell because our experience is so limited. Our gauge is broadened by the experience we get when we get out of that tree. We have a better perspective of things. 

These Hawaiian people — I have had some thrilling moments in my life. I often think back on those things in my life that have been thrilling moments. I want to say very frankly and clearly here that never have I been thrilled more than in the contact with those people. Sometimes we get a notion that all the virtues belong to the white race. We will change our minds some day. 

A TRIBUTE TO THE PEOPLE IN HAWAII 

Speaking of the Hawaiian Mission under Brother Cox and the Japanese Mission under Jay Jensen, those men are doing a wonderful piece of work. As I have said, I have had a lot of thrills, but I' have never been thrilled more than two weeks ago today, at the Fast Meeting of those Japanese people. Boys and girls from fifteen up, two at a time, crowded to the front to bear their testimonies. Those people are wonderful people. Those Chinese people, the Japanese, the Hawaiians, and what not, some of those dark-skinned people have the best blood flowing through their veins of any people that the Lord ever created. Some time we will find it out. 

They sing because they have to. It is spontaneous combustion, if you please. They love because they must love. They put a lei around your neck. Love prompts it and in their bestowing the lei they expect only love in return. It gives you a sweat bath by the time they get you decorated the way they do; but better than a sweat bath around your neck is the warmth that comes to your heart. You can't get away from it. There you find nature in the rough, if you please, but not very great emphasis on the "rough." There were some of the highest class, best educated people that I have ever met among those people; they are cultured and refined. 

I want to state here that if you ever have had in your philosophy : "God bless me and my wife, and our son John and his wife, us four and no more" — if you have got that in your system, take a trip to the Islands. It will do you a wonderful lot of good. Hawaii is the gateway to the Pacific, the gateway to the Orient. Millions and millions of people, the best people in the world are there. 

I sometimes believe in order that our thinking be straight and our conduct right that we have to go up-stream once in a while to the source of the fountain — go back to Christ. What is the Gospel ? Do we pervert it sometimes ? Do we adulterate it ? Do we get away from the original article? My experience with those people taught me that they have a wholesomeness, a piece of that original Gospel spirit that we shouldn't get away from. Sometimes we do pervert it; we change it. With all of our civilization and the advantages that come with it, our thinking is corrupted. We so change the original article that the one looking for the real thing can't recognize the substitute. 

I heard this story the other day. It did me good. An antique worshipper — you have them all through this country; some of your wives are antique worshippers. (Laughter.) Maybe I didn't mean that, just the way that you took it. If you think I meant some of your husbands, well, let it go. This antique worshipper was going about in Virginia. He came to a farm where they were doing some advertising of antiques. His eye spied an old man out in the yard chopping wood. In his scrutinizing this thing and that, he went up to the man and the conversation was about as follows : "How do you do ?" He said : "It looks like an old axe that you are using." The old man stopped. Said he : "Yes, they have said that this is an axe that George Washington used to use." Of course, the eyes of the antique lover bulged. Exclaimed he, "My dear man, if that is the axe George Washington used, I would give you a right good price for it." The old man grinned. "The only trouble is, if this was the axe that George Washington used, I know this is the third head it has had and the fifth handle." 

In the spirit we do things and in our interpretation of the Gospel, that is exactly what we are doing. We have changed the head several times and what we are chopping with has had thrust into it the fifth handle. We have to go back up-stream sometimes to see what the real spirit of the Gospel really is. In those islands you find it. I want to say that. GENERAL CONFERENCE THE MENACE OF INTOXICANTS 

Just one more word in closing : In my observation, in going to and fro, including life on the boat, including conduct going to restaurants, it is my judgment that America never was going at such a pace as she is going right now in this liquor business. We are going fast and furious. It will take stamina of steel to stem the tide. I never was more impressed in my life. We are going drink crazy. The example we are setting the youth is criminal. 

We members of the Bishopric are to be forgiven if we continually hammer on this youth question. Speaking again of the youth, I saw a sight that impressed me much. Will you please let me tell you about it ? A good bishop was taking me on an inspection trip about the island. In the course of our travels he said, "I want to show you something. You probably haven't seen anything like this before." He was right — I had not. All over the islands everywhere were cocoanut trees. Everywhere they stood erect with their fruit to the sun. They were in most everyone's yard and on many of the highways. He repeated, "I want to show you something." He took me to a yard and there on the ground crawling as it were, like a great SO-foot python snake was a cocoanut tree. It did everything but cut the figure 8 in sprawling and looping the loop. Instead of keeping its head up and majestically filling its destiny in the world, that ten inch monster was crawling in the dust. 

I thought to myself : Well, there is the way some of our youth are brought up. Somebody, when that plant was just taking root, gave it a kick. Even then, when yet tender if someone had only given it a kind touch, it would have gone straight. Instead of the tree facing the sun, its fruit toward the sun, there it was sprawled on the ground — too late, the day of correction past. 

That is our great problem. It is going to take courage to stem the tide. The enemy are the millions. I often think of that story of the Greek at Thermopylae. When he was told that the arrows of the Persians darkened the sun, he said, "So much the better. We will fight in the shade." Yes, in this fight against this demon, liquor, we'll have to fight in the shade. Let's put on our shield and may we fight on with the same undaunted valor of the Greek youth, whose mother buckled on his shield and said, "Come with it or on it." 

May the Lord bless us with courage — if we ever needed it, it is today. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I shall enjoy a portion of the Spirit of the Lord in the attempt to address you this morning. 

THE TEACHINGS OF A GOOD MOTHER 

I am ever grateful to an angel mother for the many lessons she taught me with respect to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the inspired  that stands at the head of this Church. I distinctly recall how she took me, as a small child, to her knee and impressed upon me the fact that Joseph Smith was a prophet; and furthermore, she impressed me with her burning testimony that the present leadership of this Church, and for all time, is and would be inspired men of God. 

THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH SERVANTS OF GOD 

I am now grateful that I can testify to you that this great organization is being directed by our Heavenly Father through the instrumentality of prophets and apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those of us who listened to President Grant yesterday, had in our hearts a burning feeling that he is, indeed, a prophet of the Lord, that there rests upon him the same mantle of authority that Joseph Smith and Brigham Young enjoyed, and all other Presidents of the Church who have succeeded them as the Lord's mouthpiece here upon earth. 

It is a most wonderful privilege to covenant with the Lord periodically that we will sustain these brethren as servants of God and obey the counsel they impart to us. In following their counsel and advice, we will always be found doing those things which will be for our ultimate good and benefit. 

OBEDIENCE A SAVING PRINCIPLE 

There is one lesson the world needs to learn, namely, the lesson of obedience. Had the children of men been obedient to the commandments of the Lord, the terrible catastrophe that is now taking place in Europe could have been prevented. But through disobedience and the fact that men have forgotten the Lord and what He expects of them, calamity and ruin have come upon the nations. 

I would that all of us could learn and understand the principle of obedience as Adam learned and understood it. He was commanded to build altars upon which to offer sacrifices. And upon one occasion, after having complied with this commandment, an angel of the Lord appeared to him and asked him the question: 

Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. 

And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. (Moses 5:6-7.) 

In Adam's mind there was no question why he should render obedience, for he knew that whatever the Lord commanded him to do would be for his good and benefit. 

It is interesting to note that after Adam had fulfilled the commandment of offering up sacrifices, the Lord rewarded him with a visitation from a divine being, imparting to Adam the knowledge why he was to offer sacrifices. And this applies to each and everyone of us when obeying the commandments of the Gospel. We may not understand them fully; but through obedience, the Lord will reveal to us the 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

reason and the knowledge which will give us a full, clear comprehension of the law or the commandment involved. 

This point of obedience without a complete understanding is denned so beautifully by Montaigne. He declared: 

The first law that ever God gave to man was a law of pure obedience. It was a commandment, naked and simple, wherein man had nothing to inquire about, after, or dispute for inasmuch as to obey is the proper office of a rational soul, acknowledging a heavenly, superior benefactor, from obedience and submission spring all victory, as all sin does from selfish opinion. 

Carlyle declared, too: 

Obedience is our uniform duty and destiny, wherein whoso will not bend must break. 

The Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith has plainly indicated that the achievement of any blessing is predicated upon obedience. In the 130th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we read: 

And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. (D. & C. 130:19-21.) 

Success, spiritually and temporally, will only be achieved to the degree that the laws involved are obeyed. The highest degree of success is accomplished by rendering the fullest degree of obedience to the fundamentals and the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and the same is true in any line of endeavor that we may choose to follow. 

DISOBEDIENCE BRINGS ITS OWN PUNISHMENT 

Disobedience represents that which is negative. It had its inception in the great council of heaven where one of the sons of God took a negative attitude and stand toward the Lord. Consequently, disobedience leads men away from the Lord and places them in the paths of sin, degradation, and failure. Brother Merrill indicated to us this morning that we should harken unto the affirmative spirit, that spirit being best expressed in obedience to the mind and will of our Heavenly Father. 

The Prophet Jeremiah pointed out in unmistakable terms that in disobedience the people brought upon them their own punishment. He declared : 

Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backslidings shall reprove thee: know therefore and see that it is an evil thing and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the Lord thy God, and that my fear is not in thee, saith the Lord God of hosts. (Jeremiah 2:19.) 

This ancient prophet points out plainly that in disobedience the children of men always find a penalty involved, just as much so as there is  reward for rendering obedience to the Lord. The Lord, too, has declared : 

And my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer. (D. & C. 105:6.) 

Brigham Young declared: 

Anything that is impure must sooner or later perish, no matter whether it is in the faith and practice of the individual, town, nation, or government. That kingdom, principality, power, or person that is not controlled by principles that are pure and holy must eventually pass away and perish. 

Disobedience begets that which is impure and the penalty involved is that of destruction. 

The children of Israel were a chastened people. The Lord harkened unto their cries for deliverance from bondage, and under the leadership of the Prophet Moses, led them out of Egypt across the Red Sea, and into the wilderness. They became disobedient. Unholy practices sprang up among them. They forgot God. They worshiped the golden calf. The penalty for this disobedience was one which forced them to wander for 40 long years in the wilderness before they finally understood the lesson of obedience. 

OBEDIENCE SHOWN BY EARLY LATTER-DAY SAINT PIONEERS 

Our pioneer fathers and mothers came into this valley, conquered the elements, and subdued the soil, achieving the highest place among American pioneers because they harkened unto the will and the mind of the Lord, made manifest through His servants, the prophets. 

Brigham Young said: 

The Latter-day Saints, in all their travels, have not been as rebellious as the children of Israel were. 

One of the most interesting and intriguing bits of Mormon history is that which had to do with the group of pioneers who made the long, weary trek from the Missouri River to these mountains. Shortly thereafter many of them were called to settle the San Bernardino Valley in southern California. The terrain from the Salt Lake Valley to the San Bernardino Valley is one of waste and desert, particularly the great Mojave Desert. But they were under mandate to make the journey, and obeyed accordingly. This band of devoted Latter-day Saints remained in the San Bernardino district for six years. A large portion of the original purchase of 35,000 acres of land was cultivated, schools were established, store buildings and churches were erected, a flour mill and saw mills were placed in operation; and this area became a thriving, prosperous community. 

The New York Herald gleaned from the San Francisco Herald that the Mormon settlement was in a valley — 

.... unsurpassed for fertility of soil, salubrity of climate, beauty of scenery, and general desirableness, by any portion of the State. Their agricultural interest is larger than that of Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, and San Diego Counties united, and the capabilities of producing are much better. Second Day 

These people had a bright future. But one day, word was received from Salt Lake City that they were to return immediately. An invading army was on the boundaries of the State of Utah. Without question the members of the San Bernardino colony left their pleasant homes, farms, mills, schools, and once more traversed the barren wastes of the Mojave Desert. And what was their response? Willingly they rendered obedience to the word of the Prophet of God. This quality of obedience laid the foundations for this great intermountain commonwealth in which we live. And it was this type of obedience which made it possible for our Heavenly Father, through His servants, to restore the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ in the last days. 

I have often wondered what became of these people after they returned to Utah. I wonder if they were blessed temporally. I have wondered what their' attitude was. I am sure that if we could have an expression from them it would be phrased in the words of the Christ : 

For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? (Mark 8:36.) 

So, again, may I remind you of these words spoken by our Redeemer : 

I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. (D. & C. 82:10.) 

Our pioneer fathers leaned on the Lord and rendered obedience; and He has kept His promises in that they and we, their descendants, have been abundantly blessed. 

Making reference to the valleys of Utah, Brigham Young said: 

Talk about these rich valleys, why there is not another people on the earth that could have come here and lived. We prayed over the land, and dedicated it and the water, air and everything pertaining to them unto the Lord, and the smiles of heaven rested on the land and it became productive, and today yields us the best of grain, fruit and vegetables. 

The Lord blessed the people who were obedient. Their obedience has brought the blessings of heaven upon this fair land. It has become as a garden, blessed with a varied abundance of all that goes to make life pleasant and comfortable. We of today are the recipients of blessings literally wrought out of the obedience of our forefathers. 

The Lord definitely kept His promise at the time President Snow traveled up and down the State pleading with the people to be obedient to the command of tithing, promising them in the name of Israel's God that the windows of heaven would be literally opened and the blessings of heaven showered down upon them. The crops of the southern part of the State were parching and drying up because of a lack of moisture. The people harkened to the voice of the Prophet of the Lord. They obeyed the commandment of tithing. Rain fell. Crops were saved. And PROMISES OF THE LORD SURE OF FULFILMENT  that day to this, the Church has rested on a strong financial foundation due to the obedience of many of its members to the financial law of God's Kingdom. 

President Grant admonishes the membership of the Church to keep the Word of Wisdom, the promise of the Lord being that those who observe the Lord's law of health will be blessed with alert minds and strong bodies. More than that, He has promised to us revelations which will give to the world treasures of hidden knowledge. As a people, we should be the most obedient to the Lord in the whole world because we are a covenant people. We have entered the House of Jacob's God, which House was to be established in the tops of the mountains in the last days; and in this Holy of Holies we have covenanted with the Lord that we will contribute of our time, talents, and resources for the building up of the Kingdom. Like Adam of old we should be willing to obey, for we accept God the Eternal Father as our God, and Jesus Christ as the Redeemer. 

OUR OBLIGATION TO THE WORLD 

The world needs an example in obedience. The Lord has designated us as that example. Our destiny as a people is one of leadership. And the day is not far distant when the nations now engaged in this bloody struggle will finally come to the conclusion that war is futile, that it is entirely useless to kill men and destroy property. They will seek for a philosophy of life which will bring peace, harmony, and good will among them; and they will find it only in one place and among but one people — that place will be in the tops of these mighty mountains and among this people, the covenant people who call themselves Latterday Saints. 

A great responsibility devolves upon us, individually and collectively — an obligation to exemplify to the world in our lives and through obeying God's commandments, that the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ is upon the earth in its fulness and simplicity, and obedience to it brings peace, joy, and good will. May we render that degree of obedience which will cause the Lord to say of us as He did the children of ancient Israel : 

Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine. (Exo. 19:5.) 

Through the Prophet Joseph Smith He placed upon us the following mandate in the 115th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations. (D. & C. 115:5.) 

This is the destiny of the Church. This is the challenge of the Lord to His people. 

May the Lord so strengthen us individually and collectively that we will willingly render the necessary obedience which will exemplify the principles of the Gospel to all men and to all the world, I humbly pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Christ Himself, that highest authority, said : "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9) Nothing does the world need more these days than peacemakers. And if out of the conflicts of battle which are now going forward with unprecedented fury can come those who can and do plan a permanent peace, truly all such will be children of God. 

THREATENING FORCES 

These are not ordinary days. We live in momentous times. A survey of conditions in the troubled world of today reveals the fact that we have made little if any progress toward that peace and good will which the Savior of mankind taught nineteen centuries ago. Civilized nations of the earth are marshalling their man-power and their material resources for war and for defense on a scale the world has never known before. Forces are abroad in the earth which threaten the overthrow of liberty, of democracy and of our way of life, if not of our very civilization. War, devastating, destructive and barbarous, is scourging the air, the sea and the land. These are anxious days for all of us. More than 16J4 million of our young men between the ages of 21 and 36 have already registered for service in the United States. I repeat that for all of us these are anxious days. 

Two important questions present themselves to those who ponder this situation. 

1. What can we do about it? 

2. What will come after it? 

FAITH, THE ONLY REMEDY 

The ingenuity of man seems powerless to stay the dreadful ravages of modern war. The world is in distress, it is struggling in agony because men in their selfishness have forgotten God; they have forsaken the ways of truth, mercy, justice and righteousness. Somehow or other the fate of mankind hangs on faith in the Creator of the world. 

The religion of the Latter-day Saints, which is the religion of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ, contains and presents the forces that make for righteousness and peace in the earth. Morality centers in religion. Without its saving power democracy cannot survive. Selfishness, greed, ambition and lust for power always, if they go unbridled, manifest themselves in contention and bloodshed. Unless these tendencies are chastened and controlled by the spirit written in the Sermon on the Mount, unless the unselfish spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ finds a place in the hearts of men and manifests itself in their relationship one to another, civilization is sure to decline. Righteousness is fundamental to the peace and progress of the world. How can this spirit be cultivated? What can be done to bring to the world that peace for which we pray ? How can we cultivate and make effective the spirit of the Master? These are pertinent questions that should be asked these days. 

"seek and ye shall find" 

I shall submit to you good folks for your consideration two very simple but fundamental ways which in the end, if faithfully followed, will help to bring peace of mind and ultimate prosperity by establishing a partnership with Him to whom nothing is impossible. Prayer is the first approach to the Almighty. He is, always has been and forever will continue to be our strength and our refuge. We know that He still lives and that He reigns on high. Christ Himself said : 

Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you: For everyone that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. (Matthew 7:7-8.) 

The religion of the Latter-day Saints brings to the world the bright assurance that God the Eternal Father is still in His Heaven keeping watch over His children. He holds in His hands the destiny of men and the destiny of nations. In His own time and in His own appointed way, He will see that righteousness is rewarded, that justice is meted out, and finally that truth will triumph. I am of the firm conviction that only through a real return to true religion can a permanent peace come to the world. There is no other way. 

APPEAL TO ATTEND SACRAMENT MEETINGS 

One of the two simple ways in which Latter-day Saints may come into communion and partnership with our Heavenly Father is in our weekly Sacrament meetings. We do not attend these meetings primarily to get knowledge or to be taught, but to worship, to partake of the sacrament, to bow our heads, close our eyes, repent of our wrong doings, feel sorry for our sins, ask to be forgiven and appeal to our Heavenly Father for His help and guidance in our efforts to overcome our weaknesses. These meetings have a specific purpose to build up the spirituality, to increase the faith, to strengthen the testimony, to fill the soul with a zeal for the truth, and hearts with a love for the Redeemer of the world. 

I appeal to all Latter-day Saints to come to these places of worship and there in deep humility and with contrite hearts make of the Lord a confidential friend, tell Him of our weaknesses, confess our shortcomings and seek devoutly for forgiveness, remembering that one great glorious and comforting principle of the Gospel is repentance and forgiveness. The scripture tells us : 

Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. (Isaiah 1:18.) 

When we have truly repented, when we have set our own houses in order, let us remember that if we ask "with faith as a grain of mustard seed" nothing shall be impossible. (Matt. 17:20) 

POWER IN PRAYER 

The other of the two ways of coming into communion with our Heavenly Father is around the family altar in daily family prayer and 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

in making our secret prayerful appeals. There is power in prayer. Roger W. Babson says that in these days and times some of our men of wealth, some of our great empire builders, ridicule religion, but he adds further that these very men are indebted for all that they possess to the family prayers which were once held daily in the homes of their fathers. 

Dr. Alexis Carrel, famous scientific investigator, has said recently (Readers Digest, March, 1941) that prayer is the most powerful form of energy that man can generate, that its effect on the human mind and body is as easily and certainly detected as is the effect of the secretion of the glands that exists in the human system. Its results can be measured in increased physical buoyancy, in greater intellectual vigor, in greater moral stamina and in a deeper understanding of the realities underlying human relationships. Prayer is the beginning of the journey of the soul toward the realm of grace. It supplies human beings with a steady flow of sustaining power in their daily lives. Prayer, like radium, is a source of luminous, self-generating energy. "When we pray we link ourselves with the inexhaustible motive power that spins the universe." We may pray anywhere, in the street, the office, the shop, the school, as well as in the solitude of a secret chamber, or in a church. In conclusion he writes : 

Today as never before prayer is a vital necessity in the lives of men and of nations. The lack of emphasis of the religious sense has brought the world to the edge of destruction. Our deepest source of power and perfection has been left miserably undeveloped. Prayer, the basic exercise of the spirit, must be actively practiced in our private lives. The neglected soul of man must be made strong enough to assert itself once more, for if the power of prayer is again released and used in the lives of common men and women, if the spirit declares its aims clearly and boldly, there is yet hope that our prayers for a better world will be answered. 

THE TWO SOURCES OF SECURITY 

My appeal, therefore, is that we assemble regularly on the Sabbath day in our various Wards and there partake worthily of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, and that daily in our homes around our family altars as well as in secret we humbly and sincerely appeal to our Heavenly Father that that peace, for which Christian people everywhere are pleading, that blessing which all men most need today, may by the power of God be brought to all mankind. Then our lives and our motives will be purified and our faith in the Almighty will wax strong. Being thus established in the confidence and fellowship of our Heavenly Father there will come to us a feeling of strength and of silent, satisfying security, of an unselfish determination and desire to serve and to bless those with whom we mingle. As Paul declared : 

Let us remember the words of the Lord Jesus how he said, It is more blessed to give than it is to receive. (Acts 20:35.) 

When the selfishness of mankind vanishes, peace on earth will come. The way to peace and happiness then is to return to the Almighty, to cultivate His Spirit, to supplicate Him, and to plead for a forgiveness of our sins and shortcomings. Through a consistent attendance at Sacra meetings, if we partake of the holy Sacrament with clean hands and pure hearts, we renew our covenants with the Almighty with assurance that those who do so acceptably shall have the most precious blessing bestowed upon man, that is "His Spirit to be with them." 

war's consequences 

Now to the second division of my subject. What will come after? When this great war ends fatigue and famine, bitterness and the memory of wrongs inflicted, and of outrages suffered will make impossible a good and lasting peace unless by divine power those who prepare the terms have in their hearts the spirit of the Prince of Peace and can proceed as did Lincoln, "With malice toward none and with charity for all." As long as a desire for revenge or punishment guides those who prepare the conditions of peace rather than a desire to create conditions of confidence and good will, wars and rumors of wars will scourge the earth. Even in our own beloved land of liberty it seems that in these trying times many prefer the satisfaction of retaliation rather than the spirit of forgiveness and peace with equal consideration for all people. These apparently are unable to understand that great fundamental doctrine that it is more blessed to give than it is to receive. 

Far-seeing statesmen and economists are agreed that at the close of this war a depression much greater than those which have followed other wars is sure to come. The world will be compelled to struggle with the financial, economic and social aftermath of the present furious conflicts which are being waged on many battle fronts. 

The length and the severity of a war determine the length and the severity of the depression which follows it. The greater the destruction, the greater the depression. Famine, pestilence, plagues, diseases and poverty will no doubt come in a more or less serious degree to the people of all nations when this death struggle comes to its close. And for this reason I repeat the appeal that has been made from the beginning by the leaders of the Church that all the people as far as possible get out of debt and keep out of debt. 

PEACE THROUGH JUSTICE AND CHARITY 

Truly in these days, at this very hour, the world's greatest need is peacemakers. And I repeat, if out of the conflicts, out of the battles which are now raging, those can come who can and will plan a lasting peace, one with malice toward none and with justice and charity for all, these will be, they must be now and forever numbered among the very choicest, the most select and most richly blessed of all the children of God. 

In conclusion, I appeal again to you to do these two things : 1. Attend Sacrament meetings faithfully; 2. Participate regularly in daily family and secret prayers. If we all can and will do these two things, if we can live the unselfish Christian life, the testimony that Jesus is the Christ will burn in our souls and we will walk with confidence among our fellowmen, disseminating the spirit of the Redeemer of the world, which is the spirit of peace and the spirit of good will. GENERAL CONFERENCE The Blackfoot Stake Choir sang an anthem "And the Glory of the Lord," {Messiah) — by Handel. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I repeat : Please drive carefully, the streets are very slippery; and pedestrians will be good enough to walk cautiously and carefully. 

We would like particularly to say a word of commendation to the Blackfoot Stake Choir. Some of the members of this Choir have traveled regularly to their rehearsals a distance of fifty miles, and they have never missed a rehearsal. This represents what the Church Music Committee is trying to do in ail of our Stakes. I would like to say to the Utah Valley people and the Brigham Young University that they must look to their laurels for up in the Snake River Valley there is a group that is pressing very hard on their heels. 

Elder Thomas W. Richards, President of the Malad Stake, pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


