Morning
04 04 1941


The first session of the Conference convened Friday morning, April 4, at 10 o'clock. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The hour has come to open the One Hundred and Eleventh Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Heber J. Grant is present and presiding; he has asked President Clark to conduct the meeting. 

We are grateful to greet this great audience that promises to crowd to capacity the Tabernacle. Through the courtesy of Radio Station KSL and other Radio Stations cooperating the proceedings of this Conference will be broadcast over KFXD at Nampa; KSEI at Pocatello; KTFI at Twin Falls; KID at Idaho Falls; KSUB at Cedar City; and KEUB at Price. The Presidents of Stakes in these localities are arranging meetings in various of their Ward meeting houses where Ward and Stake congregations can hear the Conference. A direct wire from the Tabernacle to the Los Angeles Stake Tabernacle in Los Angeles, California will bring the services to that area. 

There are present on the stand this morning President Grant and his two Counselors, the eleven Apostles, all the First Presidents of Seventies, and also the Presiding Bishopric. 

The music is being furnished by the Brigham Young University Chorus and members of the Provo duo Stake Choirs. The directors are Doctors Franklin Madsen and Florence Madsen; organist, Elder Alexander Schreiner. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "High on the Mountain Top," — Words by Joel H. Johnson, Music by Ebenezer Beesley. 

Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, offered the invocation. 

The Choir sang "O Come, Let Us Worship" — Mendelssohn. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We are more grateful than we can say that President Grant is here with us, as already announced, and he will now address us. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is a source of great satisfaction to me to meet with the Latterday Saints in this Conference. 

I am grateful for the many blessings we enjoy as a people. I know the Lord is mindful of us and will be to an even greater extent if we but serve Him. 

ADMONITION TO THE SOLDIER BOYS 

It grieves me deeply that it is necessary for thousands of our boys to go into the army. I hope and pray that they will go out with the missionary spirit, maintain their ideals and come back to us as sweet and clean as when they went away. I trust that it will be possible to keep them out of this terrible war. You parents and loved ones keep as close to them as you possibly can. 

OFFICERS AND TEACHERS MUST SET EXAMPLE 

I have made this statement to the leadership of this Church at times previous, but I feel to repeat it again at this time. 

"I ask every man and woman occupying a place of responsibility whose duty it is to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to live it and keep the commandments of God, so that their example will teach it; and if they cannot live it, we will go on loving them, we will go on putting our arms around them, we will go' on praying for them that they may become strong enough to live it. But unless they are able to live it we ask them to please step aside so that those who are living it can teach it. No man can teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ under the inspiration of the Living God and with power from on high unless he is living it. He can go on as a member and we will pray for him, no matter how many years it may require, and we will never put a block in his way, because the Gospel is one of love and forgiveness, but we want true men and women as our officers in the Priesthood and in the Relief Society." 

And a man has no right to be a member of a Stake Presidency, a member of a High Council, a member of a Bishopric, or of any General Board, who cannot stand up and say that he knows the Gospel is true and is keeping the commandments of the Lord to His people. 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

RESPONSIBILITY IN THE CHURCH BRINGS HUMILITY 

At this time I feel that I could say nothing to you that would better portray my testimony and my love of God than to give in substance what I said to the English Saints nearly four years ago. 

"It has never ceased to be a wonder to me that I do represent the Lord here upon the earth. My association from childhood with the remarkable and wonderful men that have preceded me has made it almost overwhelming to think of being in the same class with them. 

"The last words uttered by President Joseph F. Smith were to the effect, when he shook hands with me — he died that night — 'The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you; you have got a great responsibility. Always remember this is the Lord's work and not man's. The Lord is greater than any man. He knows whom he wants to lead His Church, and never makes any mistake. The Lord bless you.' 

"I have felt my own lack of ability. In fact when I was called as one of the Apostles I arose to my feet to say it was beyond anything I was worthy of, and as I was rising the thought came to me, 'You know as you know that you live that John Taylor is a prophet of God, and to decline this office when he had received a revelation is equivalent to repudiating the Prophet.' I said, T will accept the office and do my best.' I remember that it was with difficulty that I took my seat without fainting. 

EARLY EXPERIENCE AS AN APOSTLE 

"There are two spirits striving with us always, one telling us to continue our labor for good, and one telling us that with the faults and failings of our nature we are unworthy. I can truthfully say that from October, 1882, until February, 1883, that spirit followed me day and night telling me that I was unworthy to be an Apostle of the Church, and that I ought to resign. When I would testify of my knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer of mankind, it seemed as though a voice would say to me : 'You lie! You lie! You have never seen Him.' 

"While on the Navajo Indian reservation with Brigham Young, Jr., and a number of others, six or eight, on horseback, and several others in 'white tops' — riding along with Lot Smith at the rear of that procession, suddenly the road veered to the left almost straight, but there was a well beaten path leading ahead. I said : 'Stop, Lot, stop. Where does this trail lead? There are plenty of foot marks and plenty of horses' hoof marks here.' He said, 'It leads to an immense gulley just a short distance ahead, that it is impossible to cross with a wagon. We have made a regular "Muleshoe" of miles here to get on the other side of the gulley.' 

"I had visited the day before the spot where a Navajo Indian had asked George A. Smith, Jr., to let him look at his pistol. George A. handed it to him, and the Navajo shot him. 

"I said, 'Lot, is there any danger from Indians ?' 

" 'None at all.' 

" 'I want to be all alone. Go ahead and follow the crowd.' I first asked him if I allowed the animal I was riding to walk if I would reach the road on the other side of the gulley before the horsemen and the wagons, and he said, 'Yes.' 

"As I was riding along to meet them on the other side I seemed to see, and I seemed to hear, what to me is one of the most real things in all my life, I seemed to see a Council in Heaven. I seemed to hear the words that were spoken. I listened to the discussion with a great deal of interest. The First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles had not been able to agree on two men to fill the vacancies in the Quorum of the Twelve. There had been a vacancy of one for two years, and a vacancy of two for one year, and the Conference had adjourned without the vacancies being filled. In this Council the Savior was present, my father was there, and the Prophet Joseph Smith was there. They discussed the question that a mistake had been made in not filling those two vacancies and that in all probability it would be another six months before the Quorum would be completed, and they discussed as to whom they wanted to occupy those positions, and decided that the way to remedy the mistake that had been made in not filling these vacancies was to send a revelation. It was given to me that the Prophet Joseph Smith and my father mentioned me and requested that I be called to that position. I sat there and wept for joy. It was given to me that I had done nothing to entitle me to that exalted position, except that I had lived a clean, sweet life. It was given to me that because of my father having practically sacrificed his life in what was known as the great Reformation, so to speak, of the people in early days, having been practically a martyr, that the Prophet Joseph and my father desired me to have that position, and it was because of their faithful labors that I was called, and not because of anything I had done of myself or any great thing that I had accomplished. It was also given to me that that was all these men, the Prophet and my father, could do for me; from that day it depended upon me and upon me alone as to whether I made a success of my life or a failure. 

RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE GOOD 

There is a law, irrevocably decreed in Heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated, and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. 

"It was given to me, as I say, that it now depended upon me. 

"No man could have been more unhappy than I was from October 1882, until February, 1883, but from that day I have never been bothered, night or day, with the idea that I was not worthy to stand as an Apostle, and I have not been worried since the last words uttered by Joseph F. Smith to me: "The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you; you have got a great responsibility. Always remember this is the Lord's work and not man's. The Lord is greater than any man. He knows whom He wants to lead His Church, and never makes any mis.take. The Lord bless you.' 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 4 First Day 

"I have been happy during the twenty-two years that it has fallen my lot to stand at the head of this Church. I have felt the inspiration of the Living God directing me in my labors. From the day that I chose a comparative stranger to be one of the Apostles, instead of my lifelong and dearest living friend, I have known as I know that I live, that I am entitled to the light and the inspiration and the guidance of God in directing His work here upon this earth; and I know, as I know that I live, that it is God's work, and that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer of the world and that He came to this earth with a divine mission to die upon the cross as the Redeemer of mankind, atoning for the sins of the world. 

JOY IN PREACHING THE GOSPEL 

" 'As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive.' I have had real, genuine joy; I have had joy in lifting my voice in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Germany, France, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Czechoslovakia, in the Hawaiian Islands and far-off Japan, in Canada on the north and Mexico on the south, in nearly every State of the Union, proclaiming my absolute knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer of the world, and that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the Living God, and that the men who have succeeded him in presiding over this Church are the men God desired to stand in that position. 

"I do not make this statement because of any desire to magnify myself — I love the Gospel of Jesus Christ as I love nothing else in this world. I am here today for the reason that I desire to leave here my testimony as an old man — because a man who is in his 85th year is an old man. ( 

WORK OF FORMER PRESIDENTS OF CHURCH 

"John Taylor came to the presidency of this Church succeeding Brigham Young, when he was 72 years of age. Wilford Woodruff came to the presidency of this Church after he was eighty-odd years of age, and he lived to be more than ninety. Lorenzo Snow came to the presidency of this Church when he was 85 years of age, and served it in a most miraculous and wonderful way for three years. Joseph F. ' Smith came to the presidency of this Church when he was two years beyond the time of retirement, namely, 62 years of age, and he served for exactly eighteen years, and I have served for twenty-two years. It is only fair to you to say that I never for one minute believed that he was going to die, until the night he passed away and when he took hold of my hand, and told me what I have quoted to you. I felt in my heart and I had prayed for it; I had fasted for it; I had asked for it; that he should live to celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of this Church, seeing that his beloved father, the Patriarch, Hyrum Smith, had been murdered for the Cause; and I believed that he would so live, .until I received that message, which was the last message he spoke to anybody. 

"May God bless me and you and every soul that has a knowledge of the divinity of this work, to so live it that our lives will proclaim it to all those with whom we come in contact, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in all humility in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and Savior. Amen." 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

President Grant : We are deeply grateful and profoundly touched by your message. We need you, and love you, and we admire your courage. God grant you many years of health and strength to serve Him. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

We have just listened to one of the most memorable testimonies, * and one of the most impressive, ever given in this historic building. God bless President Grant. 

President McKay then read the following Annual Report: 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

THE EXPENDITURES BY THE CHURCH FOR THE YEAR 

1940 

Stake and Ward Purposes: 

For the erection of meeting houses and for Ward and Stake 

maintenance expenses $1,627,921.15 

Missionary Work : 

For the maintenance and operation of Missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the Missions $ 628,338.03 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of the Church school system $ 924,495.95 

Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of Temples... .$ 352,423.60 Hospitals : 

Expended for the erection and maintenance of hospital 

buildings (included in Church Welfare Program) $ 10,665.15 

Relief Assistance : 

For direct aid in the care of the worthy poor and other chari8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

table purposes, including hospital treatment. (From tithing funds only. Included in Church Welfare Program) $ 594,917.00 

Total $4,138,760.86 

which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the Stakes and Wards, Mission activities, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools, and Temples, for hospital buildings and relief assistance. 

CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 

Church membership, Stakes and Missions 862,664 

Number of Church members who paid voluntary Fast Offerings and Welfare contributions to help the needy : 

' In Wards 149,397 

In Missions 16,520 

Total '. 165,917 

Amount of voluntary Fast Offerings and Welfare contributions : In Wards 

Fast Offerings $ 415,550.40 

Welfare contributions receipted for by Bishops.... 74,383.52 In Missions : 

Fast Offerings 22,988.21 

Total (all expended for relief) $ 512,922.13 

Disbursed to the needy by the Relief Society for direct assistance in their homes and for general welfare purposes, such as surgical appliances and preventive and corrective health work $ 95,249.10 

For carrying on the general, welfare, and educational program of the Relief Society 310,159.70 

Expended from the tithes for general and local relief 379,158.39 

Expended directly by the Church Welfare Committee 215,758.61 

Expended for hospital care of the sick in addition to the 

amount reported disbursed from tithes 84,089.76 

Total $1,597,337.69 

137,166 persons received assistance during the year, which is an average of 11,431 per month. 

In addition to the foregoing, the following supplies had been assembled and were on hand December 31, 1940, and are available for the needy during the year 1941. Men's clothing, pieces 

Women's clothing, pieces 

Children's clothing, pieces 

Quilts, bedding and miscellaneous $ 3,005.33 3,906.20 3,730.08 7,613.20 $ 18,254.81 

CANNED AND DRIED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Fruits and vegetables, cans 1,008,751 $106,477.41 

Fruits and vegetables, bottles .... 22,585 2,991.65 

Dried fruits and vegetables, lbs... 38,335 2,092.71 

Miscellaneous canned goods 25,213 4,314.34 

Miscellaneous foodstuff 6,252.62 

Total $ 122,128.73 

OTHER PRODUCE 

Flour, pounds 203,529 $ 4,727.10 

Potatoes, pounds 933,598 6,975.82 

Grain, pounds 328,735 3,360.90 

Other vegetables, pounds 190,499 2,060.26 

Meat, pounds 30,773 4,471.63 

Total 1,687,134 $ 21,595.71 

FUEL, LUMBER AND MISCELLANEOUS 

Coal, pounds 618,958 $ 1,358.17 

Wood, cords 372 1,393.50 

Lumber, board feet 268,892 5,121.93 

Total $ 7,873.60 

Total valuation, December 31, 1940 $ 169,852.85 

Stake and regional storehouses disbursed in 1940, $289,952.72 of merchandise produced by the Welfare program. 

The extent to which the Welfare program is meeting the requirements of the Bishops in caring for the needy is indicated by the following percentages : 

Food : Percent 

Program produced - 61 

Cash purchases 39 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

Clothing : 

Program produced 45 

Cash purchases 55 

Fuel: 

Program produced 79 

Cash purchases 21 

Other commodities : 

Program produced 25 

Cash purchases 75 

The Church owns three grain elevators, located at Salt Lake City and Sharp, Utah, and McCammon, Idaho, representing an investment of $164,437.14. 222,316 bushels of wheat are now stored in these elevators. 

FAST OFFERING INFORMATION Average Fast Offerings and Welfare contributions per  in wards $ 0.85 

Regions that exceed $1.00 per capita: 

Arizona $1.15 

Southern California 1.10 

Salt Lake 1.04 

Stakes with the highest per capita : 

San Juan $1.73 

Long Beach 1.58 

Bonneville 1.57 

Malad 1.53 

45 Stakes paid $1.00 or more per capita. 

Missions with highest per capita : Membership less than 1500 

Japan $1.31 

Brazil 76 

Argentine 61 

Membership over 1500 

California $ .49 

Eastern States 40 

North Central 38 

SUMMARY— CHURCH BUILDING PROGRAM Expended for the erection, improvement and furnishing : 

Ward and Stake buildings $ 853,298.70 

Mission buildings 158,511.54 

Institutes and Seminaries 35,477.85 

Religious Center — Brigham Young University 140,000.00 

Temple buildings 190,980.37 

Grain elevator, Salt Lake City 110,084.17 

Roosevelt Hospital .„,„„.,.„ ..... ... ,„ . . 6,319.17 Total $2,271,409.19 

In addition to the foregoing, $58,883.21 was expended for building improvements and equipment at the Dr. W. H. Groves L. D. S. Hospital, Salt Lake City, and $54,279.69 at the Thomas D. Dee Hospital, Ogden. $33,409.19 was paid toward acquiring stake and regional storehouse property and real estate for housing project. 

STATISTICS FOR THE YEAR 1940 

Number of stakes December 31, 1940: 134 (at present time 137); 1073 wards; 118 independent branches; or a total of 1191 wards and branches in the stakes of Zion; also 35 missions; 1002 mission branches, and 250 districts. 

CHURCH MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes 703,017 

Missions 159,647 

Total 862,664 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in 

the stakes and missions 21,544 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 14,412 

Converts baptized in the stakes and missions 7,877 

MISSIONARIES 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, Dec. 31, 1940.... 2,117 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, Dec. 31, 1940—. 31 

Number of local missionaries 68 

Total number of missionaries in the missions of the Church 2,216 Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 2,469 

Total missionaries 4,685 

Number of missionaries who received training in the Missionary 

Home 1,139 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate 31.9 per thousand Marriage rate 18.4 per thousand Death rate 6.5 per thousand 

EXPENDED FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF MISSIONARIES 

Collected by wards and paid to missionaries $ 76,387.45 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Dag 

Average cost per missionary, 1940, $30.12 per month or a total of $361 .44 per year per missionary. 

Average number of missionaries December 31, 1940, 2080, 

making a total average expense for the year of 751,795.20 

Estimated possible earnings per missionary $900.00 per year times 2,080, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have earned if at home of 1,872,000.00 

Total estimated contribution of missionaries and their 

families for preaching the gospel $2,700,182.65 

You will be interested in the following brief report from President Thomas E. McKay, President of the European Mission, regarding the Missions in Europe : 

REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN THE EUROPEAN MISSIONS 

It is more than a year now since the 699 American missionaries laboring in the twelve missions classified as European were released to come home or were transferred to missions in America. At the time of the evacuation, capable local brethren were placed in charge, and they are carrying on the work quite successfully. Because of mobilization and war, nearly all of our brethren of military age have been called to the front, and the work is having to be taken care of by the elderly brethren and the sisters. 

However, our Sacrament meetings, Sunday Schools, and Relief Societies, and Mutuals to a limited extent, are being held. Because of a shortage of fuel, and blackouts, most of these meetings must be held in the day time, and are combined, or one is held immediately following the other. 

In spite of these handicaps, progress is being made. The district and annual conferences are being held. Limited missionary work is being done, especially in the British Mission where the brethren holding the Melchizedek Priesthood are excused from army service. Baptisms are reported from all the missions. Tithing and Fast Offerings are being paid, collections of food and clothing are made quite regularly, and the less fortunate of the members are being well cared for. 

The following paragraph, taken from the Norwegian Mission Report, is typical of reports from a number of the missions: 

"Many of the Saints have lost all they own — home, property, work. All they have left is the clothes they wear. Many have taken part in the fights, but their lives are spared. These hardest afflicted of the Saints have not lost their faith. They have seen that even if they have lost everything else, God has saved their lives." 

Because of the extremely heavy bombings recently in the British Isles the First Presidency were very much relieved, and we are sure you will be, to learn in a letter received today, dated London, March IS, stating among other encouraging news the following: 

"The conditions of the British Mission are about the same. All the branches are functioning and we have had no casualties or damage within the last two months." 

A previous letter had reported damage to the leased property at 295 Edge Lane, Liverpool, where the Millennial Star was published and the bookstore located. These activities are now carried on at our headquarters at 149 Nightingale Lane, London. 

Except in Paris, France, the headquarters of all the missions,  the Czechoslovakian and Palestine-Syrian Missions, are being maintained as usual, and very encouraging reports are being received from all the Acting Mission Presidents. They all say: "Don't worry about us, we are all right — we have the Gospel." 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE OCTOBER CONFERENCE— 1940 

Special Appointments : 

Frank Evans, former Eastern States Mission President, was appointed Secretary for Finance to the First Presidency, to succeed Arthur Winter, deceased. 

Nezv Mission Presidents : 

Henry H. Blood appointed to preside over the California Mission to succeed President W. Aird Macdonald. 

Elvon W. Orme appointed to preside over the Australian Mission to succeed President James Judd. 

New Temple President : 

Albert H. Belliston appointed to preside over the Hawaiian Temple, to succeed President Castle H. Murphy. 

New Stakes Organised : 

The Big Cottonwood Stake was organized by a division of the Cottonwood Stake, and consists o>f the Cottonwood, flolladay, Mt. Olympus, South Cottonwood and Winder Wards. The Cottonwood Stake is now composed of the Bennion, Grant, Murray First, Murray Second, Murray Third, Taylorsville, Millcreek, and Valley Center Wards. 

The Uvada Stake was organized by a division of the Moapa Stake, and consists of the Alamo, Caliente, Panaca, Pioche and Enterprise Wards. The Enterprise ward was taken from the St. George Stake. The Moapa Stake is now composed of the Boulder City, Bunkerville, Las Vegas, Littlefield, Logandale, Mesquite, North Las Vegas and Overton Wards. 

The Reno Stake was organized from branches of the California Mission, and consists of the Reno, Winnemucca, Fallon, Susanville, Sparks and Westwood Wards, and the Portola and Carson City Branches. 

The San Diego Stake was organized from branches in the California Mission, and consists of the National City, Logan Heights, Hillcrest, North Park and Fairmount Wards, and the LaMesa Branch. 

The Southern Arizona Stake was organized from branches in the California Mission, and consists of the Binghampton, Bisbee, Douglas, Pomerene, St. David, Tucson and Whitewater Wards. 

Stake Presidents Chosen : 

Irvin T. Nelson chosen president of the newly organized Big Cottonwood Stake. 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April i First Dan 

Edwin Q. Cannon chosen president of the Ensign Stake, to succeed President Winslow F. Smith. 

David LeRoy Sargent chosen president of the Parowan Stake, to succeed President William R. Palmer. 

I. Homer Smith chosen president of the Sacramento Stake, to succeed President Mark W. Cram. 

Daniel J. Ronnow chosen president of the newly organized Uvada Stake. 

Edwin Clawson chosen president of the Hyrum Stake to succeed President Danford M. Bickmore. 

E. Woodruff Stucki chosen president of the Bear Lake Stake, to succeed President George H. Robinson. 

Will L. Hoyt chosen president of the Juab Stake to succeed President A. H. Belliston. 

Victor D. Nelson chosen president of the Lost River Stake to succeed President Walter A. Jensen, deceased. 

Nathan T. Hurst chosen president of the newly organized Reno Stake. 

Ray E. Dillman chosen president of the Roosevelt Stake, to succeed President Byron O. Colton. 

Wallace W. Johnson chosen president of the newly organized San Diego Stake. 

A. B. Ballantyne chosen president of the newly organized Southern Arizona Stake. 

Wesley E. Tingey chosen president of the South Davis Stake, to succeed President Thomas E. Winegar. 

Howard S. McDonald chosen president of the San Francisco Stake, to succeed President Stephen H. Winter. 

New Wards Organized : 

El Sereno Ward, Pasadena Stake. 

Valley Center Ward, Cottonwood Stake, created by a division of the Millcreek Ward. 

Murray 3rd Ward; Cottonwood Stake, created by a division of the Murray 1st Ward. 

East Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake, and 

West Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake, created by a division of the Ensign Ward. 

North Twentieth Ward, Ensign Stake, and 

South Twentieth Ward, Ensign Stake, created by a division of the Twentieth Ward. 

Fallon Ward, Reno Ward, Susanville Ward, Winnemucca Ward, Sparks Ward, Westwood Ward, Reno Stake, created from branches in the California Mission. 

Fairmount Ward, Hillcrest Ward, Logan Heights Ward, National City Ward, and North Park Ward, San Diego Stake, created from branches in the California Mission. 

Binghampton Ward, Bisbee Ward, Douglas Ward, Pomerene Ward, 

St. David Ward, Tucson Ward and Whitewater Ward, Southern Arizona Stake, created from branches in the California Mission. 

Independent Branches Made Wards : 

Walla Walla Branch, Union Stake, formerly independent branch of same stake. 

Pioneer Branch, Pioneer Stake, made a ward and the name was changed to Redwood Ward. 

New Independent Branches : 

Dividend Branch, Santaquin-Tintic Stake. Powell Branch, Big Horn Stake. 

LaMesa Branch, San Diego Stake, formerly a branch in the California Mission. 

Carson City Branch, Reno Stake, and 

Portola Branch, Reno Stake, formerly branches in the California Mission. 

Ward Disorganised : 

Kimball Ward, St. Joseph Stake. 

Those Who Have Passed Away : 

Elder Reed Smoot, member of the Quorum of the Twelve for forty years, and United States Senator for thirty years. 

Walter A. Jensen, Lost River Stake President for eleven years. 

William A. Jones, former President of the Long Beach Stake. 

Joseph S. Bodell, Patriarch of the West Jordan Stake, formerly in the Bishopric, Stake High Council and Stake High Priests Quorum Presidency. 

William W. Francis, Patriarch of Morgan Stake. 

V. L. Halliday, formerly a Patriarch of the Ensign Stake and long active in Church affairs. 

M. B. Richardson, served for 26 years as bishop of the Ogden Third Ward, North Weber Stake, and four years as counselor. 

Dr. Thomas Frederick Hardy, Bishop of the Yale Ward for four and one-half years. 

Harold F. Coleman, Monrovia Ward Bishop for one year, Pasadena Stake. 

James Maxwell, former bishop of the Twenty-seventh Ward, Ensign Stake, for twenty years. 

Heber W. Perry, former bishop of Perry Ward and High Councilor in the Box Elder Stake. 

Mrs. Lydia Elizabeth Spencer Clawson, wife of President Rudger Clawson, President of the Council of Twelve. 

Lon Fisher, High Councilor in Granite Stake, former member of Lincoln Ward Bishopric, Temple worker and Tabernacle Choir Librarian. 

Hugh Ireland, for 20 years editor of the Liahona, Branch President at various times, and general Church worker. 

An anthem, "Grant Us Peace" — Evan Stephens — was sung by the Choir. 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April i First Day 

REPORT OF THE CHURCH AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Elder Orval W. Adams, at the request of President Clark, read the following report : 

President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, Dear Brethren: 

We have examined the Financial report of the Church for the year 1940. The records are complete, accurate and intelligible; the accounting system is adequate and modern; the budget is in balance, and the Church is free from debt. 

Sincerely yours, 

Orval W. Adams Albert E. Bowen H. H. Bennett George S. Spencer 

Church Auditing Committee. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, while I stand before you I trust that the Lord will lead me to say something that will be helpful, uplifting, and encouraging. 

You have heard the report read by President McKay, and there are certain things I should like to refer to briefly in that connection. 

First, let me say that we miss Elder Reed Smoot this morning, a man of valiant, able, and conspicuous service to his nation, and a man who I think has been the greatest single missionary of our time. 

You have already heard regarding the Saints in Europe. I may say that since our last Conference we have evacuated the missionaries from the Pacific Isles, Australia, and New Zealand, and have returned them, some to Hawaii, and the rest to the mainland. This evacuation was carried out speedily as was the one from Europe, and without any accident or untoward incident. 

BUDGET IN BALANCE 

As Brother Orval Adams has told you, the budget is in balance. We have lived within our income; the Church is not in debt. As I have said on a previous occasion we hope and intend, so far as we are able, to keep it this way; first, because we believe that is the way the Church should be run; secondly, because we believe we should set the example in handling your trust funds, you members of the Church; thirdly, because, for what it may be worth, we would like to set an example that might be followed by our own governmental agencies. 

During the last year we spent more for stake and ward purposes; education, temples, and relief assistance, than we spent in 1939. We spent less for missionary work, due probably entirely to the withdrawal from foreign fields, and we spent less in hospitals, largely due to the fact that the hospitals are becoming better business institutions, and are maintaining themselves. 

As might be expected, and as ought to be, in view of the employment which is now being furnished and has been for some months, there were 18,294 fewer persons receiving relief from the Church in 1940 than in 1939. This load should lessen, but I should like to urge all presidents of stakes, bishops and counselors, the auxiliaries, and the Welfare' organizations to remember that the major part of the employment which we now have available is for war purposes and war industries, and when this war is over those industries will cease; those employed in them will be thrown out of work; it will take considerable time for readjustment, and the need for your Welfare program as planned will be greatly intensified. 

URGES CARE IN SPENDING 

We are trying as best we can to spend your funds, which you have given to the Lord, wisely; we are trying to make no commitments that we cannot meet in the matter of buildings and other activities so numerous in which the Church is engaged. We are trying not unduly to expand our activities. We are being very careful and ask you brethren, (and we rejoice beyond expression to have so many bishops and presidents of stakes here at this Conference, perhaps the greatest number that has ever assembled at any individual Conference of the Church) we are asking you brethren, in making up your building program, to remember that you are on a rising market; that you cannot tell just what your materials are going to cost; therefore we urge you to be careful in the making of your estimates. 

In the spending of tithing funds, we are trying to spend them for the welfare of communities rather than for the welfare of particular individuals. The Church is not a banking institution, and while, through our Welfare organization, we are helping individuals, that is done upon the recommendation of the quorum to which the individual belongs, and with their guarantee. If we were to undertake to lend to everybody who needs help there would be no money left for the regular activities of the Church. 

We are trying to practice economy, and particularly in our buying, because, I repeat, we are spending funds marked with the highest kind of a trust, and so we urge you brethren, you bishops, you presidents of stakes, in your buying, to get the most that you can for your money. These funds are not given to you to spend to help some particular person in whom you have a special interest, however worthy that person may be, unless he can give you the service for his funds. 

We are trying not to build magnificent cathedrals, but serviceable meeting houses, and would like you brethren and sisters to have that in mind when you are planning for the expenditure of funds. 

GRATITUDE EXPRESSED FOR GENEROSITY OF SAINTS 

Our Fast Offerings, to which Brother McKay alluded, have increased, in the average, (there is only a slight increase over 1939) — the average this year was 83 cents, as he stated, and 82.2 in 1939. 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April i First Day 

Twenty-eight stakes in 1939 paid more than a dollar; 45 in 1940. But we missed some of the excellent records that were made by stakes in 1939, and the maximum of 1940 was not so great for a stake as it was in 1939. 

We have begun and are pushing to completion the Idaho Falls Temple. We have erected a memorial building to Joseph Smith on the Brigham Young University campus. We have been adding Welfare storehouses, and in addition we have been carrying on the regular building of the Church. 

I would like to thank the people on behalf of the General Authorities for their generosity, their loyalty, their service in carrying on the temporal affairs of the Church as well as the spiritual affairs. The Lord has in this Church combined the spiritual and the temporal very closely and we therefore have both as a part of our mission, and, I repeat, the First Presidency and the General Authorities of the Church are grateful beyond expression for your services of the past. 

PERILS OF TIMES 

Now, I have not time to touch on more of those matters, although there are several others that deserve mention, but I want to read something to you to conclude my remarks. 

The perils of these times justify some comment. May I be pardoned if I repeat now some things I have said on other occasions. 

In September, 1923, eighteen years ago, at a religious service in this Tabernacle, I mentioned certain trends I then saw. They were : a spirit of revolution that threatened the very foundations of government everywhere, indeed the destruction of the existing bodies politic of the world; the unrestricted immigration of aliens who were foreign and in tradition hostile to our systems of government; the enhancement of the power of the Federal Executive; the breaking down of the mutual independence of the three branches of government, — executive, judicial, and legislative; the disappearance of local self government and the assumption of control by the Federal Government of the very details of our lives; the curtailment of our constitutional guarantees under the Bill of Rights; the building of class in our nation and of class conflict and hatred; the spread of Bolshevism, we call it Communism now, working for the overthrow of our government, the doing away with religion, even the overturning of our family relationships. 

During the eighteen years passed since then, I have on all opportunities repeated these observations. 

I will leave you to make up your own minds how far these trends have become realities. 

NO MAN SEES END 

No thinking person doubts that our people, our nation, and the world are now passing through one of the great crises of the world's history. We are in the midst of a world-wide revolution, which is wholly alien to our free institutions and is foreign in birth, concept, and directing . No man, of his own power, sees the end. But the end the revolutionists seek is fairly clear; it is the overturning of the whole existing order, political, financial, economic, social, religious, the complete destruction of our Constitution and the government established under it, and then the setting up of some sort of despotism that shall destroy, in all these fields, the free agency which the Lord gave to man. The revolutionists plan that this is to be largely done during the war, under the plea of war necessity; it is to be continued after the war under the excuse — if we are not then too cowed to require an excuse — that this new political order is necessary that we may rehabilitate the world. They count that then, after a little time, the revolution will be secure. There seems no doubt that this is their conscious, deliberate, planned end. We have gone a long way already down this road. 

OUR DUTY TO SUSTAIN THE CONSTITUTION 

Knowing as we do that God set up this Constitution of ours and that He has declared it "should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles," (D. & C. 101 :77) it is the duty of every member of the Church to protect and defend the Constitution against any and all attack. In this country our lawful political allegiance runs not to any man, not to any party, not to any "ism," but to the Constitution of the United States and to the free institutions set up under it. There can be no tampering with the "just and holy principles" of the Constitution. No true Latter-day Saint can or will do other than reverence the Constitution; each will do all in his power to save it from pollution or destruction. 

FORMER PREDICTIONS REPEATED 

For the past several Conferences, I have spoken about world conditions. In the April Conference of 1937, I said : 

.... there is strongest reason for believing that some of the most skilled, astute, and shrewd diplomats, politicians, and statesmen of all Europe are now planning to have the people of the United States finance the next European war either before the war begins or during its progress. 

I continued: 

Furthermore, certain of these same diplomats, politicians, and statesmen are planning to entice the United States into an offensive and defensive military alliance in order that we shall participate in that next world war by sending our young men to the battlefields of Europe. The argument they now plan to use to bring this about is that in this way only can the peace of the world be preserved. While this is a most profound fallacy, it will unfortunately find a sympathetic ear among many of the people of this country who do not fully understand international relations. It will require the wisest statesmanship on our part to prevent the United States from becoming again the victim of a world military catastrophe. 

I need make no comment about these statements. GENERAL CONFERENCE TO BE PEACEMAKERS THE DESTINY OF AMERICA 

This war began as a war for empire. This is an unrighteous cause. A war to enlarge and maintain empire of conquest is no better. This war continues for these two objects. All other issues urged in this contest are merely ancillary to the getting or keeping of empire. America has no place as a belligerent in such a conflict. We do have a place in the world by Divine design and destiny as the makers of a lasting peace, but we must come to this task not as joint conquerors but with clean hands and a contrite spirit, bearing in our hands the olive branch of peace, spiritual hope, and righteousness. 

We have heard that our help in the conflict was always to be short of war; but we have for many months been in fact actual participants in the war. 

We have also been told our sons would not be sent abroad to fight, but American vessels on both of our coasts are reported now actually making ready for use as troop transports. 

It does look as if only Divine intervention of some kind can keep our sons on our own soil, fighting for our own cause, in defense of our own freedom and liberties. 

We all have the deepest sympathy for the woe and misery which afflict the innocent peoples of Europe. We join them in sorrowing for lost loved ones. We pray to the Lord to mitigate their suffering and assuage their grief. But we need not be so much concerned about political Europe. This war is merely the outbreaking of old political hatreds that have festered in Europe for a thousand years. They have never been fully wiped out before; they will not after this war is over. Our great concern is that this endemic yet virulent infection shall not spread to America and leave us with an incurable malady. 

I have before urged and I now urge that we put hate away from us, because it is the hates from the last war that have made this one. Hate and righteousness cannot dwell in the same heart. Hate cankers the soul and destroys spirituality. Hate has no place in the hearts of the followers of Jesus. 

A CHOICE LAND 

With infinite patience, infinite mercy, infinite love, the Lord has tried to lead His children of this earth along the paths He has made for us, that we today might not become ripened in iniquity and subject to chastisement as were His children in the olden times. We who live on this hemisphere have a special blessing and a prescribed decree. This is the blessing : 

Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. (Ether 2:12.) 

This is the decree : 

Wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. (Ether 2:10.) 

May the Lord help us so to live that we enjoy the blessings and escape the decree. 

Too many of us of this land have not hearkened to the voice of the Lord, nor observed His laws and commandments. The offenses of the peoples of the earth have been great; the eternal law seems to be that there must be an equal atonement. 

Jesus said to His disciples : 

"Woe unto the world because of offenses! for it must needs be that offenses come; but woe to that man by whom the offense cometh! (Matt. 18:7.) 

THE LORD'S PLANS WILL TRIUMPH 

But in all the afflictions we now have or that loom up ahead, it is my faith that the Lord is at the helm, for this is a major event in the history of man. It is my faith that nothing has happened and nothing will happen that is contrary to His plan or that is against His will. In the final event, God does not permit any trifling with His decrees. However far afield men may wander, Righteousness and Truth finally triumph. Of these things I have the same knowledge that I have that I live. 

Of all peoples, we are, with this knowledge, the most blessed in the earth. Because, however dark may seem the days, we shall face our trials with the sure knowledge that God lives; we know that He can hear and answer our prayers according to His wisdom; we understand that we have an existence hereafter where we and our loved ones shall be forever safe from the ills of the flesh; we know that we shall have eternal happiness if we live and die righteously; we know that the Lord will bless and protect wherever he may be, every man who lives the principles of the Gospel and who does his duty. 

PRAYER FOR PEACE 

We believe in peace. We are the devoted followers of the Prince of Peace. We abhor war, save in the actual defense of our homes, our families, our liberties. For we remember that when Peter struck off with his sword the ear of Malchus, the servant of the High Priest, the Lord said: "All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword." (Matt. 26:52) The Lord made no exceptions to His law. History has made none. 

We pray for peace. We pray that the Lord will keep the youth of America out of the European conflict. We ask Him to bring peace into the hearts of men. 

With all my heart I join in the anxiety and pray the prayer of President Grant. God bless our boys and the boys of all America! God bless the youth of the world, ignorant of the why of all this and innocent of any blame therefor. 

May the Lord bless us and increase our testimonies of the truth of 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 4 First Day 

His Gospel, for the day cometh when this shall be our greatest solace, and comfort, the sheet anchor which shall keep us from spiritual despair. God bless us, preserve us, increase our testimonies, help us to live the Gospel, I ask in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This is a very wonderful gathering. It looks very much like a Priesthood meeting, but it is a general meeting of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a very important gathering. 

I was deeply impressed with the remarks made by President Grant. I am sure we are all very happy to have him with us, to take the lead and point out the way. The Lord bless him and heal him! 

A VERY SATISFACTORY REPORT 

The statement read this morning by President McKay was and is perhaps the most elaborate and comprehensive statement ever made to the Church, both financially and socially, from this stand. The budget is balanced and the Church is out of debt. What excellent good news that is! How we ought to rejoice and glorify the Lord for the prosperity and the faith and good works of the Latter-day Saints! We feel relieved, we feel strengthened and encouraged when we can have such reports as those that were also commented upon by President Clark, and his further remarks this morning were indeed impressive and encouraging to the Latter-day Saints. It is hoped they will have a good effect throughout our country. 

GOSPEL PREACHED BY WORD AND EXAMPLE 

Brethren and sisters, the Lord has said in a revelation to Joseph Smith the Prophet — said it in more than one place in the scriptures — that salvation is the greatest gift of God to man, and that salvation comes by the preaching of the Gospel. The miracles and blessings that follow the preaching do not come before but come after the preaching to confirm the faith of the Latter-day Saints and all who will receive the word of God. God does not give signs and miracles to make us believe, but rather to strengthen and help those who receive the message. 

I call your attention to an incident connected with the crucifixion of the Savior. It was his great mission to come to the earth, under the direction of His Father in Heaven, that His precious blood might be shed for the redemption of mankind. After His crucifixion, and just prior to His returning to Heaven, He delivered an important charge to His disciples in these words : 

Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that beli'eveth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

 the Gospel. There is nothing greater than to preach the word of God, to acknowlege His hand, to walk uprightly before Him, to be humble and faithful, and not only by word of mouth but also to preach the Gospel by example. We are making history individually and collectively, and so it is highly essential that our lives and example should conform with our preaching, and then it will be effective. 

MESSAGE PREACHED AT HOME AND ABROAD 

A good work is now being accomplished. We are calling young men and young women and some that are older into the mission field. They are soldiers of the cross. They go not to kill and destroy as in war, but to save and build up, and if we are all faithful and true to the Cause and exemplify our words by our lives the effect will be tremendous, and the effect as it is is very fine. The influence of the testimonies and exhortations that go out from this Conference unto the world at large will have a most salutary effect I am sure. 

Notable people and tourists traveling over the country, stopping at Salt Lake City are usually headed the first thing for the Temple Block; they have heard about this wonderful Tabernacle which is like a testimony of the truth, where holy men have stood and taught the people. These visitors have been influenced and they marvel and wonder about it. Some of them investigate the Gospel; they have reflected about this matter of tithing; they have approved of it and they would like to know just how it is done. Of course we have to say that we regret that we cannot tell them just how to do it in their churches; we know how to do it in our Church because it is a law of God given to us. Every individual who earns means in the Mormon Church is under the responsibility of observing the law of tithing. It is not binding upon these other churches because they do not have the authority and the spirit to do it. The unity of this great congregation here — what it would mean if we were all perfectly united, sitting under the voice of revelation, the voice of the Priesthood and the power of God — it is a wonderful thing! We are a blessed people and have much to be thankful for. 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

I feel that it is a great privilege, brethren and sisters, to stand before you and to bear my testimony and to say to you I know absolutely, without mental reservation, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and He is with us and His power and influence will uphold us, and we will have an instructive and wonderful time before the Conference closes. 

Peace be unto you, my brethren and sisters; the Lord prosper you in every righteous undertaking, in every movement for the benefit and blessing of the people, I ask in the worthy name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "How Beautiful Upon the Mountains" — Dr. John Stainer, 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I should like to repeat the slogan, "Drive carefully, and pedestrians walk sensibly." 

Elder Leo J. Muir, President of the Northern States Mission, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 




