Morning
06 04 1941 

Sunday morning, April 6. 

The great Tabernacle was crowded with people many of whom had assembled far in advance of the time to begin this session of the Conference. The large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was also filled with people, and other thousands assembled on the Tabernacle grounds. Those who were in the Assembly Hall and on the grounds listened to the services as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed. 

The meeting commenced promptly at 10 o'clock. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The hour has come for the opening of this the fifth session of this Conference. President Heber J. Grant is present and presiding. He has asked President Clark to conduct the meeting. 

There are present on the stand this morning President Grant and his two Counselors, the eleven Apostles, all of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and all of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The music for both of the sessions today will be by the Tabernacle 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 6 Third Day 

Choir; Elder J. Spencer Cornwall is Director, and Elder Frank W. Asper is organist. 

The congregation and Choir sang the hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice" —William W. Phelps. 

Elder George Ariel Bean, President of the Union Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH SUSTAINED 

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency, presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were sustained by the unanimous vote of the congregation, as follows : 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

George Albert Smith Joseph F. Merrill 

George F. Richards Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Albert E. Bowen 

Stephen L Richards Sylvester Q. Cannon 

Richard R. Lyman Harold B. Lee 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

President Clark then made the following statement for the First Presidency : 

In the past history of the Church, especially in President Brigham Young's time, it was found necessary for the First Presidency or the Twelve, or both, to call brethren, frequently designated as Counselors, to help carry on their assigned work in the Church. 

The rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new Wards and Stakes, the ever widening geographical area covered by Wards and Stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing our missions in numbers and efficiency that the Gospel may be brought to all men, the continual multiplying of Church interests and activities calling for more rigid and frequent observation, supervision, and direction — all have built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude. 

The First Presidency and Twelve feel that to meet adequately their great responsibilities and to carry on efficiently this service for the Lord, they should have some help. 

Accordingly it has been decided to appoint Assistants to the Twelve, who shall be High Priests, who shall be set apart to act under the direction of the Twelve in the performance of such work as the First Presidency and the Twelve may place upon them. 

There will be no fixed number of these Assistants. Their number will be increased or otherwise from time to time as the necessity of carrying on the Lord's work seems to dictate to be wise. 

It is proposed that we sustain as Assistants to the Twelve, the following named High Priests, who will labor under the supervision and direction of the First Presidency and of the Twelve: 

Marion G. Romney, President of Bonneville Stake. 

Thomas E. McKay, former President of Ogden Stake and Acting President of the European Mission. 

Clifford E. Young, President of the Alpine Stake. 

Alma Sonne, President of Cache Stake. 

Nicholas G. Smith, President of the Northwestern States Mission. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

THE FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy 

Richard L. Evans 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS IN THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, and A. William Lund. 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Richard R. Lyman 

Frank Evans, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

SEMINARY SUPERVISOR 

M. Lynn Bennion 

AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards 

Albert E. Bowen Marvin O. Ashton 

Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin 

John H. Taylor 

General Presidency of Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman Robert L. Judd, Vice Chairman Harold B. Lee, Managing Director Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson 

Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg 

Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Amy Brown Lyman, President Marcia K. Howells, First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, First Assistant Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Green Hinckley, Superintendent Adele Cannon Howells, First Assistant Superintendent Janet Murdoch Thompson, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10:30 to 11:00 a. m., the regular weekly nation-wide broadcast of choral and organ music and brief spoken comment was presented as part of the General Conference proceedings. This program, which will have completed its twelfth year of continuous nationwide broadcasting in July of this year, was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting System's coast-to-coast network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by short wave transmission to many foreign lands. This broadcast originated with Radio Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and, exclusive of routine introductory and closing announcements, was as follows : 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans : As another week of life begins for all men, we pause again within these hallowed walls to welcome you once more to the Everlasting Hills of the West. This traditional Temple Third Day 

Square performance, now in its twelfth year of continuous nation-wide broadcasting, is brought to you each week at this hour through the facilities of the Columbia network and its affiliated stations. 

We begin with a song written upon one of the most beloved incidents of the New Testament : "I think when I read that sweet story of old, when Jesus was here among men, how He called little children as lambs to His fold, I should like to have been with Him then." 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans : The hymn now to be sung by the Tabernacle Choir has come down to us from those whose courage and conviction conquered the western desert nearly a century ago: "Come, come ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear .... and should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well." 

"Come, Come Ye Saints" — Clayton Choir 

"Live by my Side" — Bach Organ 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans: Ofttimes in the face of some eventuality that has overtaken us, we find ourselves saying regretfully : "If I had only known, I would have done differently." Sometimes this is true, but more often it is not the fact that we do not know that gets us into difficulties, but rather that we choose to ignore what we do know. We mix so little wisdom with our knowledge. We know the facts of history. We know what causes have produced what results in the past — but time has a way of making the past seem different from the present. We may believe that Babylon and Rome fell because of their moral and spiritual dissolution. It seems so easy to believe this because it is all far in the past. But it does not seem so easy to believe such probabilities of our own time and our own generation, however true they may be. From history and from scripture it seems quite easy to believe that men have always paid a price for disobedience; that the breaking of a law has always exacted its penalty; that the terrible luxury of over-indebtedness has always brought a day of disastrous reckoning. It seems easy to believe of the past that the Lord God has often permitted evil men to pursue their purposes for a short season before over-ruling their evil works. It seems easy to believe of the past that those who would rather mortgage the future than curtail their appetites, have always been brought low in remorse. But what is not so easy to believe, but is also solemnly true, is that these same causes will still lead to these same results even in our day. We have no charmed immunity from the consequences of our own doing. On this point the Father of the spirits of all men has said : 

I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. (D. and C. 82:10.) 

Knowledge of the past we have — both of scripture and of history. It would be well to transmit that knowledge into wisdom, by believing of our own generation what we so readily believe of other times. 

The Story of Old"— Parks 

Grand Choeur in D" — Spence 

..Choir Organ 

"Gloria" — Mozart Choir 

"How Great the Wisdom and the Love" — Mclntyre Organ 

"Abide With Me"— Monk Choir 

The singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall. Dr. Frank W. Asper was at the Tabernacle Organ. The spoken word was by Richard L. Evans. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

Immediately after the conclusion of the traditional Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, an additional thirty minute period, regularly known as the Columbia Broadcasting System's Church of the Air program, was presented from 1 1 :00 to 11 :30 a. m. as a part of the proceedings of this session of the Conference, and was also released over nation-wide and international network facilities. The program was conducted by Elder Richard L. Evans; music was by the congregation of more than 10,000 voices and by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, with J. Spencer Cornwall directing and Dr. Frank W. Asper at the Organ, and Elder Stephen L Richards of the Council of the Twelve delivered the following address : 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

DESCRIPTION OF THE TABERNACLE 

For the benefit of those who listen over the air, perhaps I should first say something about my surroundings at this broadcast. I stand in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. The vast auditorium is completely filled by the congregation. Thousands are standing in the aisles and in the spacious doorways and more thousands are in the grounds about the building, unable to gain admittance. There are more men than women in the audience, which, I believe, is rather exceptional in church gatherings throughout the country. The people here assembled have come from many parts of the United States, chiefly from the West, from Canada, Mexico, and some islands of the Pacific. War disturbances have prevented travel from Europe and other distant countries. 

Behind the upper pulpit where I stand are seated the Tabernacle Choir composed of about 300 singers who serve without pay and who, for more than a decade, have gratuitously furnished weekly programs to the radio listeners of America. You have just heard the voice of their faithful, capable announcer, Richard L. Evans. The great Organ of the Tabernacle towers over the Choir in the background, — its massive, ornamented structure almost presenting the appearance of another building within the main building. 

The Tabernacle has unusual acoustical properties, as some of you may have learned. To demonstrate these properties a pin is dropped on a table near the rostrum and those who listen in the other end of the building, 200 or more feet away, are able to hear it. These remarkable 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

sound effects are obtained largely through the elliptical dome-like roof which was erected by the Pioneers in early days before the railroads came to this section of the country. Steel girders were not available, bolts and even nails were hard to obtain. So the roof is supported by wooden trusswork made of timbers taken from the nearby mountains and in lieu of bolts and metal commonly used in such construction, wooden pins were employed as fasteners and strips of rawhide used to secure the pins and prevent splitting of the timbers. 

The Tabernacle is but one of many enterprises undertaken and successfully completed by the Pioneers, during the time they were isolated from production centers. They were of necessity forced to be resourceful and they were not without ambition and skill. They came to this then forbidding land of desert and mountains, driven by a great religious urge and a still greater religious intolerance on the part of others. The story of their persecutions, their drivings and migrations is pretty well known. It is doubtful, however, that their motives and their lives have ever been generally understood. It is from their motivating concepts that I desire to draw the theme of this hour. 

RELIGIOUS IDEALS OF THE PIONEERS 

These Pioneers, who were the progenitors of many who sit in this audience and others who hear my voice this day, had the idea that religion is the most important and vital thing in the world. They subordinated all things to it. They construed it to be broad and comprehensive enough to cover every aspect of living. They gave to temporal things spiritual significance. They accepted divine law as the standard by which all things are rightly determined. They consecrated themselves to the doing of God's will and the establishment of His Kingdom. 

So resolute and intent were they upon this latter objective that they stood ready to devote time, talent and property to the advancement of the Cause in which they believed, often with untold sacrifice to themselves and their families. In response to the call of their leaders they frequently undertook hazardous colonization projects which deprived them of the security and comfort of homes they had built and communities they had helped to establish. Then, too, the menfolk would leave their newly formed homes with the bare subsistence obtained for their families and again at the call of their religious leaders undertake, at their own expense, missions for the Church, frequently retraversing the path of their migration to distant lands from which they had come or to other countries, seeking to carry to others, perhaps their kinsmen, neighbors and friends of the Old World, the message in which they believed; so that in the early days of the settlement of this country there were always two armies on the march, — one made up of men and women coming from the eastern States and from lands across the sea, converts of the new faith, making the long, weary trek across the prairies to the land and people of their adoption, — and the other made up of missionaries, many of whom came from the ranks of these same converts, winding their way back across the prairies to expand the knowledge of the truth they had found. It was 101  continuous round from convert to missionary and missionary to convert. 

This was the demonstration of the vitality of their religion to these people. No one who knew their sacrifices ever questioned their sincerity. They had been taught to make sacrifices and endure hardships for the Cause they had espoused by their first leader. His devotion, his perseverance, and his loyalty through the unspeakable persecutions heaped upon him, finally resulting in his cruel martyrdom, had served to make the hardships and deprivations of his followers seem small by comparison. So these men and women of the early days did not complain. They welcomed opportunities for service and they counted themselves fortunate to be chosen for great undertakings. 

EARLY MISSIONARIES AND THEIR MESSAGE 

These missionaries of whom I speak were not trained theologians and preachers. They were almost entirely made up of men from the ordinary walks of life who made their own living by their own work. Not many of them had enjoyed the privilege of extensive schooling because schools were rare in those days, but they were hard-headed men of practical experience who knew the value of industry and who prized education, even though they may not have had much of it. Many of them came from the New England States. Their fathers had fought in the Revolutionary War, so they knew the meaning and the value of freedom and democracy. They believed the Constitution to have been framed by divinely inspired men and they loved their country with a greater love than in some instances it had deserved at their hands. So these missionaries for the most part were loyal, free Americans who went forth with conviction in their hearts to preach a religion and a Gospel which they believed would make all men free. They had no eloquence but the eloquence of their message, but people everywhere listened to them and believed in their sincerity and many thousands embraced the truth which they taught. 

Perhaps the principal thing which made them feel that their religion was so vital and their responsibility in it so great was that they believed that Jesus Christ had set in the earth anew His holy Gospel with a new interpretation of it for all mankind. They considered themselves under obligation to present this new interpretation of the Gospel to every person possible for them to reach that he might have the opportunity of accepting or rejecting the message. I think perhaps you might be interested to know what some of these new interpretations which the early missionaries carried to the people of the world are. 

They taught that since every man is a son of God, each man is entitled, if he lives worthily, to receive and exercise the power of God in the form of the holy Priesthood. They believed that this divine gift and its bestowal was not reserved merely for a few selected men,: but that it was essential for every man who would do Christ's work effectively and prepare himself for eternal life with the Savior of the world. They taught that each one receiving this power should use it to bless 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. AptU 6 Third Day 

the lives of others by performing the ordinances of the Gospel and by carrying with him the inspiring and comforting spirit which emanates from the Priesthood. They bore witness of the authentic bestowal of the Priesthood in their generation and of innumerable demonstrations of its efficacy. They interpreted the Priesthood as a divine force coming to men on whom it is bestowed to be exercised only in mercy and by persuasive means, without any compulsion whatsoever. They taught that anyone who sought to use his Priesthood for ulterior purposes or self aggrandizement or in any degree of unrighteousness should lose it. It was recognized as a Christ-like endowment, thriving only in Christian virtue. They set forth a new concept of man's body, that it is the tabernacle wherein is housed the spirit of man which is the literal child of God, the Father, and that no man can knowingly take into his body poisons and other deleterious substances without offending God, the Father of his spirit, — so that infractions of the true laws of health have spiritual as well as temporal significance. They endeavored to persuade men to refrain from indulgence in intoxicating liquors, tobacco, coffee, tea and other narcotics, not alone for reasons of health but because they believed that such practices would militate against faith and spiritual growth and consequently against true worship of God. As a health measure, these early teachings of more than a century ago have been amply vindicated by modern science and their spiritual value has likewise been substantiated. 

Another new concept which these men taught related to the matrimonial status. They set forth that marital unions, through the performance of proper ordinances under divine authority, may be made to endure not for time and earthly life only, but for all eternity; that a man and woman properly married by the holy Priesthood may establish a home which will be the basis for their exaltation and happiness in the world to come; that all children born to them in this holy compact of marriage shall belong to and be with them hereafter; that death does not break such bonds and that sin only can sever such ties, — the epitome of such teaching being that our heaven is little more than the projection of our home into eternity. 

They gave to the world a new idea about salvation. The interpretation which they promulgated was that through the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ all men would be resurrected from the grave and come forth in a new life hereafter — and this irrespective of the creed they might profess or without belief in or acceptance of any religion whatsoever. They made clear distinction between general salvation or resurrection from the grave and individual salvation or exaltation earned by a man through his compliance with the laws of God. They taught that there are preferential places in heaven as there are on earth and that the highest place or Celestial Kingdom could be attained only by those who faithfully subscribe to and keep all the laws and ordinances of the Gospel 103  Jesus Christ and thereby entitle themselves to come into the presence of our God and Jesus Christ, His Son. 

They taught, too, that holy Temples dedicated to the Lord are essential for the administration of some of the necessary ordinances of the Gospel to prepare for the highest blessings to which man may aspire and that these Temples are also necessary for the accomplishment of certain vicarious work to be performed for our ancestors who have passed away without knowledge of the Gospel plan, so that ultimately none of God's children will be treated unfairly but that each shall have opportunity to accept the principles of the Gospel and earn our Father's blessings. So confident were these early missionaries as to the necessity and vitality of this Temple work that they and their people made almost incomprehensible sacrifices for the erection of beautiful buildings to be dedicated to the Lord for these holy purposes. One such building built at Nauvoo, Illinois, at a cost of a million dollars, entailing years of labor and untold deprivation to poor people was wantonly destroyed by a mob within sight of the people fleeing from their cruelty in evacuation of the city. Whereever the adherents to the faith have gathered in sufficient numbers they have always caused to be erected as their most expensive establishment a Temple of the Lord for the performance of sacred ordinances and ceremonies. 

These missionaries also carried the word that new revelations had come from the Lord, setting forth, among other things, these new concepts of which I have told you and bearing new and additional witness of the divinity of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. They acknowledged these new revelations as additional scripture to the Bible and as the Word of God. They heralded them as a supreme blessing in the resolution of doubt and uncertainty and the acquisition of deep and abiding faith in the Gospel of Christ. In these revelations are such important statements as these : 

Truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were and as they are to come. 

The spirit of truth is of God. 

And no man receiveth a fullness unless he keepeth His commandments. 

The glory of God -is intelligence, or in other words light and truth. 

No man can be saved in ignorance. A man is saved no faster than he learns. Whatever knowlelge a man acquires in this life he will take with him into the world to come. 

On the basis of such statements the doctrine of eternal progression was deduced and taught. Men were given to understand that through obedience to the laws of the Gospel they might continue to grow and develop in knowledge and power until in eternity they would come to divinity itself; that the highest order of intelligence is that intelligence which comprehends the things of God and eternity; that, "It is the glory of God to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," and that "men are that they might have joy." The place of good and evil in the world and their necessity for the exercise of man's free agency were all set forth in this new interpretation of the Gospel of Christ. 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

A VITAL FAITH THE NEED OF THE WORLD 

I have, of course, only outlined very briefly the distinctive doctrines and principles which these early missionaries carried to many countries of the earth. My purpose in telling you of this almost incomparable devotion to a cause is to emphasize the necessity I feel exists in the Christian world for a living, vital faith that truly works. Surely all observers must be convinced that mere protestation of faith in Christ is wholly inadequate to carry forward His work and set up His Kingdom in the earth. "Faith without works is dead." Lip service is futile. No man truly loves Christ unless he obeys the laws of His Gospel. We never have the truth until we adopt it in our lives. No man learns true worship of Christ without truly giving himself to Christian service and I believe that no man is a true disciple of Christ who does not acknowledge Him for what He really is, the Savior and the divine God of this earth. 

Equivocation about His divinity not only would rob the Christ of His real power but it likewise robs the professed Christian of the concept and the loyalty which alone make him a true disciple. What the world most needs today is not so much adoration of the attributes of Christ, however beautiful and beneficent they are, as the true worship and acknowledgment of the sovereignty of the Lord and His divine power. When men and nations look to Him as the arbiter of all questions and the principles of His Gospel as the criteria by which all considerations shall be judged, then, and then only, will the world be the beneficiary of the true Christian influence and power. 

IRREVERENCE WEAKENS FAITH 

This will not come about so long as men mock God and set at naught His holy laws. No man can love God and damn Him. Irreverence expressed in profanity is an all too important factor in weakening Christian influence. I call upon men everywhere, for the most part thoughtless men, to cease taking the name of God and Christ in vain and to seek to establish, among the youth particularly, a sincere reverence for these holy Beings. Why do we have to endure such profanity in our military establishments ? I should think the Commander-in-Chief would exercise his great influence to stop it. 

I am sure that disrespect for sacred names and sacred things has in large measure contributed to widespread disregard of law, authority and established institutions throughout the land. If a boy is taught to revere God and respect his father, we may be pretty well assured of a loyal, law abiding citizen, whereas those who blaspheme holy names and speak of their parents as "the old man" and "the old woman" are very apt to be a liability rather than an asset to society. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF EDUCATORS 

I decry the tendency manifest among certain educators who are still greatly in the minority, I am happy to believe, and among other sophisticated people to tear down the faith of youth and their confidence in 105  verities. I can scarcely think of anything more cruel and mean than for one who has had extended educational opportunities and the advantage of a position in an institution of learning to impose upon the credulity and immaturity of a student and rob the young mind of a faith and confidence that will support him at least until he has had experience sufficient to make wise decisions. 

Would not the fathers and mothers of America today take great comfort if they could have the assurance that all their boys in the training camps were fortified and directed by faith in God? I believe they would, and anyone who has robbed them of that faith has cause for regret and repentance. 

It is therefore living faith in the eternal God and in Jesus Christ, His Son and faith in man, too, as the son of God which is so imperative today in the advancement of Christian civilization. Such faith will clarify and not mystify our thinking, our relationships and our aspirations. 

I firmly believe that true science has no quarrel with faith of this order. The scientists who are frank enough to admit the limitations of their fields of research and demonstration will impugn neither the motives nor convictions of the spiritual man of true faith. If they themselves do not share such faith, their very scientific attitude should prompt them to say of the faithful, "They may be right, — we do not know. The province of the spiritual is beyond the scope of our investigations." 

Now I realize, my friends, that this is a subject on which the experiences and the convictions of each man determine his attitude and conclusion. Faith is individual. No one can acquire it for another. About all one can do for another is to voice his testimony and substantiate it by consistent living. 

THE VALUE OF A LIVING FAITH 

I take the liberty, in conclusion, to give to you my humble assurance that the living faith in Jesus Christ which dominated the lives and work of our Pioneer progenitors is alive in the hearts of our people today. I know that there is vitality and power in that faith. I have had ample demonstration of its efficacy in my own life and I commend it with all the power of my soul to men and women of all countries, tongues and creeds the world over. It will resolve doubt and uncertainties. It will give high purpose to living. It will fortify against temptation. It will promote love and charity. It will assuage sorrow, and rob death of its sting.- It will bring contentment, peace, enduring happiness, and a spirit that passes understanding. 

God grant that such faith may be the portion of men and nations and that divine truth may quickly triumph, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, the Lord of this earth. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "O Ye Mountains High" — Charles W. Penrose. 

An anthem, "Praise Ye the Lord" — Evan Stephens — was sung by the Choir. 

(End of Church of the Air Program) 

GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Third Day 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

From among the sublime teachings of the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount I quote the following : 

Seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. 

This admonition and promise I have chosen for my theme this morning because (1) it seems so aptly to epitomize generally the timely instructions given at this Conference. Then, too, it expresses the ideal to which every man who holds the Priesthood has subscribed. Again, if heeded, it will be the greatest and best safeguard to our sons who are called to serve their country. And, finally, I firmly believe that if rulers of nations followed that admonition contention and war would be banished from among men. 

What the kingdom of God is, is answered by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows : 

Where there is a prophet, a priest, or a righteous man unto whom God gives His oracles, there is the kingdom of God. 

Seeking first the Kingdom means subordinating to the principles of the Gospel all other aims and pursuits. 

WHAT THE KINGDOM OF GOD IMPLIES 

The term implies divine rule in the hearts and wills of men and in society. Man acknowledges a power and authority superior to his own. "It is not the arbitrary rule of a despotic Deity, but is based upon man's voluntary submission of his will to that of God's." On one occasion Jesus said, "The kingdom of God is within you." That is true, for it is in the heart of man that membership in the outward kingdom has its origin. Devotion and loyalty that spring thus from the heart "for the common Father of all mankind is the strongest and only universal bond that can bind all men together." Only such a group looking as one mind to heaven for guidance can eventually transform human society. 

The Kingdom of God implies also a universal brotherhood in which all men acknowledge God as their Supreme Ruler and cherish the desire to obey His divine will. 

THE PURPOSE OF THE CHURCH 

The mission of the Church is to prepare the way for the final establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth. Its purpose is, first, to develop in men's lives Christ-like attributes; and, second, to transform society so that the world may be a better and more peaceful place in which to live. 

HOW THE CHURCH CONTRIBUTES TO CHARACTER BUILDING 

In the changing of men's lives the Church recognizes certain fundamental factors so essentially important that they are constantly called to 

106 

Sunday, April 6 107  attention, and have been impressively emphasized by the speakers in this Conference. For example, recognizing the reality of the divine edict "the sins of the fathers will be visited upon the children to the third and fourth generation" the Church emphasizes the necessity of moral and physical fitness for parenthood. Hence the constant plea that young men and women live clean, chaste lives prior to their assuming the responsibility of marriage, and their remaining true to that sacred covenant. Hence is constantly held before us the ideal of Temple marriage, where the sanctity of the marriage covenant is sealed and ratified by the highest divine authority given of God to man. Hence the emphasis laid upon the Word of Wisdom wherein tobacco, stimulants, and narcotics are eschewed, and temperance and obedience to the laws of health encouraged and admonished. Hence the teachings from childhood to be "honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and to do good to all men." 

The Church, recognizing the potency of other influences besides the home in the growing child's life before he reaches self-determination, offers a religious environment almost from the time of birth. The Sunday School, the Primary, the Mutual Improvement Association arrange suitable instruction, entertainment, and proper guidance from the cradle roll to maturity. 

FIVE FATEFUL YEARS 

Says one social writer : 

The most fateful years in life are the first five, and this is the time when life is subject to its environment, and before self-consciousness and self-direction are aroused. In a large sense man's life has its bent and direction, its color and tone before it has begun to reason and choose. 

Believing the adage, "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart therefrom," the Church fosters Quorums and Auxiliaries in which over fifty thousand officers and teachers willingly and gratuitously devote their time, ability, and means for the development of character among the children and youth of the Church. Parents who fail to encourage their boys to attend their Quorum duties, who fail to encourage their children to take advantage of the Sunday School, the Primary, and the Mutual are recreant to their duties and to their parental responsibilities. 

These are but a few of the aspects of the Church devoted to the phase of character building, and to something which is even more precious —  a testimony of the truth of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The first duty of the citizens of the Kingdom is to live exemplary lives. 

TRANSFORMING SOCIETY 

But as I have said, the betterment of the individual is only one aim of the Church. The complete ideal of Mormonism is to make upright citizens in an ideal society. 

On the night of Gethsemane, in the Upper Room, before Jesus and the Apostles left for the garden, He prayed : 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

I am now no more in the world, but these are in the world ... I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from evil. 

The mission of the Church is to minimize and if possible eliminate these "evils" from the world. The need of such a unifying force is expressed by a leading writer (Samuel Z. Batten) as follows: 

The world has many good people in it today, more who are ready to believe than ever before, but these people possess no unifying ideals, no organic principles, no coherent view of life, no synthetic program of action. Society is coming to self-consciousness, and is beginning to take note of its troubles and needs, but it has no clear sense of direction, no organizing impulse, no all-inclusive ideals, no mighty impulsion. ... Is there anything by which our nature can gain its unity; our race acknowledge its brotherhood, our humanity order its affairs as a whole? 

We answer, yes — such a uniting force, such an ideal is the Gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It explains man's life and its purpose, and has within it the vital saving elements, noble ideals, and spiritual uplift for which the heart of man today is yearning. 

Right thinking, upright men and women everywhere are desirous of eliminating from our communities evil elements that are constantly disintegrating society — the liquor problem with its drunkenness, poverty, and misery; immorality with all its attendant evils; war, which is literally hell on earth, and which is now devastating Europe and Asia; and threatening our own land. 

SOCIAL ATTITUDE 

What should be our attitude towards these social conditions ? First, see to it that as individuals we do not by our acts contribute to their existence, and, second, put forth every righteous effort to eradicate them from our communities. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is seeking through its Welfare Plan, through increased Quorum consciousness and responsibility, to make both home and community environment better and brighter. 

Cooperation and mutual helpfulness are virtues characteristic of the Church of Christ. Its watchwords are unity, efficiency, brotherhood — a brotherhood in which justice and mercy prompt the actions of all men. 

President Young once said : 

Whoever lives to see the Kingdom of God fully established upon the earth, will see a Government that will protect every person in his rights. 

And again : 

If the Kingdom of God were established on earth .... one community would not be permitted to array itself in opposition to another to coerce them to their standard. One denomination would not be suffered to persecute another because they differed in religious belief and mode of worship. Everyone would be fully protected in the *109  of all religious and social rights, and no State, no Government, no community, no person would have the privilege of infringing on the rights of another. 

HONEST LABOR ENCOURAGED 

The arrogance of wealth, and the bitterness of soul that springs from poverty would find no place in a society made up of men and women who truly believed and put forth sincere effort to live in accordance with the Gospel. 

The present strife between capital and labor, which in its enmity threatens to undermine the very foundation of the Government, would cease, for the spirit and actions of coercion, intimidation, and violence are contrary to the teachings of Jesus and by Him would be most vehemently denounced. Intimidation and dictatorship are elements foreign to the spirit and government of the Church. The Church encourages and recognizes honest labor whenever and wherever it presents itself, but it must condemn the spirit of oppression, of compulsion, of intimidation wherever it rears its head. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood only by persuasion, by long suffering, by meekness, and by love unfeigned. 

Says Beverley Nichols : 

Economic problems, racial problems, sexual problems, unemployment problems, war problems, are myths, ugly phantoms created by minds that are not washed with the Spirit of Christ, absurd chimerae that could only flourish in deserts across which the shadow of the cross has never fallen. I know that our lives have no "problems" as long as we trust in Christ, and the fact that my own life is full of problems at the moment is only a proof of the distance that I still have to travel before reaching perfection. 

There are those in the world who say that jealousy, enmity, selfishness in men's hearts will always preclude the establishing of the ideal society known as the Kingdom of God. No matter what doubters and scoffers say, the mission of the Church of Christ is to eliminate sin and wickedness from the hearts of men, and so to transform society that peace and good-will will prevail on this earth. 

The whole purpose of Christ's existence on this earth was to change human nature. And if you deny the possibility, you are saying to him, by implication, "Go back ... we don't want you . . . you're attempting the impossible." Some brave men have said this, but it was the grey uniform of the atheist that they were wearing, and not the shining robes of the servant of Christ. 

HUMAN NATURE 

You CAN change human nature. No man who has felt in him the spirit of Christ, even for half a minute, can deny this truth, the one great truth in a world of little lies. You DO change human nature, your own human nature, if you surrender it to Him. To deny this is to proclaim yourself as an uneducated fool. 

Human nature CAN be changed, here and now. 

Human nature HAS been changed, in the past. Third Day 

Human nature MUST be changed, on an enormous scale, in the future, unless the world is to be drowned in its own blood. And only Christ can change it 

Twelve men did a lot to change the world, nineteen hundred years ago. Twelve simple men, with only the wind to bear them over the seas, with only a few pence in their pockets, and a shining faith in their hearts. They fell far short of their ideal, their words were twisted and mocked, and false temples were built over their bones, in praise of a Christ they would have rejected. And yet, by the light of their inspiration many of the world's loveliest things were created and many of the world's finest minds inspired. 

If twelve men did that, nineteen hundred years ago, what might not twelve men do today? For God has now given us the power of whispering across space, or transmitting our thoughts from one end of the earth to another. What shall we whisper — what shall we think? That is the question? 

Every true Latter-day Saint will not only whisper but proclaim that "a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." I most sincerely bear witness that the Church of Jesus Christ is that marvelous work. 

Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

With faith, charity and love in our hearts let us press ever onward inspired by the hope and assurance that — 

There shall come a time when brotherhood shows stronger 

Than the narrow bonds which now distract the world, 

When cannons roar and trumpets blare no longer, 

And the ironclad rusts, and battle flags are furled; 

When the bars of creed and speech and race, which sever 

Shall be fused in one humanity forever. 

That God may give everyone a desire to help hasten that day by example as well as by precept, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

We are honored this morning by the presence of Dr. James E. West, celebrating his thirtieth year as Chief Scout Executive of the Boy Scouts of America. In his time nine and a half millions of boys have been members; now one and a half million Boy Scouts are enrolled. We have in the L. D. S. Church 25,000 Scouts. Tomorrow at the Hotel Utah there will be a conference of Utah Scout leaders. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" — Evan Stephens. 

The benediction was offered by Elder Archie R. Boyack, President of the Big Horn Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 


