Afternoon
05 04 1941 

Saturday afternoon, April 5. 

The fourth session of the Conference convened promptly at 2 p. m. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The moment has arrived for opening this the fourth session of this Conference. Notwithstanding we have a mild blizzard outside, this house is crowded to capacity. President Grant is resting this afternoon. President Clark is conducting the meeting. 

There are present on the stand this afternoon the two Counselors to President Grant, the eleven Apostles, all of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and all the Presiding Bishopric. 

The Blackfoot Stake Choir furnished the music for this session of the Conference. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet." 

Elder M. Ezra Sorenson, President of the Bannock Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang "Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem" — Maunder, 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been greatly impressed, my brethren and sisters, by the important testimony given by President Grant yesterday morning, the fine expression that he gave to us of the things that impressed him and that have influenced him greatly during his life. I realize that the work he has done and the testimony he has borne to us are a source of guidance to all of us, and a realization that he is indeed a servant of the Lord, a prophet of God. He enjoys the power and keys of authority that were given to him some twenty-two years ago, and he has testified to us in clearness and inspiration with regard to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I have been greatly impressed by this statement, and not only in regard to the testimony he has borne, but in regard to his life. 

President Grant at eighty-four years of age has accomplished a great deal in his life. At twenty-four years of age he was appointed President of the Tooele Stake of Zion — in his youth practically he received that responsibility and carried it forward successfully. Shortly after that he was sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve, and he has carried on diligently and faithfully in that position from that time to this. 

KEYS OF AUTHORITY OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

Some twenty-three years ago, I believe it was, he received the keys of authority of the Priesthood to preside over the whole Church and to carry on this responsibility. He has fulfilled it. He has been loyal and faithful in every respect, and achieved a great work. Every duty and responsibility given him has been ably magnified. He has been constant in season and out of season and lived up to every requirement. Full of alertness and initiative in the responsibilities that have come to him he has fully measured up in every respect. I rejoice in the testimony he has borne to us. I am sure all the Latter-day Saints who were present or who listened over the radio have been greatly impressed thereby, and have realized that he is verily a servant of the Lord and stands at the head of the Church upon the earth, and is a power and influence to all who are loyal and true to him and love the work he has accomplished. 

I believe that the motto that President Grant has used extensively has had an influence on his life. It reads : 

That which we persist in doing- becomes easy to do; not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased. 

I believe it expresses very effectively the diligence and the persistence that President Grant has maintained. He has accomplished the work he has been called to do fully and effectively, and there is no one who has any reason to feel otherwise than that he has fulfilled in every respect in his life his great responsibility. I am sure it is a joy to every member of the Church. 

FACTORS AFFECTING HUMAN BEHAVIOR 

I have been impressed with the idea and feeling that there are 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

certain factors that affect the behavior of men and women here upon the earth. These same factors affect every one of the Latter-day Saints. In the first place we are influenced by our appetites or carnal desires, and thereby we may be led to do good, or we may be led to do evil; we have the choice; we are free agents. Every human soul who lives upon the earth is a free agent to himself to do the will of the Lord or to do wrong, and he will be governed and will be judged for his actions here in mortality and will have to give an accounting of his actions in the world to come. 

EVERYONE HAS THE RIGHT OF CHOICE 

We are told by the Apostle John that every human soul will be called up to give an account of his life here in the flesh. The books or records that have been made will be opened and we will be held responsible for our actions. I appreciate the fact that it is a very important 'thing for every individual to learn the difference between right and wrong, and choose the right, to battle for truth, and righteousness. We shall be blessed if we stand firmly for the same. On the other hand we will be punished for that which we do which may be evil. That is our responsibility and our privilege; every one of us is called to this responsibility; every individual, I say. We are eternal beings spiritually. We have received through the blessing of the Lord the opportunity to come here upon the earth in mortality, to live and to accomplish our mission; and after we leave here we will go into the spirit world. The day will come when we will be resurrected and become immortal beings and will have to account for our deeds. We will receive the blessings that we merit according to our deeds here in the flesh and our preparations for immortality. 

I realize that this is a very important question, a very important matter in our lives, and we can be led and guided through light and truth to do that which the Lord desires of us, or we can be led by the influence of evil, the influences that we heard about this morning, the influences of the Adversary who seeks to mislead mankind. 

The Savior said to His disciples in the Sermon on the Mount: "Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it." Many people prefer to take the easier way, the way that brings them trouble and destruction. It is the Adversary who endeavors to lead men away to destruction; that is the broad way, the easy way, and the way which mankind have the power, the right to accept if they so choose, and which the Lord endeavors to influence them against. He wants us to live in harmony with righteousness and truth. That is a very important factor in our lives, the way we live, the desires, the feelings and the habits we have, because we have the power to do as we choose, and we will have to be responsible for everything we do. We should strive to be guided in righteousness, that we might be able to discern between that which the Lord desires and that which is influenced by the other power, which is contrary to truth and righteousness. 

HUMAN EMOTIONS AND REASON 

There is another factor by which we are affected, and that is the influence of our emotion. We have the power to control ourselves largely in this respect also, and yet we can gain a great deal of satisfaction through proper emotions if we cultivate them and live for them, if we do the right thing. There are emotions that are of a very elevating nature and there are others that are of a character that lead us to destruction and to downfall, and therein also we have a responsibility. There is another influence, and that is in the nature of reason or judgment which guides us in our lives, and we are supposed to use common sense and judgment in all the things we do; we have that power. Of course men are sometimes influenced by the other influence, the emotions and desires, and reason does not govern them altogether, but that is a very important thing for them to cultivate. 

We as Latter-day Saints have the opportunity of doing these things and we have the privilege and responsibility of cultivating the attitude and the qualifications, the factor of reason in our lives, that we may thereby be judged righteously in everything that concerns us. The Lord has given us an understanding of these things and how to control them, and to be influenced thereby, and we have the power also, if we live for it — every man has the power, has the understanding, and should be taught principles that will lead us to understand righteousness and the purposes of the Lord. 

POWER OF THE HOLY SPIRIT 

We have particularly that responsibility and that blessing that the Lord has given to every one who has received the Gospel that we are enabled to grow in the spirit and power and testimony of the truth and learn to know the difference between sound reasoning or judgment, and that which is not for our welfare; and we have the ability also to judge and discern between the influence and emotions which will lead us astray. 

And so the Lord desires that we should cultivate the influence and power of His Holy Spirit, and if we do this we shall grow in the spirit and power of the Gospel, love of truth, and understanding of His purposes, and if we continually maintain that attitude we shall develop in power to serve the Lord as He desires us. 

You will remember that when the Savior was upon the earth He repeatedly called the attention of His Apostles to the importance of keeping His commandments. He said to them time and again, "If ye love me keep my commandments." Frequently He called it to their attention, showing how important and desirable was the principle He had given them, and every other human soul to serve Him, keep His commandments and do His will. "Thereby," He said, "Ye show that ye love me if ye keep my commandments." 

Such an example as the divine influence of the Savior on mankind has been a great power for those who have sought to do His will and have drawn near to Him. To us as Latter-day Saints we have the opportunity and privilege of living up to this principle of serving the Lord 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

and doing His will and if we strive to do that continually we shall grow in influence and power through drawing near to Him and seeking to serve the Lord, and to do so in the name of His Beloved Son. Thereby we may all grow in the spirit and power of this work. That is a responsibility that rests upon all of us, who are members of the Church everywhere, and upon our children, the young people, that thereby everyone of them may grow in the love of the truth, the love of the Lord and the desire to do His will and keep His commandments. 

TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH 

I testify of these things to you and pray the Lord to bless you and bless us all in our desires to do right and live His will. I testify and declare that this is the work of the Lord. It is intended for the welfare of mankind, for their eternal salvation and exaltation. I testify also that the Prophet Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of the Lord. He has set the example to us in this dispensation of the blessings which follow the observance of the commandments of the Lord which he received from God. That same spirit and that same influence is manifested by the brethren who preside over the work now, and all of those who have presided over the Church in former days. I testify to these things and pray the Lord to bless us all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

There are three reasons recorded in the scriptures why Satan was cast out of Heaven, and with him those who rebelled against God and followed after Satan. Those three reasons were, as I recall them : first, that they were in rebellion against God; second, that they sought to arrogate unto themselves the credit, the honor and the glory which belong to God alone; and, third, that Satan sought to destroy the free agency of man, which God has given to every man, as we have heard here from the brethren who have preceded me. 

GOOD AND EVIL CANNOT BE DONE UNDER COMPULSION 

It is impossible for any man to commit sin under compulsion, and it is impossible for him to do good under compulsion; that is, I mean, this : there is no evil in doing wrong under compulsion, neither is there any virtue in doing good under compulsion. We are only responsible for that which we do willingly in the exercise of our free agency. God will hold us responsible for all that we do of our own volition and He has endowed us with certain gifts that will enable us to distinguish between good and evil. 

You will find recorded in the seventh chapter of the Book of Moroni wherein we are told in the sixteenth paragraph, that "the spirit of Christ is given to every man that he might know good from evil," and ever since the days of the Garden of Eden and the partaking of the forbidden fruit by our first parents the eyes of mankind have been opened to a knowledge  good and evil. The Lord has given us that knowledge by bestowing upon all that spirit of Christ that is poured out upon all men, and we know when we do wrong. No man can ever say that he did an evil thing because he had to do it, for if he had to do it there would be no evil in it; but if he does it with the consent of his own mind, then and then only can it be called "committing sin." The same thing will apply to doing good. They are good deeds only when they are done willingly. We will be judged according to the light and knowledge which God has given to us. 

Another great blessing that God has given to us for our guidance is that every one who has received the truth and entered into covenant with the Lord through the holy waters of baptism has received the gift of the Holy Ghost, which is the Spirit of Truth that will lead us into all truth, that our minds may be lit up thereby and our understandings enlarged. 

Compulsion does not belong to the theory of government in the Kingdom of God. There are many man-made governments where they seek to control the actions of others, even in their religion and everything else. All this is contrary to the mind and will of God. He desires that every man shall be free "to choose his life, and what he'll be, for this eternal truth is given, that God will force no man to heaven." 

So you see, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has not left us without divine guidance. We have a battle to fight; Satan was cast out of Heaven because he rebelled against God and sought to lead away and did lead away many of God's children, even one-third of the hosts of Heaven. 

THE SAVIOR'S PLAN FOR MANKIND 

In reply to the question which God propounded, "Whom shall I send?" (this pertaining to the sending to this world one to carry out the purposes of the Almighty Father) our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, known to ancient Israel as Jehovah said : 

Here am I, send me. . . . Father thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever. 

What a difference from the attitude of Lucifer, the son of the morning, otherwise called Satan, and sometimes called the devil, more frequently than not! What a difference in the attitude and the spirit! Said Lucifer : 

Here am I, send me, I will be thy Son and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost; and surely I will do it, wherefore, give me thine honor. 

He was ambitious, he wanted to arrogate to himself all the honor and the glory, and he wanted to use compulsion, and save us whether we wanted to be saved or not. Force will never convert the human mind; this can be done only in the exercise of our free agency and not otherwise. 

All through the teachings of our Savior we are taught the wonderful lesson of doing the will of God. The Lord taught us to pray to our Heavenly Father, "Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in Heaven." When that day comes the will of God will be done, but 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 5 Second Day 

not under any compulsion whatever. If we ever arrive in Heaven we will find that we have so adapted ourselves to the will of God that our minds will be lit up, we will have the Spirit of God which reveals to us the things of God, and we will know the will of God and act in accordance with it, or we will never get there. 

OBEDIENCE TO THE WILL OF GOD REQUIRED IN ALL THINGS 

And so I say this, that it is the will of God that we are to obey, and we have the means of ascertaining and learning it without any undue influence or coercion being used with us. "Thy will be done." The order and will of God — there is order in the Kingdom of God; there is order in Heaven; in this whole universe there is order; law prevails throughout the universe. There is an equilibrium in all this universe which is upheld and sustained by the will and power of God, by His laws, and sometimes we refer to them as the laws of nature. Let one of those laws be suspended and there will be confusion and disaster. Either there would be violent collisions among the heavenly bodies, or the members of this sidereal universe would fly off into an endless space, never again to return. There is order everywhere prevailing. I think it was Aristotle or one of the great philosophers who made the remark that order was the first law of heaven. I heard that contradicted the first time by President George Q. Cannon. I do not know whether it was original with him or not, but this is what he said : "No, order is not the first law of Heaven; obedience is the first law of Heaven, and order is the result." That is what I like, that coincides with my view. Obedience, then, of which we have heard so much, is the thing that will set us in order and will set the world in order. The universe renders obedience to the will of God, obedience to the law of Heaven, obedience to the Divine powers that preside over the universe. That is the way to unify ourselves and to find access to God. There will be no compulsion in it. 

The order as we find it in the universe prevails in Heaven, and therefore we should seek to know what the order and will of God are in all things pertaining to our lives here upon the earth, and we will have the Spirit of the Lord to guide us and the revelations of the Lord that have been given to men, that we might know good from evil. This Spirit pervades the universe, and it was by this Spirit that the universe was made — the Heavens and the earth. 

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 

The same was in the beginning with God. 

All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made. 

In him was life; and the life was the light of men. (John 1:1-4.) 

That is the true light which lighteth every man which cometh into the world, the light of Christ. "Let us walk in the light even as He is in the light," and we are told we shall then "have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse us from all sin." 

THE COVENANT MADE BY GOD 

The Gospel provides the plan of life and salvation to every one that will render obedience to it. 

The Lord makes covenant with His chosen people. The people of God have always been called a covenant people. We first entered into covenant with God in that primeval day before the world was made when God assembled before Him His sons and daughters and revealed unto them the plan of life and salvation — the glorious plan that has been revealed from Heaven, known as the New and Everlasting Covenant, which means the same thing as the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness. 

Under the terms of this covenant God requires us to keep His commandments. As it is set forth in the Book of Abraham, and translated by Joseph Smith, the Prophet, through the gift and power of God : "We will go down and make an earth whereon these may dwell," (thus says the Lord referring to His assembled children) "And we will try them herewith to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. They who keep their first estate shall be added upon * * * * * and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." 

We are now in our second estate, and if we do "all things" whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us, then we are promised in the covenant that we shall have glory added upon our heads forever and ever — a never-ending glory that shall continue to come to us throughout all the eternities that lie before us; a never-ending glory and life in the presence of God and His sons and His daughters, being heirs of God, even joint heirs with Jesus Christ, and with Him inherit all things that the Father hath. In other words, we shall be glorified and enter into the Celestial kingdom of God, and obtain that highest and greatest gift of God unto men — eternal life in His Celestial kingdom — or as Elder Joseph Fielding Smith told us, "eternal lives." 

When we speak of the New and Everlasting Covenant our minds immediately turn to the marriage covenant. This is truly a very important part of it, but it is only a part. The fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the everlasting covenant (See D. re C. 66:2.) They mean one and the same thing. Obedience, then, to the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness and primitive purity as restored to the earth in these last days through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, is our part in the Everlasting Covenant, and if we render this obedience by doing all things which the Lord, our God, has commanded us, then He is bound under the terms of the Covenant to do His part which He has promised to do, which is adding "glory upon our heads forever and ever." This simply means a never-ending glory that shall be added upon our heads throughout all the eternities that are to come. This is salvation, as contemplated under the New and Everlasting Covenant, for which our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ made the supreme sacrifice, redeeming us from death and the grave (both natural death of the body and spiritual death which was banishment from the presence of God.) It will be obvious therefore that when salvation comes it is through Him and Him only. 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

We cannot save ourselves for the "greatest gift of God to man is the gift of salvation," "for by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God." 

THE SAVIOR'S PART IN THE PLAN OF SALVATION 

Again let me emphasize that we need a Savior. After the transgression in the Garden of Eden the Lord said : 

Behold, the man is become as one of us to know good and evil; and now lest he put forth his hand and partake also of the tree of life, and eat and live forever (in his sins), therefore I, the Lord God will send him forth from the Garden of Eden. 

And he was literally driven out of the Garden of Eden. But, God did not forsake him; nevertheless he was banished from the presence of God, a condition which still prevails. We no longer see the face of God; we do not talk with Him face to face as did Moses and others, including Joseph Smith the Prophet, but we are banished, and it came upon Adam and all of his posterity. That is one phase then of salvation, to have that overcome. The other phase is the natural death of the body — "In the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die," and when that day comes and we shall attain to the allotted age of man, which is sometimes called seventy years — it may go to a hundred or even beyond that, I myself have gone nearly seventeen years beyond that alloted age — the time will come when we will shuffle off this mortal coil, and our bodies will be laid in the silent tomb', there to mingle with mother earth and to return to that mother earth from whence we came, but our spirits shall go back to God in His paradise if we are faithful, but anyway to the spirit world to await that glorious day when the trump shall sound and the dead shall arise and be clothed upon, if they have been faithful, with immortality and eternal life, but with immortality in any event in the due time of the Lord. 

So don't you see we are wholly and totally dependent upon the Lord to save us from these conditions; they are wholly beyond the power of any man. Which one of us can bring his own body out of the grave? How can we be brought back to God ? How can these things be ? The Savior answers that in very terse terms. Said He : "I am the Way, the Truth and the Life; no man cometh unto the Father but by me." Neither is there any name given under Heaven save the name of Jesus Christ whereby man must be saved. 

May the Lord help us, therefore, to seek the counsels that come from God and be guided by the Holy Spirit to enter into covenant with the Lord and keep ourselves sweet and clean and unspotted from the sins of the world. Just as surely as the day follows the night we shall be brought back to God to inherit all these wonderful blessings which He has promised unto them that love Him and keep His commandments. May God grant it, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the New England Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I have traveled a long way to attend this Conference. Boston is about the farthest point East on the Atlantic seaboard, and is a beautiful and historic city, but there is no joy like the joy of coming home. 

ASSOCIATE MISSION PRESIDENTS PRAISED 

I have the honor of being associated with some fifteen other Mission Presidents, who are fine and capable men. They are fearless and have taken hold of this work with all the power of fine manhood, of truth, and everything that is noble. They sit here before us in this congregation, unassuming, God-fearing men, and I want them to know that I am happy to be counted with them. It is an honor, for they have done me so much good, and my Mission as well, for naturally we call the Missions "Our Missions." 

EARLY MISSIONARY WORK IN NEW ENGLAND 

The New England Mission is in a sense the oldest Mission of the Church. President Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball were missionaries a hundred years ago and from that time to the present some of the greatest men of the Church have carried the Gospel to that part of the United States. Vermont, as you know, is the "cradle" of Mormonism, for in that State was born the Prophet Joseph Smith and President Brigham Young, and many others who have been the stalwart bearers of truth in this Church. 

We have a band of very fine and noble men and women, your boys and girls. It is very hard on them the first winter in New England, as the climate is very severe, but they face their difficulties bravely. Everything is so new, and we have only a few Saints comparatively. We have about 1,180 in the New England States and in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia in Canada. This entire section of America is very beautiful. 

MISSIONARIES MAKING HEADWAY 

In New England the people as never before are respecting this latter-day work. Our missionaries are allowed to speak and lecture upon Mormonism in many of the large churches. One of our brethren recently gave one of the most intelligent talks on the history of the restored Gospel that I have ever heard, and he did it fearlessly and with courage, and with beautiful English. He had studied his work and he bore testimony of the restoration of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

We are working together, and the nobility of our work is equal to the demands of the people there. You must remember New England has many colleges and universities. There are twenty-seven universities and colleges in and around Boston alone; and therefore we come in contact 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

with the students and faculties. Down in New Haven we have a group of fine boys in Yale University. In Cambridge, we have eighty Utah students in Harvard College, and they are all doing fine work. Up at Dartmouth and down at Brown University in Providence, and over in Smith College, not to mention other colleges, we have Utah students. We try to keep track of them and this work alone is very important. 

We teach the missionaries to study certain historical facts of New England. For example, December 20th of last year they spoke on the mission of the Pilgrim fathers, and read to hundreds of people the thirteenth chapter of I Nephi, which foretells the settlement of the shores of New England. We have held Priesthood meetings at Plymouth Rock and at the little town of Whitingham, Vermont, the birthplace of President Brigham Young. Many meetings have been held at South Royalton, where the Joseph Smith Memorial farm is located. President Heber C. Kimball was born at Sheldon, Vermont, and President Wilford Woodruff's birthplace was at Avon, Connecticut. Apostle Willard Richards was of New England lineage, as were Apostles Orson Hyde, Ezra T. Benson, Erastus Snow, and Franklin D. Richards. Many other historical characters of the Church were born in New England. The Elders have joy in visiting the old homes of our leaders, and some day the people will take pride that so many of the founders of the Latter-day work came out of New England and were of Puritan descent. 

ITEMS OF EARLY HISTORY IN NEW ENGLAND 

New England has the oldest churches in the United States, and hundreds of church buildings. We respect these church buildings, for whenever anyone with a clean purpose builds a church in honor of God, good is being done. The Elders of our Mission have cooperated with me in making a study of the history of the religions of New England with a view of being able to converse better on the subject of the Gospel. A number of books have moulded the thought of the people since the rise and growth of Puritanism, and as a result of our study, the Elders are able to draw comparisons in an intelligent manner. To illustrate just what I mean: In the year 1S36, John Calvin published a noted work on religion that moulded the thought of Protestantism possibly more than any other work. It was his famous Institutes of the Christian Religion. It was a clear exposition of Protestant doctrine and a forceful refutation of the opposing Catholic views. It also laid down the laws of Church government, later known by the name of Presbyterianism. An eminent modern Catholic scholar has called Calvin's book "the finest work of Reformation literature." In it Calvin gave his program for reform in religion, and when the book was translated into English, it moulded the thought of the Puritans of England. Copies of it were brought to America, and in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries it was used in many of the colleges where religion was taught. We missionaries have made careful study of the religious principles laid down by Calvin. 

Another work issued from the press about the same time as the Institutes was the work of Ignatius Loyola entitled Spiritual Exercises,  was a manual of religious drill designed to lead the sinner to concentrate all his faculties upon the task of realizing his sinfulness and God's abounding grace. 

One hundred years ago, there was a great uncertainty about the Christian faith, and of later years that uncertainty has grown so that to-day thousands, yes, I might say millions of the youth of America have little or no church allegiance, and are without foundation of religious home life or knowledge of the Bible. Even among those who call themselves Christian, there is an uncertainty as to what to believe. The deep discontent with the achievements of Christianity itself in dealing with social, economic, and international relations is weakening the sense of assurance of Christianity's value to the world. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S OWN STORY AND ARTICLES OF FAITH OF GREAT WORTH 

There are two documents that our missionaries are coming to know, documents that the world will have to reckon with. They are Joseph Smith's Own Story and the Articles of Faith. Had the Prophet Joseph Smith never issued anything else but his own story and the Articles of Faith, his work would in time have revolutionized religious thought. They refute the tragic mistake of the Calvin and Loyola documents, for they announce to the world the large fundamentals on which the restored Gospel is based. In the Prophet's writings you never find any pretense or bombast, but everything he writes is simple and direct. The reader is always impressed with his truthfulness and honesty. We are using these two documents with fine success in our mission. 

We are feeling the effects of the war in New England. Factories have been re-opened and thousands of men and women have found work. People differ on the policies of the administration at Washington. One thing I hope and that is that our country may keep out of this war and free from the terrible hatreds of the world. May we place our hands in His hand and go into the future with larger hopes and greater faith in His holy laws, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang "Come Unto Christ" — N. Lorenzo Mitchell. 

BISHOP LeGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

Considerable has been said at this Conference concerning the value of a testimony of the Gospel. Some years ago I had a discussion with an associate of mine in the Church, an educator, who said he believed the day had come when we would have to appeal to the young people of the Church through reason rather than through that which we customarily call a testimony of the Gospel. I answered that if we had reached that stage, then I feared for the future of the Church, as all that we had accomplished as a people had been because of the testimonies that the Lord had given unto us. 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

A TESTIMONY BRINGS WITH IT WILLINGNESS TO SACRIFICE 

I am sure we shall never forget the testimony we listened to yesterday from President Grant. I recall having been in this building as a boy and having heard President Woodruff's testimony of how the Lord had guided and inspired him all his life. I am not sure but what it was the last address he delivered here, and that testimony has always remained with me. When I think of President Grant's life and all he has accomplished, of his beautiful soul, his inspiration, and the sacrifices he has made in order to answer the calls that have been made of him in this great Church, I realize what his testimony has done for him. 

Many of us remember having heard President Ivins from this stand tell how many times he had sold all he had and burned his bridges behind him to answer the call of the brethren to serve in some other part of the Church. Those of us who have labored in the mission field know how many of the Saints have forsaken all they had in this world in order that they might be obedient to the testimonies the Lord had planted in their hearts. 

President Clark said in his address that in events that are yet to come we would find our testimonies of the Gospel our greatest solace. I feel as we are sending our boys at the present time into the service of their country if we can send them with a testimony of the Gospel in their hearts, that it will give them power to live their lives sweet and clean before God and all men, as they have been taught in their Latterday Saint homes. 

The Savior of the world indicated that if we would be His disciples we must be willing to forsake all that we have in this world, even to fathers and mothers, lands and herds, and I want to say to you that I do not believe men and women will forsake all they have because of any reasoning power they possess. They will do it when their souls are touched by the inspiration and power of the Spirit of the living God, which is the testimony of the truth, and then it is that men can love God more than they love anything else in this world, and hence forsake all because of their love of Him. 

I wish we could send our boys into the service of their country with the faith and testimony the two thousand Lamanite boys had in the time of Helaman of old when they went forth to battle and came back every man because of his faith. 

THE PROMISES OF THE LORD SURE OF FULFILMENT 

We have great promises resting upon us as a people and as individuals through obeying and keeping the commandments of God. Reference has been made to the promise of the Lord through observance of the Word of Wisdom, not only that we should run and not be weary, walk and not faint, and that we should receive hidden treasures of knowledge, but the destroying angel should pass by us and not slay us even as the children of Israel. 

It has been said that man's extremities are God's opportunities. We have all known that in our day should come the judgments of God,  great and dreadful day of the Lord, when all the proud, yea, all who do wickedly, should be as stubble, and that day should burn them up that it should leave them neither root nor branch. We have reason, if we have faith in God and keep His commandments, to believe that the destroying angel might pass us by as a people, and individually, and not slay us, and that we might stand as a light and an ensign to the world, and an evidence that God does not forget His promises. I hope every one of us believes in these promises the Lord has made to us. 

A PATRIARCHAL BLESSING AND ITS FULFILMENT 

Two weeks ago while I was visiting in Arizona a counselor to a Stake President told me of an experience he had which typifies many similar experiences of the members of this Church. He said that during the World War he was drafted. He was a young man and did not want to go to war; he felt if he ever went into action he would never return alive. So he went to the Patriarch, (and I met that Patriarch on the same trip) and the Patriarch came in from his field and said to this good brotber: "You sit down at the table and write as I dictate." He laid his hands upon the head of this young man and pronounced a blessing upon him, and I took the time to write it down as he gave it to me. I would like to read a few words from that blessing here today : 

Inasmuch as ye have been called to go to the defense of your country, I promise you if you will be humble and faithful and prayerful, that if your life is ever brought into danger, the way will be opened for your escape, and you will yet be given in marriage and have sons and daughters of good repute and be the means of doing much missionary work in the world. 

You see all this was conditioned upon his being faithful and prayerful and humble. It is a grand and glorious thing to bind the God of Israel to us through obeying and keeping His commandments. You will remember that He said to the Prophet Joseph : 

I, the Lord am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. 

This man had a promise from the Lord that was worth living for. 

I want to say to you, brethren and sisters, I would rather have the promise of God resting upon me than that of any mortal man, just as this brother who went forth to battle for his country. Within ninety days after he received his patriarchal blessing he was going over the top in France, and in his company were 250 men to which were added thirty replacements. On the day that the Armistice was signed, at 10 o'clock in the morning, there were eighty men left out of the 280, and they were told they should cease firing. The men gathered around, three of them in one hole, including this brother, of whom I speak. Two hundred yards away he saw the army kitchen, and he invited his companions to go with him to get something to eat. They had had no supper or breakfast and were sure they would get nothing if they went, so he went alone. Just as he was being handed a stack of hot cakes, a 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 5 Second Day 

bomb fell in the midst of the little company of eighty he had left behind and thirty of them were killed and fifty were left. When he returned, there were the two men that were in the hole with him, with the tops of their heads blown off. The Patriarch had said : 

If your life is ever brought into danger, the way will be opened for your escape and you will yet be given in marriage and have sons and daughters of good repute. 

He now has six children, one in the mission field. 

THE SAINTS STANDING IN HOLY PLACES 

Now the Lord made also this statement regarding the judgments that are to come in these latter days : 

But my disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and curse God and die. 

I do not know what you think about this promise. So far as I am concerned I think the Lord did not mean that we should stand on this Temple Block or back in Independence; I think He meant that His children should live such lives that wherever they stand the ground upon which they stand should be holy and sanctified because of their presence. 

THE ELEMENTS REBUKED BY FAITH 

You will recall that in the early days of the gathering of the Saints it was considered as good as an insurance policy when a company of Latter-day Saints embarked on a vessel crossing the Atlantic. I recall reading in my grandfather's diary of a time when the boat upon which he was sailing was in great jeopardy, so much so that the captain of the boat came to him and pleaded with him to intercede with the Lord in behalf of the boat and her passengers; and Grandfather, remembering that he had been promised that he should have power over the elements, walked out on the deck of the boat and raised his hands to high heaven and rebuked the sea and the waves, and they were immediately calmed, and the appreciation of the captain of the boat was so great that he offered him the use of his private quarters during the balance of the journey. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I believe that in the experiences that are ahead of us through the judgments that are to befall the nations, God will stand by our side, and by the side of our boys even though they go forth to battle^ if they take with them a testimony of the truth and the kind of faith they ought to have in the living God and in this great latter day work. 

I pray God to bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The teachings of Jesus, with the testimonies of the prophets concerning Him and concerning His death and resurrection, constitute the Gospel message. That is a universal message, not limited to any time nor to any people, but applicable to all peoples of all times. It purports to lay down correct principles of living life in mortality, upon which in turn depends man's condition of living in immortality. In short, it becomes the law of life valid for time and for eternity. In that view it must be regarded as the embodiment of absolute human and spiritual values, not subject to alteration with the aberrations of changing times, nor to variation with the vagrant shiftings of prevailing opinion. 

Those courses of behavior which harmonize with and conform to absolute spiritual values must be eternally right just as their opposites must be eternally wrong. Between the two there is undying conflict. They cannot accommodate themselves one to the other. If it were attempted to make adjustments between them by having each yield something to the other you might succeed in tempering the wrong but what you had left would not be the right. It could at best be right debased by an admixture of wrong, a counterfeit. 

FUNDAMENTALS MUST REMAIN UNALTERED 

The Church as the teacher and interpreter of the Gospel message cannot countenance any dilution. There may be new techniques of exposition, improved approaches, expanding understanding of interpretation and application and even a weeding out of extraneous accretions which have fastened themselves upon the basic principles, but in the fundamentals of the message itself there can be no alterations. Wherever the majority opinion may for the moment lie, or however the conflict may swirl and lash about it the eternal right must still stand unshaken and unmoved as the fixed base to which men may with assurance and safety anchor their lives. That which is right does not become wrong merely because it may be deserted by the majority, neither does that which is wrong today become right tomorrow by the chance circumstance that it has won the approval or been adopted by overwhelmingly predominant numbers. Principles cannot be changed by nor accommodate themselves to the vagaries of popular sentiment. 

TODAY'S TEST OF GOSPEL MESSAGE 

If, as I have already said, the Gospel message has, as in the very nature of the case it must have, a universality of application, without limit as to time or locality or people, then it must have in it a specific cure for the ills of every age. In all circumstances, in every time we should, if it fills the requirement of its claim, be able to turn to it and find a direction suited to the needs of the hour. For it is not divorced from life but on the contrary is concerned solely with the lives of men and so 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

must instruct and fortify them for life's requirements. Let us consider whether it meets that test as related to the conditions of today. 

The mischief against which there is presently the most insistent complaint is the reign of violence with its train of accompanying evils. This grows out of the arrogance and egotism of rulers and leaders who seek to establish their supremacy at whatever cost, and without regard to consequences to humanity at large or to nations or individuals in particular. The Gospel message on the contrary admonishes men to humility. 

Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 

But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room; that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee. 

For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. 

But he that is greatest among you, shall be your servant. 

HUMILITY WOULD WIPE OUT VIOLENCE 

Let these sayings characterize the desires of men and oppression would vanish away. There is no nation today whose leaders would not be immeasurably benefitted by a lesson in humility. 

One of the results of a reign of violence is the denial of justice, but justice is a cardinal part of the Gospel law. 

What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God. 

Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets. 

In any land where that law prevailed there could never be the plundering, the robbing, the despoiling and the murdering that invariably accompany the rule of force. I have spent a large part of my mature life in dealing with and trying to adjust people's disputes. I have learned that there would be very little trouble between men in this world if only every one wanted to do about what is right — to be fair and just. The trouble grows out of the unjust advantage taken of situations which throw unfair opportunities into the hands of those who are willing to exploit them. The discouraging part about it lies in the difficulty of getting reciprocal willingness among disputants to yield to the principle of fairness. As one may be disposed to yield the other increases already unjust demands. But that has nothing to do with the existence of the principle about which we are just now inquiring. It only signifies rejection of the message. 

WAR NEVER ENDS WAR 

Another evil consequence of the rule of force is that it begets reprisals, which lead to interminable conflicts. We are all familiar with the feuds of families and clans and the wars of tongs carrying down through long generations. The victim of a wrong suffered or a grievance borne waits the day of revenge and then takes it with interest compounded. The  sufferer in turn retaliates when a change of fortune favors him and so the mischief endlessly spirals. 

"Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord." Its exercise cannot safely be left to mortals. In nothing is the futility of war more surely revealed than in the inevitable consequence of reprisals. The victor despoils the vanquished. The latter with an undimmed memory waits the day of retribution and when the time of reckoning comes takes back what was before lost with something more besides, thus sowing the seed of a future war. Seemingly the memory of nations is long; they never forget and war never ends war. 

THE SPIRIT OF REPRISAL 

We see the same vicious evil at work in all the contested relations of men. We may take an illustration from current happenings. Laboring men, by which we mean those who toil with their hands in the service of others, have complained that they have been unfairly treated. I have not any doubt that their complaint is a just one. They have striven for correction. Through unionization and a combination of circumstances they have possessed themselves of vast powers. Their direction unfortunately has fallen far to.o largely into the hands of unscrupulous exploiters and the spirit of reprisal is set in operation. They now in many ways seek to punish those against whom they have nursed their grievances. These offer resistance and useless quarrels grow. 

The simple law is that a wrong is never righted by the commission of another wrong. The expressive common phrase is "Two wrongs never make a right." Those who have so bitterly inveighed against injustice now deny their fellow workmen who do not wish to join with them the right peaceably by their honest toil to earn their daily bread. Rival unions quarrel among themselves and in promotion of their feuds stop work to the irreparable loss of non-contending parties and the public at large. By violence property is destroyed, men maimed and murdered and anarchy supplants the rule of law and order. 

DEFENSE PREPARATIONS DELAYED THROUGH GREED 

We read daily reminders that a national peril hangs over us, which can be averted only by straining every productive power we have while at the same time plants are shut down and men forced to idleness as the alleged danger creeps steadily upon us. Boys by the thousands have been taken from their employment to prepare themselves for the fighting service where they receive twenty-one dollars a month. No one knows how soon they may be in armed battle, but the implements of war they shall need are not being provided because those who remain undisturbed in their employment, and who are already drawing from two to three times as much in a week as the soldier gets in a month, strike for higher pay and as a means of enforcing their demands not only refuse to work themselves but by violence prevent others who are willing to work from doing so. If the soldier boys go into war unequipped somebody will be answerable. GENERAL CONFERENCE THE WAY TO INDUSTRIAL PEACE 

And how useless it all is. Instead of reprisals or vengeance the Gospel message teaches forgiveness and peace. 

Let not the sun go down upon thy wrath. 

But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. 

For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. 

But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. 

In these principles of the Gospel message lies the way to industrial peace. I appeal to the laboring men to forego the methods of force and vengeance for they will never bring you peace of mind, contentment of spirit nor the rewards you seek. I think I am in a position from experience and observation to understand your aspirations. I have a deep sympathy with your desire to improve your conditions. It is a laudable ambition for every one. But vituperation and violence and hatred and reprisal will bring you in the end only disillusionment, disappointed hopes and the bitterness of remorse. The peaceful way of counsel and persuasion and a willingness to show justice and observe the right are the ways that will win. I make the same appeal to the industrialist, to the man of agriculture and to the whole race. 

PEACE IS DRIVEN FROM OUR BORDERS 

This goodly land of ours, the boasted refuge of the oppressed and the guarantor of freedom, is seething with unrest. Strife, class rancors, uncertainty, hatreds, greed, deception, demagoguery have driven peace from our borders. The simple truth is that the interests of all classes are inseparably bound up together. There is no legitimate basis for antagonisms between industrialists and laborers or between agriculturists and either of the others. They are kept apart by distrust, suspicion and a reciprocal lack of faith and confidence. Each is essential to the other. Neither can prosper alone, but they are set in conflict by stupid name calling, epithet hurling, and intemperate denunciations. These procedures have always failed. The healing for wounds is not more wounds but a soothing balm. 

The final resort of a nation which seeks to impose its unbridled will upon others is war. War is always evil. It has always been so and never can be anything else. 

WARS SETTLE NOTHING 

If you read your Hebrew scriptures you will see that the destructions which befell the people were heralded by wars and slaughters. War was the scourge by which the land was devastated as told in the Book of Mormon story. And when Jesus was describing to His disciples the sorrows and tribulations which were to be so terrible that except they should be cut short there should no flesh be saved, prominent among the  terrors were wars — nation rising against nation and kingdom against kingdom. 

A war of defense may be justifiable. It may be the only means of saving from utter extinction those institutions and sanctions through which the ways of peace by conversion to a better way may be implemented. But so far as any lasting enduring results are concerned wars themselves settle nothing. It is their history that the settlements imposed at the close of one contain the seeds of another to follow. 

But I need not pursue the point. The thesis I laid down at the beginning, namely, that the Gospel message is universal and has in it, all the necessary curative agents for the ills of the day, is clearly demonstrable. Your own reflection will carry you far beyond any place to which in the limits of my time I have been able to take you. 

GOSPEL MESSAGE MUST BE TAUGHT 

Let me in closing refer again to the second phase of my theme, namely, that in the eternal conflict between right and wrong there can be no compromise. The Gospel message cannot change its principles to accommodate itself to the caprice of the hour. Among the great unchangeables are the truth that God lives; that Jesus Christ is His Son, the Messiah, the Savior of the world; that He died, was buried and was raised from the dead; that man is a child of God, destined to immortality; that he is therefore a sacred being and that it is unalterably wrong to enslave him or to coerce the human spirit; that there is a moral law by which man must, through disciplined self-control, govern himself which finds its faithful expression in the Ten Commandments as given by Moses and reiterated and reinforced by the Master, and which cannot be rejected without destroying the foundations of civilized life. These convictions are the essential conditions to the incorporation of the principles of the Gospel message into the lives of men by which alone may be satisfied the hunger of the world for tranquility and peace. These truths the Church can never cease to teach. 

It is for you leaders to see that they are taught. That God may give you power to do so, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. BROADBENT 

Former President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I was notified before noon that I would be given five minutes in which to bear my testimony, and I have been worrying about it ever since. 

I had the privilege, with my family, under the good graces of our leadership and the blessings of the Lord to preside in the North Central States Mission for a little more than three years. We are very grateful for that opportunity. I think I shall leave the report of that mission to my worthy successor, who I believe is the best man in the Church to succeed me in that position, Elder George F. Richards, Jr., who for the past six months has been presiding in that field of labor. We were 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

released from that glorious opportunity to come and take his position in the Temple, he having been Second Counselor to President Chipman there while we presided in the mission. 

While in the North Central States, I considered that to be the best position in the Church. Now I will say without hesitancy that I believe that any position in which we may have the privilege of serving in this Church is the best place that we can be appointed to labor, it matters not where, only let us remain active in the Church. 

We are just now in the midst of what our people are considering rather a tightening up on the question of recommendations to get into the Temple. I have no disposition to speak at length to that particular point, but to illustrate with an incident that occurred only a few weeks ago when a member from a very worthy family came and said : "Are you going to keep me out of the Temple for the sake of a cup of coffee?" 

The attendant who met that sister replied, "Are you going to let a cup of coffee keep you out of the Temple ?" I think that is the position we must take in our testimony, as I find myself fully in accord with all. that has been said at this Conference thus far. 

I find myself committed to the thought that my testimony is my life. I believe the day will never come when this Church can move forward without the divinity of the testimony of Jesus Christ, but I am sure that there is a practical side to that testimony. There is no virtue in a mere assent to a confession of belief in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We really have to do something about it. There are two purposes as I see it in the Gospel plan and in service of the Church. First, the great mission of seeing that this Gospel reaches mankind throughout the world. We must teach mankind in every nation, kindred, tongue and people; and the second mission of this message is that we shall perfect ourselves as individuals through activity in the Church, in applying its every teaching. 

There is no testimony in the heart of any man, as I understand a real testimony, who declares that he believes in the Word of Wisdom if he continues to desecrate it; to break that law in any way. I am very positive in my mind that no man can have a full testimony of the law of tithing who does not honestly pay a full tithing. I am very well committed to the thought that in the homes of the Latter-day Saints there are none who have a full and complete testimony of the Gospel, who neglect their daily prayers with the family. I cannot conceive as a fact that a Latterday Saint with a testimony, will let his children grow up in idleness without having them understand that there is a great educational institution all around us,- — I mean the entire educational system provided by the State from the grades through the university, — that they could be receiving the benefits of, instead of leaving them to grow up in ignorance. I am convinced that there is no real testimony in the homes of the Latterday Saints where the parents do not lead their children into the organizations of the Church, to train and teach them the benefits and blessings of this great program. The plan of salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the greatest university that has ever been instituted in all the world. 

I am very sure that if we had a full and complete testimony of the Gospel of Christ in 100% of the homes of the 806,000 Latter-day Saints,  if we were living according to our teaching, that we would need no other missionary work in the world. The whole world would be at our feet and ask "How did you do it?" for it would produce such a superior race of men and women as has never been known in the earth up to the present time. 

If we had a full and complete testimony of the Gospel of Christ in our homes our young men and maidens would not be seeking either the Bishop or the President of the Stake, a constable or Judge, or any other officer of the land to consummate their marriage at the proper age in life; but they would come into the House of the Lord to be sealed for time and for all eternity, knowing that this is the only real type of marriage instituted by God and designed to be eternal. 

I am just as sure if we might detail all the other activities of the Church that my testimony, your testimony, is measured by my actions, by your actions, and in no other way. I may give assent, but that is not a testimony. The testimony as I see it is illustrated largely as a result of what is said of the two great Greek orators, Demosthenes and Cicero. 

When Cicero spoke everyone said: "He speaks well." But when Demosthenes spoke the audience declared, "Let us go against Philip." Philip to us is the sins of this hour; Philip to us is the desecration of the Sabbath Day and the breaking of any and all the other moral and religious laws of God. I may have this testimony in knowledge, but it is as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal unless my life responds to it in all the affairs that I am responsible for. 

God give me the power to move in the circles where I am appointed, to the end that I may show by my works that I do know the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, I pray earnestly in His name, even so. Amen. 

ELDER MERRILL D. CLAYSON 

Former President of the Southern States Mission 

It has been a great opportunity to have had the privilege of filling a mission in the Southern States, as well as a previous one in England. 

The introduction of the Gospel of Jesus Christ into the Southern States, like the beginning of most new movements, was accompanied by gross misunderstanding, hatred and bitter persecution. The history of this mission is filled with incidents of persecution that our missionaries went through in order to introduce the Gospel into that land. From 1875 to 1900 there is recorded over 135 mobbings experienced by the missionaries. More than ten churches were either torn down or burned by the mobs. Four Elders lost their lives while carrying the Gospel to their fellowmen and it took years to break down this great wall of persecution. 

History is replete with evidences which show that through all of this the Lord was back of this great work in prompting, inspiring and building the lives of men and women who stood for truth. Today the scene presents a completely different picture. Persecution has vanished and the missionaries are given the opportunity of preaching the Gospel 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 5 Second Day 

in all cities of the Southern States Mission extending from the Mississippi River to the Atlantic Ocean, and from the South Tennessee line to Key West, Florida. 

As an example of this great change in the attitude of the people of the South toward our Church may I relate just one experience. Sometime ago the chairman of a council of religions made the request that the President of the Southern States Mission appear before the ministers and executives of more than twenty-five churches and tell them the philosophy and story of Mormonism. Naturally this request was granted, and when the day arrived the large Mormon Church in Jacksonville, Florida, was filled to overflowing. A few Latter-day Saints were on the side, but most of the people in that great hall were ministers and religious executives of Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish churches. 

It was a great opportunity. I never felt more keenly in my life the responsibility of representing my Church and my God than I did on that occasion. It was peculiarly interesting to be introduced to such a congregation as that by the wife of a Jewish Rabbi. After the meeting was over, Catholics, Protestants, and Jews came up to the speaker with as much enthusiasm and appreciation for the truths of Mormonism that had been presented, as if they had been members of the Church. 

There never has been a time in the Southern States Mission when conditions have been more ideal for the spread of the Gospel than today. The number of souls accepting the Gospel in that land is rising to greater heights continually. The future of this Mission presents a most promising outlook. The people of the South are naturally religious. They are great believers in the Bible, and the assertion that they are sincere and hospitable cannot be overestimated. 

I believe that the time is coming and not far off when this Mission is to be one of the strongest and most powerful units of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God has endowed this great southern country richly in natural beauty, with shrubs, with the oak and the sweet magnolia, wth the dogwood, and many, many other types of her creation. I am grateful for the opportunities I have had of filling this mission. I appreciate the opportunity that the First Presidency of the Church has given me and believe from the bottom of my heart that these men are called by God and are working in His behalf in this great kingdom. 

Whenever I have had an element of doubt in my life regarding their instructions I have lived to see the time when I was wrong and they were right. This has convinced me more than ever that their vision of this great Church of ours is unusual, that they are called of God, that they are inspired by God, and that men and women who follow their advice will be happier, more progressive, and reach greater heights than those who stoop to complain and find fault with God's servants. 

And so I bear you this testimony today. We may not always think as they think, but they are God's servants. If a time should come that any of them are not in line with their duty we shall not need to worry about removing them. The Lord will remove them from their positions as He did Saul and others in days of old. 

God bless us to stand back of them solidly as a unit for the progress of this great Church, and for our personal happiness in life, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An anthem, "O Divine Redeemer," was sung by the Choir. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I should like again to express our gratitude and appreciation to this wonderful chorus that has come to us from Idaho. We are grateful to them for all the work they have done in preparing to do this singing for us. They are a splendid group of young people, and we certainly pray that the Lord will bless them in their labors. 

Please drive carefully, brethren and sisters. I do not know how widespread this storm may be, but be careful, and if any of these young people in the choir are returning home tonight I hope they and their drivers will be particularly careful. You who are walking on the streets, please be good enough to walk carefully and observe the signals. 

Elder Clifford E. Young, President of the Alpine Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until ten o'clock Sunday morning, April 6. 


