Afternoon
06 04 1941 

The concluding session of the Conference convened Sunday afternoon, April 6, at 2 o'clock. 

Again the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity; in addition, the Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle, was filled to capacity, and thousands of others congregated on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the services as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir furnished the music for this session of the Conference — Elder J. Spencer Cornwall, Director; Elder Alexander Schreiner, Organist. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The time has arrived to open the sixth and last session of this General Conference. President Heber J. Grant is presiding and he has asked President Clark to conduct the services. 

Again I repeat, through the courtesy of KSL and other stations cooperating, this service is being broadcast to four stations in Idaho, one in Price, and one in Cedar City. The Presidents of Stakes in these localities have arranged meetings in various of their Ward meeting houses. We have already heard from some of them saying they are having a good time. A direct wire from the Tabernacle here to the Los Angeles Tabernacle is also carrying the services to that area. 

There are present on the stand this afternoon President Grant and his two Counselors, the full quorum of the Twelve, all of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and all of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet." 

Elder J. Percy Goddard, President of the Liberty Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang "By Babylon's Wave" — Gounod. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been very happy during this Conference, barring the anxiety that I have felt and feel, knowing that I would be expected to speak and to lead in intelligent, profitable thought the many people assembled and those who are on the air listening. The thought of it is almost appalling. If it were not for the faith that I have in the Lord through His Spirit coming to my assistance, I feel that I would wilt. 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

A MANIFESTATION OF INTEREST 

I can say that my feelings have been in perfect accord with the business that has been transacted in this Conference, and with all that has gone before. I rejoice exceedingly in the blessing of the Lord that has been upon us in these various meetings. The attendance at each session, including the Priesthood meeting held in this building last evening, has far exceeded the seating capacity. Many hundreds of people have had to stand. One of the Mission Presidents told me last evening after the meeting that he had to stand all through the Priesthood meeting, that he could not find an unoccupied seat. 

This is a glorious condition. It gives great satisfaction to the Presidency of this Church, the General Authorities, and I am sure it is pleasing to the Lord, — a manifestation of interest in the work of the Lord, in which we are engaged. 

JOY IN THE MINISTRY 

I have enjoyed my labors as much during the last six months in the ministry as at any other period of my life and experience. I rejoice in going out into the Stakes of Zion and the Missions and meeting leaders of the people, and the faithful of the people who attend our conference meetings. I find as I get better acquainted with members of the Church and leaders of the Church, that my love for them increases, and my appreciation for them and for the Gospel, increases also. The only difference between the love that I have for these leaders and the other part of the Church membership is that I do not know the others so well. There are just as good men and women, they are numbered by the thousands in this Church, whose acquaintance I do not have, who are just as good and faithful as those with whom I am acquainted. 

I love the Latter-day Saints, and I hope that they can give me their love and support in return. I believe I have the confidence of the people. I am trying to live my religion as a teacher, to set a good example, and to encourage others to live their religion, and to faithfully serve the Lord. 

REVELATION BROUGHT TRUE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD 

In speaking of the Gospel I have in mind now what the Lord said of ancient Israel: 

I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 

Thou shalt have no other gods before me. 

Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 

Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, or serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God. 

I am sure that it is displeasing to our Heavenly Father that His sons and daughters should worship anything else, or in any other way than that which He has designed and taught. The scriptures are replete with information pertaining to God the eternal Father, His existence, 113 

His attributes, His personality, and qualities, so that there should be no question in the minds of intelligent men and women as to what kind of a being the God of this world is, the God of Abraham, of Isaac and Jacob. Yet the world has been in darkness for ages, with respect to the knowledge of God. In His loving mercy, in the opening of this Gospel dispensation of the fulness of times He revealed Himself anew to the world of mankind, He and His Son Jesus Christ, our Savior, appearing to the boy Joseph Smith, whom He raised up to be a mighty prophet of the last days, for the restoration of the Gospel and the establishment anew of His Church and kingdom here upon the earth, in preparation for the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. 

ONE FATHER OF THE SPIRITS OF MEN 

There is a responsibility on the membership of this Church to make known to the people of the world this wonderful revelation of the Father and the Son, as a part of the restored Gospel. We are told by scripture that a belief in God the eternal Father is vitally necessary to all intelligent beings. Their faith is centered in Him, and of necessity they must have a correct understanding of Him, and know Him as He is, a glorified and exalted being in whose image and likeness we are in very deed born sons and daughters of God. 

Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live? 

Many fathers of the flesh, but one Father of the spirits of all men, the eternal Father of us all. So every man and every woman under the sound of my voice is either a son of God or a daughter of God. He is our eternal Father. And as things earthly are typical of things heavenly, when we think of Father we naturally think of Mother. We think of being born. So we have been born of our heavenly parents in the spirit, and in our spirit birth have inherited attributes and qualities of a God-like character. What a noble parentage! What a noble ancestry we are of! What manner of men and women ought we to be? In the language of the scripture we might say: 

Look unto the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit whence ye are digged. 

The love which our Father in heaven bears for us is divine love, a perfect love. Jesus said : 

For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

He gave His Son to a life of sorrow and to a death upon the cross. What that meant of sorrow to the Son and to the Father we shall never fully know while we are in mortality. We read how that in the Garden of Gethsemane He sweat great drops of blood, so great was the anguish of His soul because of the wickedness and abominations of the people. 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

THE GREATEST GIFT 

Then we read about His death upon the cross. His was the greatest gift that ever was given. It is a proof of love, divine, the Father for His children, a sacrifice, the greatest ever made; a service, the greatest ever rendered. And as He has loved us and done so much for us in providing for our salvation, He has asked us, in return, to love Him, even with all our heart, soul and mind, and then to love one another, our neighbor as ourselves. If we could obey those two commandments, what peace there would be in the earth. If all mankind could live up to those two principles there would be no more bloodshed, no widows and orphans caused through wars rampant in the nations of the earth. There would be no hatred in our souls, but love would abound. 

That is what our Father in heaven would like of us above all other things, that we love Him first, and that we love one another. In our home in heaven there was peace, there was love. After Lucifer was cast out, and those with him, there was no more contention. When we come to earth, though our recollection of the past is withheld, why should we not love one another here ? 

Do we hate those men in high places responsible for war and bloodshed, killing and maiming and making widows and orphans? If we love them as we should we would not hate them. The mother doesn't hate the wayward son or the wayward daughter. A mother's love, next to the love that our Father in heaven bears for us, is the kind of love that should actuate us, one toward another. Whether we are in the Church or out of the Church, we are our Father's children, all of us, and the Lord loves us, and no doubt sorrows over the sins and the wickedness of some, and rejoices over the righteousness of others. 

SACRIFICE REWARDED 

I trust and pray, brethren and sisters, that we may live up to the light of the Gospel which has come to us, for it is a glorious truth. It is appealing. There is no question but what the reward in this life and the life to come will amply pay for every sacrifice that we make. And brethren and sisters, if we ever lose out in the end, and meet with disappointment, it will be because we have not done the things which we know that we ought to do, and that we have done things that we know we ought not to do. In other words, if we live up to the light which we have we will not meet with condemnation, but with the favor of heaven. 

May the Lord help us to so live and to labor, in return for the love which is extended unto us by our Father in Heaven, and His Son Jesus Christ. May we return love and show by our actions that we do love the Lord, and let us show by our actions that we do love our fellowmen, and that we are going to keep the commandments of God. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 115 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters : We welcome with all our hearts Brother Harold B. Lee and the other brethren who have been called to new service in the, Church and Kingdom of God. 

This has been a profitable and inspiring Conference. The sweet spirit of the Lord has brooded over the sessions of the Conference, from the first when President Grant delivered his remarkably impressive opening address. 

I desire to speak to a simple and well worn subject, one which has been touched upon by every speaker at this splendid Conference, and which of necessity is approached in every Stake or Ward Conference. Yet, it bears repetition. 

TOLERENCE FOR THE OPINIONS OF OTHERS 

I have chosen a theme which seems vital in the lives of Latter-day Saints. 

Among the principles of beauty and power which make up the Gospel, none is more conducive to peace than the Mormon doctrine of tolerance. We are taught to give due respect to the opinions and mode of life of our fellow beings. This accepted principle was formulated concisely by the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

We claim the privilege of worshipping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where or what they may. (11th Article of Faith.) 

That is, men may believe and act as seems to them good so long as they do not infringe upon our rights or transgress the law. They may cherish false beliefs, yet we mingle with them in friendliness. Thereby the association of mankind is made tolerable. 

THE CHURCH HAS SUFFERED FROM INTOLERANCE 

We of this Church have reason to be tolerant; for we know the lawless cruelty of intolerance. For over a century we suffered a religious persecution of Satanic fury, unparalleled in modern times, and seldom if ever surpassed in former days. Often helpless in the face of intolerant fury, the Latter-day Saints have only been able to say, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." If the Lord had not been our captain, and truth our chart, men would long since have destroyed the Church. We know that tolerance is of God; intolerance of the devil. We are and must remain a tolerant people. 

TRUE MEANING OF TOLERANCE 

However, the true meaning of tolerance is often misunderstood. Tolerance has its distinct limits. To allow our neighbors the privilege 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 6 Third Day 

to believe and live as they choose, under the law, does not mean that to keep peace we must live as they do. 

Tolerance is not conformity to the world's view and practices. We must not surrender our beliefs to get along with people, however beloved or influential they may be. Too high a price may be paid for social standing or even for harmony. Appeasement was recently tried in the world, and the most hideous war of history is the result. The Gospel rests upon eternal truth; and truth can never be deserted safely. Allegiance to truth, as well as tolerance, is of the Lord. 

True, there are matters of minor importance to which all may wisely conform. Such are the constantly changing conventions or fashions in dress, speech and etiquette. Whether a woman wears her hair long or short, or a man a soft or a starched collar, are not vital matters. They do not violate the law of God, and no one takes them seriously. Wisdom dictates to all in the words of Pope : 

Be not the first on whom the new is tried Nor yet the last to lay the old aside. 

DANGER IN NOT LIVING UP TO STANDARDS 

But, deviations, however slight, from the straight Gospel path, become major matters in life. Whatever is contrary to the doctrine or regulations of the Church or in violation of our covenants with the Lord, in baptism, in the Temple, or elsewhere, is of evil and therefore should be spurned. .It is dangerous to play fast and loose with truth and our sacred covenants. Spiritual and moral disintegration begins when we sacrifice truth to conform with the way of the crowd. The creeping evil that then sets in begets indifference and often ends in apostasy. It leads to certain unhappiness. 

Clearly, in a world of many men of many minds, it requires at times some courage to be true to our convictions. The non-smoker, or non-drinker, or non-card player, may feel alone in a smoking company, or in a cocktail or card or gambling party. The coward within us always shrinks from being a target for observation or criticism. In fact, however, the person who stands by his honest convictions wins the respect of all decent people. Honest courage is always admired. On the contrary, he who is untrue to his professions, to win the favor of the crowd, is held in contempt, often unspoken but equally real, by his associates. Smoking or drinking young men of Latter-day Saint parentage are seldom welcomed by smoking and drinking employers. He who is untrue to his convictions may fail in his business integrity. So reasons the wise man of the world. 

THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST FOUNDED IN TRUTH 

Latter-day Saints have no reason to forsake their beliefs for the plaudits of the crowd. Rather, there should be a vast gratitude in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. The Gospel is founded in unshakeable truth; it sheds light upon that which is dark; it is unsurpassed for answering the deep questions of the human soul; its authority to 117 , the Priesthood, sets this people apart from all others in their power to perform work for private and public good. Every principle is divinely devised for human good. Experience has shown that men are better off for keeping the Word of Wisdom, or paying tithes to the Lord, or complying with any other Gospel practice. In the midst of the world's philosophies, the Gospel of Jesus Christ stands unconquered. We should be so proud of our membership in the Church of Christ, that we would refuse, with disdain, to disobey, for public acclaim or personal appetite, any principle of action within the Church. 

THOSE VALIANT FOR TRUTH ARE CONQUERORS 

Latter-day Saints should be thoroughly loyal to the course of life laid out in the Gospel plan. A milk-and-water allegiance kills; while a passionate devotion gives life and soul to any cause and its adherents. The troubles of the world may largely be laid at the doors of those who are neither hot nor cold; who always follow the line of least resistance; whose timid hearts flutter at taking sides for truth. As in the great Council in the heavens, so in the Church of Christ on earth, there can be no neutrality. We are, or we are not, on the side of the Lord. An unrelenting faith, contemptuous of all compromise, will lead the Church and every member of it, to triumph and the achievement of our high destiny. 

The final conquerors of the world will be the men and women, few or many matters not, who fearlessly and unflinchingly cling to truth, who are able to say no, as well as yes, on whose lofty banner is inscribed : No compromise with error. At the present moment it is a flaming faith in liberty, a phase of truth, that enables England to withstand her enemies despite the rain of powder and steel. 

THE SPIRIT OF EVIL RAMPANT 

Our world is sick. Millions of men have surrendered or have been made to surrender to an evil spirit — the spirit of Satan. Those who are attacked with the malady foam with a brutal, snarling ferocity. They have forgotten the kingship of man; they have descended below the beasts. They invoke and use the law of the jungle. The prince of darkness has world-girdling ambitions. The leaders of the nations, stupefied by the incredible prostration of our hard-won civilization, stand helplessly among their bombs, airships and submarines. They know that the issue is not material, but spiritual. They know that the changed heart alone can restore peace to earth. In their inmost selves they are calling for men of truth, who will not sell their birthright for a mess of pottage, who do not know the meaning of compromise. And all the world, the hosts of common men, beckon for such leadership. Humanity does not care to live in, and bring children into, a world ruled by ignorance, hate, perfidy and blasphemy. 

BELIEVERS IN CHRIST THE ULTIMATE LEADERS IN THE WORLD 

That leadership, the world's prime need, must come, as we know, 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

from those who accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and who, courageously and without apology, cling to its truth and practice. They will be the leaven in the lump; they will be the world's wonder workers; they will be the ultimate conquerors, though they may be but a handful in numbers. Goliath's man-made sword was no match for David's faithdirected pebble. 

This places a heavy burden upon us, members of the restored Church of Christ; the authorized holders of the Priesthood; the lightbearers and truth-givers of the world. To assume leadership in pointing the way to peace has always been the high commission, perhaps the highest, of the Church of Christ. In the end, the world's peace depends on us. This seems a stupendous claim; we make it humbly; but, the word of the Lord does not fail. Out of Zion shall issue the power that will change swords into plowshares, and make the earth a happy dwelling place for men. 

We, the members of the Church, now far-flung over the earth, must make and keep ourselves fit by obedience for the mission assigned us — the regeneration of the world. It is a call to every member of the Church. As we obey the commandments, so will the strength of the Church be. As we fearlessly live the law, the influence of the Church will cover the earth and prepare it for peace. Delay and vexation, sorrow and bloodshed, will overtake us if we surrender our convictions, and enter into compromise with the world. It is better to observe the law, even in its lesser details. Then we shall have the greater claim for personal satisfaction in the days of our years. 

All this was said by our Lord, the Redeemer of mankind. Shortly before His sacrificial death He prayed to His Father for those who should remain after Him, to carry on the work which He had established. The burden of that immortal prayer was, that His disciples should not be taken out of the world, for their message was to the world, but that though they were in the world, they should not be of the world. 

I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. (John 17:15, 16.) 

That is the problem of every Latter-day Saint, especially as we spread over the earth, and as mankind calls for help: To be in the world, but not of the world! To be ever a unique people, a peculiar people, in the observance of righteousness. They who fail to do so, will suffer cankered souls, will question the value of life, and eventually will face spiritual death. 

We all look with trepidation into the future. No land is wholly safe. Disaster may overtake any or all. It is folly to trade the permanent joys of the Gospel for man-made, transient, unsatisfying and often injurious offerings. Israel would show the higher wisdom if all of us laid away the things that are not in harmony with Gospel law, that distract us, take our time, and leave us empty when the day is done; if every man of us would set his house in order until he could say with Joshua of old, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." 119 

Today, as perhaps never before, the battle-cry of modern Israel, the people of the Lord, must be, with respect to the truths of the Gospel : "No Compromise."* 

May the Lord bless us and give us faith, courage, clearness of vision, and strength of will to live His law, to keep our covenants, and to be wholly acceptable servants in His great cause, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

All of the brethren who have spoken have indicated there are two terrors which we up here suffer. One is the anxiety which runs along until we are called, and the other is the fear which we have when we are called. We cannot relieve Brother Lee of the first, but we will relieve him of the second by calling him now, following Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve who has just spoken. 

Our next speaker will be Elder Harold B. Lee whom we sustained this morning as a member of the Council of the Twelve. 

ELDER HAROLD B. LEE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This morning before I came to the meeting I wound my watch, and when the meeting closed I took it out to look at the time. I discovered that it had stopped at twenty minutes after ten. I was numb and dumb. I am not sure, when I finish here, that I shall not find my watch completely put out of commission. 

THOUGHTS STIRRED BY NEW ASSIGNMENT 

Since nine o'clock last night I have lived an entire lifetime in retrospect and in prospect. I spent a sleepless night. I never closed my eyes one moment, and neither would you if you had been in my place. Throughout the night, as I thought of this most appalling and soulstirring assignment, there kept coming to me the words of the Apostle Paul, that he spoke in explanation of the human qualities that were to be found in the Lord and Savior : 

For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. 

Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need. 

One could not have listened to the soul-stirring testimony of President Grant, in bearing testimony as to his feelings when he was called to the apostleship, or his experiences in calling others to similar positions, without realizing that he has been close to his Heavenly Father in this experience. Therefore I shall take the word of the Apostle Third Day 

Paul. I shall come boldly unto the throne of grace, and ask for mercy and His grace to help me in my time of need. With that help I cannot fail. Without it I cannot succeed. 

Since my childhood I have looked upon these men as the greatest men on the face of the earth, and now the contemplation of an intimate association with them, is overwhelming and beyond my comprehension. 

I thank God today for my parentage. My father and mother are listening, either in this great assembly or on the radio, if perchance they did not get into this meeting. I think perhaps this is my way of paying tribute to the two family names they gave me at my birth, Bingham and Lee. I trust I shall not disgrace those names. I have been blessed with a splendid father and a grand and lovely mother, one who didn't display often her affection, but showed her love in tangible ways that, as a child, I came early to recognize as true mother love. 

As just a high school boy I went away on a high school debating team. We won the debate. I came back and called mother on the telephone only to have her say: "Never mind, Son. I know all about it. I will tell you when you come home at the end of the week." When I came home she took me aside and said : "When I knew it was just time for this performance to start I went out among the willows by the creek side, and there, all by myself, I remembered you and prayed God you would not fail." I have come to know that that kind of love is necessary for every son and daughter who seek to achieve in this world: My tribute to my parents. 

Last night, when I left here, as my little family with me kneeled down for our family prayers, I tested their faith. I found them true. They have given me their assurance, their strength. They are willing to make the sacrifice and have accepted this as their call, along with me. I have come to know, in these last few years, in my brief service in this Church, that without such help from a lovely, devoted wife, willing to sacrifice and to keep the home, no man can hold a position in this Church and hope to continue to serve as he has been called. To her, likewise, as she listens this afternoon and before you I acknowledge her loveliness, her sweetness, her devotion and sacrifice. 

For the last five glorious, strenuous years, I have labored, under a call from the First Presidency, with a group of men in the development of and the unfolding of what we have called the Church Welfare Plan. I felt that I should bear my testimony to you concerning that work as I close. It was on April 20th, 1935, when I was called to the office of the First Presidency. That was a year before official announcement of the Welfare Plan was made in this Tabernacle. There, after an entire half day session, at which President Grant and President McKay were present, President Clark then being in the East — they had some communications with him, so that all members of the Presidency were in DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHURCH WELFARE PLAN 121  — I was astounded to learn that for years there had been before them, as a result of their thinking and planning and as the result of the inspiration of Almighty God, the genius of the very plan that is being carried out and was in waiting and in preparation for a time when in their judgment the faith of the Latter-day Saints was such that they were willing to follow the counsel of the men who lead and preside in this Church. 

STRENGTHENED THROUGH HUMBLE PRAYER 

My humble place in this program at that time was described. 1 left there about noon-time, feeling quite as I do now. I drove with my car up to the head of City Creek Canyon. I got out, after I had driven as far as I could, and I walked up through the trees. I sought my Heavenly Father. As I sat down to pore over this matter, wondering about an organization to be perfected to carry on this work, I received a testimony, on that beautiful spring afternoon, that God had already revealed the greatest organization that ever could be given to mankind, and that all that was needed now was that that organization be set to work, and the temporal welfare of the Latter-day Saints would be safeguarded. 

Yesterday morning in the special Welfare meeting in the Assembly Hall, we saw a portrayal of what can be accomplished in one Ward where the Lord's organization does work according to His plan. With twelve hundred times the kind of demonstration you observed in that Welfare meeting, the present problem would cease to be a problem. We would be living the Lord's way, for unless we are one we are not His. 

god's will, made manifest 

It was in August of that same year that with Brother Mark Austin of the General Committee, I had driven down to St. George and then back across the mountains to Richfield, for an early morning meeting. At that time there was an upturn in business, so much so that some were questioning the wisdom of this kind of activity, and why hadn't the Church done it before now? There came to me, in that early morning hour, a distinct impression that was as real as though someone had spoken audibly, and this was the impression that came, and has stayed with me through these years: There is no individual in the Church that knows the real purpose for which the program then launched had been intended, but hardly before the Church has made sufficient preparation, that reason will be made manifest, and when it comes it will challenge every resource of the Church to meet it. I trembled at the feeling that came over me. Since that day that feeling has driven me on, night and day, hardly resting, knowing that this is God's will, this is His plan. The only thing necessary today is that the Latter-day Saints everywhere recognize these men, who sit here on the stand, as the fountainheads of truth, through whom God will reveal His will, that His Saints might be preserved through an evil day. 

A TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH OBTAINED THROUGH EXPERIENCE 

I bear you my testimony that I know that God lives. I know that He  GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

has spoken in this clay. I know that the work that we are now advancing and unfolding has still greater potential possihilities. They will come to the extent that the Latter-day Saints will learn to do what they are told, but not until; and some of the grandest things yet to come can only come if and when we learn to listen to these men who preside as prophets, seers and revelators. 

I ask for your faith and prayers, that as the years come and go I may be the witness that one who is called to this position is expected to be. Will you pray that that might be a fruition of my activity among you. I have loved you. I have come to know you intimately. Your problems, thank the Lord, have been my problems, because I know, as you know, what it means to walk when you have not the money to ride. I know what it means to go without meals to buy a book to go to the University. I thank God now for these experiences. I have loved you because of your devotion and faith. God bless you that you won't fail, but that with this Church you and it will go on to a glorious future, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang an anthem, "I Waited for the Lord" — Mendelssohn. Soloists : Ruth Jensen Clawson and Dorothy Kimball Keddington. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We shall now have the privilege of hearing a few words from each of the brethren who this morning were sustained as Assistants to the Council of the Twelve. We shall first hear from President Marion GRomney, now President of the Bonneville Stake. 

ELDER MARION G. ROMNEY 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I know I have your sympathy and your interest, and I now earnestly beseech you to give me your active faith that the few moments I stand here shall not be wasted. 

I have stood before a General Conference but once before in my life. That was at the opening session in October, 1938. I was called from the audience and had to find my way through the scenery which had been set up for the staging of the oratorio Elijah. It seemed as if it took me an eternity but as I came on to the stand, President Grant gave me an understanding smile and I was able to get through that opening prayer. 

RESPONSE REGARDING THE NEW CALL TO SERVICE 

I respond to this call as I have responded to all calls that have come to me in the Church, although I do not know just what I shall be asked to do. You who were here this morning had the same notice that I had and know just as much about what the call is as I do; but whatever it is, I know as well as did Nephi of old : 123 

.... that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save He shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which He commandeth them. 

I assume that this call will mean some closer association with the leaders of the Church; for that I am very grateful. One of the principal compensations that have come to me as a worker in the Church has been the opportunity to occasionally meet and shake hands with these leaders. I accept them and always have accepted them as prophets of the living God. I have never been very particular to determine when they were speaking as prophets of God and when they were speaking as men. It has never occurred to me that I had the ability to determine that. It has been the rule of my life to find out if I could, by listening closely to what they said and by asking the Lord to help me interpret it, what they had in mind for the Latter-day Saints to do and then do it. I am happy to say, not boastfully but gratefully, that I have never hesitated to follow the counsel of the Authorities of the Church even though it crossed my social, professional or political life. I am very grateful now that I may have some opportunity to associate more closely with them. 

SAFETY IN FOLLOWING THE COUNSEL OF OUR LEADERS 

Recently I have read biographies of all the past presidents of the Church except President Snow — his I have not had available — as well as biographies of Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. Pratt and other leaders of the Church. In all the experiences of my life, including this reading, I have never learned of a single instance where a person who has followed the advice and counsel of the leaders of the Church suffered therefrom. On the other hand the record of the past is full of instances where men have refused to follow such advice and counsel and as a result have lost the Spirit of the Lord and the companionship of His people. These observations have persuaded me that the Church leaders speak under the inspiration of the Lord regardless of the subject under consideration, and have strengthened my determination not to try too closely to discriminate between when they speak as prophets and when they speak as men. I should like very much to avoid the consequence of making a mistake for it is a terrible thing to lose the Spirit of the Lord. One of the reasons why I have always paid an honest tithing, and a little more, is because in one of the revelations the Lord has said that those who were not tithed should not have place with those who were tithed, and I have desired with all my heart to have a place with the faithful Saints of God. I can understand now why it was that my father could pay tithing in the days of his distress. After we were driven from Mexico I saw the time when he supported a family of seven or eight children — ten at the end — on an income of about $45.00 a month, and I saw him go to the Bishop every month and pay $4.50 tithing. I used to wonder why it was, but I know, now that I have the witness of the Gospel in my own heart. 

God grant that I may not fail in whatever my responsibilities may be, and that when I have finished this calling I may be worthy to be released honorably and still stand among the faithful of God's servants, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen, 

124 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

ELDER THOMAS E. McKAY 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, in accepting this call to this new position. It is a great honor, but at the same time I realize that it is a tremendous responsibility. 

ADVICE OF PARENTS RECALLED 

A little over forty years ago I was at the station in Ogden with my parents and a few friends just before I boarded the train leaving for my first mission. My mother kissed the goodbye, and as she did so said, "My boy, come home clean." I have never forgotten that injunction and I hope when I am released from this earthly mission and return to that heavenly home where my angel mother now is I can say, as I can say today, "Mother, I have come home clean." 

At that same parting my father placed his hand upon my shoulder and said, "Remember, my son, it doesn't matter so much where you work, it is how you work. You go where the Lord wants you and try to say what the Lord wants you to say." I am thinking of those parents today, and I wish to express my appreciation for them and for my brothers and sisters and my friends. I wish to express my appreciation for the association of President Grant and his Counselors and the other General Authorities of the Church. I love these men and I am grateful for this position that will give me the opportunity of more intimate association with them. 

HAPPINESS IN THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST 

I am more grateful than I can express for the Gospel, for the testimony I have of its truthfulness. I wish to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that every principle of the Gospel has been given to us to make us better and happier here in this life. God is our Father. We are all His children, and He has given us the principles of the Gospel to make us happy here in this life. "Man is that he might have joy." We do not have to wait for the other life, the life beyond, to enjoy true happiness; if we live the principles of the Gospel, we can have heaven here on this earth. 

A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT GRANT 

I desire to testify to you also that I know that Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet of God and that those who have succeeded him have been called of God. I wish to express also that same testimony with reference to President Heber J. Grant. No one can estimate the good that he has accomplished during his Presidency. Think for a minute of the change in the attitude of the world today towards this Church compared to the time he was called and accepted the Presidency. I testify especially to his influence in Europe, which changed prejudice to admiration. How grateful I am today that he visited those good people in the European Mission and that so many of them heard his testimony. What a com125  it is to them in their present sufferings and trials that they have seen the President of the Church and spoken to him and heard his testimony. I am thankful to have the opportunity of laboring with them, still keeping in touch with them, trying to encourage them. But their letters are more of an encouragement to me because of their faith, I am sure, than what I can do or say to encourage them in their faith. God bless them. I am grateful that we have a Presidency and other General Authorities who appreciate them and are doing everything they can to help them. 

ARMY CHAPLAINS APPOINTED 

I am also grateful that we have men at the head who are taking an interest in our soldier boys. God bless these young soldiers. The First Presidency is very much concerned about the kind of Latter-day Saint chaplains that are sent among them, and have been very fortunate to date in having at least eight very fine men appointed; and through the kind cooperation of the Chief of Chaplains of the Army, Col. William R. Arnold, these chaplains have been placed where the majority of our Mormon boys are located. Remember those boys also in your prayers, my brethren and sisters, just as you remember the missionaries and our people abroad. 

God bless you, and God bless me that I may be faithful to this added responsibility. I appreciate it with all my heart as I appreciate the Gospel, and may I always be worthy of the Spirit of God to help me in all my work, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CLIFFORD E. YOUNG 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, a little over twelve years ago I was surprised, and I might say shocked, to be called to succeed President Stephen L. Chipman as President of the Alpine Stake. I remember well a lesson that he taught me then. In being released he and his counselor, President James H. Clark, who remained in our Stake, came to the new presidency and in assuring us of their support said they wanted to work wherever we wanted them to work. And then President Chipman gave us some counsel which I have always remembered, and that was to find out what was expected of us and then to do it to the best of our ability. I have learned to appreciate that counsel, and while I do not know now what is expected, (this is entirely new as far as I am concerned, and perhaps it is a new departure) I assure my brethren and the Authorities of the Church that I will meet this responsibility to the best of my ability and will give it the best I have. My one prayer is that I may be able to make the right adjustment, that I may not be hampered in any way in doing that which shall be expected of me. 

I appreciate my membership in this Church. I am thankful for my parents who implanted in their children faith and confidence in this great work, and I humbly pray that I may not fail in this responsibility, that I may be able to measure up to every requirement and to every expecta126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

tion that you and the Brethren who preside have a right to expect. May God help us all to sustain each other and to uphold this work of God I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALMA SONNE 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I am sure no one can arise for the first time on an occasion like this without feeling a thrill of emotion. I have spent many hours in the service of our great Church and I want to testify to you this afternoon that the compensation for that service has been very great. I rejoice in the testimony which I have of the Truth. I know God's work has been established on the earth; I know that the Gospel is true; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I have confidence in the leadership of this Church. If we follow their advice we shall never go astray. May God bless them, and may He bless us that our eyes may be open to appreciate and understand the everlasting things which will not perish. 

I accept this responsibility with fear and trembling, but I have confidence in the promises of God. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brothers and sisters, I come before you in humility this day. This Conference to me has been a thrilling one. Friday morning as I sat and wept as President Grant was giving us his testimony, I was so grateful to my Heavenly Father that my life had come so close to his, that from my infancy I had known him, that I had been permitted to travel with him, to sleep with him, to be in his home, to have him in my home. I love him, and above all other men on earth I owe him most. Each of the General Authorities of the Church I know intimately. I love every one of them, I have never seen one of them do a thing or heard one of them say a thing but what was of an uplifting nature. And I am so grateful for my association with them. 

MISSIONARY WORK IN THE NORTHWESTERN STATES 

I am grateful to have had the privilege to serve in the mission field, grateful for the opportunity that is mine now to be in the Northwest. I bring you the greetings of one hundred forty missionaries, lovely young men and women, and eleven thousand members of the Church, Latter-day Saints scattered all over the Northwest. It is reported that President Nibley said, "You can walk up to any old bush in the Northwest and give it a kick and out jumps a Jack Mormon." (Laughter.) It is strange how far our people have traveled. We find them everywhere, — way up in Alaska, in Fairbanks, 100 of them. In Anchorage, now that the soldiers are gathering there, there will be many of them. In Ft. 127 

Lewis and Camp Murray there are over a thousand of our boys that have come from Idaho points. We have been holding meetings with them, fine, clean, lovely young men, and it has been a joy to be with them. We have there too the careless ones, but there are the fine ones — true Latter-day Saints. Their example has been glorious and lovely. 

EXAMPLE OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I had an accident going up into the Northwest with my automobile, and had it fixed, and after the garage man had finished I handed him a check in payment of $60.00. He took the check and looked at it, on a Salt Lake City bank. He said, "You are a Mormon ?" I said, "Yes." He said, "I will take your check." I could not have done that in Salt Lake City. (Laughter.) Why could I do that? Because of the nature of our people who are living in the Northwest — the true Latter-day Saints. They have lived a life that means so much, and this little poem by Whitney Montgomery exemplifies their lives : 

I knelt to pray when day was done, And prayed, "Oh Lord, bless everyone. Lift from each saddened heart the pain And let the sick be well again." 

And when I woke another day And carelessly went on my way, The whole day long I did not try To wipe a tear from any eye. I did not try to share the load Of any brother on my road. I didn't even go to see The sick man just next door to me. 

Yet once again when day was done, I prayed, "Oh Lord, bless everyone." But as I prayed, into my ear There came a voice that whispered clear. "Pause, hypocrite, before you pray, Whom have you tried to bless today? God's sweetest blessings always go By hands that serve Him here below." 

And then I hid my face and cried, "Forgive me, God, for I have lied. Let me but live another day And I will live the way I pray." 

Truly that has been the situation in the Northwest. This people love President Nibley and the brethren who have presided there. It is a lovely mission and people. 

THE CALL TO NEW DUTIES 

Now with respect to this call that has come to me here today — as the others have said, it was a complete surprise. I do not know what it means, but these Brethren have never touched my life but what it has turned into a blessing, and I am grateful to do anything that I can. I do not know just what it means to be an Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. April 6 Third Day 

Apostles, but I am glad there are twelve men in that Quorum to give me a going over and help me out. 

God bless us all to really appreciate what this Church stands for and what it means, that we may be true to it, that we may sustain the General Authorities and each other in our lives, is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I understand that if my voice is weak, it can be arranged with this amplifying equipment so that it will be strong. 

HAPPINESS EXPRESSED IN ATTENDING CONFERENCE 

I am very happy indeed to be here to extend to you good people and to all the Latter-day Saints my prayers and love and blessings at the close of this Conference. It seems to me that all during my life since I first became an Apostle, way back when I was twenty-six years of age — so of course I have had almost sixty years of it — that every Conference is a little bit better than the previous one, but it seems to me that this has been the best that we have ever had up to date, and I am grateful for it. We certainly have never had anything to compare with the attendance Friday and Saturday at any other Friday or Saturday session of Conference that I have attended. The people filled this building at each of our sessions. 

I was very much disappointed not to have the privilege of attending the Priesthood meeting six months ago, but I was very happy to be here last night, and it was a wonderful sight, and a marvelous portion of the Spirit of the Lord was present with us. I rejoiced in having the opportunity of speaking to the people. I was a little bit afraid that perhaps I got a little bit too anxious when I pounded the stand, and maybe if my doctor were here I would get a scolding, but I want you to know that although my improvement is very slow, each and every day I believe I can say truthfully, when people ask me how I am : "A little better than yesterday." 

CONDITION OF HEALTH TRYING 

I am perfectly willing to go along as slowly as the Lord wants, but the quicker I get so that I can talk faster and get more accustomed to these false teeth, the better I will like it. (Laughter.) 

I am free to confess that I do not like the sound of my own voice worth a cent. (Laughter.) 

I am very sorry, after laboring more diligently, I believe, than anybody else ever did to try to learn to sing a song, that I cannot sing any more. But I have been practicing bass sitting next to Brother McKay here today, and I have concluded that I had better join the bass choir, (Laughter) and say goodbye to the lead. 

Of course it has been quite a trial to me, spending hours without sleeping every night, that when I am awake in the night I cannot sing to myself, which would help me out a good deal, but I have not been able to 129  so. I am inclined to think, knowing from my experience years ago when I suffered intensely from insomnia and was ordered to go to the Coast, or I might go crazy for lack of sleep, that I can always sleep in California and Arizona on the sea level. I think that I shall go away from home now for a short time in the hope of improving more rapidly than I have improved since I came from California. 

CAUSES FOR GRATITUDE 

I have not the language with which to express my gratitude to the people for their faith and their prayers. I know that some people thought I never would be able to use my arm again or my left leg, but I can use them pretty well. I feel well, and I am very happy in having a couple of Counselors who can do all the work that I ought to do, and all that I have to do is to sign my name and let it go at that. I have Brother Anderson tell me what is in the letter in just a word or two, and then I sign my name. 

I have been very, very grateful for the attendance at our meetings, and I wish to leave with the people my faith and my prayers for their welfare. I would like to say to you good people that the Lord never makes any promises but what He fulfills them, and He has promised that when we do His will He will bless us, that He will guide us, that He will help us, and I am anxious always to try to get the Latter-day Saints to do the will of the Lord. 

ANTHONY W. IVINS' CALL TO MEXICO 

I am going to tell you a little experience. I was one of the committee that recommended my cousin Anthony W. Ivins to go to Mexico, and it was a great shock to me to do so, because I was heavily involved. I was receiving 25 per cent per annum on an investment in a cattle ranch, that I had refused time and again to take $18,750 for my $12,500 interest; but you know that little $12,500 paid interest at 6 per cent on $50,000 of my debts, and gave me 1 per cent over. I was alarmed about having my cousin go to Mexico, and I had refused, as I say, $18,750 for my interest in this ranch. When he had to leave the ranch, we could not find anybody who wanted it, and we got 60 cents on the dollar. We made a very handsome sacrifice, but in the kind providences of the Lord, matters pertaining to my affairs changed immediately, and I soon made up the loss, and the Lord blessed him down in Mexico. He made a nice little sale there of a few million acres of land to Mr. McCornick, Mr. Wood, Mr. Hagenbarth and others, and got a nice little commission of $40,000, and he paid $2,000 tithing down there, and $2,000 to Bishop Empey here. He died thinking that I had supposed that all he had made was $20,000, because he told the Bishop : "You must not say anything about this, I just kind of thought I would like to pay some tithing up here." And so I did not give it away to my cousin. The Bishop had never dreamed of such a thing as that Tone would not tell me about it. Otherwise, I suppose that he would not have told me. 

But the Lord blessed him and magnified him, and I want you to 

130 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, April 6 Third Day 

know that as plain as any words that were ever spoken to me in my life I heard, when I was feeling very blue — blue as indigo, as the saying is —  about his going, I heard in the Salt Lake Temple : "He is going where the Lord wants him to go, and you shall have the pleasure of welcoming him back into this Temple as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ of this last dispensation." I turned my head so that my companions could not see me, and I shed tears of gratitude for the blessing that was coming to my cousin. 

He went there and he made a marvelous record, and that statement to me was fulfilled. Finally my associates, as near as I could judge, were all very anxious for him to be chosen as one of my counselors. 

The Lord always rewards us and blesses us. 

A PROPHECY FULFILLED 

Never but once in all my life have I stood up in a meeting and prophesied in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that once was many, many years ago up in Idaho, at Paris. I was preaching that we should judge things not by the exception but by the general average, and that the most prosperous, the most successful, the best financial men were those that were honest with God. And it seemed as though a voice said to me : "You lie, you lie. You will never live to pay your debts, although you have been an honest tithe-payer." If I had had a bucket of cold water poured over me, it could not have made a greater impression. 

I stopped a moment, then I said, "I prophesy in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ that what I have said to you people is true, and that the Lord rewards us when we do our duty, and I prophesy that although I am a ruined man in the estimation of many men, I will yet live to pay my debts." And I was just $91,000 worse off than nothing, had two wives to support and the children of a dead wife. But from that very day my prophecy was fulfilled. The Lord blessed everything I touched, and in only three short years I was even with the world, financially speaking. 

BLESSING AND TESTIMONY 

I leave my testimony with you that this is God's work, and that it is by men responding as these five men have done that the work progresses. They say they do not know what they have to do. I will tell them what they have to do : They will have to work right straight along for the Church the way the Apostles work, they will have to make some changes in their lives, and they will have to devote themselves more to the work of God than they have ever done before, and they will have joy in doing so. 

I pray God to bless you good people. I bless the honest the world over. I pray you to have no hard feelings in your hearts toward many of the people who are in the war, who are fighting against England, because many of them would give their lives, almost, if they could get out of that kind of fighting. I want you to know that from Holland and Germany some of the choicest and finest men that have ever been members of this Church, came. Karl G. Maeser's name will always live 131  us. He was a marvel of spirituality and he impressed and blessed the youth of Zion. I want you not to feel hard toward the Germans, even though they are fighting, because there are many of them that would be grateful and thank the Lord Almighty if they did not have to fight. 

Let us do our best to encourage our boys in the army to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ as perfectly as though they were in the mission field, and to seek God for the guidance of His Spirit and its protecting care. Encourage your loved ones. I regret beyond all my powers of expression that we have to send our boys to war, and I feel that we would not have needed to do it if we had been governed properly. 

I beg pardon, the doctor will get after me for sure. (Laughter.) 

I was going to say some more, but I had better keep still or it will be called politics. You know, I have contempt for politics, because, as 1 have said for many years, they are like the measles, if you will just take a little saffron tea and keep the measles on the surface, they will not hurt you, but if they set in on you they turn your hide yellow and make you cross-eyed. (Laughter.) 

Well now, I would like us to close on time. I want to bless the Latterday Saints the world over and the honest the world over. I want to thank this choir from the bottom of my heart for what they are doing for us. I want to thank the choir and the orchestra that came from Provo, also the choir that came from Blackfoot. May the Lord bless them all. They are doing a great work, a great missionary work. I am grateful for all the blessings of the Lord to me. I have been blessed more than I could have hoped or expected. All that I have and all that I amount to I owe to my sainted mother. 

I pray the people to remember to honor their parents, follow that commandment. It is one of the greatest in all the world. Children, honor your parents. 

God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency May I for President McKay and myself say what I am sure you know must be true, that we make no important decision without consulting President Grant, and his mind is as clear and concise and accurate as it ever was. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang "Hallelujah" {Messiah) — Handel. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency I should like to add my thanks to those expressed by President Grant for this wonderful music by the Choir. 

Drive carefully, please, going home; pedestrians walk cautiously. After the benediction this Conference will stand adjourned sine die. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder M. Howard Randall, President of the Morgan Stake. 

Conference adjourned sine die. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The musical exercises at the Friday sessions were furnished by the Brigham Young University Chorus and members of the Provo Duo Stake Choir, Drs. Franklin W. Madsen and Florence Madsen, Directors; at the Saturday sessions, by the Blackf oot Stake Choir, Elder Ronald Bitton, Director; and at the Sunday meetings by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Director. 

The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. Organ accompaniments and solo presentations for the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, as also the Church of the Air program, Sunday morning, were played by Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Announcement about Radio Broadcasts — President Clark 46 

Ashton, Elder Marvin 57 

A lesson drawn from fishing in Hawaii, 57 — Experience broadened by perspective, 58 — A tribute to the people in Hawaii, 58 — Menace of intoxicants, 60. 

Assistants to the Twelve - 94 

Auditing Committee, Report of 16 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities Sustained 94 

Auxiliary Officers Sustained 97 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O - 32 

Responsibility for opportunities, 32 — Earthly life of man, 32 — The keys of authority, 33 — Evil habits lead men astray, 34 — A great promise, 34 — The value of Truth, 34. 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 85 

Fundamentals must remain unaltered, 85 — Today's test of Gospel message, 85 — Humility would wipe out violence, 86 — War never ends war, 86 — The spirit of reprisal, 87 — Defense preparations delayed through greed, 87 — The way to industrial peace, 88 — Peace is driven from our borders, 88— War settles nothing, 88 —  . The Gospel message must be taught, 89. 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 97 

Broadbent, Elder David A 89 

Callis, Elder Charles A 41 

Mighty works performed by Jesus, 41 — The yoke of Christ, 41 — Practical Advice to young men, 41 — The Lord's advice to rich and poor, 42 — Gratitude expressed for leaders, 43. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 71 

Keys of authority of the Priesthood, 71 — Factors affecting human behavior, 71 — Everyone has right of choice, 72 — -Human emotions and reason, 73 — Power of the Holy Spirit, 73 — Testimony of the truth, 74. 

Changes in Church Officers 13 

Church of the Air Broadcast 99 

Church Building Program 10 

Church Authorities, Presentation of 94 

Church Officers, Presentation of - 95 

Church Welfare Program 8 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 2 

Opened First Session of Conference, 2. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 3 

Gratitude for the presence of President Grant, 3. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 7 

Expresses feelings in regard to President Grant's testimony, 7. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 16 

Budget in balance, 16 — Urges care in spending, 17 — Gratitude expressed for generosity of Saints, 17 — Perils of the times, 18 — No man sees the end, 18 — Our duty to sustain the Constitution, 19 Former predictions repeated, 19 — To be peacemakers the destiny of America, 20 — A choice land, 20 — The Lord's plan will triumph, 21 — Prayer for peace, 21. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 24 

"Drive carefully", 24 — Opens second session, 24. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 46 

Gratitude for Brigham Young University Chorus, 46 — "Drive carefully" 46 — Opening of third session of conference, 46. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 70 

"Drive carefully", 70 — Commendation to Blackfoot Stake Choir, 70. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 70 

Opening fourth session, 70. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 93 

Expresses gratitude again for Blackfoot Stake Choir, 93 — Opening of fifth session of Conference, 93. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 94 

Explains calling of Assistants to the Twelve, 94. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 110 

Announcement of Dr. James E. West's presence, 110. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. Ill 

Opening of the Sixth Session of Conference, 111. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr .119 

Introduces Elder Harold B. Lee, 119. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr .122 

Announcing the Assistants to the Twelve as speakers, 122. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 131 

No important decisions without consulting President Grant, 131. Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 131 

Expresses thanks to the Tabernacle Choir, 131. Clawson, President Rudger 22 

A very satisfactory report, 22 — Gospel preached by word and  example, '22 — The message preached at home and abroad, 23 — 

Bears testimony, 23. 

Clayson, Elder Merrill D 91 

European Mission, Report of 12 

Evans, Elder Frank - 44 

Evans, Elder Richard L. 52 

The future as it affects youth, 52 — The call to arms, 52 — A lesson from the life of Jacob, 53 — Preparations for life should go forward, 54. 

Evans, Elder Richard L. 97 

Announcing the Broadcast, 97. 

Fast Offering Information 10 

Financial Statement 7 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 24 135 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

General Authorities Sustained 94 

General Auxiliary Officers Sustained 97 

General Officers Sustained 94 

Grant, President Heber J 3 

Admonition to soldier boys, 3 — Officers and teachers must set example, 3 — Responsibility in the Church brings humility, 4 — „ Early experiences as an Apostle, 4 — The responsibility of making good, 5 — Joy in preaching the Gospel, 6 — Work of former Presidents of the Church, 6. 

Grant, President Heber J 128 

Happiness expressed in attending Conference, 128 — Condition of health trying, 128 — Causes for gratitude, 129 — Anthony W. Ivins' call to Mexico, 129 — A prophecy fulfilled, 130 — Blessing and testimony, 130. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K. 54 

Conference gatherings in the Tabernacle, SS — Preparations for war, 55 — Prophecy of warning and of comfort, 55 — The promises of the Lord sure of fulfilment, 56 — The Stake missionary work, 57. 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 29 

Love expressed for leaders, 29 — Joy in ministry among the Latterday Saints, 29 — Melchizedek Priesthood comparisons, 30 — Teaching of marriage in the Temple most desirable, 30 — Responsibility of leaders toward the young, 31. 

Lee, Elder Harold B 119 

Thoughts stirred by new assignment, 119 — Tribute to father, mother, and wife, 120 — Development of Church Welfare Plan, 120 — Strengthened through humble prayer, 121 — God's will made manifest, 121 — A testimony of the truth obtained through experience, 121. 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 66 

Threatening forces, 66 — Faith the only remedy, 66 — "Seek and ye shall find," 67 — Appeal for attendance at Sacrament Meetings, 67 — Power in prayer, 67 — Two sources of security, 68 — War's consequences, 69 — Peace through justice and charity, 69. 

McKay, President David O 7 

Impressed with President Grant's testimony, 7 — Reads Annual Report, 7. 

McKay, President David O 106 

What the Kingdom of God implies, 106 — The purpose of the Church, 106 — How the Church contributes to character-building, 106 — Five fateful years, 107 — Transforming society, 107 — Social attitude, 108 — Honest labor encouraged, 109 — Human nature, 109 — Press ever onward, 110. 

McKay, Elder Thomas E 124 

Advice of parents recalled, 124 — Happiness in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, 124 — A tribute to President Grant, 124 — Army chaplains appointed, 125. 

Report of European Missions 12 

Richards, Elder George F Ill 

Manifestation of interest, 112 — Joy in the ministry, 112 — Revelation brought true knowledge of God, 112 — One Father of the spirits of men, 113 — The greatest gift, 114 — Sacrifice rewarded, 114. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Richards, Bishop LeGrand ~ 81 

The promises of the Lord sure of fulfilment, 82 — A patriarchal blessing and its fulfilment, 83 — The Saints standing in holy places, 84 — Elements rebuked by faith, 84. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 99 

Description of the tabernacle, 99 — Religious ideals of the Pioneers, 100 — Early missionaries and their message, 101 — New concepts in the restored Gospel, 102 — Irreverence wrecks faith, 104 — Responsibility of educators, 104 — the value of a living faith, 105. 

Romney, Elder Marion G 122 

Response regarding call to service, 122 — Safety in following the counsel of leaders, 123. 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 70 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 46 

Smith, Elder George Albert 24 

The commandments of the Lord given for our good, 24 — Blessings follow keeping of commandments, 25 — The Priesthood to be honored, 27 — Advice to seek for improvement, 27 — Faith shown by good works, 28. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 35 

Keeping the commandments important, 35 — Marriag-e for time not approved, 36 — Responsibility of parents, 36 — Covenants not of God end with life, 36— Eternal life through keeping God's commandments, 38 — President Joseph F. Smith's words, 38. 

Smith, Elder Nicholas G. 126 

Missionary work in the Northwestern States, 126 — Example of Latter-day Saints, 127 — Call to new duties, 127. 

Sonne, Elder Alma 126 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting Ill 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 93 

Wells, Elder Rulon S . 74 

Good and evil cannot be done under compulsion, 74 — The Savior's plan for mankind, 75 — Obedience to the will of God required in all things, 76 — The covenant made by God, 77 — The Savior's part in the plan of salvation, 78. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A. ., _ 115 

Tolerance for the opinions of others, 115 — The Church has suffered from intolerance, 115 — True meaning of tolerance, 115 — Danger in not living up to standards, 116 — The Gospel of Christ founded in truth, 116 — Those valiant for the truth are conquerors, 117 — The spirit of evil rampant, 117 — -Believers in Christ ultimate leaders in the world, 117. 

Wirthlin, Elder Joseph L 60 

The teaching of a good mother, 60 — The leaders of the Church servants of God, 61 — Obedience a saving principle, 61 — Disobedience brings its own punishment, 62 — Obedience shown by early Latter-day Saint pioneers, 63 — A land blessed of the Lord, 64— Promises of the Lord sure of fulfilment, 64 — Our obligation to the world, 65. 

Young, Elder Clifford E. 125 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 79 

Associate Mission Presidents praised, 79 — Early missionary work in New England, 79 — Missionaries making headway, 79 — Items of early history in New England, 80 — Joseph Smith's own story and the Articles of Faith of great worth, 81. 

Sook, dimdqiAJcUdsUiA. 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of 

Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

Unto the Hills (The Spoken Word) 

by Richard L. Evans $1.50 (postpaid) 

Pioneer Stories 

by Preston Nibley $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Rational Theology 

by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

Priesthood and Church Government 

by John A. Widtsoe $1.75 

Prepared as the text book for the members of the Church holding the Higher Priesthood. This book will be used during the year 1941 as the official text book. 

Special price to Priesthood members — $1.50 or $1.35 if cash accompanies the order. 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by Josiah E. Hickman $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Prompt Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith 

Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days of the Prophet's ministry 

Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Many of these discourses and w»Iilr)<r appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the eoj-ly publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use. 

SPECIALLY PRICED AT $2.00 

Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns 

(Their Authors and Composers) 

GEORGE D. PYPER 

"The Latter-day Saints have always been a singing people. Some of their greatest sermons and messages have come through the avenue of song." 

So writes the author, George D. Pyper, in this fascinating story of an essential feature in the lives of a culture loving people. 

Well illustrated throughout, this work will take a high place in literary circles, and will win a permanent spot in the hearts of all lovers of great and good music. 

PRICE— $2.00 

VISUAL AIDS 

To be visually prepared is one of the greatest of assets to a teacher. 

For particulars and descriptive literature we invite you to communicate with us. 

We are prepared to give demonstrations in all types of equipment and to offer our Three S plan: SURVEY, SUGGESTIONS, SERVICE. 

DESERET BOOH COMPANY 

44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 







