Afternoon
06 10 1914



ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

The short time that I occupy I very much desire to have the Spirit of the Lord. I think possibly it would not be amiss if I occupied the time in talking about the Seventies. I claim to be good authority on that subject, and the information that I shall use comes from the Presiding Bishop's office, and they will vouch for its accuracy. 

My object and purpose in speaking of the Seventies is to enlighten the Church as to that great body of Priesthood, who have a special calling as witness of the Lord to the nations of the earth. They are preachers of righteousness and our great effort has been not only to keep up with the organization, but where it has been deenued wise, the quorums have been increased in order to get the benefit that comes out of the class work. For we find where quorums are scattered throughout a stake, one quorum in a stake or one quorum in five or six or eight wards, it is very difficult to hold class mettings. It is understood that in all such cases that they hold a general Seventies' meeting, once each month. Last Sunday, at four p. m., we called a special conference of the Seventies, and we were very happy in finding four hundred and four Seventies in that gathering in the Bishop's building. By a show, of hands, I think we could safely 113 , that eighty-five per cent of that number were presidents of Seventies. We had a program which was well handled, taking up Quorum Administrative Questions. This body of Priesthood, to give you an idea of the greatness of the number, there are enough Seventies in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to fill this great building to overflowing. 

The activities of Seventies as compiled from the stake and ward reports for the year, 1913, are as follows : 

Total number of Seventies in 

the Church 10,968 

Total number enrolled in Quorums as reported for the year 1913 8,078 

Total number enrolled in Seventies Class 9,190 

Total number of Seventies not 

enrolled in Quroums 2,890 

Total number of Seventies not performing any duties in Stakes or wards 2,145 

Total number who did not attend a Quorum meeting duryear 1913 1,308 

Seventies who are acting as Presidents of Seventies and Instructors of Quorums.... 1,782 

Seventies who are performing 

Stake duties 704 

Seventies who are performing Ward duties 6,933 

Seventies who are acting as officers and instructors in Auxiliary organiations 3,778 

We learn from this report that the total number of appointments filled by Seventies in the Church is 13,197. If we are correct in our analysis of the above report, the First Council is held responsible for 2,145 Seventies who are not performing any duties in the stakes or wards, and still we find that there are 2,890 Seventies not enrolled in any quroums of Seventy, and it is just possibe that they are not mem of any ward, but are wandering to and fro throughout the Church. They are, no doubt, good men in their way, but must be "billy-goats," and not sheep, but they should belong to the sheep fold. 

This report gives information as to the activities of Seventies at home and abroad, and gives proof that 95 8-10 per cent of this body of Priesthood are giving good home service, and performing missionary work, under the direction of the local authorities. The report does not give the condition of Seventies financially, nor does it attempt to speak of their struggles, failures and poverty, and that death sometimes finds its way into their homes. Neither does it give the information that many of these Seventies have sons who are on missions, and the fathers are defraying their expenses. It is not understood that the standard and spiritual measurement of the men is to be found in the report. This report does not attempt to tell of the visits of representatives of the First Council, but it merely shows the activities of Seventies at home. If it be true that 25 per cent of 8,078 Seventies who are enrolled in quorums are not performing any duties in stakes or wards, it leaves 75 per cent of the total number enrolled who are actively engaged in home and foreign service. 

We desire, that you may know, that notwithstanding that 2,890 Seventies are wanderers that we are trying to overcome this difficulty. Quorums of Seventies are instructed to receive all Seventies who come in their quorum district, who are received by the Bishops in the wards, and to receive them without recommendation, without transGENERAL CONFERENCE. , as their transfers can be secured afterwards. It must be understood by the Priesthood of God, in this Church, that there can be no such thing as resigning from a quorum of Priesthood in the Church. When you have made covenant with God and the Church and received the Priesthood you cannot resign. The only way to get out of a quorum of Priesthood is to commit sin, and get disfellowshiped from the Church. As long as you hold that Priesthood we have the right to receive you into the quorums and it is the duty of those who preside to labor with those who are careless and indifferent. Brethren and sisters, we want to show you, what this great body of Priesthood are doing in home service. In 1913, there was only three hundred forty-six Seventies on missions in the word preaching the Gospel, but we have been training and educating and directing this body of Priesthood to labor faithfully and devotedly under the direction of the local authorities. 

Now, brethren, with a good deal of pride, I challenge you High Priests and you Eders, and the lesser Priesthood, to make a better showing. We grant you that our quorums are made up of young men and older men of great experience, men who have filled missions, many of them, and they are devoted to the Church. That has been the line of our work in the past few years. ' The Lord has truly blessed us in the labor, with the assistance that we have received and the sustaining support that we have had from the brethren of the authorities, the Counsel of the Twelve, the presidents of stakes and the Bishop of wards. If we are correct: take the two thousand one hundred and -five Seventies who are not taking any part in Church duties, and the two thousand eight hundred ninety "billy-goats," that are wandering throughout the Church, that belong to no quorums and are scattered all over the land, there is a great missionary work to be done by the presidents of Seventies; as there are five thousand Seventies in the Church of Christ that need laboring with by preaching the Gospel to them, because of their carelessness and indifference. 

In conclusion : I don't know when. I have been more delighted for a long time, than when I heard President Francis M. Lyman, the president of the Twelve Apostles, say to the presidents of stakes and the bishops of wards, "When you want missionaries, you are to go to the Seventies instead of any others. As you need them in the missionary field to go with our boys." We have ample proof, ample evidence that we need men of experience to go with our young men, until they get under training. 

As to missionary work at home : I need not go but a short distance from here as I happen to have in mind an illustration. We can go to the Jordan stake, as I remember it, they have nine thousand members of the Church; in that one stake alone there are over nine thousand persons who are non-members ot the Church. A great missionary work can be done under the direction of the local authorities, the presidents of stakes, and the bishops of wards, in setting apart these Seventies, instructing them, enthusing them, awakening them until they love the souls of the children of men and are willing to give good service in preaching the Gospel. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, 115 

I hope it goes without saying; that I have unfaltering, unwavering faith in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — it is the great thing in my life. If I fail in this one object — salvation — I have failed in everything.- I sustain the authorities of the Church; I sustain President Joseph F. Smith and the Council of the Twelve. I have an abiding faith in Joseph Smith as a prophet of God. I believe all that has been revealed unto this people, whether I can live it or not; I believe it all; I swallow every bit of it, I don't sugar-coat it, either. Brethren, I am willing to place all that I have and am upon the altar. It does not amount to very much, but you are welcome to every bit of it. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I too, am a man of peace. I believe in peace and love to walk in the paths of peace. If there is anything that is contrary to my nature, it is to be in the midst of strife. I desire peace in my home, peace in my country, peace in my own soul. But notwithstanding my native love for peace I find myself continually involved in war, in what may be termed a universal war. Across the waters a great war is being waged in which many nations are engaged; in this struggle, to which I allude all nations are involved, indeed, every human being has a part. 

It is the war again sin, against weakness and imperfection. It is God's battle for the right against the powers of evil which are everywhere arrayed against Him. It is a sanguinary war. Many there be who fall upon this battlefied, and when  thus die they are dead indeed, and well may those who love them shed tears of sorrow. Some are only slightly wounded and others are wounded mortally. The Lord has provided His Red Cross Society — the ministry of His Church, and supplied it with a healing balm—-, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and it should be applied to all alike for all have been wounded and need his healing balm. None have escaped the darts of the adversary but all may be healed by the application of this remedy — even the dead may be brought to life again. 

Then let us fight on for the cause of truth; let us labor for the salvation of human souls, thai all may be delivered from this enemy, the arch enemy of God, the adversary of the souls of the children of men. Let us march on under the capacity of our Redeemer; let us march under His banner, on to victory, for eventually victory will be perched upon His banner, and every foe shall be overcome. This is a battle to the bitter end; this is a battle that means the utter rout of the enemy. 

My brethren and sisters, you and I are engaged in this struggle; we are fighting under the banner of Christ; we are endeavoring to bring comfort and relief to those that are wounded and to those that have fallen upon the battlefield. Let us, be untiring in our efforts, then, to save the souls of our fellow men, of our brethren and sisters throughout the world, until peace be restored and established in all the world. Let us draw night unto the Lord that we may have power and strength; for the sword of truth is the weapon with which we fight : it is a twoedged sword that cuts in both directions; let us learn how to wield it, and let none lay down his arms, but GENERAL CONFERENCE.  us fig-lit valiantly on until we have achieved a glorious victory. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

It is quite an experience, my brethren and sisters, to sit here in the stand hour after hour for three days, in more or less fear all the time because of the thought that the time is approaching to be called upon to occupy this very important position as spokesman. It is always a very great relief when the duty has been performed, and one is permitted again to take his seat. Some of the brethren have been extending to members of the First Council what I think I may call mock sympathy, it has been given goodnaturedly, the brethren indicating by their word- that we had awaiting us the performance of a duty which they had no need to worry about, as their part had been accomplished. While it is a considerable trial and anxiety to undertake to stand before a great congregation of this character, there is nevertheless connected with it a goodly degree of pleasure, also; the pleasure comes from an understanding that the work that is being advocated is the work of the Lord, and that the testimony that is to be delivered is to be in favor of the cause that our Father is seeking to establish among men. It is the teaching of the Lord, Jesus Christ, that those who hear His words and do them shall be likened unto men who have digged down deep and laid a foundation upon bedrock, with such foundation the winds may blow and the rains descend and beat upon the binding, and it will not fall because it is  in a substantial manner. I hope, my brethren and sisters, that there is a disposition on the part of all the people to receive and put into practice the counsels that have been given by the presiding authorities of the Church in the meetings of this Conference. 

During recent months the brethren who have visited the various stakes of Zion have been engaged in looking after auxiliary work in addition to the regular work that demands attention at stake conference, time. For the past two months, the Mutual Improvement Associations and the Religion Class organizations have been featured at stake conferences. I feel impressed this afternoon to say a few words in regard to the latter organization. It seems to be the organization that has the most difficult pathway to travel at the present time. Other church organizations have had a longer existence. They have apparently in many instances found a more complete lodgment in the hearts of the people. It is still said in some localities that the support that should be given to the Religion class organization is not altogether given. I hope this is a mistake. The Religion class organization has a righteous claim upon all Church officers for support, as it has come into the Church by proper appointment. Twenty-four years ago this month a very strong letter was sent out by the First Presidency of the Church to the stake presidents and to the bishops of the various wards, calling upon them to seek out in the wards brethren and sisters who gave evidence of ability in the teaching of the young, and who had love for the young people, to take up this important labor. They were to be called as upon a mission and instructed to give attention to this new organization. That letter indicated that the Presidency of the Church had a feeling that the very best of material was necessary for the accomplishment of the work they had in mind. The fact that careful selection for the work oft times was not made was in my mind when I quoted the scripture that, "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock." I am convinced, my brethren and sisters that if the counsel imparted by the presidency of the Church twenty-four years ago had been received by local presiding men in the spirit of the communication then sent out, and earnest efforts bad been made to find men and women of proper spirit and capacity, and they had been taught the importance and necessity of establishing the work as suggested and recommended by this high authority, there would not have been as many questionings in the minds of people in relation to this the infant organization in the Church of Christ. 

In the letter on religion class work, 24 years ago the First Presidency declare that many of the people had, through the toil of making a living, lost sight of the purpose that had brought them to this land, and had given way in many instances to less noble aims; they then 

"This benumbing influence on our spiritual life is widely felt in our homes, and more particularly affects our children, whose faith in the great latter-day work has not been developed and strengthened by the experience which our elders have had in lands beyond the borders of Zion. Nor does the training which our youth receive in the district schools increase their feelings of devotion to God and  for this cause, for, as is well known, all teachings of a religious character are rigorously excluded from the studies permitted in these institutions. 

"To lessen this great evil, and counteract the tendencies that grow out of a Godless education, the Church Schools of the Saints have been established. But while these accomplish great good, the sphere of their usefulness does not cover the entire field. There are many places where the Church Schools cannot, at present, be established; and also many Saints in those places where such schools ex ist, who, for various reasons, cannot send their children thereto. For these causes we have deemed it prudent to suggest to the various local authorities other measures which, while not occupying the place of the Church Schools, will work on the same lines, and aid in the same work in which the Church educational institutions are engaged. 

'We suggest that in every ward where a Church School is not established, that some brother or sister, or brethren or sisters, well adapted to such a responsible position by their intelligence and devotion as well as their love for the young, be called, as on a mission, by the Bishop, after consultation with the president of the stake, to take charge of a school in which the first principles of the Gospel, Church history, and kindred subjects shall be taught." 

I have been pleased and interested just recently in discovering _ in various periodicals a strong spirit in harmony with these instructions of the Presiding Authorities. Thoughtful men in other religious denominations, have discovered that there is great need for the children of school age to receive a training similar to the instruction provided for the Religion Class organization. In the Literary Digest of June 13, we read the following: 

"What looks like the beginning of the end of the Godlessness of the public schools was pointed out recentlv by the Reverend Doctor Wilbur F. Crafts. Their Godless character is GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Catholics criticize and the parochial schools exist to supply this lack. As superintendent of the International Reform Bureau, Doctor Crafts has been conferring, by correspondence and otherwise, with Catholics, Jews, and Protestants in all parts of the world. Doctor Crafts also forms one of a committee appointed by the educational boards of the great evangelical churches, representing nineteen million members, which has had conferences with committees appointed by the Federal Council of Churches and the Young Men's Christian Association, and has kept in touch with the National Reform Association, the pioneer of the movement. 

"Doctor Crafts recently told a New York Presbyterian preachers' meeting of a resolution that may have a large place in history. It provided for the appointment in behalf of the Presbyterian church of a committee to cooperate with the committees of other Protestant denominations and with committees which Jews and Catholics will be requested to appoint for the purposes of adopting some plan for religious training in connection with the public schools. 

"It is proposed that this shall be done either in the school buildings themselves or in the neighboring churches, or in both, by which during a part of the school time, or at some other hour, pastors and teachers of the various denominations will teach religion to the children of their own faith as an essential part of their education, in recognition of the fact that thirty minutes of Bible teaching in the Sunday Schools is not sufficient, but . must be supplemented not only in the home and church service, but also in the public schools." 

A similar condition and work of like character has been taken up, I have discovered, in Australia, where the very opportunity that the representatives of various religious denominations here in America are seeking to obtain has in Australia already been granted. 

A recent number of The Dominion, a paper published at Wellington, New Zealand, devotes several  to a report of the proceedings of the Presbyterian General Assembly, most of the time beingoccupied by a discussion of the question whether the Bible should be read in the public schools. The general sentiment was in favor of the adoption of the "Australian system." It was explained that : 

"The system consists of (a) simple Scriptural lessons read during school hours by the children from a book provided by the Department of Public Instruction exclusively for this purpose. The work of the state school teacher is restricted to seeing that the child understands the lesson as intelligently as any other lesson. The teacher does not give either sectarian or dogmatic teaching. 

"(b) The churches have the opportunity afforded them to sending their ministers of religion or other accredited teachers into the schools during school hours to teach the children the faith of their fathers in their respective denominations. In the larger centers, such as cities and towns, ministers of religion, or accredited substitutes, would have an opportunity of instructing their own children. In many cases, and especially in those of smaller churches, mutual arrangements are made between the churches by which the children are grouped together, and, with the consent of the individual parent, attend the class of a minister not of their own church. In the smaller schools in the country districts, these visits are paid less frequently than in towns. The executive of the league includes representatives of the Anglican, Presbyterian, and Methodist churches; also the Salvation Army." 

"In support of the action that this system be adopted in New Zealand, it was stated that its introduction in the schools would settle the controversy concerning denominational schools for Roman Catholics. Under this proposed system, it was said, the Roman Catholic clergy, equally with others, would be permitted to give a certain measure of religious instruction to children of their own faith. It would end once and for all what was a most difficult problem." It is my understanding that in our neighbor on the north, the Dominion of Canada, the law provides for the children of various faiths to receive religious instruction from ministers who have been appointed for the purpose by and with the approval of the parents of the children who are to be so taught. 

Recently there was received in the Religion Class Board offices in this city a letter from Garry, Indiana, asking that literature in relation to the Religion Class work of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints might be forwarded to give assistance in the preparation of material for the children of the public schools in that section of the country. I will read a paragraph or two : 

"My dear Sirs: 

"I presume that you are acquainted with the movement in Garry for the establishment of week-day church schools by the Protestant denominations, worked out on the basis of cooperation and co-relation with the public school system. 

"The various denominations at large are beginning to focus their attention and strength in an effort to standardize the curriculum for the entire denomination. At the outset, we shall be led into federation along several lines, especially the literature from which we will build up our new courses of study to serve as a teacher's working library, and as a reference and reading list for the pupils. This new and inevitable type of school will call for a searching evolution of all religious literature. The plan which the librarian and I have in view will show the country a new use and demand for religious educational literature, and the result will certainly have direct bearing upon the publishing interest. 

"I am a member of the Board of Sunday Schools of the Methodist Episcopal church, and have been appointed since April, and have been here since June 1. I realize that all kinds of demands and requests are made for the courtesy of your pub. Did I not know that our aim is to use religious literature as never before, but in such a way as the public schools use reference and text books, I would not feel justified as a representative of the Methodist church to ask that you put at our disposal literature which would help me in building up our courses of study, and serve as a standard text and references for reading and consultation." 

We must conclude from this communication that the religion class work of the Latter-day Saints is attracting attention far away from our mountain home. 

My brethren and sisters, when we think of nineteen million souls being more or less interested in the need of religious training in the public schools, here in our own land, to say nothing of the same sentiment so strongly working upon the minds of men in other countries, we should discern the wisdom of our leaders as shown in their action of twentyfour years ago. 

I simply refer to these matters to ' bring to the attention of presiding men the fact that the work that was introduced under the inspiration of the Spirit of God by the Presidency of the Church at the time mentioned, begins to work its way in the world. It has taken a long time for some men to make the discovery that there is necessity of training of this character, but the light is beginning to come, and it ought to be an evidence to those who are engaged in religion class work, that it is most important, and those upon whom responsibility rests in seeking the establishment of the work, should go forward with determination, for surely the Lord is in the work. I would like to bring to the attention of this congregation the fact that in this organization we have one of the First Presidency of the Church as general superintendent, President GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Anthon H. Lund; we have two of the Council of the Apostles as his assistants, Rudger Clawson and Hyrum M. Smith. President Charles W. Penrose and more than half of the entire quorum of the apostles are members of the Religion Class Board; there is no better authority in any board. We have voted for many, many years in the general conferences of the Church sustaining this organization, making covenant that we will support these brethren who have been called to preside and direct in the work. 

The time for discussion as to the advisability of the establishment of the organization has passed away many years ago. It is one of the organizations of the Church! There is abundant room for it in every settlement where there are children of the Latter-day Saints. As this is the time of the year when the work is particularly taken up I have felt that it would not be inappropriate to call the attention of local presiding authorities to the necessity that exists in the organization for encouragement, and for assistance from these presiding men. I wish to say to those who are engaged in the work that there cannot be anything that is of greater importance, or that can be more honorable in the labors with which men and women have to do, than the planting of a knowledge of the truth in the hearts of the rising generation. The men who have occupied this position during the past three days, testify that they know this work as a whole has been revealed from on High, that Joseph Smith was raised up as an instrument in the hands of our Father to usher in the great dispensation of the fulness of times. I suppose we all believe the solemn testimonies that have been delivered, and  we believe, then we should receive with all our hearts the organizations that have been given of our Father in heaven for the education of the rising generation, that our children after us may be established in the faith of the everlasting Gospel, the Gospel of salvation, the Gospel of power, the Gospel of living faith that has come down from the heavens for the blessing of men. I encourage with all my soul those who are engaged in this good organization to lend their very best efforts to the accomplishment of the work allotted to them, that the truth of God may be planted in the hearts of the children who are in the public schools. Oh how great is the need of that truth, for there is much in the schools of today that is in opposition to the things of God, much that undermines faith in the existence of our Father in heaven. We need to bring to the children in every possible manner those principles that will establish them in the faith, and that will prepare them for the responsibilities of the future. 

I gladly join my brethren in testimony concerning the work of God. Testimony has come to me as it has come to my brethren, not by birth, not by information obtained from books alone, but by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. God has made me understand measureably the truth of the great work He planted when the Father and the Son were revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, when holy angels laid their hands upon his head and bestowed upon him the authority of the Holy Priesthood, the power to minister in the name of the Redeemer. The preaching of that gospel found the hearts of my father and mother, they obeved it while they were in a far-off distant land years before my 121 , the truth then received was powerful enough to bring them to this Zion of our God. It filled their souls with peace, and joy, and contentment, as long as they lived upon the earth. I know now better than I used to know 7 , how anxious that good father and mother were that their spns and daughters should receive the truth and know that the message that found lodgment in their hearts was the power of God unto salvation. When their children were brought to understand the truth, it was through searching for it, when they manifested that they were willing to practice the principles revealed, and keep the commandments of God, they discovered as their parents before them discovered, that our Father in heaven was near at hand, no respector of persons. He revealed to those children by the power of the Holy Ghost the truth of the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the power of God. Truth has come down from the heavens. It is the decree of our Father in heaven that it shall remain, and be, the marvelous work and wonder as the Father said in the very beginning of this dispensation, through the mouth of the Prophet Joseph. Thank God that knowledge has come into my soul. I hope to keep it, I hope to see it come to the souls of my sons and daughters, and that from generation to generation there shall be found in the midst of Israel the sons and daughters of that good old father and mother who gave up all for the Gospel's sake. God grant it to all fathers and mothers, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"My Friend Divine." a soprano solo, was sung by Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley. 

ELDER CHARLES K HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

During the early pari of the excellent reign of Hezekian, king of Judah, he failed in some particular to stand to the covenants of the fathers, and he was prevailed against by the Assyrian;;, under King Shalmaneser. Later, this great young ruler realized his mistake, and as the Assyrians came against him again, under their then king, Sennecherib, Hezekiah sent word to them : 

"I have offended; return to me: that which, thou puttest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah king of ."iwlah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king's house. At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the Lord, and from the pillar?; which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria." 

The king was not only willing to arbitrate, but he was willing that his enemy should be the arbiter. Then, when he had placed him c elf right, hi became the recipient of divine aid against the enemy by the angel of the Lord, as recounted by the poet Byron. 

The principle of arbitration is a plant of very slow growth; like the century plant, its period' of flowering are far between. The historian Xenophon tells us that Cyrus was willing to arbitrate interstate questions, and submitted to an Indian king one such question with Assyria. Thncydides the Greek, declares that ''it is wicked 1o proceed against him as a wrong doer who is ready, to refer the question to an arbitrator." That declaration, I might say inspired declaration, (for GENERAL CONFERENCE.  was certainly a -very great principle advanced in those early centuries B. C. >, has been often quoted %vith approval, and yet it bears fruit slowly. Hugo Grotius-, the great writer on international law in the fore part' of the seventeenth century, declares in favor of that great doctrine, and states that it should be especially observed by Christians and by Christian nations. Grotius may fairly be called the father of international law. As an evidence of appreciation of him, our government instructed jts representative to place upon his grave a silver wreath, properly inscribed. This was done July 4, 1899, and appropriate words of appreciation were uttered by an eloquent representative of the government of the United States. 

Greece, in her early history, had her amphictionic council, seeking to mitigate the horrors of war, and by agreement to curtail them; and the representatives of the twelve :ibes of Hellas comprising that subcouncil, were under oath to observe those rules. King Henry the IV of France made some effort at in, terstate arbitration. William Penn declared in favor of it, and our own government has successfully practiced it. The United States and Great Britain successfully arbitrated some of the serious questions growing out of the Civil War; and we have what is called the Treaty of Washington, and the Award of Geneva,'' in 1871. In 1890 the government of the United States declared in favor of International arbitration; and Great Britain some three years afterward passed a resolution in approval of the doctrine advanced by the government of the I Jnited States upon this principle. 

Some are inclined to make light of the great work of the Hague Peace Conference, called by the 

Czar of Russia. It came from a source then not expected, but he set forth clearly the reason and the necessity for such a call, and the opening there was very propitious. The Minister of State of the Netherlands called attention to some of their allegorical paintings in the building in which they met, particularly one, the figure of peace entering the room to close the door of the temple of Janus, and he trusted that this picture would be typical of the work of the convention. Although all the nations seemed to realize the terrible burden they were placing upon their people in the ever increasing military and naval armaments, and the ever increasing war budgets, yet they were unable to come to any agreement with reference to limitation of armaments, or a curtailment of their war budgets; but they did a splendid thing in establishing a permanent court of arbitration — not enforced arbitration, but a tribunal to which the nations might voluntarily go with confidence. All the signatory nations — and they were all who had representatives at the Czar's court at the time this rescript was sent forth, all joined in establishing this court, and each was privileged to appoint in equal numbers, members of that court to serve for a definite period, and to appoint their successors. When the misunderstandings occurred between Great Britain and France and some other nations with Venezuela they did not think it was beneath their dignity nor that their honor would be in any wise affected by submitting to arbitration their differences with little Venezuela; and we had the beautiful spectacle of twelve of the great nations interested in that arbitration, selecting from the Hague court representatives of Austria and of Russia to form the tribunal which passed upon that case, which they did with a good deal of satisfaction. 

Great military men have spoken strenuously against the horrors of war. Napoleon said it was the "business of barbarism," and Napoleon should know, for he had led into Russia six hundred thousand men and brought only twenty thousand of them back. It is estimated that in the Napoleonic wars four million men lost their lives. Wellington said, "Take my word for it, if you had ever seen but one day of war, you would pray Almighty God that you might never see such a thing again." Germany has a maxim that ' "a great war leaves a country . with three armies — an army of cripples, an army of mourners, and an army of thieves." In 1865, General Sherman said in reference to war : 

"I confess without shame that I am sick and tired of war. Its glory is all moonshine. Even success, the most brilliant, is over dead and mangled bodies, the anguish and lamentations of distant families, appealing to me for missing sons, husbands and fathers. It is only those who have never heard a shot, nor the shrieks and groans of wounded friend or foe who cry aloud for more blood, more vengeance, more desolation." 

The best authorities on war seemed to think, until a few months ago, that we had reached a time when the great nations of the world would be in war no more. Doctor David Starr Jordan, a real authority on questions of peace and war, wrote in 1912, in his instructive work entitled, "War and Waste," under a chapter headed, "The Great War of Europe :" 

"What shall we say of the great war -of Europe, ever threatening, ever impending and which never comes. We shall say that it will never come. Hu speaking, it is impossible, not in the physical sense, of course, for with weak, restless and Godless men nothing evil is impossible, It may be, of course, that some half-crazed Arch-Duke or some harassed minister of state shall half knowing, give the signal for Europe's conflagration. * * * The tinder is well dried and laid in such a way as to make the worst of this common catastrophy. All Europe cherishes is ready for the burning." 

After quoting statistics to show a European war, with Italy and Romania included, would cost about $50,000,000.00 per day, Dr. Jordan adds : 

"The bankers will not find the money for such a fight, the industries of Europe will not and statesmen cannot. No matter whatever the bluster or apparent provocation it comes to the same thing at the end. There will be no general war until the masters direct the fighters to fight. The masters have much to gain, but vastly more to lose and their signal will not be given." 

But Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Lord, said that war would be poured out upon all nations, and that Great Britain should call upon other nations — and she is doing it now, calling, perchance upon even little Portugal. . In this instance the wisdom of men is placed in juxtaposition with the foresight of the Prophet. I think, with Brother Roberts, that while upon the surface it appears to be a discouraging circumstance that the great nations of Europe are now engaged in such a deady conflict, that it is but the fore-runner of a better peace, that it is but the dark hour before the dawn. 

In reading an article, by a woman, in the present number of the Century, I thought that the giving of suffrage to the women would help also in this question of securing arbitration, peaceful arbitration to take the place of the arbitrament of arms. She points out that women know the history and the value of human flesh, that no woman would think lightly of the taking of human life. She writes : 

"In viewing a battlefield a woman will say: 'So many mother's sons; so many young bodies brought into the world to lie there; so many months of weariness and pain while bones and muscles were shaped within; so many hours of anguish and struggle that birth might be; so many baby mouths drawing life at women's breasts. All this that man might lie with glazed eye-balls and swollen faces and fixed, blue, unclosed mouths and great limbs tossed. This that an acre of ground might be manured with human flesh, that next year's grass, or poppies, or karoo bushes may spring up greener and redder where they have lain, or that the sand of the plains may have a glint of white bones;' and we cry: without an inexorable cause this must not be. No woman who is a woman says of a human being, 'It is nothing.' 

* * * She knows the history of human flesh. She knows its cost. 

* * * The thought would never come to that woman, 'cast in men's bodies. Settle the thing so.' " 

That was a very strong document addressed by the suffragists in protest against this war, respecting mothers of those who will lose their sons in the deadly conflict. 

The press dispatches gave us recently an account of a French mother who lost four sons in the present war but expressed regret that she had not other sons to lose in the same cause. I think there is another side to that picture. I think that Elizabeth Barrett Browning in that beautiful poem entitled "Mother and Poet," gives us a glimpse of the other side, a glimpse of the struggle between the motherlove and the love for country. Her  are suggested by the Italian warfare after news from Gaeta in 1861, and in part are as follows: 

Dead! one of them shot by the sea in the east, 

And one of them shot in the west by the sea. Dead! both my boys! When you sit 

at the feast And are wanting a great song for Italy free, 

Let none look at me! 

Yet I was a poetess only last year, And good at my art, for a woman, men said. 

But this woman, this, who is agonized here, 

The east sea and west sea rhyme on in her head 

Forever instead. 

What art can a woman be good at? Oh vain! 

What art is she good at, but hurting her breast W r ith the milk-teeth of babes, and a 

smile at the pain? Ah, boys, how you hurt! you were strong as you pressed, And / proud, by that test. 

What art's for a woman? To hold on 

her knees Both darlings! to feel all their arms 

round her throat Cling, strangle a little! To sew by 

degrees, 

And "broider the long clothes and neat little coat! 

To dream and to dote. 

To teach them * * * It strings there. / made them indeed Speak plain the word "country." I taught them, no doubt, That a country's a thing men should die for at. need. / prated of lib.erty, rights, and about The tyrant turned put. 

And when their eyes flashed * * * "O my beautiful eyes!" I exulted! nay, let them go forth at the wheels Of the guns, and denied not. But then the surprise, When one sits quite alone! Then one weeps, then one kneels! — God! how the house feels. 125 

Then follow verses descriptive of letters received from her soldier sons, and the manner of receiving news of the death of first one and then the other of her boys. As the crowd cheered in the streets of Turin she fell at their feet. Susbtitute the name of one or the other of the nations now contending, and we. can imagine to some extent the feelings of some of the mothers, numbered now by the million, whose sons have either been recently slain or wounded or are now on the firing line. The poet continues: 

O Christ of the seven wounds, who look'dst through the dark To the face of Thy mother! consider, I pray, How we common mothers stand desolate, mark, Whose sons, not being Christs, die with eyes turned away. And no last word to say! 

Bothi boys dead! but that's out of nature. We all Have been patriots, yet each house must always keep one. 

'Twere imbecile, hewing out roads to a wall. 

And, when Italy's made, for what end is it done 

If we have not a son? 

Ah, ah, ah! when Gaeta's taken, what then? 

When the fair wicked queen sits no more at her sport Of the fire-balls of death crashing souls out of men? When vour guns of Cavalli with final retort 

Have cut the game short, — 

When Venice and Rome keep their new jubilee, When your flag takes all heaven for its white, gren, and red, When you have your country from mountain to sea. When King Victor has Italy s crown on his head, 

(And I have my dead),  

Whn<- then? Do not mock me. Ah, ring your bells low, 

And burn your lights faintly. My country is there, Above the star pricked bv the last 

peak of snow: My Italy's there — with my brave civic pair, 

To disfranchise despair. 

Forgive me. Some women bear children in strength, * And bite back the cry of their pain in self-scorn. But the birth-pangs of nations will wring us at length Into wail such as this! — and we sit on forlorn 

When the man-child is born. 

Dead! — one of them shot by the sea 

in the west! And one of them shot in the east 

by the sea! Both! both my boys! — if in keeping 

the feast 

You want a great song for your Italy free, 

Let none look at me! 

We had an able talk from Doctor. Talmage at the Sunday School meeting on the "foundations of peace." So we might consider the "foundations of war." Militarism is one of the corner stones in the 'foundations  of war. Israel Zangwill gives us these strong lines: 

"To safeguard peace, we must prepare for war. 

1 know that maxim — it was forged in hell." 

Of course there must be an adequate police force for each nation, but it is inexcusable to let the debt for armaments and standing armies run into what has been called ^the "endless procession of ciphers." or for a nation to enter noon the "procession toward the abyss." Tt is follv to have a peace that is a "peace of force" which may be transmuted at any time into a peace of bankruptcy of exhaustion. But a peace resting upon that foundation which GENERAL CONFERENCE.  been explained by the brethren during this conference will be what has been called "the old peace with velvet-sandalled feet;" and may that time come, the time foreseen by Isaiah and by Micah when the swords should be beaten into plow-shares and the spears into pruning hooks. I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Eldre Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and 

David A. Smith, as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H.~Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew ' Jenson, Brigham. H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August William Lund, assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace FI. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer of the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman: George H. Brimhall, Willard Young and C. N. Jensen. 

Auditing committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Joseph S. Wells. 

Tabernacle choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Emmeline B. Wells, President; Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor; Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, Secretary; Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary; Emma Em127 , Treasurer; Lizzie Thomas Edward, musical director; Edna H. Coray, Organist. Members of the Board: Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Prisclla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth 

C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McLelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Jeanette A. Hyde and Sarah Eddington. 

General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union: Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; David O. McKay, First Assistant Superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, Second Assistant Superintendent; George D. Pyper, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer. Members of the Board : Joseph F. Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George 

D. Pyper, Anthon FI. Lund, James 

E. Talmage, George M. Cannon, Horace H. Cummin gs, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt, 

- George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Sylvester D. Bradford, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Charles W. Penrose, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith. Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne, J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker, E. G. Gowans, and E. Conway Ashton. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; Heber J. Grant, Assistant Superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendent; Moroni Snow, Secretary. 

Members of General Board : Francis M. Lyman, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi 

C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin. Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan. Claude Richards, John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardly, Richard W. Young, Preston 

D. Richards. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutal Improvement Association : Martha Home Tingey, President; Ruth May Fox, First Counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom Second Coun- . selor; Clarissa A. Beesley, Secretary; Joan M. Campbell, Recording Secretary; Alice K. Smith. Treasurer; Margaret Summerhays and Mabel Cooper, Music directors. 

Aids: Maria Young DougalL Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant. Estelle Neff Caldwell, Emily Caldwell Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy Woodruff t Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, Letitia T. Teasdale, Laura Bennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor. Sarah E. Richards, Lucy Mack Smith and Charlotte Stewart. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Members of the General Board of Primary Association : Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; Frances K. Thomassen, Secretary; Ida B. Smith, Librarian; Isabella S. Ross, Physical Director; Ann Nebeker, Assistant Physical Director; Emma Ramsey Morris, Chorister; Ivy Allen, Organist. 

Advisors to the Board : George F. Richards and Anthony W. Ivins. 

Aids : Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia S. Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza S. Bennion. Margaret C. Eastmond, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma P. Romney, Zina Y. Card, Laura L. Foster, Edith E. Hunter, Erma Bitner Evans, Eleanor R. Jeremy, Mary Young, Ella S. Capener, Annie S. Milne, Vilate S. Chambers, Georgina F. Richards, Beatrice Cannon, Adelaide U. E. Hardy, Matilda W. Cahoon, Helen Davis, Florence Summerhays, Marion Belnapp Kerr. 

General Board of Religion Classes: Anthon H. Lund, Superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant, Superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, Second Assistant Supt.; Edwin S. Sheets, Secretary. Members of the Board : Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson, Willard Young and James E. Talmage. 

General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah: Anthon H. Lund, President; Charles W. Penrose, Vice Presdent; Joseph F. 

Smith, Jr., Secretary and Treasurer; Joseph Christenson, Librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, D. M. McAllister, and 'Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING ADDRESS. 

Conquer sin in self, and assist others in war against evil — Truth and Jus tice the foundation of Peace — Blessings of Peace invoked upon the Saints — Sisters admonished to be exemplary in dress, etc. 

I feel very grateful for the excellent peace and spirit which has pervaded all our meetings. It is true, we are all engaged in a warfare, and all of us should be valiant warriors in the cause in which we are engaged. Our first enemy we will find within ourselves. It is a good thing to overcome that enemy first, and bring ourselves into subjection to the will of the Father, and into strict obedience to the principles of life and salvation which He has given to the world for the salvation of men. When we shall have conquered ourselves, it will be well for us to wage our war without, against false teachings, false doctrines, false customs, habits and ways, against error, unbelief, the follies of the world that are so prevalent, and against infidelity, and false science under the name of science, and every other thing that strikes at the foundations of the principles set forth in the doctrine of Christ for the redemption of men and the salvation of their souls. We should war against covetousness, against pride, vanity, haughtiness of spirit, against self-sufficiency, and imagined or supposed almighty power that some people think they possess.,, God is the greatest man of war of all, and His Son is next unto Him, and their warfare is for the salvation of the souls of men. It would not be necessary for them to use violence or force, nor to permit their children to use violence nor force in order to conquer if they would but humble themselves, and obey the truth. For, after all, nothing will conquer nothmg will win but the truth; and so far as the wars that are going on in the world are concerned, we not only want to see peace established among the children of men, but also justice, but above all things, truth. that justice, peace and righteousness may be built upon this foundation and not depend upon the covetousness, pride, vanity, evil desire, and lust for power in men. / That is what we want; and I pray that the spirit of truth may be poured out upon all men, as well as the spirit of peace. In fact, we will never have peace until we have truth. We will never be able to establish peace on earth and good will until we have drunk at the fountains of righteousness and eternal truth, as God has revealed it to man. 

This is my testimony to you, and I desire to emphasize these simple thoughts, and say to all my brethren and sisters : Let us conquer ourselves, and then go to and conquer all the evil that we see around us, as far as we possibly can. And we will do it without using violence; we will do it without interfering with the agency of men or of women. We will do it by persuasion, by longsuffering, by patience, and by for and love unfeigned, by which we will win the hearts, the affections and the souls of the children of men to the truth, as God has revealed it to us. We will never have peace, nor justice, nor truth, until we look to the only true fountain for it, and receive from the fountain-head. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters; I thank you for your attendance, for it has been a strength to us, and it has given us consolation and comfort to see you here and to know that you are here because you love the truth, just as we love it; and many of you love it even more than some of us know how to love it. For I know of people in the world who are true Latter-day Saints from the very core; they do not have many things to contend against in themselves, either. It is easy for them to be Latter-day Saints, and truly the children of God, because they love the truth and they live pure lives, many of them. 1 am satisfied of it. Many there-be, however, who have a good deal to fight against within themselves, and some of us are not any better than we ought to be. Such will doubtless gain a great reward if they conquer. 

Now, in conclusion, let us go home,thoseof us who are relieved to go home, carrying with us the spirit of the Gospel, rejoicing that we 'have the liberty that we enjoy, the liberty to worship God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and according to the promptings of the testimony and of the Spirit of God within us; and let us abide in the truth. My .blessing I give to you. May peace dwell in your hearts. May it abide and abound in your homes. May you be blessed in your outgoings GENERAL CONFERENCE.  incomings, when you lie down and rise up, in your basket and in your store, in your business and in all your lawful and worthy transactions of life, and in your ministrations for the salvation of mankind; the Lord bless you in it. 

One word more. I wish to say to my sisters, and especially to those who are called to be teachers among their sex : Please set the example before your sisters that God would have them follow. When we teach people to observe the laws of God and to honor the gifts that are bestowed upon them in the covenants of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, we don't want you teachers to go out and set an example before your sisters that will destroy their faith in our teachings. I hope you will take that to heart, for it has a meaning to it. I am talking to the teachers among the sisters. We hear it reported, from time to time, that some of the teachers that are sent out among our sisters not only do not set the example that they ought to set, but they set the example that they should not set for our sisters, they teach them by example to break the word of wisdom, rather than to keep it. They teach them to mutilate their garments, rather than to keep them holy and undefiled, by setting the example before them, and we can tell you the names if you want to know. I am not scolding; I don't want it to be understood that I am finding fault, I am only telling a solemn truth, and I am sorry that I have it to say, but I want it to be distinctly understood. We see some of our good sisters  here to the Temple 'occasionally decorated in the latest ai most ridiculous fashions that ever disgraced the human form divine. They do not seem to realize that they are coming to the house of God, and we have to forbid them entrance, or find fault with them, and they go away grieved and say sometimes, 'We don't want to go there any more." Why? Because they come unprepared, like the man who was found at the feast without the wedding garment, who also had to be turned out (Matt. 22 :1-14). We have to turn them out occasionally,, because they will not hearken to the counsel that has been given to them. jMay the Lord have mercy upon us, and bless and help us to do our duty in all things, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "The Doxology." 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Ottcrstrom, and Frederick Barker, Gladys Barker, and Clarence Cramer. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 
