Afternoon
05 10 1914

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! What more can He say than to you He hath said, 

You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled? 

The invocation was offered by Elder William H. Smart. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky Arches over the vales of the free, Where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow, How I've longed to your bosom to flee. 

ELDER DAVID O. M'KAY. 

God's laws should govern all life's affairs, trivial or great — War's horrors, like other evils, result from ignoring Divine laws — Duty of proclaiming those laws rests upon the Priesthood — To be consistent, those who proclaim law must live it. 

I sincerely trust that I may be able to express what I have in my heart to say. To me, it seems important and practical; but I rather fear that when I attempt to say it, it will seem to the Saints trivial and unimportant, so I pray that the inspiration of this conference, the bessings "of the. Lord that have attended the brethren who have occupied this position before, may direct me this afternoon. 

The Gospel principles are glorious, they are divine, and I beiieve that there is not a soul in this house who does not believe that they are glorious and divine. Most of us know the source of these principles and these ordinances. We know that God is revealing and has revealed His will to men; but the great important thing to me is, To what extent do we introduce these glorious principles into our lives. In other words, how do we apply our religion? We just sang the opening hymn, 

"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word; 

What more can He say than to you He 

hath said, You who unto Jesus for refuge hath 

fled?" , y \ 

When we think of the revelationsHe has given to the human family since the beginning of time, down to this last and greatest of dispensations in which He has revealed, through the greatest of prophets, revelations that are glorious and practical, when we contemplate, I say, all that God has given us, it does seem that we can say with the poet, "What more can He say than to you He hath said ?" But on the other hand, when we contemplate how little we apply these principles in our individual lives, in our civic lives, in our national lives, we begin to realize how much more God has done for us than we are doing for Him. We should apply these principles, too, in what seem to be trivial things. There is no one great thing that we can do to obtain eternal life, and it seems to me that the great lesson to be learned in the world today is to apply in the little acts and duties of life the glorious principles of the Gospel. Let us not think that because some of the things named this afternon.may seem small and trivial, that they are unimportant. Life, after all, is made up of little things. Our life, our being, physically, is made up here of little heart beats. Let that little heart stop beating, and life in this world ceases. The great sun is a mighty force in the universe, but we receive the blessings of his rays because they come to us as little beams, which, taken in the aggregate, fill the whole world with sunlight. The dark night is made pleasant by the glimmer of what seem to be little stars; and so the true Christian life is made up of little Christ-like acts performed this hour, this minute, in the home, in the quorum, in the organization, in the town, wherever our life and acts may be cast. 

I want to call your attention to part of the farewell address that an aged man gave to his people many hundreds of years ago, for it seems to me that the power of that address as it influenced the people of his time is applicable to the world today. Many hundreds of years ago an old prophet, tried and proved by a life of service to God, gathered his people around him, related their history, and pointed out the hand of God over them, how He had preserved them, led them through trials, temptations, delivered them from their enemies and blessed them time after time, notwithstanding their frequent departures from His will. Then He appealed to them to say whether or not they were going to serve Him, or whether after all the Lord had done for them they were going to fall back and worship false gods. They were so impressed that they cried out in their hearts, "The Lord, our God will we serve and His voice will we obey," and then Joshua, the aged prophet, gathered them around him and, under an old oak tree that stood close by the sanctuary, erected a pile of rocks which was to stand as a reminder of the covenant which they had that day made, and so long as they should see that, they were to remember the covenant which they had made; they were going to serve God and His voice obey. 

Brethren, these conferences appeal to me as opportunities for us to renew our covenants. This conference, particularly, is a time of refreshing, a time of renewal of spirit, and an opportunity for all Israel to  after all they hear, after all they know to be true, "We will serve the Lord and His voice we will obey." 

I said that the great need of the world today is applied religion. When I think or read of the horrors of the most wicked of wars, now going on in Europe, when I picture young men who have been forced to carry the gun and slay their fellowmen, running across a field, burrowing into the earth as animals, to protect themseves from their fellowmen, when I read of these men lying heaped in trenches, and in fancy hear their groans as they turn their o-hastly faces to heaven, when I think of the devastated towns and see fleeing from those towns husbandless women, dragging fatherless children, when I think of the thousands of human beings who are going to die of starvation and disease, — because we are told that for every soldier that dies in battle five others at least will die of exposure, disease and starvation — I say when I think of all these horrors that come in the wake of war, I try to find out the cause of it all. Each nation is calling its people to "Come to the defense of the nation, because the war is forced upon us." Germany says, "We are forced to fight Austria says, "We are forced to fight;" so France and England. As a matter of fact, thus far it seems clear that only the little nation of Belgium is forced to fight. They seem to have such right on their side -that they are fighting for their life, for their country, their God. But the real causes are not evident; however you will discover that one cause of the disastrous war lies deeply rooted in the fact that those highly so-called Christian nations have never applied the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The leaders and rulers who brought this war upon the people failed to apply the little, simple principles that Christ taught centuries ago. Why, if they had applied only one of His teachings the whole war might have been averted. For example, "If you bring your gift to the altar and there rememberest that thou hast aught against thy brother, leave there thy gift upon the altar and go first to thy brother; first reconcile thyself to him, then come and offer thy sacrifice." If the first two nations that clashed, because af having misunderstood each other, had applied that little simple doctrine and live it, may be the whole thing would have been averted for a time. But that is only one. The roots of the causes of this war lie deeply bedded in vanity, one monarch feeling above another, so far above him, in fact, that he would not arbitrate, would not go to his brother and have an understanding of the misunderstandings that had risen. Vanity, selfishness, unjust commercialism, unrighteousness, and other things contrary to, the Spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. O, if they could only apply the Gospel in their nationalism! But they have considered it only as a thing appart from daily life — as something to be treated as a mere social function. They haven't felt that it is a vital force, the vital force in humanity. 

It may be that this dreadful carnage which is going on — the toppling of thrones, the destruction of monarchies, may be but a step to prepare the way 'for the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the giving to the millions of honest souls in those countries the opportunity of accepting it. I, for one, believe it with all my soul. Upon , then, rests the responsibility of carrying this message to them, after the way is prepared? Upon whom but those unto whom has been given the power and authority to represent God in this \wfc>rld? That is you, my brother; that is you, my sister. How glorious the Gospel seems to us; but oh, how mighty the responsibility upon the Elders of the Church! The first step toward carrying this responsibility is to apply our religion in our lives. 

Did you notice the last part of President Smith's impressive prayer last night in the Sunday School Union ? Read it after this meeting and see how his heart went out and prayed that we might have the spirit of peace in our hearts. That is the true beginning of peace. When we talk to the world about the need of applying religion, our first duty is to apply it in our lives. 

Let us see what this means. In one of our meetings recently, President Lyman said, in substance, "I believe, that there was never a time when it was more necessary to teach to the people the necesisty of abstaining from the use of tobacco, intoxicants and s timulating beverages." In other words, though for many years we have heard the word of wisdom taught, yet it is still just as necessary to teach it to the Saints. The word of wisdom is a simple little thing, isn't it, but if we could say to the world that here in the west there are one hundred thousand people not one of whom indulges in intoxicants, not one of whom has violated the law of chastity, what would it mean ? To accomplish this among Latter-day Saints isn't impractical. Let us particularize : Here are these men in the leading counsels of the Church who subscribe to those things. There are sixty-six presidencies and sixty-six stake cerks of whom the same can be truthfully said. There are sixtysix times eighteen who ought to do it; and if they cannot, they are not true to the responsibility which they have accepted. If those men can do it, cannot the seven hundred and twenty-five times three men who occupy the bishoprics in this Church, do it ? They must do it. They have said they would do it. If these men can comply with these requirements because of the offices they hold and the responsibilities that are before them as leaders in Israel, cannot the men who occupy positions in the quorums do it? Why. Bishops, you ask them to when you put them in, and each man can do it if he will only desire to. If he will only say in his heart, "I love to do it because it is true, because it is my duty." Do you realize what it means to have the Priesthood — all the men who hold responsibility, live temperate, chaste and righteous lives? Sixtysix stake presidencies and clerks aggregate twti hundred and sixty-four men; Higii Counselors, eleven hundred eighty-eight; seven hundred and twenty-five Bishoprics, including the ward clerk, twenty-nine hundred; Deacons, just the officers and class instructors, about twenty-nine hundred; Teachers and Priests, approximately, fourteen hundred and fifty; three hundred and fifty quorums of Elders, each one presided over by three men who carry the responsibility of pure living just as much as the Bishopric of the ward, one thousand and fifty; there will be seven hundred class instructors with those Elders, every one of whom is an unfit teacher unless he teaches by his life; one hundred and ninety quorums of Seventy, thirteen hundred and thirty men; sixty-six quor of High Priests, one hundred and ninety-eight, with seven hundred and twenty-five class instructors; making a grand total of over twelve thousand men, every one of whom has the strength and I hope he has the love to live up to those principles and to apply them in his daily life. Or, to approach the question another way. Since the year, 1900, over ten thousand young men in this Church have gone out to the nations to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Those young men have stood on the streets of some of these nations now in war; they have stood on the street corners in our own cities here in America, and have declared the eternal principles of the Gospel revealed through the Prophet, Joseph Smith. Those ten thousand young men during that time were clean and pure and sweet in their lives, or else they were hypocrites. Now, they have come back and are mingling here in our social life, in our political life; some of them are on the road acting as drummers. Are they applying these Gospel principles? There are ten thousand young men on whom the responsibility rests to apply these influences in their lives. And we may add others. There are the teachers in the auxiliary associaaions. Do you want a girl to teach your children in Sunday School who does not live a life of purity, a consistent life in her home and in society? Why, the responsibility is upon the girls just as much as it as upon the men. And when you class just the teachers, eliminating the general boards, eliminating the Ward teachers, eliminating the membership of quorums, — which ought not to be done, — we have an army of fifty thousand teachers, men and women, every one of whom can  this principle in daily life and every one of whom should do it. Think of it! Suppose that during 1915 and the remaining part of this year each one of those fifty thousand teachers touches the life of five boys and girls, only five, and influence those boys and girls to practice absolutely a life of temperate living and of chastity and of devotion to the principles of life — for that is what the Gospel is, principles of life, salvation here, happiness here, as well as hereafter — we should then have a community of two hundred and fifty thousand people applying the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I think such a condition not impracticable, to obtain; for most of them are living it now, and the Gospel truths are dearer to them than life. 

Let us go from this conference feeling in our hearts as Israel of old felt, we will serve the Lord and His voice we will obey. God help us to do it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Mildred Bradford sang a soprano solo, "Fear not ye, oh Israel." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

The purpose of prophecy, and necessity for prophets — Few have believed the prophets — Scriptures and prophets rejected now as formerly — Evidences of true prophecy ignored — Need for all nations to heed Jatter-day prophets — Repentance may avert predicted calamities. 

Had it been suggested yesterday, my brethren and sisters, that I address you this afternoon I should have thought it impossible, for I have been suffering because of bodily conditions to an extent that it would have been very painful for  to have attempted to do so, but I feel very grateful to the Lord, and give Him credit, that I am so far relieved from pain that with His assistance and your faith I am able to occupy a few moments of the time. 

I believe in the Lord. I believe in the vital forces which characterize His Gospel, and apply to all those who put their faith in Him; and so I depend upon Him as I have all my life. Whatever I do I think of the Lord, and my utter dependence upon Him for strength to accomplish it. So I feel very grateful this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, and wish to make this acknowledgment here in your presence, that my life has been prolonged and preserved until today; that your lives have been preserved; that we are permitted through His mercy and goodness to come up here again as we are wont to do, to worship the Lord, to bear witness of His goodness to us, to review the condition of the Church, to compare our progress, our development, our work, with the words of His servants, the prophets, that we may know whether or not we are in harmony with that which the Lord expects us to accomplish. 

I feel very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for my membership in the Church, for the testimony which has come to me, and which has been so convincing that I do not remember a moment in my life, either my mature life or my childhood, when I have ever doubted, when my faith in the Lord has ever wavered. I believe in Him and recognize Him as the Creator of the earth upon which I dwell, the organizer of the universe with which we are surrounded, the Father of my spirit and the spirits of all men, and that He did send in the meridian of time His only begotten Son that we might see God in the flesh as He was manifested in our Lord, Jesus Christ, with the doctrines of the everlasting Gospel which have been taught aforetime, through obedience to which men and women might be brought back into His presence. I believe in these things, my brethren and sisters, with all my heart. 

I thank the Lord for the written word which we have that is contained in the scripture; that He has sent prophets into every dispensation of the world. From the time that this earth was created and mankind began to inhabit it the Lord has been very near to His children. He has always guided them or sought to guide them in the right way. He has revealed Himself to them through His servants. Prophecy does not come to us simply that we may know that which is to transpire. The Lord sends inspired men to outline to us the future in order that, having that knowledge we may be brought to repentance; that we may avoid, by repentance, the inevitable judgments which come to men because of their wickedness-; that we may become partakers of the blessings which are vouchsafed to all those who repent and serve the Lord. This is the purpose of prophecy, this is the spirit of prophecy, and the prophets have always been with God's children from the besrinnmg of time, and they are with them today to warn and admonish them and to point out to them the way in which they should walk. A prophet is not only one who foretells events that are to come, but one who, inspired of the Lord, instructs people in that which they ought to do in the day of their own probation, that they may be brought back into the presence of the Lord. 

It never has been very popular to be a prophet. I am reminded of that; from the very beginning the inclination of man seems to have been to disbelieve in the Lord, to drift away from Him and to treat lightly the admonitions which have come to them through His servants. When Noah preached repentance to the antediluvians, warning them of their wickedness, there were only a few who believed. O, he was a visionary man; the earth would not be submerged with water; they would not be destroyed; and they laughed him to scorn; but there were just a few who had sufficient faith to believe in him and be saved. Only a few people believed in the Redeemer, notwithstanding the fact that they professed faith in the scripture and that His coming had been clearly outlined, the time, the place, the manner, there were just a few wise men, who understood the signs of the times, who came and did homage to the Babe of Bethlehem. The world at large rejected Him. The Jews rejected His doctrines, they were not warned by those signs which were manifest clearly before their very eyes, and they rejected the Lord. They knew not of His coming, and rejected His doctrines and ridiculed Him and scorned Him and finally crucified Him. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, 1 might go on and recount many suck instances. There have been times when people have listened to the words of the prophet and through obedience and repentance have been saved. When Jonah went down to Ninevah and warned those people that because of their wickedness the judgment of the Almighty hung over them and that they would be destroyed except they should repent, they were pricked in their hearts and did repent. They fasted before the Lord; they clothed themselves in sackcloth and threw ashes upon their heads and cried mightily to the Lord for forgiveness; and He heard them just as He always hears those who turn to Him. It was not that the deluge had been irrevocably decreed; it was not that the Lord desired the destruction of multitudes of men who were on the earth; not at all. He desired their redemption, that they should repent, and had they repented of their sins and turned to Him, there would have been rejoicing in the heavens. That generation of men would have been redeemed; but they refused to listen, acting upon the agency which the Lord had given them. That is what I want to call your attention to, my brethren and sisters, that prophecy is given to us that we may profit by it, and by having fore-knowledge of those things which are to come, we may so square our lives that we will be prepared for them. So it is not very strange that this latter dispensation, in which the restoration of the Gospel had been just as clearly outlined as had been the dispensation of Christ, our Savior, should be revealed by the Lord, through His servants, the prophets. He revealed it to John, the divine, upon the Isle of Patmos : He revealed it to Isaiah and others of His prophets, the time, the place and the manner of the restoration, and we know as we know that we live, that through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, just a boy, but a boy chosen of the Lord and loved of Him, that this latter Gospel dispensation has been ushered in, as the Lord said it would be. 

The world does not believe this. They will never believe it except  shall turn from their wickedness and do the will of the Lord. But that does not change the truth at all. We bear witness of it to the world. I bear witness of it here this afternoon, that Joseph Smith was and is today the prophet of this dispensation, the chosen instrument of the Lord, through whom by the agency of that angel that was to fly through heaven, seen of John, the Revelator, the Gospel has been restored to earth, that its inhabitants may be warned and brought to repentance if they are to avoid the judgments of the Almighty which hangs over them. Not because He has declared that they shall be destroyed, not at all. He does not love war; and there would be rejoicing if the nations would repent; but without repentance, without humility, unless they shall .acknowledge Him and acknowledge the restoration of the Gospel in this dispensation, through these agencies to which I referred, there can come no salvation for them. 

Nearly thirty years before it occurred, Joseph Smith predicted the great civil war which should occur in our own country. Well, the unbeliever says, "Any far-seeing man might have known that the Southern states would be divided against the Northern states and there would be war." But the prophet states more than that. He told us just where the war would begin. He told us just what the result would be, and has the sequel not proven that that war began just as this revelation said it would begin, in South Carolina? We might have some reason to doubt or to question the inspiration of this prophet of the Lord, if during that war the Southern states had not called upon Great Britain for assistance. There might be some reason to doubt if in a single detail there had been a mistake, but it chanced that the Southern states did call upon Great Britain, and we were very nearly at war with that nation because of her participation in behalf of the Confederacy in that struggle. 

So, my brethren and sisters, you may read the word of the Lord as it is contained in these books and there you will find outlined for your benefit, that you may be governed by it, the destiny of all the nations of "the earth. Now, we are not so much interested in the deluge, we are not so much interested in things that occurred in the meridian of time, although they are of very great interest to us, as we are in the word of the Lord as it applies to the present. We are here in peace today: thank the Lord for it. We pray for peace! we desire it. I want to say to you that all the prayers that we offer for peace, however great our desires may be, will not stay the judgments of the Almighty which hang over this nation as they hang over the nations of the old world, except repentance shall come to it, and faith in God, our Father. 

There is no land in the world, no people upon earth to M-hom greater promises have been made than this nation of which we form a part. There is no part of the earth's surface of which the Lord has said more plainlv and with greater emphasis than He has of this.that it is a land choice above all other lands. There is no other place where He has said with greater emphasis that it is His eternal and irrevocable decree that whatever nation or people shall inhabit this promised land shall serve Him, the true and the living God, or they shall be removed from it. There is no nation to which He  made greater promises than the nation of which we form a part, and which exists here today. Neither is there any other nation that He was warned more plainly than He has this nation. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us look the situation squarely in the face. We see the ravages of war in the old world. They have been referred to here. I want to admonish my brothers and sisters and I want to admonish this nation to read the word of the Lord, to believe in this book, the Book of Mormon, which is the scripture of this American continent, and which contains the irrevocable decrees of the Almighty as they apply to this land, that they may, by coming into possession of this knowledge, avoid the pitfalls which are before them. 

It is not my purpose, not my intention to make lengthy remarks. W e are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times. My brethren and sisters, I would like to read here just a few words, the words of the Savior, and which apply very directly to us and to this nation : 

"Ye say that ye know .that the end of the world cometh, ye say also that ye know that the heavensi and the earth shall pass away; 

"And in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled. 

"And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem; and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be scattered among all nations; 

"But they shall be gathered again, but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, follow me a little further. 

"And in that day shall be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the  earth shall be ' in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth His coming until the end of the earth. 

"And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound; 

"And when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fullness of My Gospel; 

"But they receive it not, for they perceive not the light and they turn their hearts from Me because of the precepts of men; 

"And in that generation shall the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." 

That light has broken forth with the restoration of the Gospel through Joseph Smith, the prophet. That prophecy was fulfilled but they perceive not the light, recognize it no more than did the Jews perceive the light when Christ ministered among them, or the antediluvians believe the words of Noah, or the Nephites the words of Samuel, the prophet, or the Jaredites the words of Ether, but they went on in their wickedness and transgression until by their own acts they brought down upon themselves the judgment and indignation of an offended God. 

I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, the time has come in this nation when the Lord will have its people to serve Him — to turn from, their profanity, to turn from their blasphemy which we hear wherever we go, and honor the name of' God, our Father, and serve Him and keep His commandments; a time when their whoredoms must cease, when they must cease to corrupt the fountains of life and yield obedience to that first command in honorable marriage, increase and multiply and replenish the earth, as God designed that His children should do from the beginning; a time when they must cease from their drunkenness and abolish from among them those  which corrupt men and debase them and make them easy victims to the wiles of the adversary; a time when the rich must cease to persecute and bear down upon the poor, a time when the poor must in humility recognize and acknowledge the Lord and, without envy, treat properly those who have been blessed more greatly than they with the necessities of life; a time when the legislators who frame the law, must, in righteousness before the Lord, seek the enactment of righteous laws; and a time when the judges who execute the law must be incorruptible and not to be purchased with money, or because of the love of the world's honor, corrupt the trust that is reposed in them. In other words, a time when all men, those who profess faith, those who profess it not, must turn unto God, and except they return I bear witness that God's judgment is hanging over them and that it will fall upon them. All men upon this earth must come to recognize the Lord and acknowledge His Son, Jesus Christ, if they would be saved from the judgments which are to come. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, keep us in the faith, increase our testimony, give us strength that we may bear this witness before the world, that when the Lord's judgments come, our garments may be clean of the blood of this generation, because of having fulfilled this great mission of ours, to be witnesses of the Lord, testifying of the importance and truth of His written word, and the word uttered by His servants; for just as prophetic words have been uttered in the past, so does that prophetic spirit exist in the Church today through His servants who preside over us. I bear witness of this and pray that the Spirit of the Lord may help us to bear witness of it in all the world, that the people may be brought to repentance and God's judgments averted, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

"Christian" ministers denying divinity of Christ's earthly birth — Implicit faith in Christ characteristic of Latter-day Saints — Scriptures abound with testimony of Christ's divinity, and resurrection — Personal revelaton of Christ to man in this age. 

I desire to bear testimony to the words of counsel and instruction which we have received during this conference, and commend them to the Latter-day Saints, and pray that they put them into practice, that we may stand united in the keeping of the commandments of the Lord and the covenants we have made with Him. 

Like my brethren who have spoken, I too realize and know that the time must come when every knee must bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ. I was impressed by the remarks this morning by Elder Orson F. Whitney, in which he called to our attention the fact that/the Spirit of the Lord has been given unto us, even the Holy Spirit of promise, and therefore we may know the truth and walk in the light and understanding of the Gospelj While he was speaking, my mind dwelt upon a statement that was made some few months since by a certain minister who has a high standing in the Christian world, not only in this land, but also throughout Europe, for his learning and his ability as a public speaker. This man has been trained and educated in the colleges of the land, according  the customs and the theories prevalent at the present time in socalled Christian institutions, to interpret the* scriptures, and is now a Doctor of Divinity. Yet this gentleman who has received this training and standing amibng his fellows, made the startling declaration in one of his discourses several months ago that he did not adhere to and would not support the doctrine of the miraculous conception and birth of Christ. "My conclusion upon the question," he announced, "is that the faith of Mark and John, and James and Paul, is good enough for me, it is good enough for any Christian. These men say nothing about Jesus having come into the world in a miraculous manner, and I prefer to stand with them. What do we mean by saying He was divine? It is a question of quantity and not of quality. There is divinity in us; but so much more in Him that I prefer to call Him divine. Perhaps it would be better to speak of the divineness of man and the divinity of Christ." In other discourses in keeping with this, this gentleman denied the resurrection from the dead. He denied that Jesus came forth from the tomb. He denied, as he has in this statement I have read, that Jesus was the only begotten Son of God. He set forth the idea that He was the son of Joseph and Mary, and that there is no resurrection from the dead. Because of his doctrine which was boldly declared, there was some opposition raised among his fellow ministers, for he stood as the President of the Federation of Ministers in the city where he preached in one of the fashionable churches. Action was brought against him by those who did not accept these , to have him relieved of his position as President of the Ministerial Federation. The case was heard and the man reiterated his expressions, declaring that while he was preaching in the city of New York and in London, where he represented another denomination whose doctrines, in part at least, were different from those of the organization he now represented, he had been far more emphatic and had spoken more clearly in favor of these doctrines for which he had now been called in question. The matter of his resignation was put to vote and seventy-four of the ministers voted in his favor while but nineteen voted that he should be requested to resign. 

I think this is a startling situation, in a community professing to believe in the mission of Jesus Christ and professing to be Christian in doctrine, f Could a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, called to be a minister to the people — a Bishop of a ward, a President of a Stake, or one occupying a .position in any other capacity — go forth among the people declaring that he did not believe- that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God, and denying His great and glorious mission in the world, and hold his position ? No! Because it is in opposition to the very foundation of Christianity. It is contrary to the Gospel and teachings of the Redeemer of the world. It contradicts His entire life, and ministry and is destructive of faith in Plis name. Any officer in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints who should put forth such a declaration would very soon be relieved of his responsibility.,/ 

This minister, notwithstanding his learning and degrees received in  to qualify him as a minister of the Gospel, presumes to declare that he stands on the same ground as "Mark and John, and James and Paul," none of whom, so he declares, has testified of the miraculous birth of Jesus of Nazareth. Little does he understand the scriptures! Little does he understand the teachings of these worthy disciples of the Master as they have declared tfiem in their writings in the scriptures. He has no conception of the doctrines of true Christianity when he declares that Jesus is not the Son of God; that there is no resurrection of the dead, and that we are not redeemed from our sins through the blood of Christ, for this is the foundation of Christianity. Destroy these teachings and what is left ? Any; man who denies these great truths is in the gall of bitterness and gross darkness concerning the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is no wonder, however, that blind teachers will hold to these ideas, for they are without the Spirit of God, and therefore, I suppose, we can afford to be charitable unto them and pity them. Why, the Savior Himself has very clearly taught, as it is recorded by these very witnesses of whom this gentleman speaks, that He is the Son of God. He taught His disciples to pray to the Father in His name, and that He and the Father are one. He said He came into the world to do the will of the Father and not to do His own will, and that as the only begotten Son of God He came to redeem us from our sins. This was His great mission. You will remember having read that on one occasion while He was on His way to Jerusalem it was reported to Him that Lazarus, a faithful follower in the city of Bethany, was dead. And as He approached the city which was near to Jerusalem, He was met by Martha, a sister of the man who was dead, and the following conversation took place: 

"Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if Thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 

"But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou will ask of God, God will give it Thee. 

"Jesus said unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. 

"Martha said unto Him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. 

"Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in Me, though he were died, yet shall he live: 

"And whosoever liveth and believeth in Me shall never die. Believeth thou this? 

"She said unto Him, Yea, Lord: I believe that Thou art the Christ, _ the Son of God, which should come into the world." 

This is the testimony of the scriptures, the testimony of John, the testimony of James, of Paul and Mark and all others who have testified, whose word is published in the scriptures. How a man can stand up and say that they have not testified of these things, seems to me a mystery. 

(We accept Jesus as the Redeemer of the world. We know, as it was testified to us this morning, that He revealed Himself in this dispensation. We are not dependent upon the testimonies of these ancient worthies, who lived in His day and conversed with Him in His ministry, and to whom He appeared after His resurrection. We have witnesses who have lived in our own day, who have seen Him, who knew that He lives and have testified to us and to the world of this fact. We know their testimonies are true. Joseph Smith was not left alone to  witness in this dispensation of the mission of Jesus Christ, for the Lord raised up other witnesses who, with the Prophet Joseph Smith, saw the Redeemer, received instruction from Him and beheld Him in the heavens sitting on the right hand side of the Father surrounded by the holy angels. They have given us their testimony which shall stand against the world to condemn all those who heed it not. But neither are we dependent as members of the Church upon the testimonies of Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon or any others now dead, who in this dispensation received wonderful revelations and visions from the Lord by which they knew that Jesus lives and is the Redeemer of the world. We have an individual testimony given through the Spirit of the Lord to all who have lived in accordance with the Gospel. If we have been in harmony with the truth after having been baptized for the remission of our sins, and confirmed by the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Spirit, the Lord has revealed unto us individually that these things are true. We are not dependent upon the testimony of anyone else for this knowledge for we know through the Spirit that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. ^ 

In conclusion, let me read to you one testimony that was given of the Savior many hundreds of years ago. I read from the second chapter of II Nephi, in the Book of Mormon, beginning with the latter part of the fourth verse : 

"And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and salvation is free. 

"And men are instructed sufficiently, that they know good from evil. And the law is given unto men. And by the law, no flesh is justified; or, by the law, men are cut off. Yea, by the  law, they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law they perish from that which is good, and become miserable for ever. 

"Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for He is full of grace and truth. 

"Behold He offered Himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be answered. 

"Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah, who layeth down His life, according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit, that He may bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise. 

"Wherefore He is the first fruits unto God, inasmuch as He shall make intercession for all the children of men; and they that believe in Him shall be saved." 

This was uttered nearly six hun years before the birth of Christ in the flesh. This is the testimony of every Latter-day Saint today unto the world, for we know that these things are true; that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world and there is no other name given under the heavens by which men can be saved but that of Jesus Christ. The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! 

The latter-dav glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Thomas Hull. 


