Morning
06 10 1914

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Our God, we raise to Thee Thanks for Thy blessings free 

We here enjoy; In this far western land, A true and chosen band, Led hither by Thy hand, 

We sing for joy. 

Elder Joseph R. Shepherd offered the invocation. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform; He plants His footsteps in the sea, 

And rides upon the storm. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

The hand of God in all things — God not responsible for sin — Not all things are according to His will — Prayer not of the lips — The foreknowledge of God not a determining cause — Are we on the Lord's side? 

In a revelation given to Joseph, the Prophet, in 1831, the Lord said: 

"In nothing doth man offend God or against none is His .wrath kindled save those who confess not His hand in all things, and obey not His commandments. Behold this is according to the law and the prophets. * * * I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record. Amen." (Doc. and Cov. 59 :21.) 

I take it that the confession therein declared to be essential to a God life is not a confession in words alone, but genuine acknowledgment of the hand of God as manifest in the lives and actions of men. There is a very general tendency today to relegate God to the background in human affairs, to consider that He has no voice in our doings and in this course the Lord hath declared Himself and thus makes plain to us that His anger is aroused against those unfilial children of His who forget Him; for the man who forgets the living God turns to idolatry, and having once known God and turned away from Him he is worse than the heathen who has never known other gods than those of wood and stone. I believe in my heart that many of us are prone to lead relatively Godless lives. I speak of the human family, not of this people distinctively. Many of us, children of God, forget our Father, forget what He has done for us, what He is doing for us; forget how truly we depend upon Him for all that we have and all that we are; and those who do so are great offenders in the eyes of the Lord. For He doth hate ingratitude and He doth hate pride that lifts man in his own estimation and causes him to look around upon the things that God hath given and say to himself, as said the Babylonian king, "All these things have I made; all this wealth have I gathered; all these great buildings have I erected;" and be it remembered the Lord smote him in His anger 101  reduced him to the level of a beast in his capacities and faculties. 

The Lord's hand is in our lives; if we will but feel for it, in the darkness, we can grasp it and be lifted thereby. Nevertheless, the Lord will permit those to deny Him who choose so to do. For to such end was the decree in the great council of the angels and the Gods, when the proffered services of Lucifer, a son of the morning, were rejected, and the offer of the well beloved Son was accepted, that man should be free — free to choose the path that shall bring him back into the presence of His Father, clothed with glory, because of His victory over sin, with immortality through the redeeming sacrifice of the Lord Jesus, and with eternal life as the supreme gift of God, or he may choose the path that will lead him into the company, there to abide forever, -of the devil and his angels. Among our human weaknesses we must reckon the tendency, manifest in some degree, perhaps, in the lives of most of us, to place the blame for our misdeeds on somebody else. When our "conscience pricks us and we begin to realize in a small measure our weaknesses, imperfections and shortcomings, we are very prone to excuse ourselves by citing what others are doing, what others have done; and it is only when the Spirit of God convicteth us of sin that we feel to take the blame upon ourselves and cry out in our hearts as did the penitent, pentecostal multitude, "What shall we do to be saved?" 

The Scripture I have quoted is to be interpreted in the light of reason, common sense, if you please. There are some who interpret it selfishly and in a wholly unwarranted manner. Some go so far as  say that the hand of God being in all things, God Himself is responsible for all that is, and for all that takes place. I have heard it taught by advocates of a frivolous theology that whatever is, is in accordance with the will of God, that all we see is as He would have it be. My whole soul revolts against any such conception as that. I cannot believe that it is God's will that men shall be as they are in sin. I cannot believe that it is according to the will of God that vice walks our streets and stalks through the land; that dishonesty, and drunkenness, and the spirit of murder are rampant in the land. Do not hold God accountable for such things; do not acknowledge His hand in the sense of placing the blame upon Him, but acknowledge His hand in the free agency that is thus given to men and in His power to eventually bring good out of all this evil. The warring nations are severally voicing prayers to God, prayers for what ? For the right ? No, for triumph, for the success of their arms, whether they t>e fighting on the side of right or on the side of wrong. Someone has suggested, with what I may call sacrilegious humor, that it would be better perchance if the nations would confess their idolatry and each one of them pray to his own god. It would be more convenient, said a grim humorist recently, for each nation to have the exclusive attention and services of some deity. Thus one of them might pray to Baal, and another to Ashtoreth, and another to Moloch, and yet another to Dagon, and so to all the gods that men have made for themselves. We are striving not only in a national capacity, but in the capacity of individuals, for triumph rather than for truth, for GENERAL CONFERENCE.  success, rather than for the vindication of the right and for the furtherance of righteousness. Is it God who leads men to contend with one another? Is it God who leads nations to fight with one another? It is when the Spirit of God is withdrawn from men that they fight. It is when the Lord hath hidden His face from the nations that they go to war. Yet out of it all He can cause to rise the principles of truth. As the crystal forms in the brine, He can cause the principles of righteousness to crystallize out from the gory magma which is presented to us by this terrible conflict. 

We, as a people, profess to be a prayerful people. I ask you severally, and you may answer to your own conscience individually, do you pray or do you content yourself with saying your prayers ? There is a vital difference between the two processes. Many of us are taught to say prayers and have not learned how to pray. What inconsistency is there, what glaring inconsistency, in the man who kneels and says: "Our Father, which art in heaven," and then proclaims that he is the offspring of the brute and not the child of God; that God is no personage but an influence, an essence, an immaterial nothing— there can't be an immaterial something — and then address that conception of his as "Father." Oh, what sacrilege in the man who is profane of heart and who drags the name of God in the mire of his foul, blasphemous oath, and then says, "Hallowed be Thy name!" What of us who pray, "Thy kingdom come," and then, through the operation of political machinery and through our partisan plans and designs, seek to establish and to maintain power whose chief purpose is that of oppression and  of the rights that were vindicated in the great battle of Michael and his hosts against Satan and his followers. 

"Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven," say some, and then they go out to thwart the will of God and to hinder His purposes and to put obstacles in the way of progress. 

"Give us this day our daily bread," is said as a prayer, but cannot be truly prayed by the man who is storing up for his own distant future by taking the bread out of the mouths of the present hungry. We are not taught to pray, Give me my daily bread only, but, Give us, all Thv children, the sustenance that we require. 

"And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors," or "Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them who trespass against us," and rise from our knees, as some do, to go out to seize a brother by the neck and say, "Pay me that which thou owest; I demand it." The unforgiving soul who thus prays convicts himself of hypocrisy and of sacrilege. 

"Lead us not into temptation," or as some render it, "Leave us not in temptation," and then go as fast as we can into the very place where we know temptation is strongest; we want to be tempted. 

"Deliver us from evil," when we love the haunts of evil more than the abode of righteousness. 

"For Thine is the kingdom," when we deny our Lord any and all influence or participation in the affairs of these earthly kingdoms and principalities and powers which man has established, and ascribe to Him the- glory when we are taking all the credit to ourselves, and seal the 103  with a great Amen, which is but a blasphemy. 

I am afraid you will think I am making a severe arraignment. I want to assure you, my brethren and sisters, I don't apply these remarks to any one of you, not one — unless you think I do. I don't mean any man who honestly, soberly, sincerely does not feel that these remarks are applicable to him. 

The infinite foreknowledge of God has made known to Him and does make known to Him the end from the beginning; but there are some of us so short-sighted, so weak of mind, so unfitted or unwilling to analyze the proposition, that we have come to hold and to teach that the foreknowledge of God determines what shall take place. How absurd is such an inference, how utterly unwarranted is such a conclusion, that because God in His wisdom sees and knows ahead what will take place among nations and men, under given conditions, which conditions He can also foresee, that knowledge of His determines that such things should be. Let us make a concrete example : The college professor instructs his students, explains to them, demonstrates to them by blackboard and chart, and perhaps by apparatus upon the table, makes plain to them the operation of the laws that are under consideration and study; not only that, he will help individually the student who' reaches after him, who comes to him in the proper spirit and asks for help; and that teacher foresees the outcome. After he has studied his students well, he says, "I know that that young man is going to fail; I know that disappointment will come to him; sorrow will come to his parents; I am positive that he is going to do himself discredit." 

The teacher foresees it and does all that he reasonably and consistently can to avert it. Do you dare affirm that that teacher's foresight determines that student's failure ? On the other hand he sees one who is devoted, earnest, and able, and he says, "That young man will grow to be a master in his chosen profession; he is leaving nothing undone that ought to be done; he is not studying pages, but subjects; I can foresee for him a great future." Does that foresight determine the young man's success? Or consider the case of an earnest, thoughtful and loving father in mortality who watches with great concern the erring ways, let us say, for the purpose of example, of a wayward son. He warns him, he prays with him, he ministers unto him, he sets him a good example and yet he can see, though the vision of the future is a cloud of sorrow upon his soul, that this young man is going to destruction; aye, he can see the prison doors opening for him, and shudders at the thought of what is imminent in that young boy's life. That father would give anything he possesses to avert what he sees coming. Can we be consistent in saying that because he has thus studied his son, learne'd his nature, and thus knows what is approaching, that his knowledge determines that that son shall sin? Were that so, it would be better that we teach parents not to study their children, not to know anything about them — let them go their way and take their course, because our knowledge will determine what they shall do and be. If I examine the barometer, the hygrometer and other instruments of precision that have been constructed for the purpose of revealing atmospheric conditions, and if by the apGENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the laws of meteorology I am able to say, "there will be a rain within a few hours; a great windstorm will break upon us soon; we shall have snow before morning;" can you say that I cause the rain, that I summon the wind, or that I am the giver of the snow ? If this be true, ignorance is not only bliss, but much to be preferred, for practical reasons. God's foreknowledge showed Him exactly what our first parents would do under given conditions, but He did not cause them to fall; He did not cause them to disobey; He gave them their freedom and their agency to do as they chose to do and take the consequences of their choice. Let us be men and be willing to take the blame for our evil acts, if we have chosen the evil. 

In the same way many of us blame Satan for a great deal for which he is not responsible— poor devil. If Satan and his hosts were bound today and no longer able to work personally upon the earth, evil would go on for a long time, because he has very able representatives in the flesh. When I traveled in distant Russia, years ago, I learned of a peculiar conception among the moujiks, or peasants, m that land. They say that there is a household sprite, an unseen little imp that dwells in every house and that is always trying to cause trouble; and if a girl, through carelessness drops a dish and breaks it, the mother shakes her head and says, "That was the sprite." If the man forgets himself and gets drunk, and in his drunkenness wreaks barbarity they say, " Ah, poor fellow; he is under the influence of the sprite; he could not help it;" and so for every little detail of life they find an excuse and blame that little unseen  for their own acts of evil or carelessness. 

This is a practical religion of ours, my brethren, a very real religion. There is nothing of the fanciful and theoretical about it. Let us learn to analyze our own souls and see to it that we are striving to work righteousness. A remark that is credited to the great Lincoln, and one which, whether made by him or not, is wholly worthy of the man, is perhaps profitable for consideration here. When asked, during the great conflict in which brother was arrayed against brother, whether he felt in his heart that the Lord was on his side, he answered, "I don't know, and as a matter of fact, that does not concern me; what I want to know is, am I on the Lord's side?" It is a great deal better for us, a far loftier conception, I take it, to consider that we are on God's side than to worry ourselves as to whether He is on our side. In your dealings, my brother, in your barter and your trade, be on the Lord's side; do as He would have you do under those conditions. As a people we profess to be on the Lord's side. It is for us to make good that profession, to live up to it, to avail ourselves of the influences that are at work for our good, and the powers that are operating for the salvation of men. Remember that this help is extended by the Lord in all reason — not capriciously and not when it is undeserved and unappreciated; for thus He declared Himself, as you will find recorded in the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"For I, the Lord, cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. Nevertheless he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; and 105  that repents not, from him shall be taken away even the light which he hath received; for my spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of hosts." I pray that we may not forfeit the influences of that Spirit, but that we may be open to its influences, be guided by its power and eventually come back into the presence of the Father, and the Mother, who are waiting to welcome their children on their return from this earth school in which we are now pupils and students. God grant it in the name of the Master, Amen. 

'The Penitent," a soprano solo, was sung by Mrs. Ivy E. Crandall. 

PREST. SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I am very much honored, this morning, in the privilege of standing before you, my brethren and sisters, for a few minutes, to occupy your valuable time, and I desire that you will, give me the benefit of your faith and prayers while I am thus engaged. 

It is written in the scriptures that angels were heard singing "Glory to God on high, peace on earth, and good will to men." It was about the hour of the birth of the Child of Promise, that was to be the Savior of the world, who was to introduce conditions that would lead to the salvation of the human family. The subject of the redemption of mankind was about to be introduced, the set time had come. We have an ac  count of a prophecy uttered on this continent, by Samuel, the Lamanite, who stated to those with whom he associated, a small number of people who accepted the teachings of  Gospel truths of the Nephite prophets, that there would come a time when a sign would be given, and this sign should be a prophetic evidence of the coming of the Lord. This sign was, there would be no darkness between two days, there would be a day, and a night, and a day when there would be no darkness. The enemies of the members of the little church forbade the people who belonged thereto uttering this prophecy, or expressing their belief in its fulfilment, and finally threatened that if they again uttered their belief, in this saored prediction that death should be the penalty and destruction would come upon the Church. The Nephite prophet, as recorded in III Nephi, sought a secret place and knelt in prayer to God to learn if He might look for the fulfillment of that prophecy, and the deliverance of his people. The Lord Himself spoke unto him in an audible voice and said, "Lift up your head and be of good cheer, for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world." The history records that on that very night as the sun went down, there was no darkness, the light was bright and did not fade away, and the prediction was fulfilled, to the discomforture of the enemies of the Church, and to the joy of those who believed in the fulfillment. 

Far away, across the ocean, in the land of Palestine, in the town of Bethlehem, the child Jesus was born, and wise men, we are told, came to do homage unto Him. They had followed a star that had beckoned them, or inspired them we might have said, to follow; it certainly was an inspiration to them. When these wise men had come to GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Jerusalem, they, visited King Herod, and asked him where the child was born that was to be king of the Jews. Herod was very much excited, no doubt, because of the question, but he could not answer it, and he appealed to the Jewish Sanhedrin and they answered him that the child should be born in the city of David or Bethlehem, as it was called, and the wise men continued their journey until they came to where the star stood over the place where the young child lay. Herod had said unto them, Return to me when you have found the new born child and bring me word that I too may come and worship him. But we find here an interposition of the Spirit of the Lord, for an angel who guarded the young child and its welfare, whispered unto the wise men, Go not back by the way of Herod : he seeks the young child's life. So the wise men went their way back to their homes in another direction, and did not call at Herod's palace. The record says, when Herod found that the wise men had mocked him, or deceived him, he was very much enraged, and he issued an edict that every child in Bethlehem and vicinity, from two years old and under, every male child, should be put to death. To escape this violence, or this threatened death, the angel of the. Lord warned Joseph and Mary to take the young child and flee into Egypt. The purposes of the Eternal" Father were not to be thwarted, were not to be prevented of their fulfillment bv any act of a wicked king. It had been decreed that the coining forth at the appointed time of this precious child should be for the redemption of the human family, for the salvation of our Father's children. 

We read that when Jesus began His ministry, the first act recorded of Him was His coming to John. John, his fore-runner, we are told r had been baptizing in Jordan, and Jesus came to him and asked, or demanded baptism. John said, "L have need to be baptized of Thee,, and comest Thou to me?" But Jesus said, "Suffer it to be so now." And then he suffered Him; and when He came up out of the water John saw the Holy Ghost "descending like a dove, and lighting upon Him," and a voice from on high was heard to exclaim, "This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." 

In the day in which we live, we have a history of a boy, a farmer's boy, one who was not versed in the religious doctrines of the Christian churches, one who had never been ordained a minister, according to the manner of their ordinations, one who had not been chosen by them, and if his name had been mentioned anywhere in their churches for advancement, or for ordination, he would probably not have been accepted. He was fourteen and a half years of age, without education, but there was a power and presence on high that was watching over this boy, and was ready to answer his prayers. When he retired into a secret place, within the confines of a shady grove, he bowed himself before the Lord and humbly inquired in fervent prayer, how he could obtain knowledge and wisdom from his heavenly Father. It appears that while he was earnest, and his desires true and faithful to learn and to understand, there was an evil power watching and following him, and that power seized upon him and choked his utterance, and had such effect upon him that he de107  that he was unable to audibly utter his prayer, and continue his supplications, but he said, "I lifted my heart to God, I prayed earnestly in the silence of my soul, and very soon I saw a bright light shining upon the leaves of the trees above my head, and it was so bright I thought at first that the leaves of the forest were on fire, and yet though the light was so vivid, it did not consume the trees nor the foliage." Soon that light settled down upon the youthful supplicant and filled his soul, filled his being, every fiber thereof with its effugence, and as soon as this occurred the evil power fled and left him free to the enjoyment of the Holy Spirit that was sent down from God, even the Holy Ghost. 

President Smith informs me that my time is about up. I will close by saying that Joseph Smith, the occupant of that sacred grove, was ministered to by the power of God, and thus prepared by the ministration of the Holy Spirit to receive the presence of the Father and the Son and to be commissioned by Them to do a great work for the redemption of our Father's children. The Prophet Joseph maintained his position as a chosen servant of God from that time through all the days of persecution and trials that he was called to pass, until the day of his martyrdom, sealing his testimony with his blood. I know that he was a prophet of God, and he fulfilled the measure of his creation, and the destiny that God had assigned unto him. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) The word of the Lord to Moses : "But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I  you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word o f my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man, but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them. 

"And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and thy servant will be content. 

"And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. 

"And as one earth shall pass awav. and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is .no end to my works, neither to my words." 

I read this passage of scripture because there is in it the representation of a great program of the creations of God, the integration of worlds and the disintegration of worlds, and it presents on a grander scale than any other scripture that I am acquainted with, the great governing and controlling power of God, both in the integration or creation of things, and also in the disintegration of things; but whether worlds are being formed from chaos and brought into orderly systems, or whether systems themselves be disintegrated, it affords me unspeakable pleasure and confidence in the stability and in the . preservation of orderly creations, that God presides over all. I believe, too, from the manifestation of God's wisdom that wherever disintegration is going on, where destruction apparently takes place, it will only be for the purpose of making room for more excellent things; and so this scripture ministers to me very comforting thoughts, and though I sometimes read in the works of men who give attention to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  extent and greatness of the universe, and the laws that govern therein, so far as they can understand them, that they, too, as well as this inspired man, become acquainted with the fact that here and there in spots throughout God's universe, disintegrating forces are going on and worlds are sometimes blotted out — yet the cosmos is preserved and order prevails instead of chaos. 

That is rather a lofty conception of things that God gives us then of His masterfulness in the midst of His creations, and now I am a little sorry to draw your minds out of this great conception of things to make application of that principle in our earthly affairs, and yet I must do it if I would teach the lesson I have in mind. 

Several times in this conference, when the fear came to me that I might be called upon to occupy this position for a few minutes, the thought came to me several times, if that happens I will not speak a word in relation to the great war now going on in Europe; so much has been said, and well said, that there is no need for me to say a word upon that subject, and anyhow I am a man of peace. I love peace and I pursue it. If you will pardon the personal note of it for just one moment, I may say to you that I really never had, in my boyhood days, a fight in my life but what it was forced on me. (Laughter.) Personally I was just in the same condition that the nations of Europe are now in, I was forced to fight; and generally, in fact so far as I can remember always, I entered every engagement that fell in my way with a good deal of anxiety, even fear, but there was this peculiarity about it — I don't know that it is peculiar, however; per it is a common inheritance to all men — but' the first blow struck, I was always very comfortable after that. (Laughter.) But I believe in peace, and most heartily have T joined in the prayer for peace for those distracted nations now engaged in the dreadful arbitrament of their differences in war. This principle that is here described in regard to God's control of disintegrating forces in the universe as well as integrating forces, leads me to feel, in spite of all the horror of this great modern war, that God will control it just as He controls the wrath of men, which He makes to praise Him, and the rest of man's wrath He restrains. So my confidence is that the dreadful forces of war will not go beyond those limits that are necessary to bring to pass the purposes of the Almighty; and while I join in sorrow for those who will be brought to misery and poverty and death in this awful war, I nevertheless cannot help but believe that as God causes worlds and systems of worlds to pass away, that have doubtless reached the climax of their possibilities in their present form, and hence He destroys those forms so that there shall be better ones created, so now in this awful struggle I believe that it will finally end in the higher planes of civilization being reached, rather than that the present glories of our civilization shall pass away. 

I say I join with you in the splendid services we have held in this conference in praying for peace, but deeper than that prayer for peace, more earnestly than for that prayer of peace, do I pray that justice, national justice shall prevail; and I hope the present war will not halt until justice, as God sees justice, shall be established. If it were halted 109 

Ijefore that great achievement, the hecatombs of the slain up to now, the misery that will come in corisequence of the war, will all be in vain; and so, though it may seem harsh and cruel, yet I sincerely trust that now the inevitable war has started, it shall go on to the end for the establishment of justice, and as God presides over the disintegrating forces in His universe, yet out of that destruction re-creates still better, so do I believe that the very forces of war are sometimes but instruments in His hand for the accomplishment of His purposes. I can conceive nothing of weakness in the attributes of Deity, and some of the things necessary sometimes to make progress are physical forces as well as moral and spiritual forces, and when used by him, of course, they are used in righteousness, and sometimes God is in the battle as well as in the still small voice and the wonderful invisible spirit that overspreads nations of people and changes, their mental and moral attitude towards the great things that are going on in the worFcl; God moves upon the minds of the people to bring them to the accomplishment of things even as He will. In evidence that God is sometimes in war, I have in an old note here, a statement about an occurrence in Israel, to the effect that the tribe of Reuben and Gad and one-half of the tribe of Manasseh were at war with the Hagarites, and they were successful in their contest, "for there fell down many slain ( of the enemy), because the war was of God." On another occasion when Joshua was taking possession of the heritage which God had given to Israel, and Israel was sore beset by the enemy, suddenly there appeared a magnificent  clothed cap-a-pie in shining armor, and Joshua approached him, apparently with some temerity and said, "Are you on our side or on the side of the enemy?" "No," replied this personage, "But as captain of the Lord's hosts come I now." And Joshua fell down before the personage and worshiped at his feet, without reproach. We read that there was war in heaven. I think God was in that war, for Satan was overthrown and forced from heaven. I cannot help but think that when the patriot fathers who founded our nation drew the sword against the great empire of England,in the maintenance of their avowed rights, and for the establishment of free government in this world, God sustained their feeble arms and crowned them with glory, though to do it He brought to their assistance the old-time monarchies of Spain and France, one of the most wonderful lessons in history — the use by the Lord of these representatives of arbitrary power in the old world to establish free institutions in the new, a remarkable incident in the history of men. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I feel very comfortable even in the midst of these war times, knowing that God stands in the background of things and that He will have His way. 

Speaking now of our own nation, just for a moment, and the pride I feel in it. I think we have a right to be a bit optimistic in relation to our own nation, I believe it is fulfilling the high destiny that God has marked out for it in these modern times. He founded it by wise men whom He raised up to frame the Constitution, which outlines the true principles of civil government, a law that I feel has gone forth GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Zion to permeate the whole world, to break up monarchial institutions, to break militarism, and to exhibit to the nations that there are other forces of government that should prevail rather than those policies of "blood and iron," in which men have so prided themselves. I believe our country will fulfill that kind of a mission. God not only founded this great government by the wisdom which He gave to wise men, the men upon which He caused His inspiration to rest; not only did He found it, but He preserved it. He tells us here in one of these revelations where He declares that He founded this government by wise men whom He raised up for that purpose, that He sanctified the land by the shedding of blood, and niade it holy to us, because we can see what our freedom cost in the best blood of the human race in our great Revolutionary War. And God not only founded our nation, but He preserved it in one of the most awful conflicts that had existed in the world up to that time, now, however, rendered wellnigh insignificant in comparison with the terrible war now raging in Europe. The war in Europe is on a scale in keeping with our modern life, and reveals to us the great progress that the world has been making, since it would have been impossible a hundred years ago, when Napoleon Bonaparte was fighting over practically the same area of country that is now strewn with drawn battle lines, in France and Belgium, — it would have been impossible then, and I say this, in a way, is a revelation of the greatness of our modern life; our very wars are more stupendous than those of former ages. 

Well, I say the Lord has pre this nation; and it is possible for this nation to hold to the sacred heritage that God has given it. Brother Ivins, in his remarks yesterday, and other brethren who have spoken here, have called attention to the conditions upon which our nation may preserve its heritage, and its power in the world, and especially in this new world. It is remarkable to me that all the messages of scripture — or nearly so, that pertain to this western hemisphere — we find those messages, those warnings, those conditions upon which the safety of our national life depends, are in this record, the Book of Mormon. I say it is remarkable to me, and yet it is not so upon second thought, because that is where you would naturally look for them; but perhaps the idea laboring in my mind is the importance of this American record revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the things that are found in it concerning our America. To those splendid passages read by Brother Ivins here yesterday, I want to add one more, because it constitutes a message which the Latter-day Saints must deliver to this nation, we must make it known; and consequently in this official conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, where what is said has something of an official character to it; where we speak, in a way, with collective voice, I am taking' the liberty of reading this scripture. They, are the words of Moroni, when he was translating the records of Ether and giving an account of the colony of the brother of Jared coming to this land of America, and the covenants of the Lord upon the land. The comments are by Moroni in this record of Ether, from which I now read : Ill 

"And the Lord would not suffer that they Tthe Jaredites] should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would that' they should come forth even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people; 

"And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared/that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time, henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fullness of his wrath should come upon them. 

"And now we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fullness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fullness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity; 

"For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore, he that doth possess it shall serve God, or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fullness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. 

"And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you, as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done. 

"Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." 

This scripture does not leave the Gentile nations in doubt as to whom it is that must be worshiped as God. He is — 

"The God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written." (Book of Ether,' ch. ii.) 

How valuable to the Gentile nations and to Israel, too, so far as he occupies the land, is this knowledge! What a great message is in this revealed American Scripture — the very conditions upon which the nations who occupy the land may hold an inheritance, is here written down and proclaimed in this great Nephite record. How precious it is unto the inhabitants of this land! How honored we ought to feel that we can, through the blessings of the Lord, make proclamation of these conditions and deliver the very word of the Lord unto the inhabitants of this land, and especially to our own nation, which exercises the dominating political 'power in the land — that we can give them the conditions upon which they may perpetuate their inheritance and their power. And I say, notwithstanding a terrible arraignment might be made of the wickedness and of the corruption that is in our own nation, yet I believe the people en masse are yet sound, and have enough of virtue to build upon, and which may be caused to grow in strength and in volume until the favor of the Lord may be perpetuated upon our nation. 

I think it is a good omen, a splendid omen, that the executive of the nation in this hour of the world's trial can call all the inhabitants of the land to come to the throne of God and pray for peace, thus recognizing God and His influence upon the. affairs of men. If we can only perpetuate that kind of spirit in the land, I believe that having had our chastisement as a nation for our national sins — including the shedding of the blood of our prophets— having had our chastisement in the terrible Civil War that swept the land, that filled it with mourning and sorrow for a generation — I hope that the correction will be enough, and that from now on we shall have power to preach- the Gospel in such plainness and manifest power of the spirit of the Lord, that we shall keep the nation in the favor of the Lord, and go on from righteousness to righteousness, from peace to peace, until we shall develop more completely than we have yet developed those great underlying principes of civil government that God gave to our nation, and that finally will become the inheritance of the world — God's law that shall go forth from Zion. I pray so, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Lord, dismiss us with Thy blessing; 

Fill our hearts with joy and peace; Let us each, Thy love possessing, 

Triumph in redeeming grace. 

Elder John L. Herrick pronounced the benediction. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


