Morning
05 10 1914

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Gifts of the Gospel possessed by Latterday Saints — Blessings secured by duties fulfilled — Works an expression of Faith — Knowledge concerning God must be followed by obedience to Him. 

It is a pleasure to me, as it always is. to meet with the Latter-day Saints in our conferences and to listen to the inspired' words that we alwavs hear upon these occasions. T have never in my life from the days of early childhood until now attended a conference, — and T have no recollection of ever, missing one when I have been in the city, unless confined to my bed with sickness, —  but that I have been fed the bread of life. And I experienced that same pleasure in our meetings yesterday. 

T endorse with all my heart all of the very splendid things that we have heard here in our conference , and at our Sunday School Union meeting last evening. I desire most earnestly that the few moments which I may occupy that the same good Spirit which has been enjoyed by those who have preceded me may fall to my portion. The only desire of my heart is to say something that may be encouraging and uplifting to the Latterday Saints. I realize the beauties of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I rejoice exceedingly in a knowledge of the divinity of the work in whicli we are engaged. I rejoice in knowing that all the gifts and graces and every power, privilege and blessing which has ever been enjoyed by the Saints of God in any dispensation of the Gospel upon the earth are enjoyed today by the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in knowing that the things which should be enjoyed, the blessings, the healing power of Almighty God, the inspiration of His Spirit whereby men and women have manifestations from Him, the inspiration of the Spirit of God, whereby people speak with new tongues, and have the interpretation thereof, and each and every grace and gift, are enjoyed today by the Latter-day Saints. My heart swells with gratitude when I listen to an inspirational sermon about the Gospel of Jesus Christ and of our relationship to our Heavenly Father, as we heard here yesterday from President Charles W. Penrose. I rejoice in the vigor of his body and his mind; although he is past eightytwo years of age, I have never heard him speak with greater power or in, and as I listened I knew that all the Latter-day Saints in the audience as well, rejoiced. 

I asked myself while enjoying the inspiration of the Spirit of God to him, and endorsing all he said of the blessings that are to come to us and our- relationship to our Father and our Savior, whether the Latter-day Saints were living in such a way and in such a manner that they would be entitled to the blessings of God which belong to the Gospel of [esus Christ, when the battle' of life is ended. I asked myself, how many who are rejoicing here today under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord are in very deed Latter-day Saints ? -how many are full and honest tithe payers? how many are observing in very deed the Word of Wisdom? how many are attending to their secret and their family prayers? I thought of this when President Lyman was talking upon prayer. We have in very deed the truth, but unless we, as Latter-day Saints, live the truth, all these glorious principles are of no value to us. 

This morning, in our Mutual meeting, one of the General Board referred to some splendid plans that had been drawn by an architect, costing thousands of dollars, but finally it was decided by the man ordering the plans not to make use of them. We have the plan of life and salvation; we have in very deed the truth, but are we making use of the plan ? Are we Latter-day Saints? If not, then we are not entitled to the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

"By their fruits, ye shall know them." The Lord has said, as recorded in the Doctrine and Cove : nants, that when we do that which is commanded that then He is bound, but if we do not keep the  of the Lord, we have no promise; and so far as I have the ability, I would like to impress upon the hearts of the Latterday Saints to be doers of the word and not hearers of it only. If there is anyone of the former apostles above another whose teachings have found a hearty response in my heart, it is the Apostle James and his teachings wherein he emphasizes that faith without works is dead, that it is like the body without the spirit, and we all know that when the spirit leaves the body the body must be buried, or soon becomes obnoxious. We do not want a dead faith, -we want a living faith, we want a faith that will give us thepower and the ability to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ in very deed. When we go to meeting, we should go with a prayer in our hearts that the Lord will inspire those who speak, by His spirit, and after they have spoken to us by the inspiration of His Spirit, we should go away with a determination, with a desire, with a prayer, that we shall in very deed learn the lesson that we have heard, that we shall put it into practice in our lives. 

I remarked last Sunday, at a conference, that when young it always appeared ridiculous to me to call the last day of school, the day when young men and young ladies receive their diplomas, when they graduate, after completing their lessons, to call it commencement day; but as 1 have grown in years and experience. T have discovered that in very deed commencement day with the boy and the girl who have graduated from school is the day when they commence the battle of life. This life is a school, and commencement day to us will be when the battle of this life is o'er, and we commence anew to travel on forever. Then if we can pass an examination, we are welcomed back into the presence of our Heavenly Father, because we have been true and faithful. 

I never read this testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon with reference to the Savior : ^ /'Now, after the many testimonies which have been given of Him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of Him, that He lives; for we saw Him, even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that He is the Only Begotten of the Father, that by Him and through Him, and of Him the worlds were created, and the inhabitants thereof are. begotten sons and daughters unto God," but I rejoice in this testimony, in this knowledge, which these men had of actually seeing God, with the Savior sitting at His right hand, and actually hearing the voice bear witness that He is in very deed the Savior of the world. I rejoice every time I read their testimony. I rejoice also when I read of the blessings x>i the Gospel as referred to here yesterday by Brother Penrose when speaking of those who had accepted the Gospel, who had gone down into the waters of baptism and who would be worthy by living according to the teachings of the Gospel, to enter into the celestial kingdom. I rejoice in this knowledge, but how I do mourn when I find that there are scores who know all these things, who testify that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and yet their lives do not square with this knowledge. Knowledge is absolutely of no value, except to condemn us before God, unless we live up to that knowledge. 

That God may help each and every one of us as we grow in years, as we increase in understanding, as we advance in the light of the Gospel of Testis Christ, to grow in humility, in good deeds, in the love of our fellows, and in a determination to serve Him with all our hearts, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON, 

Attainment of excellence possible only as result of earnest effort— God's great blessings worthy our willing self-sacrifice. 

This is a very remarkble conference. The hosts of Israel have come up to wait upon the Lord. By actual count, the congregation assembled in this building yesterday afternoon numbered ten thousand and fiftyfive souls, and at the same time there was a gathering in the assembly hall and an open-air meetingupon the grounds. The counsel, the testimony, the instructions delivered to us have been varied and choice, and I am sure will be sanctified to the good of the Latter-day Saints. 

I take it, brethren and sisters, that anything in life worth having and keeping can only be obtained by effort, and the greater the value of the object desired, the greater the effort required in its attainment. For example, here is a young man who desires an education, full and complete. His father cannot give it to him, his mother cannot give it to him, the instructors in the school cannot give it to him; but the way is open, it depends on his own individual efforts. Now, the question is, will he pay the price? It means days and weeks and months of concentration, of devotion and attention r 9  his studies, but if he will give the proper efforts to his ambition he will succeed. And again, our friend there is seeking a profession, perhaps it is that of the law or medicine, or dentistry in which he desires to excel. Will he pay the price? ft means the avoidance of riotous living, it means the renunciation of light and unnecessary amusements, it means very close, careful and strict- attention to his business. It may be necessary for him occasionally to burn the midnight oil, but as in the other instance, the way, the opportunity, is open to him. Will he pay the price ? Will he reach up to that point where he may receive recognition, where he may obtain a diploma that will be the foundation upon which he can build for the future ? 

Here is a young man who is ambitious to be an efficient, thorough and successful missionary. Will he pay the price ? He cannot become so by wishing. The desire, itself, will not make him such. It means sacrifice, it means that he must lay clown his secular affairs, it means that he must part with his parents and with his sweetheart, if he has one, (and he ought to have one), it means that he must leave all that is near and dear to him and go forth into the world. It means- that he must be prepared to suffer every conceivable inconvenience, that he must meet the scorn and ridicule of the world, that if need be, he must endure persecution. He will be reminded of what the Savior said, "Blesed are ye when all men shall hate you and persecute you and separate you from their company, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake. Rejoice ye in that day and leap for joy: for great shall be vour reward in heaven." 

He must be prepared for these things. I remember one instance. I cite it as an example. A young missionary went forth in the spirit of faith and humility, with a determination to succeed in his work. He was not a preacher in the common acceptance of the term. If he stood before a congregation he halted and stumbled in his speech. He had difficulty in finding words to ' express himself, but he was a determined and incessant worker. He was going from morning until night, in distributing tracts, in makingfriends, in visiting and re-visiting investigators, in going from family to family, until his companion could hardly keep up with him. But this young missionary was unwearying in his labors. He succeeded, he was a success in this important activity, and before he withdrew from the mission field, he was able, under the providences of the Lord, to bringsome thirty or forty people into the Church. He was willing to pay the price. 

We have here, upon this block, the temple of God, a most wonderful edifice. Now, within this building priceless blessings are dispensed. They are within the reach of the poorest of the poor and they may be denied to the richest of the rich. When a man or a woman desires the blessings of the House of God, the question arises, is he or is she willing to pay the price, and, mark yon, it is not a monetary consideration. Strangers have offered considerable sums of money from time to time to get admission into the temple. They wanted to see the interior, they wanted to examine it closely, but the door was closed against them. A thousand, five thousand, ten thousand dollars would not bring this privilege to them, but yet the temple is of easy access to the Latter-day Saints, if they will but pay the price. What is the price? It is a consistent, faithful life, as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ, one who observes the commandments of God, one who is humble, faithful and diligent. He can pass through and obtain for himself and perhaps for others, those who are dead and passed away, the blessings of the Holy Temple, and he can secure to himself the benefits of the new and everlasting covenant. 

Last of all, I take it, that we are all ambitious to secure a celestial glory in the presence of the Father. There is no Latter-day Saint in the congregation today, who would be satisfied with less. He wants the very highest and best that the Lord has to give. Will he pay the price? And what is the price ? It means, if need be, the sacrifice of all earthly things, even to our lives, should that be required, whether in the mission field, or at home, or under any other circumstances. If our lives are demanded for the testimony of Jesus, then we must be ready and prepared to give them. The price of this inestimable blessing is also beautifully defined in the seventy-sixth section of the book of Covenants : 

"And again, we . bear record, for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the Gospel of Christ, concerning them who come forth in the resurrection of the just; 

"They are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on His name and were baptized after the manner of His burial, being buried in the water in His name, and this according to the commandment which he has given, 

"That by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power, 

"And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true. 

"They are they who are the church of the first born. 

"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things — "They are they who are Priests and Kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory, 

"And are Priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son." 

Now, we see from this that it is only possible to attain to so great a degree of glory in the presence of God by keeping His commandments, yielding obedience to the ordinances of the Gospel and walking in the light continually and being just and y true. This is the price we have to pay for it, but if we are willing to make the sacrifice, if it can be called a sacrifice, our highest ambition, our fondest hopes,'our most earnest desires will be realized to the very fullest extent. We learn from this, that is to say, we learn from the manner in which the Lord deals with His children, that we cannot obtain something for nothing. If we secure the blessings then we must give the service; these matters will be determined upon merit. We arc told in the Scriptures that when the dead come forth, they will be judged acording to the deeds done in the body; and again, as bearing upon this subject, the Prophet Joseph Smith laid down this great principle; he said : "There is a law irrevocably decreed in the heavens upon which all blessings are predicated, and when we receive a blessing from God it is by obedience to the law upon, which it is predicated." 

May the Lord bless us and help us to appreciate His goodness, and  He put upon us the spirit not only to worship Him in prayer and song and praise, but also, to labor with our might while the day lasts for the salvation of souls. I ask it in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A baritone solo, "The Holy City," was sung by Elder Franklin Madsen, in the Swedish language. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Peace and happiness result of keeping God's laws — Church leaders made sorrowful when members sin. 

In referring to my own feelings this morning, my brethren and sisters, I can say that I have been very happy in my associations with you and others in attending the various sessions of this conference, and in worshiping the Lord in this capacity. Without boasting, I confess my love for the Lord, for His work and for His peopl'e, and I hope my love extends to all men, for this is something I desire to cultivate. I desire and constantly pray for an increase of knowledge of the Lord and of the Gospel, for an increased appreciation and love for the same. I know that one having a knowledge of the truth of this work experiences great happiness and satisfaction, when faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord, and in the discharge of religious duties, and that he experiences pain and self reproach when violating the commandments of the Lord and in committing sin. My conscience condemns me when I do that which is wrong, and thus rob myself of that peace, happiness and hope I might have by answering strictly the requirements of conscience. 

I have had much satisfaction in seeing the faithfulness of men and women of the Church who have been called to labor as presiding officers in various positions, general and local. Their devotion has been a splendid example and inspiration to me; and because I have the work of the Lord at heart and desire its triumph, I am not jealous of those who have greater ability, and who are able to accomplish more than I for the cause, but rather take pride in their accomplishments and feel a common interest with them in the success of the work. 

It is a cause for pride that we have in the Church men and women who would stand in the front ranks of intelligent men and women of the world. Who are willing to give, and are giving to this work the best efforts of their lives. I rejoice that the Lord rewards all such with the bestowal of the Holy Spirit and a testimony of the Truth. The comfort that comes to all men and women who are devoting themselves in righteousness to the services of the Lord, and for the good of their fellowmen is inestimable. They receive that peace, joy and hope that cannot be purchased with the wealth of the world. 

I have had occasion at times to sorrow for the sins of others, but I thank the Lord I have been able to forget, for I do not think I could be happy if I had to retain always the feelings I sometimes have when I go among the people, and it is revealed to me by presiding authorities that certain evils exist among our people. Revelations are sometimes made that fill my heart with sorrow because of the wrongdoings of some members of the Church, and also because the Church is affected thereby. When we disgrace ourselves we, to an extent, disgrace the Church, and both must suffer. I know that men and women who have committed sin reap the fruits of their sowing. I am just as sure that the penalty will be paid in sorrow for all wrong doing, as I am sure that good deeds will be justly rewarded. I am sure the sins of this people are a great sorrow to the President of this Church, because of his responsibility as President and his love for the people. We could not do better by way of sustaining him and lightening his- load of anxiety than by being faithful, consistent Latter-day Saints. Those who love the people, sorrow for their sins and rejoice in their righteousness. 

We read in the Book of Mormon (Mosiah 3:7), a prediction of the coming of the Lord in the meridian of time, and how he would suffer for the sins of the people: "For behold blood cometh from every pore so great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and abominations of his people." It was in the Garden of Gethsemane that this nronhecy was fulfilled. Our Father in heaven and His Son, the Savior, sorrow for the sins we commit and rejoice in our righteousness. To obey the Lord is a pleasing way of serving Him. 

I want to ask the Latter-day Saints to support and sustain the President of this Church and his counselors, and the General Authorities, also those who preside over stakes and wards of Zion by avoiding sin, and being faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord, also by laboring faithfully and diligently when called upon for the good of the Church, and by so doing find peace and salvation, and glorify our Father in heaven. 

May the Lord add his blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Our dependence upon God — How we know the Truth — The Holy Spirit — What is revealed is not incomprehensible. 

If I sense one thing more fully than another, among the many good things uttered during this conference, it is that reminder from our President that we are entirely dependent upon God — a truth emphasized by Brother Lyman in his remarks, following those of President Smith. Brethren and sisters, I feel my dependence upon God, that I may know what to say to His people that shall be for their good, and I therefore ask for your prayers, and for the inspiration of that Spirit which knoweth all things, yea, the deep things of God, that searches all hearts and reads them as an open book, that comprehends our needs on such occasions as this, and is alone able to supply them. 

How do I know that this is the Lord's work? I know it because He has shown it to me. How can I retain this knowledge without Him ? How can I accomplish successfully my mortal pilgrimage and lay hold upon eternal life, except the Lord be with me? How can you or I do anything without Him ? There is a spirit, an intelligence, that proceeds from His presence and fills the immensity of space; it is the light of the sun and the moon and the stars; the light that illumines our understandings; the light that enlighteneth every man that cometh into the world; but it exists in degrees of force and power and quantity, and they who live  to God have most of it. They are entitled to most, having made covenant with Him at the waters of baptism, having manifested their faith by their works, having repented of their sins, which have been washed away in the manner that God has appointed. These are entitled to the special gift of God's Spirit, and by that Spirit they know that this is God's work, and they can know it in no other way. The most intelligent man in the world, whatever his gifts and powers, is like a child in the presence of this great problem, before which, as was predicted ages ago, the wisdom of the wise perishes and the understandings of the prudent is hid. 

A friend of mine outside the Church said to me in New York City a few weeks ago: "I believe 'Mormonism' to be true, I regard it as a sound philosophy, but I do not know that Joseph Smith was a prophet. If not a prophet," my friend added, "he was certainly the most marvelous thinker of modern times, but I have no testimony that he was specially sent from God." I asked him how he could expect to have such a testimony unless he obeyed the Gospel, unless he took the course which the Lord has pointed out whereby men may lay hold upon divine knowledge. He is an honest man, a man of intelligence and culture, with no less than eight languages at his tongue's end, and is apparently versed in all the learning of our time; but he does not know what you and I know — we who have so little of his learning, and yet possess something inestimably greater, a testimony of the truth. If he ever arrives at the knowledge which you and I possess it will be when he has obeyed the  principles that you and I have obeyed. We believe in God, and in the true God at that, not in a phantom, a man-made deity. We have faith in the true God, and have repented of our sins by turning away from them. We have been baptized by Divine authority, and have had our sins washed away, thus becoming fit receptacles for the Holy Ghost, and the Lord has confirmed our faith by the knowledge that comes through the gift of the Holy Ghost. And this way is open to all; the king upon his throne or the peasant in his cot may have it if he so desires; but there is only one way for the king or for the peasant. When it comes to candidacy for salvation, for citizenship in the kingdom of heaven, all men are equal — they get salvation and glory upon precisely the same terms. 

During the past summer it was my happy privilege to visit some of the early scenes of our Church history. Among these was the site of the old log and frame farmhouse in the township of Manchester, New York, where the Prophet Joseph was living with his parents, as a boy between fourteen and fifteen years of age, when God appeared to him in person, and opened the dispensation of the fulness of times. I stood within the very grove where it is believed the Father and the Son appeared to and conversed with him as one man converses with another. I am sure I cannot tell you how profoundly impressed I was while standing upon the spot where these marvelous events took place. I sensed the difference between reading of things or hearing of them, and 'being where T could feel them as I never felt them before. Not that any particular place gives a testimony of the truth, but it seemed to me that my testimony was renewed, or deepened and expanded, by what I saw, and I felt the truth more vividly. I know, for God has revealed it to me, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the Most High. I know that he saw God face to face and spake with Him, and that he saw Him in the form of man. I am not dependent upon man, but upon God, for this knowledge, and as to whether I retain it or lose it; for the testimony of the Holy Spirit, by which alone we can know and comprehend God, will stay with us or depart from us, according to the life we lead. 

As I stood there, drinking in the inspiration of those sacred scenes, I recalled another trip that I had taken earlier in the season, in company with President Anthon H. Lund. Down in Sanpete Valley I had come across a little booklet which was being distributed by certain pious, well-meaning people who had come to Utah to convert the Latter-day Saints from the supposed error of their ways. This little book was entitled, "The Truth about God." I took the pains to read it from lid to lid — not because my faith needed confirmation, particularly, from such a source, but because I wanted to see how far the leaven had worked, the leaven of the truth about God, received by the Prophet Joseph and preached by him and other elders of the Church. And what did I find in that book? Briefly this : That God is a spirit, everywhere present; that He is utterly incomprehensible; and that He made all things out of nothing; special emphasis being laid upon that passage of Scripture which reads, 

"No man hath seen God at any time." They were using this as a cudgel against the faith of those who believe that Joseph Smith did see God. I thought it rather queer that people who proclaim in effect that they know nothing about God, who declare that no man has ever seen Him, and that He cannot be comprehended, should be found here in our midst trying to tell us "The Truth about God." It looks a little ridiculous, and the folly of it is emphasized, in our minds, by the fact that these people who admit that they know nothing about God, have come to teach the followers of a prophet who saw God, who conversed with Him, and who taught the truth concerning Him — though not all. 

We do not believe (as Brother Penrose beautifully showed yesterday) that God ever made anything out of nothing. We dismiss that as an unphilosophical absurdity — for no power, human or divine, ever did or ever will make something out of nothing. I shall only glance, too, at the proposition that God is incomprehensible. The unrevealed infinite fulness of God is of course incomprehensible to the finite mind. The finite cannot grasp the infinite. That being the case, God in his fulness is incomprehensible to us at the present time. He cannot reveal His fulness, because it cannot be comprehended. The finite can no more comprehend the infinite, than the river can swallow up the ocean. But we do not claim that the infinite fulness of Gad has been revealed to man; we only claim that a part of it has been revealed. But the part revealed is certainly not incomprehensible — else why did God reveal it? If incomprehensible, how could 

He have revealed it? It is an absurdity to say that God has revealed Himself even in part, and then declare that He is' utterly incomprehensible. It is charging Him with folly and a waste of time. 

As for God being a spirit, we do believe that — as President Smith forcibly reminded us on a former occasion. God is a spirit, and man is a spirit; but man has a body, and so has God. Man is the child of God, fashioned in His image and endowed with divine attributes. Men and women are the sons and daughters of heavenly Parents, who said in the beginning, "Let us make man in our own image — male and female." That is not incomprehensible, and the Lord never intended it to be; but man has tried to make it so. We believe also in the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit, the third member of the Godhead; and there is a spirit or influence that proceeds from the divine presence and pervades the immensity of space. But that is not our Father in heaven, that is not our Savior, not the Father and the Son with whom Joseph Smith conversed and from whom he received instructions. God revealed Himself to the Prophet in the visions of heaven by the power of His Spirit, and Joseph saw Him, not with the natural eye— for no man, with the natural eye, hath seen God at any time— but with his spiritual vision, reinforced by the power of God's Spirit, without which no man can see or comprehend Him. 

We are dependent upon the Lord for this testimony, and I feel the need of it every day, every hour— the need of guidance by that Spirit which manfests the things of God, which brings things past to remem, shows things to come, explains the otherwise mysterious present, and puts within the hand of man the key to celestial glory, the power to lay hold upon eternal life, God's greatest gift. Amen. 

PREST. CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Benefit to Sundays Schools of the presence of the Priesthood — Excessive number of meetings — Priesthood classes may be held at such times as most convenient — No need to have organizations outside of the Church — All our energies needed within the Church of Christ. 

Before we adjourn for the afternoon session, I have a very few words to say to our brethren, the presidents of stakes, the bishops and their counselors, and the brethren acting in the priesthood, particularly, and the subject will to some extent bear upon the whole congregation. 

I made a few remarks at the close of the splendid session of the Sunday School conference last evening in regard to the labors of the priesthood in the Sunday Schools. We used to have, generally, in the different wards of the stakes of Zion, priesthood meetings on Monday evenings. In many of the wards that has been changed, to holding priesthood classes on Sunday mornings, and I learn that in consequence of that in some places, the Sunday Schools are denuded, so to speak, of the influence and power and authority and presence of men holding the priesthood, men of experience. We have so many meetings to attend, particularly on Sunday, that instead of being a day of rest it becomes to some a day of toil. 

Now, it is not obligatory upon all the wards and stakes of Zion to make this change. If they find it better to have the priesthood meetings held on Monday evenings they are at liberty so to do, so far as the Presidency of the Church are concerned. What we want is to have the greatest good come to the greatest number; and it is advisable that, so far as possible, the men who hold the Holy Priesthood, particularly men in authority, will by their presence and their influence and their teachings, aid in the glorious work of teaching our young people — children and the teachers of the children, the things of God. So, it is advisable as far as possible, to have the brethren of the priesthood, if they hold their meeting on Sunday morning as classes in the priesthood, to remain and attend the Sunday Schools. But if they can't do both, they can make their arrangements, if they so desire, to have their priesthood meetings as before on Monday evenings. This is not obligatory upon all the brethren because of the change that has taken place in some of the wards. In some wards it works well; in others it does not work so well. Do that which is best, brethren, and all will be right. 

Now, in regard to having so many meetings, we are told by a great number of our brethren that about every night in the week they have some duty to perform, either as teachers or attending priesthood meetings or class meetings or some other meetings connected with the wards of the Church in which they reside. I would say then if that is the case, confine your time and your talents and your labor and work to the institutions of the Church. There is no need to go outside into other organizations established for other than Church purposes. The 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints contains within its organization all that is needed for the labors of our brethren in the priesthood, and for our sisters in their auxiliary societies, for the benefit of the Saints, for their uplifting, for their enlightenment, for their progress, for the consolidation of their energies in any direction. So, brethren, the advice of the Presidency is to you, do not be entangled with orders, or societies, or outside and extra organizations that are being attempted or set up, but bring your energies together inside the Church, its quorums, its organizations of every kind, and you will have plenty to do. May God bless you and help you to do it. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Benediction was pronounced bv Elder Rey L. Pratt. Conference adjourned unto 2 p. m. 


