21
Overflow
07 04 1901
Elder Heber J. Grant. 

Brother Taylor desires that, inasmuch as I am about to leave for a foreign country, and this is about the last chance I will have to meet with the Saints for many years, that I should occupy the rest of the time. I would have been perfectly willing to divide the time with him, because a person can bear a testimony at any time in a very few minutes, and the only thing I intended tJ do today was simply to bear my testimony and leave it with you before departing upon my mission. 

I regret that I failed in my object lesson. I would have been glad had I been able to sing that song through without a mistake. I have only sung it through five times today without a mistake, but when I tried it the sixth  I got an error in it. But I haven't got over my nervousness when standing before the assembled people to sing. I suppose the reason is, I don't know "where I am at." I am like a boat without a rudder, so to speak, when I try to sing. To give you an illustration: I was a short time ago at a dinner party at Brother Cannon's and one of the people present requested me to sing "O, My Father," and simultaneously another one of the company asked me to sing, "God moves in a mysterious way." I asked Sister Snow if she would kindly play that in the key of F. She had heard one of the parties ask me to sing one piece and I had heard the other ask me for the other one, and she played "O, My Father," and I sang "God moves in a mysterious way." As good fortune would have it, the first three notes of these songs are identically the same, and Sister Snow discovered what I was trying to do, and therefore played, "Gcd moves in a mysterious way," and we got through all right. I thought the music sounded a little strange, although I had heard it a great many times before; but it hadn't made any such impression upon me that I was able to tell ti:e difference. 

I have a letter clear from the Philippine Islands, in which I was told, among other things, "Don't try to sing." The writer says: "I am in earnest." He is one of my nearest friends too, Major Young; in fact, he and I grew up together, almost. And he tells his reason he says, "Because you will be subjected to ridicule, and there will be a great deal of criticism." I have had a great many of my friends come to me and beg me not to sing. Six months ago one of my fellow Apostles said to me, "Come in, Heber. but don't sing." The same Apostle last night asked me to sing "God moves in a mysterious way," and after I got through complimented me upon it. I said afterward, "I noted your remarks in the Priesthood meeting, when you told men who had been ordained to the office of Patriarch, that they could not enjoy the spirit of the office unless they gave patriarchial blessings; and now," said I. "if you will tell me how I will learn to sing without singing, I will thank ." He said, "Sing every chance you get, Brother Grant, but do your first singing down in Mexico or Arizona or somewhere a long way off." I said, "I have already tried that," and I have tried it at home, and I sang this same song the other night at home. But I will never learn to sing before a large audience until I try. I prop-se to sing the "Holy City" in the big Tabernacle before I get through with it, and I propose to sing it without a mistake. I do not say this boastingly, because I believe what Alma of old said, in the 29th chapter of his book, that "God granteth unto men according to their desires, whether they be for good or for evil, for joy or remorse of conscience." I desire to sing, and I expect to work at it and to stay right with it until I learn. The most I ever worked was to sing 400 songs in four days; that is the biggest amount of work I have ever done in the singing line. There are a great many people that can learn to sing very easily. When I started to learn to sing it took me four months to learn a couple of simple hymns and recently I learned one in three hours by the watch and then sang it without a mistake. 

"That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased." I propose to keep at it until my power to do is increased to the extent that I can sing the songs of Zion. Nobody knows the joy I have taken in standing up in the Tabernacle and other places and joining in the singing, because it used to be a perfect annoyance to me to try and to fail, besides annoying those around me; because I would sing, because I loved the words of the songs of Zion. 

I am very sorry now for having persecuted people as I used to. In our meetings in the Temple the brethren would say "That is as impossible as it is for Brother Grant to carry a tune," and that settled it; everybody acknowledged that was one of the impossibilities. I believe what the Lord says, "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their head." I desire to serve the Lord, and pray unto him in the songs of Zion; and I know that it produces a good influence. 

Now I wish to say something on another subject. In the providences of the Lord I may be one of those that Brother Kimball referred to; I may go to Japan and never come back. I have never been guilty, I believe, of preaching beyond the prescribed time of two hours, only when I have been out in Mexico, or so far away from home that they didn't see me very often. Why? Because I knew how they would go out and complain about it. But as this will be the last chance to speak to you for a few years, I desire to say a few words more. I give you fair warning. I am going to talk as long as I want to, and there are lots of doors, and anybody that gets tired can go out and it won't hurt my feelings at all. 

I rejoice in the Gospel, I rejoice in the rich outpourings of the Holy Spirit that have been given in the instructions imparted during this conference. I rejoice with Brother Kimball, that every Latter-day Saint, every humble son and daughter of God that has embraced the Gospel and become a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has received the witness of the Holy Spirit, that the gift of tongues, the gift of prophecy, of healing, and other gifts and blessings, are found in the Church, and are not confined to men that hold responsible positions in the Church. I have listened to some of the most spirited, and able, and some of the finest sermons of my life from men who held no official position. I remember in the Thirteenth ward listening to a very gifted sermon by a finely educated man who had a marvelous command of language. Afterwards Brother Millen Atwood, who at that time was not holding any position of an official character, stood up as a home missionary in that ward, and if that man had been hired to murder the Queen's English he couldn't have done it more perfectly. I had just been studying grammar, and, therefore, it grated on my ears, as I suppose my singing would grate upon the ear^ of a person that understood fine music. But my heart was touched, and  welled up in my eyes because of the rich outpourings of the Holy Spirit upon that man, and there was an impression made upon my heart of the divinity of this work and the fact that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God that to this day I ha.\ e not forgotten. It is not position, it is not education that gives the Spirit of God; but it is keeping the commandments of Almighty Geo and being lowly in heart and desiring to fulfill the commandments of God in our daily walk and conversation. I bear witness to you here today that no man has ever fallen in this Church, and no man ever will fall in this Church, who is honest in his heart, honest in the payment of his tithes and offerings, who obeys the "Word of Wisdom, who attends to his family prayers and his secret prayers, and who attends to his quorum meetings; no man will fall who is doing his duty in this Church. But Satan has power over those who become selfish and sor_ did and set their hearts upon the things of this earth and fail to render thanks in all things unto God. 

I bear testimony to you today that God lives; that I know that Jesus is the Christ; that I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the true and living God; that I know that we will live forever if we keep the commandments of God. I know that we have Apostles, Prophets, Patriarchs or Evangelists in the Church. I know that they have the inspiration of their offices and calling's. I know that the Gospel tree is alive, that fruit grows upon the tree, as I have reached out my hand and plucked the fruit thereof, and have eaten it. I have sat by the death-bed of my last living son, a boy upon whom I had set my heart and whom I expected to grow up and labor for the interests of God's kingdom; standing up, as it were, in my place; I have seen that child die without shedding a tear, and I know that the comforting Spirit from God was in my home when I saw him die. I love God and I love the Latter-day Saints, and I ask for your prayers in my behalf during my absence. May God grant His blessings upon us at all times, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.
