Morning
05 04 1901



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

OPENING ADDnlSS. 

Prosperity due to the blessings of God— Our lives immortal and progressive — Glorious future prospects— Pu> pose of our earthly existence — Reluctance of the world to receive the truth— Exhoitation to faithfulness. 

My brethren and sisters and friends, through the assistance of your prayers and the exercise of your faith, we expect that the Lord will bestow upon us His choice blessings during this conference. This work in which you and I are engaged can only prosper and be forwarded through the blessings of God upon our faithful and honest exertions and our determination to accomplish the labors for which we have come into this existence. When we look back upon the experiences through which we have passed, we easily understand that our prosperity has been dependent upon our honest endeavors to accomplish the work of God, to labor in the interest of the people, and to rid ourselves as far as possible of selfishness. This having been so in the past, we can well believe that our future progress will depend upon our determination to do the will of God under all circumstances and the aid which He shall give to us. 

You will have the privilege of hearing quite a number of speeches during this conference from the brethren sitting upon the stand, and perhaps from others; and you having come here, no doubt, for the purpose of receiving something that will reward you for the sacrifice which some of you may have made in coming, I hope that you will be well repaid for all the inconveniences which you may have suffered in coming to this conference. 

There are many things worthy of our consideration as we move along in the pathway to exaltation and glory. There are some points we may think about that are of superior consequence. In considering ourselves and how we have been organized and what we are doing, we discover that there is immortality connected with us. We are immortal beings. That which dwells in this body of ours is immortal, and will always exist. Our individuality will always continue. Eternities may begin, eternities may end, and still we shall have our individuality. Our identity is insured. We will be ourselves, and nobody else. Whatever changes may arise, whatever worlds may be made or pass away, our identity will always remain the same; and we will continue on improving, advancing and increasing in wisdom, intelligence, power and dominion, worlds without end. Our present advancement is simply a starting out, as it were, on this path of immortality. Whatever may have been our past, how long we may have existed before this, or whether there ever was a time when we did not exist, there is one thing sure— our being in the future will never be annihilated, never destroyed. When we look upon the beauties of the world many things that we see and experience are of a grand and glorious nature; they fill us with reverence; we feel and realize their grandeur; and the idea that the time will ever come when we will cease to have these experiences would certainly produce a feeling of sadness in our hearts. But there is no such thing a s our passing out of existence. 

I feel thankful that the Lord has revealed unto us the glorious prospects which are before us. The Savior once compared the kingdom of God to a man who found a rich treasure in a field, and he went and sold all that he possessed to secure that treasure; and again, like a man seeking valuable pearls, and finding one of immense value he went and sold all that he had to secure that pearl. 

Now, the Lord having manifested to the Latter-day Saints this principle oj: immortality and continuance of advancement, in the past they have shown most clearly and fully that they have been willing to sacrifice whatever they might possess and to go through the most undesirable experiences rather than turn aside from the path of exaltation and glory and give up the hopes God had inspired within them. Having had these grand and glorious prospects, which no language can express, unfolded to our view, we ought to be the best, the most virtuous and the most self-sacrificing people on the face of the globe. And we certainly are. If it were not for these hopes which the Lord Almighty has inspired us with, if it were not for the revelations of the Lord Jesus in regard to our future, we would be the most unhappy people in the world; all our past sacrifices, all that we have endured, would go as for nothing. The Savior might well compare the kingdom of God to a man that had discovered something for which he was willing to make great sacrfice. 

We are in the world for a purpose. We are not here accidentally. We came here because we were willing to come, and because it was the wish of our Father in heaven that we should come. 

We undoubtedly saw very clearly that there was no other way for us to secure what the Father had in store for us. We send missionaries among the children of men. When appointed they feel strangely. Their feelings are not always the most pleasurable, either. There are things about a mission which are not altogether agreeable to our young Elders. They realize that they have to sacrifice the pleasures of home, and they understand that they are going among people who will not always feel gratified at what they have to say to them; yet, on the other hand, they feel that they have the seeds of life in their possession.and that if they can find an honest man or woman, the Spirit of the Lord will operate upon their hearts and they will perchance receive this glorious message which they have to deliver. This affords them pleasure and satisfaction. Another thing, they see in this experience a  for them to secure that which will be of great value to them in their future duties. It is a strange thing that among the thousands of letters which I have received from those who have been called to go upon missions — mostly young men — I do not think of but one case where a refusal was given. Why is this? It is because the spirit of love and of immortality, the Spirit of the Almighty, is upon these young Elders, and they have received manifestations which inspire them to do that which otherwise no inducement could prompt them to do. 

We are but a few people compared with the multitudes that dwell upon the face of the earth; and our system of thought is not believed in by many. When we go out into the world and testify of the kingdom of God, and that the fulness of the Gospel has been introduced for the purpose of saving mankind, there are but few who will receive the testimony. It has always been so, strange to say. In the days of Noah very few indeed received the truth which God revealed. In the days of the Son of God very few would receive His testimony. In these days very few receive the testimony that God has revealed His Gospel and has required His servants to declare it to the world. It is strange indeed — and yet perhaps not so strange, when we consider the circumstances. When Jesus lay in the manger, a helpless infant. He knew not that He was the Son of God, and that formerly He created the earth. When the edict of Herod was issued, He knew nothing of it; He had not power to save Himself; and His father and mother had to take Him and fly into Egypt to preserve Him from the effects of that edict. Well, He grew up to manhood, and during His progress it was revealed unto Him who He was, and for what purpose He was in the world. The glory and power He possessed before He came into the world was made known unto Him. It was not a very pleasurable thing to be placed upon the cross and to suffer the excruciating torture that He bore for hours, in order to accomplish the work for which He had come upon the earth. It has not been with the Latter-day Saints the most delightful thing that could be  to suffer as they have suffered — and what for? For the same as Jesus suffered, to a certain extent — for the salvation of the world. And although in this life very many of them may not receive that which we offer to them, the day will come, through the progress of things in eternity, when they will receive it, and they will be thankful that we came into the world and suffered in their interests as we have. 

What shall we say about these matters, brethren and sisters? This: Do not falter; continue to do your duty, whatever it may be, whether pleasing or displeasing; be the servants and handmaidens of God to the very utmost. In the past his blessings have been upon us just so far as we have served Him in faithfulness; they will be so in the future. There is no occasion for any man who has the manifestation of the Lord in this line to be discouraged. When our surroundings are not so agreeable as might be wished, think how much worse they might be. Be contented with our conditions. Improve them when opportunity arises, but do not worry about them. If we are poor, and have not as much as our neighbor possesses, do not envy him, and do not worry about it. As I said in the beginning of my remarks, there is an eternity before us, and we shall always be ourselves, and nobody else, and what we do not gain today we will gain tomorrow, or some other time. The antediluvians rejected the word of God; but they were the sons and daughters of God, and He did not reject them, only for a time. After twenty-five hundred years had passed away the Lord revealed himself to them again and gave them another opportunity. Then they no doubt accepted, generally if not altogether, that which they refused in the days of Noah. The people of this generation may not receive our testimony here, but they will receive it at some future time, from us or from some other servants of God. 

Brethren and sisters, God bless you; and I say to you, in the name of the Lord, if you will be faithful in your prayers and in the exercise of your faith, this will be as other conferences have been, the very best — better than that which has preceded it; and we will all be abundantly blessed and filled with the Spirit of God, our faith will be increased, and we will be better prepared to endure what the Lord shall require at our hands. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

The course 1 1 pursue in cases of sickness — Organization and ordinances of the Church being imitated— The Gospel to be carried to all lands. 

I can hardly realize, my brethren and sisters, that it is nearly one year since I was called to this stand and my name presented to the congregation to be sustained as one of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. I desire to say to you this day that 1 have enjoyed my labors among the people of this Church for the last twelve months as I never expected to do. I have at all times asked my Heavenly Father to give me His Spirit, to give me humility, and to favor me with the love, confidence, respect and fellowship of the Latterday Saints; and I thank you my brethren and sisters, for yqur faith and prayers in my behalf, and I thank the Lord for all He has vouchsafed unto me. I begin to realize, at least in a small degree, \yhat it is to be a teacher among the Latter-day Saints, and the great responsibilities attached thereto; and I feel my weakness, aye, more than any of your realize, and I trust and pray that the Lord will give me wisdom and judgment, that the instruction which I give to the people as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ will be approved of Him, and that the people will receive them in the same spirit in which they are given. 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that this is the Church and Kingdom of God. I know that He can fit and qualify men for the offices to which He calls them. If they are humble, prayerful and diligent in seeking His Spirit, I know that God will magnify them in their office and calling. 

There is a tendency exhibited by some of the brethren and sisters in some of the Stakes of Zion to add to the form of our simple , and cast about them a degree of mystery and to depart from the method laid down by revelation from God through the Prophet Joseph Smith; and I think it proper to call the attention of the members of this Church to one of these deviations. 

The Apostle James, upon one occasion, asked the question, "Is any sick among you?" and his advice to the Saints then was: "Let him call for the Elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up." 

This doctrine is believed in by the Latter-day Saints. It is one of the beautiful ordinances in the Church of Jesus Christ in this dispensation. It is one whose benefits and blessings all the people enjoy who have the Spirit of God. And there is no need to deviate from the simple form of administering to the sick as laid down by the Apostle James and by the Prophets of this dispensation. There is, however, a tendency among some of the members of the Church in performing this ordinance to add to the form and mode as revealed, thinking that by so doing greater power accompanies the administration. But I want to call your attention to the fact that in the healing- of the sick in this Church the power comes from the Lord, and not from man. It is by the prayer of faith that the sick are healed: and, as I look at it, there is no need of having this simple ordinance of administering to the sick enshrouded in mystery, or any addition whatever to the simple form given by the Apostle James or revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

Let me say also that every Latter-day Saint has a perfect right to ask the Bishop of their ward to present the name of any who are sick to the fast meeting which is held each month in every ward in the Church, where the people meet together in fasting and prayer. I believe that the faith and power which can be made manifest in those meetings in behalf of the sick will be acknowledged by God; and the people have a right to ask the Bishop of their ward to have a sick one prayed for in any fast meeting. In this connection I may say that we have prayer circles in this Church. Every Bishop has a right to have a prayer circle in his ward, and I sincerely hope that there is no Stake in Zion without one, and if there is, my advice is to organize one as soon as possible. There is not a week passes but these circles meet, and they are composed of men of God, who hold the Priesthood, and who are supposed to be clean in every respect, having a knowledge that God lives, obeying all His commandments, and observing the Word of Wisdom; and the Saints should have the privilege of having their sick remembered in these circles. At the same time, I believe that where the humblest servant of God is called upon to administer to one who is sick in this Church, if he have faith, and the afflicted one also, God will grant unto them the righteous desires of their hearts. And it seems to me that there is no need of holding special fast meetings, or special testimony meetings, or special meetings of any kind in the wards or Stakes of Zion, in connection with or making them a part of the simple ordinances of administering to the sick. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that the time will come when every ordinance of the Gospel will be imitated in some form or another by the world, and this should be a testimony to every soul that Mormonism is from God.. If our testimony were based only upon our belief in administering to the sick and the healing of the sick by that means, we should be in danger; for since that ordinance has been revealed to this Church other denominations have arisen believing the same thing. There is now a denomination in existence which believes in the administering of oil. By and by there will be other denominations formed that will, by reading the Bible, conclude that there should be Apostles in the Church, and they will have men-made Apostles. Only a few days ago I read of a sect which had risen up in the East claiming that there should be Apostles, and some of the members had appointed themselves as Apostles of that denomination. I think that sooner or later the evil one will try to imitate everything  the Church of God. I sometimes think I can see into the future and see many denominations accepting parts of the revealed truth and trying to imitate perhaps one or more of the ordinances of the true Church, and I believe the world will have to ultimately acknowledge that Mormonism, as they call it, is exactly the same as the Church that Christ placed upon the earth, and that it is from God. 

I believe all that God has revealed; I believe all that He does now reveal; and I believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. You, my brethren and sisters, believe the same. Not only do we believe, but we know that the blessings of God come to us when we keep the commandments of God. In visiting the Stakes since Brother Heber J. Grant was called to open a new mission in Japan, and Brother Lyman to preside over the European Mission, I have had some of the brethren say to me, "Why I thought the time had come when the Apostles would be kept at home, and not sent abroad;" and they expressed themselves as not knowing how they could possibly be spared from here. I want to say to the people that if the voice of the Lord calls an Apostle, and he is wanted in any part of this world, as soon as the Prophet of the Lord mentions the fact to him, there is not an Apostle in this Church but would go to the farthest ends of the earth upon a mission — go to any country, or any people, and sacrifice if necessary, all that he has, even to life itself. What more can men do for the Gospel's sake. 

My brethren and sisters, I hope that such a feeling of respect for the word of God and of confidence in His allruling power will be instilled into the hearts of the people that whenever the time comes or whatever the call may be from the servants of God, you will freely say, "Thy will, O Father, not mine, be done." Brother Heber J. Grant is called to open a new missionopen the door of the great Eastern country and introduce the Gospel to a new people; and it is my belief that it is only the beginning; for as sure as the Lord has spoken the word, this Gospel must be preached to all peoples on th"e earth. It rests upon this people to do that work before the coming of the Son of Man, and I take it that whenever the call comes and to whomsoever it comes, he will have sufficient of the testimony of Jesus in his heart to respond to the call and fulfil the mission as God gives him strength and judgment. I know that our prayers have been with Brother Grant ever since it has been known that he was called. I know that the Father has been supplicated in his behalf, that he may have success in opening that mission. There is not a question but that he goes clothed with all the power, all the keys and all the authority necessary to introduce the Gospel to that people. I feel that he will have success, even as much as God shall grant he should have. 

The hearts of the people have been drawn out also for Brother George Q. Cannon, who is seriously ill at the present time in California. We hope, we pray, we ask our Heavenly Father to restore him to us; but if he lives he lives unto the Lord, and if he dies he dies unto the Lord. Whether he lives or whether he dies, he is the Lord's. 

It seems to me that there can be no people upon the face of the earth who have reason to be more thankful to their Heavenly Father for the blessings which they receive than the Latter-day Saints; for I do not believe there is a people living who have more blessings showered upon them. I want to bear testimony also to what President Snow said, that there is not a people living, in my opinion, who are more virtuous, self-sacrificing and more the lovers of God than the people who have accepted the name of Latter-day Saints. It rests with us, my brethren and sisters, whether or not we shall have increased blessings. The Prophet of the Lord has promised us here today that if we ara faithful unto God glorious blessings shall be given unto us and it rests with us whether or not we shall obtain them. 

My testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, is that God lives that Jesus is the Christ, that this is the Church and Kingdom of God, and that this people will not falter, but whenever the call is made upon them they will answer that call to the best of the ability God  given them and with all the strength and means they are endowed with. May God bless us to this end; may His peace be upon us as a people; may the Spirit of the Lord be with us during this Conference; may the instructions given during this Conference be carried from here to every nook and corner of the Church; may He bless us with a testimony that this is His work, and increase that testimony within us every day, js my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RUGDER CLAWSON. 

Souls precious in the sight of God — That which is of greatest worth to a seiva> t oi the. Lord— To save othei s a man must put himself in the way or salvation — The Gospel to goto the nationsNecessity for repentance. 

Brethren and sisters, it is certainly a very inspiring sight to see so many L;uter-day Saints assembled this morning' from all parts of Zion to worship the Lord and to receive His word as it may be given by His Spirit through the Elders of Israel. I greatly rejoice jn being present, and I appreciate the opportunity of expressing to you briefly some of my views and feelings in regard to this great latter-day work. I rejoice in the testimony of President Snow, in the strength of voice which he exhibited, and in . the glorious views he presented before us. I have had pleasure also in the testimony of my brother who preceded me. 

A few words were spoken in relation to mjia&ionary work, first by President Snow, and then by Brother Smoot, and their remarks wi!l harmonize with what I would like to read to you this morning from the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. In a short revelation given to John Whitmer, in June, 1829. the Lord said unto him: 

"Hearken, my servant John, and listen tc the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and jour Redeemer, 

"For. tehold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine aim is over all the earth, 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone; 

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words winch I have given you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold,. I say unto you. that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you, will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring sou's unto me, that you may rest with them in the kindgom of my Father."— Section 15. 

In another revelation given shortly after, these words occur: 

"And now, Oliver Cowdery, I speak unto you, and also unto David Whitmer, by the way of commandment; for, behold, I command all men everywhere to repent, and I speak unto you, even as unto Paul mine Apostle, for you are called even with that same calling with which he was called. 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer, suffered death in the flesh; wherefore He suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto Him. 

"And He hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on condition of repentance; 

"And how great is His joy in the soul that repenteth. 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people; 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repen lance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto Me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of My Father! 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" — Sec. xviii, 9-16. 

Again : 

"And you must preach unto the world, saying, you must repent and be bantized. in the name of Jesus Christ; 

"For all men must repent and be baptized, and not only men, but women and children who have arrived to the years of accountability." — Sec. xviii; 41-42. 

Brethren and sisters, the matters that are brought to our attention in these words of revelation are most glorious for contemplation. Cast your minds back to the early days of this Church, and there stood this man John Whitmer, recently come into the Church of Christ. Various occupations in which he might engage were before him. He had the opportunity to labor upon the farm, to engage in merchandising, to follow mining, to study the profession of medicine or law, or to adopt one of the many other occupations in which men employ themselves. The question he asked himself at that time was, What would be of the most worth to ? By his industry and thrift he might acquire the wealth of a Gould or a Vanderbilt; he might obtain a beautiful home, well furnished in every detail, and most desirable for the comfort and convenience of himself and family; he might obtain worldly renown in one of the professions, and by study and reflection become a skillful practitioner in medicine or a wise and able laywer. I say, these opportunities were before him, because the country was before him, and this country is full of opportunities, which are within the reach of all. We live in a free country, and the way is open to you and to me, as it was to this man. He stood there in this situation, not having been trained long in the Gospel of Christ, and I say to you— for it is on record here — that a voice came to that man from the eternal worlds, and that voice set at rest in him every doubt, every dubiety, every fearful anticipation. At a critical time in his life, when he must choose which way to go, that voice said unto him that that which would be of most worth unto him was to declare repentance unto the people and bring souls unto Christ. The message was of such importance that it came to him with "sharpness and with power." It was the voice of Jesus Christ. It was a revelation, given in this day and generation, when it is supposed by the people of the world that revelation is done away with, that there is no longer communication between the heavens and the earth, that the heavens are sealed as brass. The voice of revelation comes from heaven and enters into the soul of this man and declares unto him the right way. Glorious thought! 

And how are we to determine the value of souls? This matter has been determined for us also by revelation. The souls of men are so precious in the sight of God that He gave to the world His Only Begotten Son, that by the shedding of His blood He might draw all men unto Him. That is why the great Prophet of this dispensation, Joseph Smith, and these others. John Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and the rest, were called to bring souls unto Christ. And if one of these men should labor all his days, and bring save it be but one soul unto Christ, and that one should be his wife, what great joy he would have with his wife in heaven. Then if he should labor all his days and bring unto Christ the souls of his wife and his children, and none else perchance, how great would be his joy in heaven with his wife and children. 

So the matter is clear in my mind that in this kingdom a man must first begin at home. He must start with himself. He must place himself in the way of salvation, and obtain the Priesthood. Then he must set in order his own household, and labor for the salvation of his family. He must not ignore his own home, and forget those who are near and dear to him. A man who cannot save himself through the power of God; a man who cannot save his wife and children, cannot bring to Christ the souls of men in the world. I rejoice in this power and authority which has been conferred upon man. A man must have it before he can go out into the world and bring souls unto Christ. It is with the Church. The Prophet, Seer and Revelator holds the keys of this authority, and from him it comes to the Elders of Israel. This great missionary work that is to be accomplished must first begin at home. It must be found in the families of the Saints, and in the quorums of the Priesthood. Then it must be carried bv the Priesthood, as it will be and is being carried, to the nations of the earth. It is now being carried to most of the countries of Europe, and will be to all of them, and it is about to be taken to the great nation of Japan; for I want to say to you that Japan is getting to be a great nation. Its people are progressive, and no doubt the Gospel will find a foothold in that land. But I am impressed with the thought, when new missions are to be opened up, that then is a time when we must feel humble before God. We know not what is in store for this Church in the Empire of Japan. If the Gospel is to find a place in their hearts, and they shall give heed to his voice of revelation from eternity, then the angel of God must go before our brother, who  charged with this responsibility, and the Lord must prepare a people to receive the word, else his preaching and ministry in that land will be unfruitful. Therefore, as we look upon this question, we see how utterly helpless is the man who relies upon his own strength, his own experience and learning. This is the work of God. He goes before His servants, and is their rearward. He speaks through them to the world; and woe unto that people, woe unto that nation, and woe unto that family that rejects the testimony of Jesus! 

Brethren and sisters, in speaking upon this subject we have taken but one view of it. There is another view, and that is, that no soul can come unto the Father and be accepted of Him, except upon the principle of repentance. I fancy I hear some of the Saints saying, Yts, the principle of repentance is very good, but it is mostly intended for the nations of the earth that sit in darkness and are without a knowledge of the Gospel. Yes, take this principle of repentance to them. Let the Elders of the Church declare unto them that they must repent, that they must forsake their sins, and turn unto the Lord with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and He will bless and exalt them. But let me tell you brethren and sisters, that we must not stop here. The piinciple of repentance is not only intended for the world, but it belongs to ire Latter-day Saints. It is a principle that should come into our lives and be before us continually. Have we not need of repentance? Cast your eye over this Church; go into the wards and Stakes of the Church; visit among this people. They are without doubt the best people upon the earth, but go among them, and then ask yourselves if this people have not need of repentance. We have need of it. You n ust admit it when you learn that 50 per cent of those who bear th& "Priesthood of God fail to attend their quorum meetings. One-half of the bearers of the Priesthood attend to this duty, and when called upon will arise and bear testimony; but the other half, fail. Oh! you will say, perhaps, that is not so bad; it is only a quorum meeting  know; they meet once or twice a month, and the time between meetings is so long that the brethren forget about it. But I wish to remind you, brethren and sisters, (for the sisters should take an interest in this matter with their husbands) that the quorums of the Priesthood have been established by the authority of God, and their times and seasons and bounds have been set. The duties pertaining to the Priesthood are set forth in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants with great force and clearness. And I say, if the meetings of these quorums are of no consequence in the church, let them be done away with. If they are not worth the sacrifice needed in coming together for an hour or so once or twice a month, let us dispense with them. God will not be mocked. If He says such organizations in (he Church are necessary, if He inspires the organization of a quorum, then we must give heed to His word. When we make sacred covenants before the Lord, as many of our young men do, in order to obtain the Priesthood, and secure blessings through the Priesthood, and we ignore those covenants, I fear the disfavor of the Lord will be upon us, and He will hold us to a strict accountability. I believe that there is need for the application of this great principle of repentance to the men of the Priesthood. Yet we have many faithful ones among us. There are various associations in the Church, all instituted by the authority of God for the benefit and blessing of the Latter-day Saints, and this same condition prevails more or less throughout all of them— about fifty per cent, respond, and about fifty per cent do not respond. 

While I speak thus I am reminded of the parable of the ten virgins, five of whom were wise and five foolish. A time came when the five foolish virgins needed some oil, and needed it badly. Oh, if they could only have gone to the store and got a little oil for their lamps. But there was not sufficient time. The bridegroom was coming suddenly, and they must respond at once to the call and meet him with oil in their lamps. The five wise were ready, the Ave foolish were not ready, and they could not go in to the marriage supper with the , their Lord and Master. If the Master were to come to this Church today, there would be five wise and five foolish. There would be great consternation among the people. Men of the Priesthood would no doubt be rushing about looking up their record, going to the quorum meetings and seeing if they did not have sufficient credit on the .books to go and meet the Master; and the clerk would have to say to them that they had not been to a meeting for two years, or for one year, or for six months, as the case might be. They could not be given any credit; and if they met the Master at all, they would have to meet him without it. Oh, how sorrowful it would be! What a troubled expression would be seen on the countenances of such men! It would be the same with the sisters and others who have not been faithful to duty in the organizations of this Church. And it is the same in other directions. 

I grant you, my brethren and sisters, there has been a marvelous improvement in the payment of tithes. A wonderful step in advance has been taken by the Latter-day Saints in this glorious principle, which has come to us from President Snow almost as a new revelation. A special word of warning it was to these Latter-day Saints — these ten virgins. The word came, Do you pay your tithing? Have you oil in your lamps? Do you observe this law which will sanctify the land of Zion? I say great progress has been made in this; and yet there are some foolish virgins among the people with respect to the law of tithing. There are many who come short of paying what Bishop Preston calls a tithing — ten per cent. The Lord has defined the percentage that should be paid. I am not preaching to you anything that men have devised. No man in this Church instituted the principle of tithing. It is as old as the Gospel. It was had in the days of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. It was had in the days of Solomon. It was had in the days of Christ. It was had upon this continent in the days of the Nephites. Yet there are hundreds of Latter-day Saints who come short of observing it. Many will perhaps pay a tenth of a tenth, or an eighth of a tenth, a fifth of a tenth, a sixth of a tenth, or a seventh of a tenth. They fail to meet the requirement fully. Where shall we place them? What shall we say of the man who is highly blessed of the Lord in temporal matters, who has been multiplied exceedingly in his substance, and whose barns are not large enough to hold that which the Lord has blessed him with? Is he a tithepayer? Well, he thinks he is. How much does he pay? Why, he pays one-half of one-tenth per cent. Shall we say that he is a foolish virgin? I think we might be justified in taking that view, because I do not understand that the Lord is going to be satisfied with anything short of the full observance of the law. If the Lord intended that it should* only be one-half of ten per cent, or one-fourth of ten per cent, He would have said so. When we fail to meet the law exactly, then I apprehend that we are appropriating to ourselves something that belongs to the Lord, and I do not know what right I have to use property or means that belongs to Him. I have no way of borrowing from Him personally. If I am going to use any part of the ten per cent, I must go to His Prophet and see whether my application will be acceptable to the Lord; and if the Prophet says, No, it is the Lord's means and must come into His storehouse, then I have no choice left. But you see, brethren and sisters, how, because the Lord has blessed us with ability to gather means and we have it in our hands, we infringe upon His rights by taking some part of that which belongs to him and using it for our own purposes. 

I speak of this because, while there are a number in this Church who do not pay any tithing, there are many who make an effort in this direction, and who perhaps imagine they are accomplishing the thing required because they do not entirely reject the law of tithing. They pay something, they get a credit on the books, and then they say to themselves, Soul, sit thou here in ease and be satisfied. Let it not be so with us, my brethren and sisters. Let no man who has the privilege of paying  be satisfied with the payment of less than that which is required. If we are going to strive for a blessing, let us be sure that we shall obtain it. Let us not occupy a position of uncertainty, doing something, but not knowing whether or not we are doing sufficient to secure the blessing. 

Brethren and sisters, there are many other things that need to be repented of by the people of God. One is that God will be sought after, and we do not seek after Him as we should. We neglect our family prayers; we neglect our secret prayers, and God is not pleased with it. We should come to him in mighty faith, ask for His Spirit and blessing, and acknowledge His hand in our behalf, that we may have His Spirit to be with us constantly. Now that I am about to sit down, I do not know of any theme in the Gospel that opens up such a wide field for contemplation and thought as this great and glorious principle of repentance. No man on the earth in the Church or out of it, and, I imagine, no man in heaven, can come unto the Lord or be received into His favor, except upon the principle of repentance — daily, hourly repentance, which should mean to us daily, hourly improvement, growth and progress. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, 

"Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning, 

Joy to the land which in darkness hath lain." 

Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. 


