Overflow
07 04 1901


ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. 

I have seldom, if ever, listened to addresses that so impressed me as have the words given through the servants of the Lord during this conference. It teaches that when brethren are called to important positions in the Church and Kingdom of God, by authority of our Heavenly Father they truly are clothed with the spirit of their mis and calling. To illustrate this thought: A number of years ago I was on a trip with one of the younger Apostles who had been ordained quite recently to that position. I thought he was quite a good man, but when he was called, the idea ran through my mind: "I wonder if he is the right man in the right place to fill this most important calling?" However, I accepted the will of our Heavenly Father in the matter, and sustained him in my heart. When I went off on this trip, there came an occasion where it required the best kind of judgment, and where it seemed like the spirit of the Lord alone could remove the difficulty that seemed to be in the way of this young man, and the query ran through my mind, when the question came up, as to how th~! matter was to be decided, how he would be able to do it. But when he stood up and decided that question, and I observed the manner in which he decided it, the wisdom used and how he maintained the dignity of the position he occupied, then I said, "truly the Lord does clothe His people with the spirit of their calling when they are called by the authority of our Heavenly Father. I have learned to respect and to love that young man because of the spirit with which he magnifies the position he occupies." 

I frequently think that we look a long way for the teachings of the Spirit of the Lord. We forget that God has given us Prophets and Apostles to be in our own midst. We sometimes think comparatively too much of the Prophets of ancient times. While they are good and of great value to us, yet we have Apostles and Prophets in our day just as worthy of our appreciation. We have men inspired to give us the word of the Lord when we seek for it. The truths these brethren express are inspired of our Heavenly Father. We should be careful not to reject the word of God which comes to us through such men. I testify that I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that the Prophets who have followed after him were his legal successors, and that we have in our midst today Prophets and Apostles with the same authority that existed in ancient times. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. SMART. 

I feel honored of the Lord, as His servant, in having this great privilege of addressing you in this conference overflow meeting. 

I will read these words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, which are found in the 64th section of the Book of Doctrine & Covenants: 

'Behold, the Lord requireth the heart snd the willing mind, and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land if Zion in these last days, and the rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion and shall be sent away and shall not inherit the land; for verily I tay that the rebellious are not of the blood of Ephraim, wherefore they shall be plucked out." * * * "For behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish and the glory of the Lord shall be upon her, and she shall be an ensign unto the people, and there shall come unto her out of every nation under heaven, and the day shall come when the nations of the earth shall tremble because of her and shall fear because of her terrible ones." 

I felt impressed with this which has been given unto us of the Lord, during the time which the brethren have been speaking to us. They have borne very heavily upon the subject of obedience and giving ourselves wholly unto the Lord. My mind goes back when I contemplate this principle of obedience, to that which we learn in the Pearl of Gieat Price, when in the councils of heaven the foundations of the earth and the building thereof were taken into consideration. Two plans were laid before the councils, and because of the humble and obedient spirit that was shown in Jesus Christ, He was chosen to carry out that plan, which His Father approved, and Satan rebelled because the trust was given unto his more meek brother Jesus. When this earth was formed and Adam was placed thereon with his wife Eve, we find that in their children there were two spirits that were exemplified in the children — obedience and disobedience; the giving of the heart unto God on the one side and on the other side the individual becoming a law unto himself. Abel offered up unto God a sacrifice in righteousness, while his brother Cain did not so. Abel's sacrifice was accepted of . the 

Lord, while Cain's was rejected; and as we come down in the stream of time, no mor' beautiful example of perfect and simple faith can be found than that in the history of our father Abraha.-.. Although a land was given unto him and his posterity, although he had been told that through him and his seed the earth should be blessed, yet God required at his hand his son Issac, and told him to go into the hill Moriah and there offer him up unto the Lord as a sacrifice. He bound together the sticks of wood, took the young man, and journeyed to the mountain, where he left his servants and bound the sticks upon the back of his son; and the little boy, as he trudged along by the side of his father, said: "Father, father?" Abraham answered: "Here am I." Then said the child: "Here are the sticks, where is the Lamb for sacrifice?" The father answered: "the Lord will raise up a lamb for sacrifice." 

So they went on to the hill. The father built an altar, laid the sticks thereon, and then placed his beloved son Isaac upon the altar. As he went to offer him up an angel of the Lord stayed his hand, and there was a ram found in the thicket for the sacrifice. It was enough. God had proven his heart, and he had proven his soul; he had ascertained that Abraham had given unto him his whole heart, wholly and unreservedly. And because of this, the angel of the Lord said unto him: "Because thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me, behold, in blessing I will bless thee until thv posterity shall be as the sands upon the sea shore and as the stars in the firmament of heaven." And He said further: "In thee, and in thy seed, shall all the nations of the earth be blessed." 

Abraham gave unto God his heart unstintedly, and God promised that He would pay him back. He had faith and power to give his own flesh and blood as a sacrifice to God; and in offering up his flesh and blood, God promised to him that his seed, his flesh and bl^-d, should become as numerous as the sands of the sea shore and as the stars in the firmament of the heavens. God has said that every blessing that is in the Church of Christ is predicated upon the observance of law. He has instituted the law of sacrifice, the law of tithing-, for the temporal salvation of the people of God. We learn in the history of the Jews that Adam and Eve were given of the fruits of all the trees in the garden, and were given all the cattle upon the earth, the fishes of the sea and the fowls of the air for food and for succor; but of one tree God required that they should not touch the fruit thereof, but that they should render unto Him a sacrifice of the fruit of that tree, and that by doing so, by not breaking the law of their temporal salvation, the garden of Eden would be vouchsafed unto them, but if they broke it they would lose their home and would be driven out from that land even into the lone and dreary world. By observing the temporal law they would receive temporal blessings; by the breaking of law they would lose their home. They broke the law, the angel of the Lord drove them out, and the earth brought forth briars, thistles and noxious weeds instead of the lucious fruits that it was bringing forth ' e that time. They transgressed the law, and their own lives, and the lives of their own children, brought forth briars and thistles and noxious weeds in the flesh. After awhile was a people under the leadership of Enoch, who applied the principles of sacrifice to a portion of the earth's surface, and they brought that portion of the earth up to a sanctified condition. As fast as they applied the principles of sanctification, the law of sacrifice, to that portion of the earth's surface, and applied it unto their own lives, they redeemed their home and they redeemed themselves, until finally it is written that the City of Enoch "was not, because God took it." 

This, my brethren and sisters, has been impressed upon my mind as the manner in which this earth is to be redeemed. God blessed that people to redeem that portion of the earth's surface, and we have their example before us. In our day, God told our fathers and our mothers before they came to this land, if they would keep the law of sanctifica it should be a land of Zion unto them, and they should not be overcome of their enemies. It was beyond them to keep that law; and as God took the Melchisedek Priesthood and Moses from ancient Israel, so in His mercy He took the higher law of redemption, temporal, from the people, and He left with them the lower law, that of tithing. Now we are all wandering in the wilderness of the Western States of America with this lower, temporal law among us, given us in the mercy of God to redeem us and bring us back unto that condition where we may observe the higher law. And God is pleading with us, through His Prophet today, and it is one of the signs of the times. When we can observe this law, then the coming of Christ is near, even at our doors, Zion will be rebuilt, and it will be redeemed as the City of Enoch was redeemed, and the law shall go forth and Zion shall increase and flourish as I have given you here — "For, behold, I say unto you, that Zion shall flourish and the glory of God shall be upon her." 

I bear you my testimony that God has renewed unto us that principle of sacrifice through President Lorenzo Snow. He gave us a blessing so that we may have the privilege of renewing this land, and we are to redeem this earth; and we are to redeem ourselves by this law of sacrifice, and we will gain it inch by inch, by the blessings of the Lord, as we apply this principle of sacrifice unto this earth of ours. The man who does not pay his tithing is the man who has his eyes closed against this principle. We should pray that God will bless us with His spirit that we may do His bidding in this regard, and thus receive a blessing which is predicated upon obedience. 

I desire to say unto the Latter-day Saints one thing that I had in my heart to say last evening at the Priesthood meeting. One year ago during our conference I went to the Sunday School Union and heard Apostle Heber J. Grant attempt to sing, and I heard some parties after I left the room state that he had made a scene of himself. He had stood up there and endeavored to sing a song of Zion, "O, my Father, Thou that dwellest." He talked to  a little while before that, and then he attempted to sing one of the verses, and did not get the right key; but he said that he would try it again as Brother Goddard used to when he got off the right key, and he sang it again in the same old way. He wanted to sing that because Eliza R. Snow had composed it. She exerted a great influence over his heart, and prophesied in tongues that he would yet be one of the leaders of this people. He desired to learn to sing, "God moves in a mysterious way," because it was the hymn that was the most loved by our beloved President Woodruff. I say unto 3'ou, young men and women, before me, that I feel in my heart that God inspired that man to take up singing. He quoteu to us that night that God delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto Him, and it shall be answered with a blessing on their head. My little boy was sitting with me when Brother Giant said that, and his eyes danced with joy and the muscles of his face played with excitement. I noticed him, and I said to myself: "I wonder if an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ will be robbed of some of his power and his glory because he makes a scene of himself before Latterd.-ty Saints." Two weeks after there was a conference in Ogden. The speakers mentioned to be there included Brother Heber J. Grant. My little boy said, "i want to go to that conference, papa, if Heber J. Grant is to be there." 

i was then here for the Eastern States mission, and I was wondering what I could do to assist that mission. It is a hard and a cold mission, and our Elders were almost desponding in some places because they could not thaw the people out sufficiently to get them to lend an ear to the Gospel. They were not preaching as much as they ought to have done; and as I sat in my beat that night there was a feeling came to me that God has brought to me an inspiration through Brother Grant. I went back to that mission and went to every conference and every part of it. and acted on the idea that perseverance overcometh many difficulties. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

It has been my privilege to represent the Gospel of Jesus Christ upon more than one mission and in more than one nation; and I feel that God has blessed me in the labor in which I am engaged. The longer I live the more fully and thoroughly do I understand the great and mighty things which are being done in the earth in this the greatest dispensation that the earth ever saw. The Latter-day Saints are looked upon as a peculiar people, and they are the most peculiar people to be found upon the face of the earth. In standing before this congregation, I see people before me who came from a great many different nations of the earth and the blood of the different nationalities Is being blended together in the people growing up in these mountains that will yet be acknowledged as the greatest in strength, in wisdom and in the knowledge of the affairs of God of any people who ever lived upon the earth. 

I say to the young men and young ladies, Does it ever dawn upon you how much you owe to the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Does it ever come to your mind where the Gospel found your mother, where it found your father, where the Gospel of Christ made them acquainted with each other, and the faith in that Gospel gave you a lovely or a happy home in these valleys of the mountains .' And yet the Gospel has done this; and if there is a people upon the earth who should realize that they are not of the world, and therefore should love one another, it is the people called Latterday Saints. No matter what your associations may be with others, I would have you understand that as a people you are a distinct people in and of yourselves, that you have been brought out of the world, that you are not of the world; and if the words and promises of Christ can be relied upon, you are not beloved by the world. 

The people of the earth at the pressent time occupy the same position that the people have in various ages of the world when God has had Prophets upon the earth. In fact, the sin, the condemnation of the people of this earth always has been that they stood ready to revere the memory of dead Prophets, to worship the memory of the people of God who were in their silent graves, and who had lived in former dispensations, while they refused to listen to Prophets of God who were sent unto them. In the days of Noah, the people rejected the revelation that God gave to them through that great Prophet, and it was to their condemnation that they rejected the revelation of God which was sent to them. In the days of our Master and His Apostles, it was the condemnation of the people who lived then, that they rejected Christ, that they turned a deaf ear to Peter, James and John although they were willing to worship the memory of a Moses, of a Noah, or an Abraham, or any of the other Prophets who lived in former dispensations Yet they rejected the message sent to them 

Manki Tf th6ir co »<Jemnation. 

Mankind has always believed in ancient revelation, and in every dispensation they have rejected, and reject now, immediate revelation, which alone can bring eternal life and salvation in the presence of God to any people who lives «Pon the earth, or who have ever lived upon the face of the earth. Belief in former revelation never did and never will save an individual; but belief in modern revelation has always been the test of life and salvation when God has had a people upon the earth 

Not long ago it was my privilege to spend an evening with a Rabbi, a very learned man who had read something in an interview in a newspaper which had attracted his attention, and I received an invitation to go to him; a nd during the evening he began to talk about the God of Abraham, of Isaac and of Jacob 

asked him what his idea of God was and to my surprise he defined the deity very much in the same way. in fact in the same way, as He is looked upon by modern Christianity today, that He was a being without a body, without parts without passions; that He did not exist in any shape, that He was found in everything. And when he was through I ask him the difference between that God and the God of an Ingersoll.who believed that nature was the only God. And I said to him that it seemed to me that the only difference between the Jews of today and modern Christi of today, concerning a belief in God, and the followers of an Ingersoll or a Bradlaugh, was that one of them called it God and the other called it Nature. And then I opened the Bible, and I said, "Now you believe in the prophecies of Moses?" "Yes." "Well," said I, "here is a prophecy uttered by Moses, found in one of the books of Moses, which says that Israel will be scattered among the nations of the earth, that they will degenerate to such an extent that they will not believe in a God who can eat or speak or smell." "Now," said I, "after the definition that you have given me, that the Supreme Being in your estimation and in the estimation of the Jews, which is the same as the estimation of modern Christianity, that He has no body, no parts, no passions, seems to me as though we saw that day when Israel has not only been scattered among the nations of the earth but that they have actually degenerated to such an extent that they do not believe in a God who can eat or speak or smell; and it also seems to me as though that Being believed in by Moses, by Abraham, by Isaac and by Jacob, your fathers — that in Him they did believe in a God who could eat, who could speak, and who could smell, and in whose being and presence and likeness we, His children, were created when we were placed upon the earth. I do not believe I ever had a greater illustration of the fulfillment of a prophecy than came to my mind that night, when I was talking to that Rabbi, supposed to be a minister of the Gospel of ancient Judah, through which source has come to us the mighty revelations of God as He gave them to His children upon the earth, which have been permitted to come down through the stream of time unto us. 

Now the Gospel of Christ has been restored to the earth, in fulfillment of prophecy. Once more mankind is clothed with authority, and those bearing that authority are sent out to all the nations of the earth, and their business is to gather Israel from where they have been scattered, bring them here and teach them how to worship the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and of Jacob, that they may once more stand upon the earth as their fathers stood,  say that they believe in ' s a God who can eat and speak and smell," and who does speak to His children upon the earth, and believe in modern revelation as their fathers did. May God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Singing by the choir: 

"Great is the Lord." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

My brethren and sisters, a very unexpected privilege is afforded me this afternoon of standing before you and bearing my testimony concerning the principles of the Gospel of Christ. 

The last words of the hymn which was so beautifully sung here, the second hymn, by Brother Thomas and the choir, shall furnish me a text for the very few remarks that I expect to make: "God is with us, and we with Him." I ask myself the question, when I see these lines, if we are justified in asserting that God is with this people and we with Him? It is now 71 years since the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and what has been the result? The Gospel has been preached in almost every civilized country in the world, and the thing that brings greatest joy to me greatest consolation, greatest assurance, is the fact that God, in His mercy, has not only given me a testimony of the truth of the message that He commanded the boy Prophet to send out into all the world, but that He has given it to all of you! and I know that, if the opportunity were offered, hundreds of you would rise up and bear this same testimony with me this afternoon. And that is not all. We know that away up in ice-locked Norway and Sweden, in Germany, in Prance, in the British Isles, and in the islands of the sea, people are gathered together— people with whom we never associated, people who are strangers to us, people who represent many different nations and kindreds and tongues, and that they are all bearing witness today that Jesus is the Christ, and that through His mercy the Latter-day dispensation has been ushered in through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. They are all bearing tes that there are prophets on the earth today. The revelations of God are made known for the redemption of mankind, and that today the gathering of scattered Israel has begun. This is a strong evidence that God has been with us from the very inception of this Church until the present time. Has he blessed us in the gathering of the people? Why, we extend from Canada in the north to Mexico in the south. I bring you greeting from Latter-day Saints who are laying the foundations of Zion securely, firmly and well in the lands of the Lamanites upon the south; for whatever joy we may have in contemplating the great manifestations of God toward us in the past, we know that the greater work is yet in the future. We know that the redemption of Zion has not yet come. We know that before the great day of the Lord shall come, that "Jacob will flourish in the wilderness and the Lamanites blossom as the rose." In 1884, I think it was, the Lord revealed to President Taylor, in a revelation that was given to him, that the time had come to establish and maintain the Gospel among the Lamanites. 

About that time the first Latter-day Saint, through force of circumstances, crossed the line which divides the United States of America from the United States of Mexico, and a fewstraggling colonists, went into that country. I am pleased to be able to report to you now that the blessings of the Lord have continued with our labors there, and we have maintained ourselves, that our colonies are prospering; that we rejoice because of the constant manifestations of God's kindness and care and blessing to us, that we see from day to day. And in that providential move we see the beginning of the great work which the prophets indicate must be performed among the remnant of Jacob upon this continent before Zion shall be redeemed. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ and bear testimony to you that His Gospel has been restored to the earth not to be taken from it again. Jesus sent his disciples into all the world to preach the Gospel to every creature, but he made no promise to them that they should prevail. On the other hand, when the Gospel was restored in this dispensation, when John the Baptist laid his hands upon the head of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as he did lay his hands upon their heads and bestowed upon them the Aaronic Priesthood, he said: "Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of the Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministration of angels, of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and this Priesthood shall never be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering in righteousness unto the Lord." 

We should feel grateful for these assurances, that the time has come for the consummation of all the promises made through the holy Prophets. The time of the redemption of Israel, the gathering together of His scattered people, the redemption of hundreds of thousand..-, yes millions of the remnant who occupy this country south of us, for there are probably 100,000,000 from Mexico to. Cape Horn whose blood has not been contaminated by admixture w T ith any other race. The Gospel is about to be preached to them. A mission is about to be established in the City of Mexico, indicating to us the consummation of things that we have long desired. The Lord tells us here in the Book of Mormon that "Whenever you see these things beginning to be made known to the remnant of your seed, then know that the time is nigh when I the Lord will fulfill all my promises which I have made to my people. O house of Israel." 

May God strengthen our faith, and bless us with fortitude and faith to continue until Zion shall triumph, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. KIMBALL. Brothers and sisters, about the first thing that I want to say is this, that I was startled when Brother Taylor walked down the aisle and called me to the stand. I want to say further that I was obedient to the call and I am now obedient to the voice of Brother Grant, in standing before you to bear my testimony to the truth of this Gospel. I always want to be obedient to the counsel of the servants of the Lord and al to- be willing to listen to the voice of the Spirit of God. I want to be humble, I want to be meek, I want to be lowly in heart; and I want to be saved. 

I testify that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, that it has been revealed in the latter-days by God, the Eternal Father, through His Spirit, or directly, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. His Church has been organized with Apostles, prophets, pastors, evangelists, pastors and teachers and with other officers. There are in the Church the gifts and blessings that have been spoken ot in the scriptures, and they are true, and calculated for the blessing and salvation of the human family; and I am willing to labor with the rest of the people in making sacrifices that will be necessary for the redemption of the human family. I pray God to bless us and to bless the people, and to make them realize who they are, that they are not what some of us sometimes think we are, "the blue blood." When I think of the origin of our people, think of Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, my father, and all of the early leaders of our people, where they came from, I am led to reflect upon the story related by our Savior in the parable of the great feast. When he sent out his servants to invite the r'ch and the wealthv to partake of the feast they would not come; but nh n he sent out his servants pgfin to the highways and byways, then the poor and the unlearned and the low'y among men came and partook of the feast. Our people are of that class. I believe they are from the class of people who are honest and virtuous and who, with all their imperfections, desire to serve God and keep His commandments. 

My heart is full of blessings for our people, I desire to see them prosper and grow and increase in the earth and to be willing to make such sacrifices as will be necessary on their part to build up the kingdom of God and carry the Gospel to the nations of the earth, that the honest in heart among all people may have the same great blessings and privileges that we now enjoy and all that the Lord has in store for His people. I feel to bless you, my brothers and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EPHRAIM H. NYE. 

I have great joy, my brethren and sisters, in being in your midst this day. 1 rejoice in the knowledge of the Gospel of the Son of God, and I am grateful that I have the privilege of coming up to Zion to listen to the precious truths that have been taught during this conference. It has been food to my soul. I have feasted at the fountain of light in listening to the instructions that have been given up to the present time. You have been hearing from many of the missions, and I will say that I have been laboring in the California mission for some length of time, and I take pleasure in saying that the spirit of the Lord has been with us. We have had many good, faithful Elders laboring there, and a goodly number of people have listened to their testimonies. We have good branches in different parts of the State, and the Lord is with us manifesting His presence by the power that He pours out upon His servants in the healing of the- sick and the blessing and comforting and instructing of the Saints. 

One thing struck me very forcibly while hearing the instructions of this conference — the reference made to the necessity of respecting the Priesthood. From my earliest childhood, and long before my parents ever heard the Gospel — when, in fact, I was a little boy of eight years, my mother taught me to read the Scriptures, sitting upon a little stool at her feet, while she would be doing the family sewing. And I learned to read the wonderful works of the Apostles and of our Savior. I remember in that early day of my life my feelings when I read of those wonderful things, and I thought in my heart, "O, what would I not give if I could have lived in the days of the Apostles!" When I read of our Savior taking little children in his arms and blessing them, I thought, "O, what would I not give to have been one of those little children!" And when I read the great works of the Apostles in ancient times and the wonderful healings that they performed by the pow-er of God, I thought, "O, what would I not give to have lived in the days of the Apostles." I was perhaps about 11 years of age when my parents found the Gospel. 

A poor, straggling Elder ran against the family by some means or other, and they all came into the fold, and finally all reached Zion. And now I "look to the pit" from which "I was digged" and the "rock from which I was hewn." Far away to the ends of the earth, the Lord sent for me, as He did for many others. I have from that day to this continued to thank and to praise and to bless His holy name, that He had that love for me, a poor, weak mortal, to gather me home to His fold; and my soul goes out in thanksgiving and praise continually that I have been accounted w"orthy, amidst the millions of the inhabitants of the earth, to be gathered and brought to see and permitted to rejoice in the knowledge, of the truth. And it is a source of gratitude in my soul to be permitted to stand in the presence of Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Recently Apostle Grant and Brother J. Golden Kimball have been out with us in the California mission. It was a pleasure, indeed, to me to introduce them in that mission; it was a pleasure greater 'than I can express to introduce Apostle Grant as one of the Apostles of Almighty God. It has been a satisfaction to me that I have been permitted occasionally to see one of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus. What other people experience when they come into their presence, I do not know; but I do know that I never come into the presence of one of the Apostles of Jesus Christ but I feel the influence that surrounds them, and my soul goes out in gratitude to the Almighty that I am permitted to associate with such men, and, in fact, to live in the day when they live, and to listen to their instructions, that I have the privilege to receive the words of the Almighty and of eternal truth as they flow from their lips, and that I am permitted to bow in obedience to their words and the requirements they make of me. It is a joy to me to be accounted worthy to go forth and preach the Gospel to the wicked. It is a satisfaction that I have never gained in any of the avocations in life— and I suppose that I have had my share of pleasure in human life — but none have ever risen to the height of extreme satisfaction that I have enjoyed in preaching the Gospel to this generation, lifting up my voice to those who know not God. 

I will tell of an instance that occurred in Los Angeles. There is a corner there where they permit us occasionally to preach upon the street, and we often go there to preach. It is the lowest down spot in Los Angeles. It is where the saloons and the rif-raff of that community gather. It is a fact that oftentimes when w T e have been holding meeting upon those corners, we could hardly hear ourselves for the lewd songs that were being sung inside of the saloons upon each corner of the street. 

One night I was there with the brethren, and we were holding a meeting upon that corner. One of the other brethren was speaking, and I expected to follow him. I was looking at the motley crowd that had gathered around us. There were negroes, half-breeds, Mexicans, Indians, Chinamen and some whites. It was about the hardest looking lot that I ever gazed upon as listening to a religious sermon; and as I looked at them I thought to myself, "Why, if we could baptize this whole lot they are not worth having." My soul sank clear down to my boots, as it seemed, and I felt that I hadn't the courage to speak to such a congregation. I fairly dreaded the very thoughts of the ordeal immediately before me, and dreaded the brother stopping that was then speaking. Finally every bit of courage had oozed out of me when he did stop. But I stepped forward, and in the weak, humble way that I felt, began to speak. I felt so disheartened, so discouraged to think that there was one of the great cities of the country and a fine people, but the rules of the city councilors were such that we could not go upon the better streets; we had to take that corner, and here we had to stand and speak to such a lot of people. However, I began to speak, and as I proceeded it seemed to me that the Spirit of the Lord came upon me, and those old, dark, swarthy visages took on a different hue in my mind. Every one was leaning forward as far as his balance would let him to listen to what I said. The most profound attention was being given by that hard-looking congregation; and as I proceeded to  the Spirit of the Lord rested upon me more and more, and it seemed as though they became beautiful before me. It seemed to me as though, instead of having the thought that I wouldn't do anything for them, that I could not only preach the Gospel to them, but if necessary I could lay down my life for them. I continued on until the Spirit of the Lord rested upon me so abundantly that it seemed as though I did not stand upon the ground. It seemed as though a mighty power surrounded me and caused me to see the value of their souls to the Lord. The attention they gave was wonderful, and I spoke on, filled with the Spirit overcome with the joy that I had known under no other circumstances in human life. I say to you that never, under any conditions in life, have I had such joy as I had in preachir.g to that congregation. They gathered around in immense numbers until they stood all around me. They doubled and quadrupled in numbers. The otner meetings that were being held on the opposite corners of the street had dismissed, and all their congregations had come and gathered around us. and we had a grand and a splendid meetirg. We spoke as long as we had power to speak. We rejoiced in the knowledge of the truth; and I wish to state that many of our best members in the State of California have been caught by hearing preaching on the streets. No one can tell, as he preaches the Gospel upon the street what word he says is going to sink down into the hearts of his hearers. He does not know what sentence he utters or what passage of scripture he quotes that is going to have its effect upon somebody; and so we will be able to stand as witnesses against thosa people in the great day of judgment, that we have preached the Gospel unto them. We do gather many, too. Many of them become investigators and come to our hall meetings which are advertised, and good, honest souls come out; and we are building up branches in that mission, and we rejoice with them. 

I wish to say that it seems to me that we dc not appreciate fully and to the extent we ought the blessings the Almighty pours out upon us. It seems to (il  that we do not appreciate the fact that we are not groping as the blind for the wall upon the grand question of religion. Do we appreciate the fact that every one of us can commune with the Almighty whenever we please if we will get down upon our knees and do it? Do we appreciate the fact that we have men standing in our midst who can reach the Lord and obtain His mind and will at any time under all circumstances; that we, His people, need not be in the dark? 

During the whole of this conference the great principle of tithing is kept before us. The Saints of California pay a good tithing. The mission is self-supporting; and this is one of the things that we preach. Not openly; we say but very little oi tithing openly; very little indeed. But, it is a rule that we have in the mission that no one shall be baptized until he or she understands the principle of tithing perfectly; no one shall be led into the waters of baptism by any Elder until this grand question is laid before him or her. They shall not have the privilege of coming up and saying, "You have deceived me; you advertise that the seats are free and there are no collections, but you have something you bring forward afterwards in the form of tithing." The principle of tithing is carefully laid before them before they are baptized, and we have many there who have paid tithes before they were baptized. I regard this principle of tithing as one of the grandest, ind it is indeed the touch-stone. He vho pays his tithes will not be far out of the way on every other question, 

I rejoice in the Gospel? I rejoice that I am accounted worthy to bear a portion of the ministry to the nations of the earth, and feel in my soul that it is the greatest joy that we can have and the grandest work we can perform, and I am ready and willing, and gladly will I spend the residue of my days in preaching the Gospel to the unbelieving world. It is my determination to be obedient to every requirement that is made of me, to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God through His servants, whom He has placed and appointed to direct all things here upon the earth. This is my determination, to live in such a way that I can claim the blessings of the 

Lord, and do everything that is required of me from this day forth, in all my life. God bless you. Amen. 

Elder Heber J. Grant sang the "Holy City." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

You have listened to the testimony and the preaching of the Apostles and Prophets of this Church during this conference; but, as Scripture puts it, 'Are all Apostles, are all Prophets, are all Evangelists, Pastors or Teachers?" I bear my testimony that I thank the Lord that, notwithstanding the fact that I recognize that the Apostles have gifts, powers, appointments and labors that it is beyond our prerogatives and rights to infringe upon, I thank God, the Eternal Father, that we have young men, honored of the Lord, that they can preach and testify just as well as Apostles and Prophets. I desire to say to the rising generation, You do not have to be Apostles, you do not have to be Presidents of Stakes, nor Bishops to enjoy the gifts and blessings pertaining to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I .say to you that some of you — and I may be among that number—place too much stress upon the positions that men hold in the Church, and we fancy in our weakness that we cannot be saved, that we cannot serve God, that we cannot be faithful and true and enjoy revelation from God, unless we have high office in the Church. There is danger in exalted position, and where "much is given much is required." The poorest man in all Israel, though he may carry a hod and be dressed like a pauper, is entitled to revelation from God, and he is entitled to lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover through the prayer of faith. I realize a great object lesson has been set us by Apostle Grant. I have watched this matter carefully, and I am able to testify that out of it will come great good, that no great advancement has ever taken place except as a result of faithful and persevering effort. I will say that many of the young men that have gone east and spent fortunes to learn to sing came back to this country unappreciated, and some of them would be in penury were it not for their relatives; for our people are not as appreciative as they ought to be, or at least they have not been. I admire our young people that have learned to sing the songs of Zion. I stood on that street in Los Angeles, referred to by Brother Nye, and listened to our young men preach. It was the first time in all my labors I had ever heard an Elder preach upon the streets. And when I asked two Elders why they did not commence, they said, "We are unable to begin our meeting until the other Elders come, for we cannot sing." No meetings can be held in California upon the streets unless the Elders can sing. It is, in fact, the key to the situation. Lots of men can sing that are mighty poor preachers. 

Judgment comes with age, as a rule, not always. We young men that have responsibilities placed upon us oftentimes have a great deal of courage, but may lack judgment. The point I want to get at is this: we must have some very brave and courageous men. Apostle Grant with the assistants that will go with him, may open up a mission in Japan. Some Apostle may be sent to Russia, to open the door in that great nation, and it may be the privilege of some of us to go and get killed after the doors are opened. The Gospel will never be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people without lives being lost, nor without your eating "the bread of adversity and drinking the water of affliction." And we may not all be successful, but when a man is willing to lay down his life, and takes his life in his hands and labors for the kingdom of God, he can do no more. He might make mistakes, and he might err in judgment. David, that boy as he was, went out and killed Goliath. If he had not all Israel would have pointed the finger of scorn at David. Dewey succeeded; but had Dewey failed, he would have been in ignominy and disgrace before the American people. So I wonder if it is only the man that succeeds that gets the praise. I have heard or read of a man that went to the World's Parliament of Religions. He did not succeed, because they would not hear him. I read of another man that went to Congress, and it took 7,000,000 signatures to get rid of . And I tell you that great good will come out of it. I admire courage and bravery as well as judgment and wisdom. We have to have brave men and courageous men, and we young men have to learn, and the only way we can learn is by trying, like Brother Grant. My heart swelled within me when I heard him sing today. My heart swelled with joy when I heard him sing at President Snow's birthday party, for I knew he sang with the Spirit of God; and the Lord will answer his prayers for he has an object in view. And I know what that object is. and it is a righteous object. 

As iong as a man has a righteous object he has a right to make an effort; and if he makes any mistakes, it is my duty to reach out to him my hand, even the hand of charity. And if you Latter-day Saints do not do it. and some of us young men fail because of your severe criticisms and your unkind statements, God will hold you responsible. We have seen men handled because they waded into mysteries, and, of course, it was proper and right when they waded into mysteries and preached false doctrines that they should be handled. I can see the righteousness of it, but I wonder if any man has ever been handled in the kingdom of God for not knowing anything. I am in favor of some of them being handled right away. I pray the Lord to bless you. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Brother Taylor desires that, inasmuch as I am about to leave for a foreign country, and this is about the last chance I will have to meet with the Saints for many years, that I should occupy the rest of the time. I would have been perfectly willing to divide the time with him, because a person can bear a testimony at any time in a very few minutes, and the only thing I intended tJ do today was simply to bear my testimony and leave it with you before departing upon my mission. 

I regret that I failed in my object lesson. I would have been glad had I been able to sing that song through without a mistake. I have only sung it through five times today without a mistake, but when I tried it the sixth  I got an error in it. But I haven't got over my nervousness when standing before the assembled people to sing. I suppose the reason is, I don't know "where I am at." I am like a boat without a rudder, so to speak, when I try to sing. To give you an illustration: I was a short time ago at a dinner party at Brother Cannon's and one of the people present requested me to sing "O, My Father," and simultaneously another one of the company asked me to sing, "God moves in a mysterious way." I asked Sister Snow if she would kindly play that in the key of F. She had heard one of the parties ask me to sing one piece and I had heard the other ask me for the other one, and she played "O, My Father," and I sang "God moves in a mysterious way." As good fortune would have it, the first three notes of these songs are identically the same, and Sister Snow discovered what I was trying to do, and therefore played, "Gcd moves in a mysterious way," and we got through all right. I thought the music sounded a little strange, although I had heard it a great many times before; but it hadn't made any such impression upon me that I was able to tell ti:e difference. 

I have a letter clear from the Philippine Islands, in which I was told, among other things, "Don't try to sing." The writer says: "I am in earnest." He is one of my nearest friends too, Major Young; in fact, he and I grew up together, almost. And he tells his reason he says, "Because you will be subjected to ridicule, and there will be a great deal of criticism." I have had a great many of my friends come to me and beg me not to sing. Six months ago one of my fellow Apostles said to me, "Come in, Heber. but don't sing." The same Apostle last night asked me to sing "God moves in a mysterious way," and after I got through complimented me upon it. I said afterward, "I noted your remarks in the Priesthood meeting, when you told men who had been ordained to the office of Patriarch, that they could not enjoy the spirit of the office unless they gave patriarchial blessings; and now," said I. "if you will tell me how I will learn to sing without singing, I will thank ." He said, "Sing every chance you get, Brother Grant, but do your first singing down in Mexico or Arizona or somewhere a long way off." I said, "I have already tried that," and I have tried it at home, and I sang this same song the other night at home. But I will never learn to sing before a large audience until I try. I prop-se to sing the "Holy City" in the big Tabernacle before I get through with it, and I propose to sing it without a mistake. I do not say this boastingly, because I believe what Alma of old said, in the 29th chapter of his book, that "God granteth unto men according to their desires, whether they be for good or for evil, for joy or remorse of conscience." I desire to sing, and I expect to work at it and to stay right with it until I learn. The most I ever worked was to sing 400 songs in four days; that is the biggest amount of work I have ever done in the singing line. There are a great many people that can learn to sing very easily. When I started to learn to sing it took me four months to learn a couple of simple hymns and recently I learned one in three hours by the watch and then sang it without a mistake. 

"That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased." I propose to keep at it until my power to do is increased to the extent that I can sing the songs of Zion. Nobody knows the joy I have taken in standing up in the Tabernacle and other places and joining in the singing, because it used to be a perfect annoyance to me to try and to fail, besides annoying those around me; because I would sing, because I loved the words of the songs of Zion. 

I am very sorry now for having persecuted people as I used to. In our meetings in the Temple the brethren would say "That is as impossible as it is for Brother Grant to carry a tune," and that settled it; everybody acknowledged that was one of the impossibilities. I believe what the Lord says, "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their head." I desire to serve the Lord, and pray unto him in the songs of Zion; and I know that it produces a good influence. 

Now I wish to say something on another subject. In the providences of the Lord I may be one of those that Brother Kimball referred to; I may go to Japan and never come back. I have never been guilty, I believe, of preaching beyond the prescribed time of two hours, only when I have been out in Mexico, or so far away from home that they didn't see me very often. Why? Because I knew how they would go out and complain about it. But as this will be the last chance to speak to you for a few years, I desire to say a few words more. I give you fair warning. I am going to talk as long as I want to, and there are lots of doors, and anybody that gets tired can go out and it won't hurt my feelings at all. 

I rejoice in the Gospel, I rejoice in the rich outpourings of the Holy Spirit that have been given in the instructions imparted during this conference. I rejoice with Brother Kimball, that every Latter-day Saint, every humble son and daughter of God that has embraced the Gospel and become a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has received the witness of the Holy Spirit, that the gift of tongues, the gift of prophecy, of healing, and other gifts and blessings, are found in the Church, and are not confined to men that hold responsible positions in the Church. I have listened to some of the most spirited, and able, and some of the finest sermons of my life from men who held no official position. I remember in the Thirteenth ward listening to a very gifted sermon by a finely educated man who had a marvelous command of language. Afterwards Brother Millen Atwood, who at that time was not holding any position of an official character, stood up as a home missionary in that ward, and if that man had been hired to murder the Queen's English he couldn't have done it more perfectly. I had just been studying grammar, and, therefore, it grated on my ears, as I suppose my singing would grate upon the ear^ of a person that understood fine music. But my heart was touched, and  welled up in my eyes because of the rich outpourings of the Holy Spirit upon that man, and there was an impression made upon my heart of the divinity of this work and the fact that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God that to this day I ha.\ e not forgotten. It is not position, it is not education that gives the Spirit of God; but it is keeping the commandments of Almighty Geo and being lowly in heart and desiring to fulfill the commandments of God in our daily walk and conversation. I bear witness to you here today that no man has ever fallen in this Church, and no man ever will fall in this Church, who is honest in his heart, honest in the payment of his tithes and offerings, who obeys the "Word of Wisdom, who attends to his family prayers and his secret prayers, and who attends to his quorum meetings; no man will fall who is doing his duty in this Church. But Satan has power over those who become selfish and sor_ did and set their hearts upon the things of this earth and fail to render thanks in all things unto God. 

I bear testimony to you today that God lives; that I know that Jesus is the Christ; that I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the true and living God; that I know that we will live forever if we keep the commandments of God. I know that we have Apostles, Prophets, Patriarchs or Evangelists in the Church. I know that they have the inspiration of their offices and calling's. I know that the Gospel tree is alive, that fruit grows upon the tree, as I have reached out my hand and plucked the fruit thereof, and have eaten it. I have sat by the death-bed of my last living son, a boy upon whom I had set my heart and whom I expected to grow up and labor for the interests of God's kingdom; standing up, as it were, in my place; I have seen that child die without shedding a tear, and I know that the comforting Spirit from God was in my home when I saw him die. I love God and I love the Latter-day Saints, and I ask for your prayers in my behalf during my absence. May God grant His blessings upon us at all times, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn: "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder John W. Taylor. 
