Morning
06 04 1940

The third session of the Conference was held Saturday morning, April 6, at 10 o'clock, with President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. presiding. 

The music for this meeting was furnished by the Ricks College Choir, under the direction of John M. Anderson, Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. 

President Clark announced that the congregation and the Ricks College Choir would sing, as the opening selection, "Glory to God on High." 

After the singing of this hymn, Elder Charles S. Hansen, President of the Gunnison Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Ricks College Choir sang an anthem, "God So Loved The World," (Stainer). 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I am wonderfully impressed by the attendance at the Conference this morning. The house is filled. Every seat, so far as I can see, is taken. We had a splendid day yesterday. There was only one regret, and that was that President Grant could not be with us. He has wisely decided to rest a few weeks in California since coming out of the hospital. We are all very happy indeed, I am sure, that we have President McKay with us and President Clark to direct the proceedings of this great Conference. 

The meeting of the Church Welfare plan held this morning in the Assembly Hall was indeed most thrilling. The spirit of that work is taking hold of the Latter-day Saints. That it will be successful I think no one could be in doubt. 

And now the Conference is in progress again. I want to commend these wonderful singers, the choir from Idaho, and the work that they are doing. 

AN INSPIRING HYMN 

I feel prompted this morning, brethren and sisters, to read a few lines of one of our sacred hymns taken from the Deseret Sunday School Union Song Book. The title of this song is "Count Your Blessings." This is a very opportune time to count our blessings, but of course we cannot mention all of them in a short sermon; that would be impossible, but we might read the hymn and point to several important blessings : 

When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed, When you are discouraged thinking all is lost, Count your many blessings, name them one by one, And it will surprise you what the Lord hath done. 

Are you ever burdened with a load of care? Does the cross seem heavy you are called to bear? Count your many blessings ev'ry doubt will fly, And you will be singing as the days go by. 

When you look at others with their lands and gold, Think that Christ has promised you His wealth untold, Count your many blessings, money cannot buy, Your reward in heaven, nor your home on high. 

So, amid the conflict, whether great or small, Do not be discouraged, God is over all; Count your many blessings, angels will attend, Help and comfort give you to your journey's end. 

A wonderfully appropriate song. It is uplifting in spirit; it is well that we should take time now and then to ponder seriously upon our blessings. 

WORKS OF THE ANCIENT PROPHETS 

Truly, in the time of the Prophets of old it was a day of inspira58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April '6 Second Day 

tion, revelation and miracles. In the days of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and of Moses, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Elijah and Elisha, the prophets, surely that was a day of miracles. Wonderful works were performed in those early ages. If I mistake not, Amos, the Prophet, spoke of this matter and said that the Lord doeth nothing save He first reveal it to His servants the prophets. Marvelous things happened in those ancient times. The prophets wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. And he who speaks by the power of the Holy Ghost is a revelator. 

As in ancient times so it was in the Meridian of Time when the Son of God was upon the earth. It was a day of inspiration, revelation and miracles, a day when there were Apostles and Prophets upon the earth, High Priests, Seventies and Elders and the lesser Priesthood. Great things were accomplished and the work of God prospered. 

BLESSINGS OF THE LATTER DAYS 

And so now in our day it is much the same. After eighteen hundred years the silence was broken and the voice of inspiration, revelation and miracles was heard upon the earth and the Spirit of the Lord rests down upon the people. The initial step taken in the organization of the great work of the latter days was the visitation of God the Father and Jesus Christ, His Son, to* the boy Joseph Smith, which was the most memorable event, most remarkable in some respects, of anything that has ever transpired upon this earth. The Father and the Son condescended to manifest themselves in person to Joseph Smith. One said, pointing to the other, "This is my Beloved Son, hear Him." The Son spoke in answer to the boy's prayer to know which of all the churches he should join. He was told to join none of them for they were lacking in divine authority. Prophets appeared and angels from heaven were sent down after that first great vision. They gave to man divine authority. 

One of these visitors from the other world was John the Baptist who had lived upon the earth in the time of the Savior. He was now a mighty angel, a messenger from on high, and he came for an express purpose. It was not to satisfy the curiosity of Joseph Smith, the young man, for he had now grown to be a young man, but he came on an important mission under the direction of Peter, James, and John, and conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic Priesthood, or the lesser Priesthood, as it is sometimes called — the Priesthood of Priests, Teachers, and Deacons. 

And then, later on, Peter, James, and John came down from heaven. They appeared as mighty angels, no doubt, but they had their mission and that was to confer further authority upon these, the servants of the Lord, and Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thus was divine authority restored to the earth in these latter days, and those who were exercising authority that was not from heaven were under  of the Lord, and especially when they knew that they were without divine authority. 

And so, brethren and sisters, I testify that this matter of divine authority is of tremendous importance, and that the success of this work so far has been accomplished under divine authority and could not have been realized in any other way. It is one of the foundation principles of the Gospel. 

THE WORK IN THE TEMPLES 

And that was not all. Let me call your attention to another superior blessing, a blessing that is always to be found among the people of God, the true worshippers of the meek and lowly Nazarene, and that is the blessing of the Temple of the Lord. Wherever the people of God are found, there you will find also a Temple, or House of the Lord, where He can come and dispense blessings to His people, blessings that cannot be measured in value by money, but are the free gift of God. The blessings of the Temple are so great that we can hardly comprehend their importance and value. People are free to donate when they go to the Temple for these blessings — the blessings of the endowment, the sealing blessings at the altar. Husband and wife may be sealed together for time and all eternity. I am sure that none of us can comprehend the extent and power and importance of these blessings that are dispensed from the Temple. The rich are entitled to them, if they are worthy; the poor can have them also if they are worthy. Certainly we should count our blessings. We should remember that every blessing we receive is from the Lord. 

MISSIONARY SERVICE 

Let me mention briefly the missionary work. I want to say to you, brethren and sisters, that there is nothing like it in all the world. The missionaries of the Christian churches, so-called, are sent to preach the gospel to the heathens. Our special duty at the present time is not to carry the Gospel to the heathens but to preach the Gospel and offer its blessings to those who are considered civilized far above the heathens. It is a wonderful movement wherein the young men of Zion may be called into service and is a part of the blessings of the Latter-day Saints. They are set apart under divine authority to preach this Gospel, to baptize and give the Holy Ghost. Young women are also sent out as missionaries to preach the Gospel. 

And so, I think I may safely say that this is a day of inspiration, of revelation and miracles. If all the miracles that have been and are being performed by this people were written into a book it would be a very, very large volume. Many who were sick have been healed, and many have been delivered from accidents and trouble and anxiety through our missionary cause. 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 6 Second Day 

That is about as far as I am entitled to go this morning in mentioning these important matters — the blessings of revelation, of inspiration, of divine authority, Temple work and Missionary work. There is just about enough there to take our whole attention throughout life, and yet there are many other desirable and important blessings in the hands of the Lord which He will give to His faithful people. The Lord is willing to pour out these blessings upon the people just as fast as the people make themselves worthy to receive them. 

THE SEALED PORTION OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

I am wondering if you will permit me to say this closing word. I am wondering about the sealed portion of the record appertaining to the Book of Mormon. When will it come to the people of the Church ? I am of the opinion that if we were perfectly prepared and followed carefully the revelations and instructions we have already received in the Church possibly that sealed portion could be brought to the people through faith and good works. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray God in heaven to bless you and help you and help us all to serve Him in righteousness. I humbly ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

It is a very great inspiration, my brethren and sisters, to stand in this position and look into the faces of so many wonderful people, but it gives one a great sense of responsibility to stand in an important position of leadership at the head of this wonderful group of people. It is indeed a responsible position. 

A DESIRE TO BE HELPFUL 

I pray constantly as I look around upon you and as I minister with the Seventies of the Church and the Church at large, that God will inspire every word that I utter and everything that I do. My one desire is that in all these things I might please Him and help you. And if He will inspire me, with your aid, on this occasion to say just one little thing that may be helpful to you I shall be infinitely happy. One wonders what that may be, and it is very difficult at times to make a choice among the many things that might be said. 

I am happy for the membership I have in the Church and for the fact that God has made it possible for me to help in this great work. When I was a young man I wondered how I would respond if I were asked to fill a mission, if I were asked to do this, or that, or the other responsible thing in the Church, and I still wonder whether I am  to be able to render the type of service that I should to the end of my years, and only pray that I may. 

THE WORD OF THE LORD 

In the Doctrine and Covenants we are told in four or five sections, "the will of the Lord" as expressed through the Prophet Joseph Smith to certain of the men who were interested in this work in its inception in our dispensation. Several members wanted to know what they might do to their best advantage in this work, and the Lord spoke to each of them, "the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people." 

I would that I knew how to do that in a way that it might appeal to those who needed it most. The great difficulty is that as we stand before you we realize that we are talking to faithful people, and the message that we would deliver perhaps never reaches the ears that we would like it to strike. That makes it necessary for each one of you to constitute yourself a missionary to carry to your friends the message of this Conference. 

We have men all around us who could well repent of their actions. Repentance is a thing that all of us need. I am no more immune than anybody else from the need of repentance, and I have that constantly confronting me in my consciousness, but to get that message over to the people we must depend upon you because we cannot make personal contact with all, and so we speak to the faithful members of the Church. 

THE GOSPEL FOR BOTH RICH AND POOR 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is universal in its scope. There is no man or woman that it cannot benefit and bless, if only that man and woman will yield obedience to it. Christ gave His Twelve Apostles a charge to preach the Gospel to every creature, with the promise that those who would respond would be saved. We have been doing that all these generations; that is, we have been preaching the Gospel to the people. Many of them have never heard it, however. The other day, in my hearing, a returned missionary made a remark which ran something like this : Since the institution of the Welfare work we have had to change our methods. The question was asked, in what respect? 

"Well," he said, "we are going to a better type of people now than we ever did before in our Missions. We find that the Welfare work makes such an appeal to a certain class of people that our ranks would be flooded with those who desire to be benefitted by that factor rather than any other if we would let them in. That field being closed to us we have had to preach to people of a little better standing, who are not quite so poor." 

Now Christ, when John the Baptist sent to ask Him if He was really the Christ, said : "Take back to John the message that the 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Dag 

blind see, the lame walk, the sick are healed, and the Gospel is preached to the poor." I wonder if in that day it was only the rich and the elite that felt like they were members of the Church of God, and that the preaching of the Gospel to the poor was a novelty in the time of Christ. It may be that that was what brought forth that remark. However, in our age we have become accustomed to the fact that the rank and file of our converts are likely to come out of the ranks of the poor. 

This missionary was talking to one of the Twelve, who said: "If they had followed those tactics in my day I would never have come into the Church, for I have known what it means to be hungry." 

We must teach the poor always the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in all the missionary fields in which it has been my experience to travel that has been customary. But I often wonder if there is not a field among the upper class people to which we might devote our attention with profit. I believe that in all the time I have been connected with the Mexican people there has never been a conscious effort to take the Gospel to what might be there called the better class of people. When the Gospel was taken to people in Hawaii it was so popular among them that the very rulers of that country accepted it. There is there little distinction between rich and poor, all mingling freely together, but there were kings and queens among them. It has been my pleasure to see a man who had been a chamberlain to the king act at the door as a Deacon in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and become one of the Elders in the Church. 

So I wonder if there is not a field that we might look into am^ng that class of people. 

The misuse of riches is the only curse that comes from the possession of ample means, and there must be many fine people among the rich, many of them are our neighbors, but we pay little attention to them. They are all around us. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR NEIGHBORS 

One day I said to a friend of mine, speaking of a neighbor who had lived across the hall from my wife and me for quite a while, expressing sympathy for him in the passing of his wife, "That friend of ours is a fine man and his wife was a fine woman." 

He said : "Yes, I would like to see somebody make an effort to get him into the Church, but you know I am so close to him that I dare not try." 

I wonder if that might not be the best opportunity. My wife and I lived across the hall from them, and one day the woman became rather ill, more ill than usual, she was always afflicted, and to our great surprise we learned that she had asked to be prayed for in the Temple. That was faith; though she was not a member of the Church and though her husband was not, she had faith that there might be virtue in a prayer for her uttered in our Temple. 

There are many people like that, without any doubt, all around us, and the Gospel is for them, and if we do not take the message to them I wonder whose fault it will be if they do not accept it. It is a universal Gospel that we have, and it is a universal responsibility that rests upon our shoulders to teach the Truth. We have heard during this Conference how it appeals to different nationalities, all the way from Czecho-Slovakia through Europe and into our country, and if we cared to, Brother Hardy and some of the others and I could tell you how it goes on down in Polynesia, clear down to the Antipodes. It makes of us all a common people, and if we could so introduce it to these nations as to make its adoption general and its principles apply in the lives of men, these struggles that we are confronted with now in actuality would not exist. 

CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES NOT APPLIED IN THE WORLD 

It was once my privilege to read an interview given by a prominent Jewish rabbi in Great Britain. He was asked what his reaction to Christianity was ? He said it had been the greatest difficulty that the Jews had had to meet, and that it had been a failure in the world, that the principles of Christ had never been adopted and applied. 

I wonder if there ever has been an honest effort on the part of so-called Christian nations to apply the principles of the Christ. Did you ever hear of a peace treaty being offered to a vanquished people that had as its main purpose the rehabilitation of the vanquished ? I think in all struggles that we have entered into the principles of the Christ have not been dominant, though some of these conflicts have been carried forth in the name of Christ. But greed and avarice and many such motives were back of them. If the time ever comes that the principles of Christianity can be applied to the lives of men peace will be brought about upon the earth. 

My wish would be that though we are a small people in the world we might eventually exercise such an influence as to spread this leaven, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, throughout the whole world to such an extent that peace may some day prevail. We have faith in that thing. We have faith that perhaps through the instrumentality of this government of which we are a part we may be able to reach those ends, and I pray that we may sense our responsibility to the nations, and above all to the Church, that we may realize the significance of the charge which Christ has given to us to preach the Gospel to every creature so that he and she may be left without excuse, and not only be left without excuse, but be given the wonderful opportunities of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, I ask in His name, Amen. 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Day 

ELDER JOSEPH E, EVANS 

Former President of the French Mission 

My brethren and sisters : What is now the French Mission was one of the earliest fields for missionary work in the Church. So much of commendation could be said of that Mission that it is difficult to know what to say in the few minutes allotted. At the end of last October when we came away from France, Elder Gaston Chappuis, of Salt Lake City, was left in charge of the French Mission. He had come to Paris on his second mission about two days before war was declared. He is a native of Switzerland, a second-generation member. And so is his wife, who was born in Belgium. They are well trained and qualified to do their work. Together they are publishing the Mission's monthly magazine, translating and mailing out lessons to the Branches in Belgium, French Switzerland and France, and generally endeavoring to encourage the members in their faith and to stimulate activity and keep the Mission organization intact. 

Notwithstanding the inroads of war and these times of trial and trouble, our members are holding fast to that better life to which they have dedicated themselves. In spite of popular misconceptions concerning Mormonism, our members have the moral support of multitudes of friends. Although their problems are extremely difficult they are never insoluble, because in an effort to harmonize their lives with God's teachings, they gain a renewed sense of values and are blessed with wisdom and great courage. Their experiences in the Church have taught them to think clearly and for themselves. Nothing else has ever offered them the same opportunity for intellectual enrichment and spiritual happiness. Fortunately they are living in countries where up to now their churches have not been destroyed and where the word of God is not forbidden. That is true in Belgium, Switzerland and France. 

A week ago I received a heart-warming letter from the President of the Belgian District, who is a native of Liege, Belgium. Twenty-five years ago — during the first world war — -his father shepherded our Church members and with God's protecting care brought them through the severe trials of that conflict. Today this son is following in his father's footsteps, while three of his brothers, all active members of the Church, are in the Belgian army. He is an intelligent, wide-awake leader. On three occasions he has been decorated by the King of Belgium. His work is outstanding, as the work of so many of our members over there is. In his letter he says that meetings are being held in all Branches in Belgium, and that a District Conference is being planned for May. Even though income has shrunk and living costs have mounted, the members of one of the Branches in this District are slowly accumulating a fund to be used for the purchase of a site for a meeting house. And so, amid the hideous discords of war and at a time when they are tortured in spirit,  people are giving their time and energies to maintaining the work of the Church, which is no mean achievement. Their faith and devotion have proved an inspiration to me. The influence of our Church throughout the French Mission is impossible to calculate. Everywhere it exerts a powerful force for building better men, for regenerating mankind. Its strict adherence to the high standards set by the Savior makes its stupendous progress no accident. 

For more than a century the Church has made an earnest effort to spread the Gospel in Europe, but never, I believe, with more determined zeal than within the past few years. At least that is so in Belgium, France and Switzerland, although the apparent results achieved may not compare too favorably with those of other European Missions. I am reminded of the nine tons of ore necessary to produce one gram of radium. But when produced that one gram of radium is worth $25,000! The analogy is not perfect, but it does appear to me that it takes a great deal of work and effort to "extract, 1 " as it were, one precious soul from the world. The results are perhaps at this moment obscured by the impact of war. What has gone on over there during the past two years is without parallel in history, and it is occasion for marvel that we have accomplished as much as we have under such great handicaps. 

Our missionaries have given good account of the stewardship intrusted to them, despite expressions of intense disappointment and a feeling that their efforts culminated in frustration because of the war. I am sure that before God their work has not come amiss. To their everlasting credit it should be said that during the never-to-beforgotten complex happenings of last September and October they were strong and of good courage. President Toronto of the Czech Mission spoke of his missionaries as being the best young men to walk the earth. I ate and slept with mine, walked and talked with them, shared their successes and disappointments, and at the risk of making a comparison I should like to say they were even better than President Toronto's missionaries. 

In Belgium, France and Switzerland, comparative freedom has been vouchsafed to our missionaries to promulgate the principles of the Gospel. Effort has been made to correlate their work with conditions as we found them, with emphasis on the importance of learning to speak the French language correctly and fluently. I feel certain that such preparation presages greater success. Everywhere we have found a friendly spirit of inquiry. Never have we felt that our obligation to the honest investigator was discharged simply by leaving Mormon literature with him. We have sought to persuade him to employ critical reasoning and serious thought to the Gospel, for in it we are confident he will find the only true answer to his problems and aspirations, as well as those inner satisfactions that are deeper and more enduring than anything else in life, and equally as well also, opportunities for furthering wellbeing and happiness. , r Second Day 

Missionaries to Europe obtain an international interest and point of view, particularly in the cultural affairs of life. They acquire a broad range of facts on which to formulate and base sound judgments. Mormon missionaries generally, in my opinion, influence the spiritual life of the world, because their efforts are instrumental in opening up to the communities in which they proselyte, new and fresh opportunities for serving God, for crystallizing hopes into action, for working out salvation. 

Sister Evans and I have strong testimonies of the truth of the Gospel, testimonies which come from God. We shall never forget the golden memories of the French Mission, which become, as time passes, more and more pleasant, uplifting and inspirational. With all our hearts we want to respond to every call that may be made of us and if and when conditions warrant to return to complete our missions. 

May the Lord bless and prosper this work throughout the world is my prayer, and I ask it humbly in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, Amen. 

An athem, "O Savior of the World, 1 " (Goss), was sung by the Ricks College Choir. 

I want to talk to you today about the abundant life. The expression belongs to the sayings of Jesus. I quote him. 

I am the door : by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. 

The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. (John 10:9-10.) 

That fine phrase, coined and employed by the Master, has in recent times been so violently wrenched from the noble setting in which He put it and has been made to assume a signfkance so widely variant from the one He gave it that, having regard to its original sense, one now shrinks from using it at all. 

Without, I believe, the customary acknowledgement of its origin, it has been dragged down from its high spiritual plane to the ordinary level of every day materialism. More often than not now-a-days "the abundant life" is made the synonym for a full stomach, or a modernized home, or coveted apparel, or a new model automobile. And these mere things are held up to view as if they constituted the goal of ultimate desire, which, is symtomatic of present day measures of value. Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles THE MEANING CHANGED 

A HIGHER INTERPRETATION 

But it is abundantly clear that that is not at all what was in the mind of Jesus when He used the expression. It follows immediately upon His declaration that it was by Him that man shall be saved. Salvation meant to Him something far different than the mere physical comfort or even preservation of the mortal body, or the gratification of the physical senses, or the invention of new excitements to relieve us of our artificially created boredoms. 

He was always concerned with eternal spiritual values, never with mere things, as His utterances so fully show. When He talked about life He always embraced within His meaning something far transcending the satisfying powers of mere things. 

PARABLE OF THE RICH MAN 

Let us take an example : And He said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness : for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. 

And He spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 

And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? 

And he said, This will I do: I will put down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. 

And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. 

But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee; then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided ? 

So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward 

God. 

And He said unto His disciples, Therefore, I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on. 

The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. (Luke 12:15-23.) 

There you have it crystal clear. "A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." And "The life is more than meat and the body is more than raiment." 

CARE OF THE BODY ESSENTIAL 

Now I would not have you suppose that I am trying to say to you that your physical needs may be ignored or even neglected. The body is the physical instrumentality through which we work in this physical world. It requires physical food and material shelter to perpetuate it in being. Its perpetuation is essential to the accomplishment of the purposes of this earth life. 

Within limits the meeting of the requirements of the physical body is essential to the successful spiritual and mental progress of mortal man. This we have always recognized. But when we with the single purpose of 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 6 Second Day 

amassing to ourselves a multiplication of things with which to augment our individual power, selfishly try to gather to ourselves alone, to the exclusion of our fellow men, then we are losing our sense of proportion and are exalting the incidentals of life over the essence of life itself. 

Perhaps between the material and the spiritual, properly coordinated, there is no sharp line of separation, but the material must always be servant of the spiritual, its proper sovereign. 

PRESIDENT YOUNG'S PRACTICAL TEACHING 

President Brigham Young gave us some sound teaching in this respect. Said he : 

Our preaching to you from Sabbath to Sabbath, sending the Gospel to the nations, gathering the people, opening farms, making needed 'improvements, and building cities, all pertain to salvation. The Gospel is designed to gather a people that will be of one heart and of one mind. Let every individual in this city feel the same interest for the public good as he does for his own, and you will at once see this community still more prosperous, and still more rapidly increasing in wealth, influence, and power. But where each one seeks to benefit himself or herself alone, and does not cherish a feeling for the prosperity and benefit of the whole, that people will be disorderly, unhappy, and poverty-stricken, and distress, animosity and strife will reign. 

Efforts to accumulate property in the correct channel are far from being an injury to any community, on the contrary they are highly beneficial, provided individuals, with all that they have, always hold themselves in readiness to advance the interests of the Kingdom of God on the earth. Let every man and woman be industrious, prudent, and economical in their acts and feelings, and while gathering to themselves, let each one strive to identify his or her interests with the interests of this community with those of their neighbor and neighborhood, let them seek their happiness and welfare in that of all, and we will be blessed and prospered. (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 3, page 330.) 

ULTIMATE PURPOSE OF LIFE 

Mortality is not the ultimate destiny of man. The things essential to mortal life are in life and of life, but they are not life itself; they are mere incidentals. Life itself has some other purpose than feeding and clothing and sheltering the body. It is the realization of that purpose that Jesus was concerned about. Therein is to be found the abundant life. 

To the inquiring rich young man He said, "If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments." (Matt. 19:17) 

This seems to say that moving, animated, sentient human beings, howsoever well fed or clothed or sheltered, or entertained or amused have not even seen life, or tasted of it, or entered into it, unless they have brought themselves into a rational understanding of its ultimate purpose. Enlarging upon His terse answer to the young man Jesus said: 

Thou shalt do no murder. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness. 

Honor thy father and thy mother: and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

You will notice that here again the woof of the life that He has in mind consists in those soul qualities which when woven into the warp of a man lift him high above the level of gross materialism into the rarefied atmosphere of the spirit. 

Jesus was concerned about preparing men to live the spiritual law and to fit them for life in His kingdom where that law shall reign. There is the abode of those who attain the fulness of the abundant life. To that end the burden of His teaching was that men should keep the commandments. He spent much of His time training disciples to carry on the teaching after He himself should be gone. He told them to go out and teach all men everywhere. That was the commission. The promise was that they who believed should be saved. There is no promise to any other. 

ACCEPTANCE OF GOSPEL TEACHINGS NECESSARY 

It is true that certain things were to be done by those who believed. But He knew that belief must precede the doing of them. He knew, too, that they would surely follow from sincere belief, hence the preeminent importance of belief. It is the crying need of the world today. If men would but believe and translate their belief into living practices, how different a place to live in this earth would be. 

The commandments emanated from Jesus himself. Before it could be expected that men would accept them, they must accept Him. Thus He became the central figure about which all the teachings revolved. 

To the multitude who crowded about Him the day after He had fed them He said : 

Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled. 

Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth to everlasting life, which the Son of Man shall give unto you. 

They reminded Him that their fathers in the desert were fed by manna from heaven and demanded of Him that He shew them His works that they might believe. He in turn reminded them that their fathers who had eaten manna in the wilderness, w.re all dead. Then He said : 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life. 

I am that bread of life. 

***** 

This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof and not die. 

***** 

From that time — says the record pathetically — many of His disciples went back, and walked no more with Him. 

If you will search the record you will find that at no time did He make any promise of ease, or comfort, or freedom from distress or from sorrow or suffering, or of exemption from privation or want or sacrifice. None of these was an element in the abundant life. All of them He endured Himself. 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 6 Second Day 

THE TEMPTER OVERCOME 

Preparatory to entering upon His ministry He went into the desert alone. When He was weakened from long vigils and fasting the tempter bade Him, in proof of His Sonship, to command that the stones be turned into bread, that His hunger might be appeased. Resisting this He was shown from the top of a high mountain all the kingdoms of the world which, with all the glory of them, were offered Him if He would but bow in worship to the Tempter. Rising to heights befitting the majesty of the Son of God He issued the stern command, "Get thee hence Satan : for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." At the same time He promulgated that other profound truth. "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." He could have fed His hunger, and accepted the dominion of the kingdoms of the world, and their glory, and escaped Golgotha. His refusal led straight to that dolorous hill and the apparent end of it all. But Golgotha, not bread or dominion or glory, was the way of the abundant life. It brought Him swiftly to the dawn of that triumphant morning at the end of the Sabbath on the first day of the week when Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to the sepulchre and were greeted by the angel who, seated on the stone at the door said : 

Fear not ye; for I know that ye seek Jesus which was crucified. 

He is not here; for He is risen, as He said. Come see the place where the Lord lay. 

And go quickly and tell His disciples that He is risen from the dead; and behold, He goeth before you into Galilee; there ye shall see Him. 

Thus came the great crowning achievement of His life. 

You will have observed that I am making no argument for the authenticity of the words of Jesus nor of the records which preserve them. I accept them, which is what all believing Christians must do. Very persuasive arguments could be and have been made, but neither the limits of time nor the nature of the occasion admit of them here. We accept Jesus as the Son of God, the Author of our being and our ultimate Savior. 

ETERNAL LIFE THE GREATEST PRIZE 

To that faith we cling because it concerns life itself which is man's most cherished possession — the thing which he prizes above all else. Howsoever many things a man may have gathered about him, he normally would give all of them when life is threatened if by the exchange he could procure an extension of it. Life he soon comes to sense is all there is of him. Without that he is but a lump of clay, and all these other things without meaning and useless. In very truth the projection of it beyond the grave, the assuring it there of endless duration — eternal life — is the greatest gift of God to man. 

The alternative is oblivion. The sinking with death into nothingness — the end. Extinction. The irremediable severance of all the fond  of a life time. The abrupt cutting off and non-revivable termination, so far as concerns the individual, of all the fine intelligence and acquisitions of knowledge born of a lifetime of industry, toil and struggle and yearning and soul-striving. The smothering in the black darkness of unending night of all the hopes and aspirations which have guided man in his struggle upward to higher planes. The withering up by the blight of death of the qualities of kindliness, gentleness, forbearance, mercy, tenderness and love which have grown and flowered in him through his practice of those virtues in association with his fellows. 

No one, I suspect, likes to contemplate for himself so uninviting and uninspiring and wasteful an exit from life. Rather do we turn to the bright hope held out to us in the promise of Jesus : 

There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children for the Kingdom of God's sake, who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting. 

In the way to that goal lies the abundant life. I pray God we may all attain it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Last night I reported to President Grant by telephone the first day of the Conference. He was delighted, of course, to know that we had had such a wonderful time together, and was keenly desirous that we should continue to enjoy the blessings of the Lord. 

EXPLANATION OF MANNER OF VOTING 

We shall now present for your sustaining vote the General Authorities, and certain Church-wide groups of officers, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

For the benefit of the strangers who may be meeting here with us or listening on the air, a few words of explanation may be given. 

To speak in terms of political science, this assembly here today, this Annual Conference, of the Priesthood and membership of the Church will, for the purpose of sustaining the Authorities of the Church, act as a constituent assembly. Every General Authority of the Church, as well as other Church officers, comes before such an assembly twice each year. 

Again speaking in terms of political science, in the Church the nominating power rests in a group, the General Authorities, but the sustaining or electing power rests in the body of the Church, which under no circumstances nominates officers, the function of the Church body being solely to sustain or to elect. In fact, as will be seen, the General Authority or other officer is proposed to the body of the Church for their sustaining vote. 

The sole function of this constitutent assembly today, is, as Second Day  stated, to accept or reject the General Authority or other officers proposed to them. This assembly may not propose others to be voted upon. 

Futhermore, the actual procedure for voting is normally by the uplifted hand of those present. No electioneering, no speechmaking, no stating of objections, no proposing of candidates, no vocal demonstration of any kind is in order. Anyone seeking to do any of these things would not only be out of order as a matter of procedure, but would be likewise breaking the peace of the State by interrupting and disturbing a public assembly, would be subject to arrest as a disturber of the peace, and if necessary, would have to be so dealt with as a matter of public order. This assembly might be called the "voting booth 1 " of the Church. This will be clear to all our listeners. 

It is obvious that only members of the Church are entitled to vote, and an excommunicant is not a member. 

Anyone not desiring to sustain anyone proposed may not only indicate his dissent here but he may, if he wishes, present his objections to the proper authority of the Church, and will be given an appropriate hearing. This is the rule and order of the Church. 

The result of this system is that there has never been any politics in the Church. Church-men do not seek Church office. The best evidence that a man is unfit for Church office is the fact that he wants it. 

The principle behind the system is set forth in the fifth of the Articles of Faith, — the equivalent of the creed of other churches. It reads — 

We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 

REVELATIONS REGARDING THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH 

That the matter may be better understood, it should be said that the President of the Church is "the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church." 

The revealed rule on this is as follows : 

Then comes the High Priesthood which is the greatest of all. 

Wherefore, it must needs be that one be appointed of the High Priesthood to preside over the Priesthood, and he shall be called President of the High Priesthood of the Church; 

Or in other words, the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 107:64-66.) 

The President of the Church ... is appointed by revelation and acknowledged in his administration by the voice of the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 102:9.) Again : 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 73 

As to the duties and functions of the President of the Church, the revealed rule provides : 

And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to preside over the whole Church, and to be like unto Moses — 

Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be ,a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having a 'l the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 107:91,92.) 

DUTIES OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY 

To the First Presidency in the Prophet Joseph's time, the Lord said : 

And now, verily I say unto you, I give unto you a commandment that you continue in the ministry and presidency. * * * 

And set in order the churches, and study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people. 

And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in order all the affairs of this Church and Kingdom. (Doctrine and Covenants 90:12, IS. 16.) 

Other pertinent revealed rules regarding the presiding authority of the Church are : 

Of the Melchizedek Priesthood, three Presiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the Church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the Church. * * * 

The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the Church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews. * * * 

The Presidency of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchizedek, have a right to officiate in all the offices in the Church. (Doctrine and Covenants 107 :22, 33, 39.) " 

Speaking to the Presidency in 1832 the Lord said : 

Unto whom I have given the keys of the Kingdom, which belong always unto the Presidency of the High Priesthood. (Doctrine and Covenants 81 :2.) 

RESPONSIBILITY IN VOTING 

With this view of the rights, powers, and duties of the President of the High Priesthood of the Church, and also of the First Presidency, it is clear that the sustaining vote by the people is not, and is not to be regarded as, a mere matter of form, but on the contrary a matter of the last gravity. Every person is entitled to indicate whether or not he or she can sustain the officer proposed. While all the Church members vote and sustain the officer, yet the sustaining Priesthood power comes from the Priesthood itself. Your voting will result in the Church body's acknowledging the administration 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 6 Second Day 

of the man appointed by revelation as the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church. 

You here today will by your vote also sustain those who, in the due order of the Church, labor with and under the President's authorized direction. 

It is therefore the high and solemn duty of the Priesthood of the Church to gather to this constitutent assembly, this Conference of the Church, and to cast their sustaining vote for him who is appointed the Presiding High Priest, the President of the Church, and for those under him whose names shall be presented. Those who come here thus to declare their acknowledging and sustaining, as the President of the High Priesthood and as the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church, him whom God has called to this office, deserve the blessing they will thereby receive. They are to be commended for their attendance here today. It is to be hoped they will attend all future assemblies of this sort. 

President Clark then presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot John A. Widtsoe 

George Albert Smith Joseph F. Merrill 

George F. Richards Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Albert E. Bowen 

Stephen L Richards Sylvester Q. Cannon 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE IN TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. THE FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy 

Richard L. Evans 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

SEMINARY SUPERVISOR 

M. Lynn Bennion 

AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor : Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Dag 

CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards 

Albert E. Bowan Marvin O. Ashton 

Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin 

John H. Taylor General Presidency of Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman Harold B. Lee, Managing Director Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson 

Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg 

Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Amy Brown Lyman, President Marcia K. Howells, First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, 1st Asst. Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Green Hinckley, Superintendent 

Adele Cannon Howells, 1st Asst. Superintendent 

Janet Murdoch Thompson, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

At the conclusion of the foregoing presentation and voting, President Clark announced that the voting, so far as he could observe, was unanimous in the affirmative. His attention was called, however, to one vote in the negative on the proposition to sustain the First Presidency.* 

At the suggestion of President Clark, the congregation arose and sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God for a Prophet." 

ELDER M. DOUGLAS WOOD 

Former President of the West German Mission 

I am filled with appreciation this morning to be with you again in this wonderful Conference session. In my heart there is a prayer of gratitude to my Father in heaven; first, for the privilege of membership in this wonderful Church; next, a prayer for our homes here in this wonderful land, a land that our Father in heaven Himself has told us is choice above all others; and third, there is in my heart a prayer for those thirty thousand members of the Church in Europe who, at this time, without the missionaries and in their greatest trials, — need our faith and prayers. I feel grateful for the privilege of laboring among those fine German Saints whom we all learned to love. It was also a privilege to be able to associate with those noble missionaries in the West German Mission. I am sure that these Elders will never forget their many experiences in that country, and also in getting out of it. When times are hard you find that you are not very strong yourself and you learn to rely almost entirely upon the Lord to guide you. 

If the German Missions had to be closed, if the world had to be the scene of so much trouble and care, I feel that it was indeed a privilege to be chosen to be there at that time, and to try to lighten the burdens of the Saints. Because the time is short I shall confine my talk to relating a few missionary experiences during the evacuation of the country prior to the Polish war. 

On Friday, the 25th of August, my wife and I were traveling in the company of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and Sister Smith in Northern Germany, after coming into the country from Denmark. Friday morning we received a telegram from the First Presidency, which was relayed from our office in Frankfurt to Hanover, telling us that we should immediately evacuate Germany. We were told to take our missionaries and go either to Holland or to Denmark. We were then six hours from our Mission headquarters. 

I said to Brother Smith : "My wife and I should be in Frank78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. April 6 Second Day 

furt. There are so many things to do. Things are beginning to happen so fast, you see here iu Hanover the women are already driving the street cars, and I have never seen so much real excitement. I am afraid we must work fast, and we should be in Frankfurt." 

I went to the hotel clerk and told him to get me reservations on the plane to fly to Frankfurt. He looked at me and said : "Those reservations, I am sure, have been gone for some time. Frankfurt is on the main European line and all reservations on that line are reserved two weeks ahead. Now with this Polish trouble I am sure that you could not buy a ticket for any consideration." 

I said : "Call them up anyway. Call the airport. We must have two reservations." 

He scratched his head after he called and said, "There are two left." 

I said : "That is all that we need, and thank you so much." 

In an hour and twenty minutes we were in Frankfurt. We flew with the last airplane over that line of passenger service. The plane was taken off at Frankfurt and sent to the Polish front. As we flew over that beautiful country we could not help but admire the beauty of the scenery of the country below and we reflected what a wonderful thing the plane was when it carried people so rapidly, and what a shame to destroy property and life with it. At home we immediately sent telegrams to all our Elders telling them to pack their trunks and take them with them that night into Holland. We had called the Dutch consul for permission to enter Holland again and had received it. We decided on Holland as it was closer to most of our missionaries. We had 85 missionaries scattered from the Danish border on the north to Vienna on the south, which is quite a big territory. Things were getting exciting. The German people couldn't say much, but the feeling of unrest and impending trouble was everywhere present. 

We had never imagined the excitement would be like it was. There was none of it present the previous year when we went out of the country. Everything was tightening up all over. We had always felt that it would not be such a job to evacuate the country, especially after the "fire drill" of a year ago. We figured that we could always use the public utilities, but everybody else figured the same thing at this time. It took a little time to get the telegrams off to our Elders. We had also informed them to telegraph the office, or telephone, as they left, so that we could check on all of them. 

Friday afternoon and evening we sat in the office receiving no telegrams or telephone calls at all. We wondered if the missionaries had received our messages. We tried to telephone to a few of them in order to check up on the telegrams, but were unable to get anyone on the telephone. Everyone else had the same idea, and the telephone wires were clogged. We tried to send more telegrams and were told that temporarily all the chances for sending telegrams anywhere were closed. 

Early that morning, (Saturday), one of the Elders called us by telephone from the Dutch border. He said : "President Wood, we have been here on the Dutch border for six hours and the Dutch will not let us in. We haven't a dime between us. What shall we do ?" A person cannot leave Germany with any money because there is controlled currency there. The Dutch had given us permission to enter, but things had happened so fast that the consul in Frankfurt did not know of the new arrangements until we told him. The Dutch remembered the last war and the lack of food in their country, and they were determined to have no foreigners there at all. 

I said, "Brother, if you will have faith, I will see that we get some money to you immediately." 

We telegraphed money to those Elders, and within five minutes after we had done so the operator called us and said : "We will not be able to take any more money by telegraph; however, I think I can get this last through." 

About that time a radio announcement was made by the government, that after Sunday night at midnight, August 27th, the German government would not guarantee anyone his destination on the German railways. I shall never forget our feelings at that time. We had no telegraph nor telephone facilities, and railways were not available to us. We were not able to contact our missionaries, and we knew that most of them would be heading toward Holland. We knew they would arrive there without enough money to buy tickets to Denmark, and we knew that time was against us, with the railroads all being used for troop transportation. If ever we knew that we could do nothing of ourselves we were sure of it then. One of the girls took out our Mission history and read how the missionaries during the last war got out of the country. One of the Elders was not able to get out during the war and a few of our missionaries had to crawl on their hands and knees and make their way out behind the Russian lines. We knew these things and we knew the intense feeling of the parents at home. We knew that each one of you was relying upon us to see that your son was safe. Conditions were so unsettled there. We had seen the treatment of the Jews and we felt that we must do all in our power to see that those missionaries were safe. We also knew that we would be helped. Every mother and father in America was praying for their missionary sons, and we knew that the Lord would help us if we did all we could. 

About that time a big football player came into our office, a fine Idaho boy, who weighed over 200 pounds. 

I said : "Brother, did you ever carry a message to Garcia?" 

He said : "No, I didn't, but I'm willing to try." 

I said: "Elder, we have 31 missionaries lost somewhere between here and the Dutch border. It will be your mission to find them and see that they get out." 

He set out for the Dutch border with 500 marks and tickets for Denmark and for London. We had heard that a few might be able 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturdag. April 6 Second Dag 

to get into Holland if they had tickets for London. That was soon changed. After four hours on the train he arrived at Cologne, which is about half way to the Dutch border. We had told him to follow his impressions entirely as we had no idea what towns these 31 Elders would be in. Cologne was not his destination, but he felt impressed to get off the train there. It is a very large station, and was then filled with thousands of people. The call to arms had been given that day, and there were thousands of people going to the Polish border. There were many, many students returning to England, and many people returning from vacations before the train service stopped. There were so many people in the station that to find anyone there would have been next to impossible. This Elder stepped into this station and whistled our missionary whistle — "Do What is Right, Let the Consequence Follow." 

Down in one corner of that station was an Elder with an old couple who were also on a mission from America. They heard that call, and made their way safely to the train and were able to get into Holland with tickets for London. These three were stranded there. They couldn't call the office, as no more calls on telephones were accepted, and they had had nothing to eat all day. 

At another border station going into Holland this Elder arrived, after picking up missionaries along the way. As he rode along on the train he felt impressed at other stations to get out and whistle our call. At some stations he felt no impression at all, so he did not get out. At the border he found eight missionaries who had been locked in the station house all night. They were indeed glad to see the missionary from the office with tickets for Denmark, and money. A border officer stepped up and asked him how much money he had. He told him 500 marks. 

He said to the Elder : "Give me that money/' 

The missionary answered : "I will over my dead body. I was sent here to relieve these missionaries, and I will not give up the money." Just at that time a man in the other corner of the station was arrested for being a spy. Now a spy on a border is really something important at war-time, and he attracted everybody's attention. The moment the officer turned, the Elders stooped down and made their way out of the station and out to the train. By this time the trains had stopped running regularly. These missionaries got on to unscheduled trains, traveled for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then they would get out at the next station. There they would stand until they felt impressed to get on another train. They had to transfer seventeen times on a route that regularly requires no more than two or three transfers before reaching Denmark. 

At another station three of our Elders were walking along the street. They were fortunate enough not to be locked up. A man came up to them and stated that he had seen them before, saying that he knew that they were Mormon missionaries. He said that he had been called to the Polish front and had 50 marks which he knew he  not need and asked if they could use this money. They were without a penny, so they took it. This amount paid their way back to the little town where they had come from the day before. 

One of the Elders had received his allowance from home the day before. All the other Elders had used their surplus money to buy photographic equipment which could be taken out of the country. This young man went to town but felt so bad about everything he just couldn't spend that money, so he put it into a drawer and said for his landlady to give it to the poor Saints if he did not come back. He did come back, however. The train had a ten-minute wait, and he ran up to the dwelling, got that money, and it was just enough, within a few pennies for food, to pay their way to Copenhagen, Denmark. 

We arrived in Denmark early Monday morning with 21 missionaries in our group. That morning we received a telegram from President Murdock saying 14 of our group had arrived in The Hague. We now had only 17 to worry about. About two o'clock that afternoon we received a telegram from the football player saying seventeen of them were arriving that night at 7 :30. 

My dear brothers and sisters, these things I have told you today are true stories of our experiences in getting out of the country. They are testimonies that I am sure will remain with these missionaries all their lives. Almost every one of our Elders could tell you a real faith-stirring story about his leaving Germany. We all arrived in Denmark with our hearts filled with gratitude and humility. One of our Elders was asked if he was a bit anxious about going home on a freighter and being led out of Denmark by a German pilot through the mines. 

He said: "That is child's play after the things we have been through in getting out of Germany. I don't think after all the trouble the Lord went to there that He is going to let us down in the middle of the ocean." 

I am grateful for this opportunity to bear you my testimony. I know that this is the true Church of God, that Jesus is the Christ, and that today Heber J. Grant is a prophet of our Father in heaven. I am happy to have had this opportunity of working in Germany among the German people. I am happy to have had the privilege of being there during those hard times. The Lord stood at our side and never once did we want or were we unable to meet the situations at hand with His help. 

We were called to go to Sweden and assist in closing the Mission there. I shall never forget the sights there. We have preached the Gospel in Europe for over 100 years, and this is the first time that all the missionaries have left. We thought that after our experiences in Germany we did not have any more tears left, our hearts were so sorrowful that we thought there was no more room for grief. One does not have to understand a language to understand those things. Those poor Swedish Saints! About 150 of them 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, April 6 Second Dap 

gathered at the station to say "goodbye" to their missionaries. The wonderful trained chorus developed under the direction of Brother and Sister Larsen sang to the Saints there. They placed garlands of flowers on each missionary's neck and as the train pulled out, the Saints sang back to them, "God be with You Till we Meet Again." I just cannot tell you how we all felt. 

Those Saints will carry on in Europe. I ask you to please remember them in your prayers at this time. Without missionaries and in their time of greatest trouble, they need our faith and love. May we be generous in our judgments and tolerant toward all God's children, here in safety, in luxury, in our homes in the Land of the Free, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in Jesus' name, Amen. 

The Ricks College Choir sang an anthem, "And the Glory of the Lord," (Handel). 

Elder Walter A. Jensen, President of the Lost River Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


