Morning
05 04 1940

The opening session of the Conference convened Friday morning, April 5, at 10 o'clock. 

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency, who presided, announced that the music for this session of the Conference would be furnished by the Brigham Young University Chorus, under the joint direction of Dr. Franklin W. Madsen and Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Dr. Frank W. Asper at the organ. 

The opening song was by the congregation and Chorus, "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." 

Elder George T. Hyde, President of the Portneuf Stake, offered the invocation. 

The Brigham Young University Chorus sang "Send Forth Thy Spirit" (Schuetky). 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The following telegram from President Grant was read by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. : 

Los Angeles, California April 5, 1940 

Presidents J. Reuben Clark, Jr. and David O. McKay, Salt Lake City, Utah, 

To the Saints in Conference assembled : I sincerely regret that I am not present with you at this opening meeting of our Conference. I know of the spiritual uplift that will come to you. Through the years I have always counted it a great blessing to participate with my brethren and sisters in General Conference. 

ACTIVITIES IN CALIFORNIA FOLLOWED BY SICKNESS 

I left home on the 26th of January and attended the dedication of the Mormon Battalion Monument at San Diego, and was one of the speakers, experiencing much liberty in my talk. I enjoyed the meetings. They were a great tribute to the achievement of our people. I was pleased with the talk of Brother Andrew Jenson. I then attended the conference of Inglewood Stake. In the morning I did not feel' well enough to speak, but spoke in the afternoon for about forty minutes with perfect liberty. That night I was feeling poorly and the next morning was removed to the hospital for medical attention and treatment. The treatment there was successful. I was very glad I had Brother McKay call on me in the hospital and give me a blessing, and I am grateful beyond expression for the faith and prayers of the Saints. I know of a certainty that your prayers have been heard and answered in my behalf. 

I am very grateful that I now can be around working at times, but mostly resting, exercising, and taking care of myself, to the end that I may realize a full recovery. 

About the middle of March I moved from the hospital to the home of my grandnephew, Del Grant, where I have been comfortably located, and have been improving in my health every day making really astonishing advancement, according to the doctors. I had hoped at least to speak to the Conference by radio, but the doctors feel it unwise to subject myself to that great strain. They feel too that it would be better to regain my strength before making an attempt to return home. Therefore I shall remain here for a few weeks more. The doctors feel it a matter of wisdom for me to stay here another few weeks, even though there would be little danger if I were to return home now. 

BLESSING AND COMMENDATION 

I send my love and blessings to all the Saints, and pray that you may have a time of rejoicing during Conference. I have been made happy by the new Stakes that have been formed of late, and the reorganization of our General Boards. I earnestly pray for the success of the new officers in the Stakes and on the several Boards. Truly Zion is growing. 

AN APPEAL TO THE YOUNG 

I sympathize with our young people because of the temptations that beset them. I urge them, as I always have, to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ fully. In that way they will have health and happiness, and will meet with success in this life and will have an eternity of joy in store for them in the life to come. I bless them with courage to meet the problems that lie ahead. 

A TESTIMONY 

It is a joy to me to bear again my testimony of my absolute knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, and of the divinity of the Savior, and of the divine work of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

AN EXPRESSION OF SYMPATHY 

I was grieved to hear of the passing of Elder Harold G. Reynolds who has been in charge of the transportation in our missionary system. He was a true Latter-day Saint. May our Heavenly Father bless and sustain his wife and children. 

PRAYER AND BLESSING 

I most earnestly pray for all the General and local officers, both in the Priesthood and the Auxiliary organizations, and for the advancement of the work of God, and I send my love and blessings to the Saints at home and abroad. Amen. 

(Signed) HEBER J. GRANT. 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Dag 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

My brethren and sisters : We are all thrilled with this message from President Grant. I saw him personally, as did Brother McKay. He is recovering; he is well on his way to full recovery. I know that every true Latter-day Saint in Zion is praying for his speedy and complete restoration to health and strength. We should like to send him now the greetings of this great Conference, and assure him that he has our faith and prayers for his early recovery. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

Elder Joseph Anderson, the Clerk of the Conf erence, read the Financial Statement of the Church as follows: 

THE EXPENDITURES BY THE CHURCH FOR THE YEAR 

1939 

Stake and Ward Purposes : 

For the erection of meeting houses and for Ward and Stake 

maintenaince expenses $1,544,357.99 

Missionary Work : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the Missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the Missions $1,171,272.56 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church school system $ 801,414.73 

Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of Temples ... .$ 239,457.65 Hospitals : 

Expended for the erection and improvement of hospital 

buildings (included in Church Welfare Program) $ 15,183.15 Relief Assistance : 

For direct aid in the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment. (From tithing funds only. Included in Church Welfare Program) $ 429,982.89 

Total $4,201,668.97 

which has been taken from the tithes and other Church funds and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the Stakes and Wards, Mission activities, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools, and Temples, for hospital buildings and relief assistance. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 5 

CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 

Church membership, Stakes and Mission 803,528 

Number of Church members who paid voluntary Fast offerings and Welfare contributions to help the needy : 

In Wards 230,528 

In Missions 20,908 

Total 251,436 

Amount of voluntary Fast offerings and Welfare contributions : In Wards 

Cash $ 401,232.71 

Commodities 62,147.55 

In Missions : 

Cash 32,466.07 

Total (all expended for relief) $ 495,846.33 

Disbursed to the needy by the Relief Society for direct assistance in their homes and for general welfare purposes, such as surgical appliances and preventive and 

corrective health work $ 93,256.25 

For carrying on the general, welfare and educational program of the Relief Society 293,305.77 

Expended from the tithes for general and local relief 285,902.89 

Expended directly by the Church Welfare Committee 144,080.00 

Expended for the extension and improvement of hospital 

buildings and for the care of the sick therein 98,321.89 

Additional assistance extended to the Church building program (Wards, Stakes and Missions) representing payments on the basis of 60% for buildings authorized 

before the change in policy January 1, 1939 80,268.79 

m Total $1,490,981.92 

In addition to the foregoing, the following supplies had been assembled and were on hand December 31, 1939, and are available for the needy during the year 1940. 

CLOTHING AND BEDDING 

Estimated Value 

Men's clothing, pieces 5,635 $ 2,254.00 

Women's clothing, pieces 9,944 2,483.20 

Children's clothing, pieces 5,451 1,253.75 

Quilts and miscellaneous items.... 8,442 8,929.06 29,472 

Friday. April 5 First Day 

CANNED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Fruits and vegetables, cans 1,177,516 $129,526.76 

Fruits and vegetables, bottled .... 31,002 3,410.22 Dried fruits and vegetables, lbs... 104,110 5,475.34 

Total 1,312,628 $ 138,412.32 

OTHER PRODUCE 

Flour, pounds 230,521 $ 3,457.81 

Potatoes, pounds 524,132 5,294.15 

Grain, pounds 317,297 3,967.21 

Other vegetables, pounds 149,877 1,094.10 

Meat, pounds 28,816 3,169.76 

Total 1,250,643 $ 16,983.03 

FUEL AND LUMBER 

Coal, pounds 935,300 $ 1,870.60 

Wood, cords 250 1,250.00 

Lumber, board feet 4,989 139.67 

Total 940,539 $ 3,260.67 

Total on hand December 31, 1939 $ 173,576.03 

FAST OFFERING INFORMATION 

Average Fast offerings and welfare contributions 

per capita in Wards 82.2 

Stakes with the highest per capita : 

New York 2.16 

Curlew 2.13 

St. Johns 1.92 

South Los Angeles 1.53 

Benson 1.42 

Chicago 1.41 

Bonneville 1.40 

Kanab 1.33 

Portland 1.31 

San Bernardino 1.30 

Number of Stakes that paid more than $1.00 per capita 28 

Missions with the highest per capita : Membership less than 1500 

Japanese 1.59 

Czech 92 

Argentine 55 

Brazilian 54 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 7 

Membership over 1500 

Swiss 67 

East German 59 

Eastern States 53 

California 52 

THE CHURCH UNEMPLOYMENT SITUATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1939, 

AS follows: 

Employable needing employment, January 1, 1939 6,817 

Employable needing employment, December 31, 1939 5,046 

Skilled workmen unemployed, December 31, 1939 659 

Unskilled workmen unemployed, December 31, 1939 3,195 

Women unemployed December 31, 1939 1,192 

Number employed during year 2,963 

Number of persons used on Church Work projects during year.... 7,188 Average, number of persons assisted monthly 12,955 

SUMMARY ERECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF CHURCH BUILDINGS 

Appropriated for Ward and Stake buildings $ 657,012.94 

Appropriated for Seminaries and Institutes 36,004.37 

Appropriated for hospital buildings 15,183.15 

Amount raised locally for the foregoing improvements 525,146.24 

Expended for Mission buildings and real estate 116,807.05 

Improvements in Temples 10,266.38 STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA FOR THE YEAR 1939 

There were on December 31, 1939: 128 Stakes (at the present time 130); 1,055 Wards; 99 independent Branches, or a total of 1,154 Wards and Branches in the Stakes of Zion; also 35 Missions; 1,002 Mission Branches, and 250 Districts. 

CHURCH MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes 645,618 

Missions 157,910 

Total 803,528 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in 

the Stakes and Missions 20,988 

Children baptized in the Stakes and Missions 15,199 

Converts baptized in the Stakes and Missions 7,945 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 

1939 : 2,046 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 

1939 26 

Number of local missionaries 78 

Total number of missionaries in the Missions of the Church.... 2,150 Number engaged in missionary work in the Stakes 2,101 

Total missionaries 4,251 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary Home 1,071 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate 31.5 per thousand Marriage rate 17 per thousand Death rate 6.5 per thousand 

EXPENDED FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF MISSIONARIES 

Collected by Wards and paid to missionaries $ 86,392.67 

Average cost per missionary, 1939, $31.06 per month or a total of $372.72 per year per missionary. Number of missionaries December 31, 1939, 2,150, making a total 

average expense for the year of 801,348.00 

Estimated possible earnings per missionary $900.00 per year x 2,150, average number of missionaries, makes an estimated total of what these missionaries might have earned if at home of 1,935,000.00 

Total estimated contribution of missionaries and their families for the preaching of the Gospel $2,822,740.67 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST OCTOBER CONFERENCE 

General Auxiliary Boards Reorganised : 

Louise Y. Robison has been honorably released as President of the General Board of the Relief Society. Also honorably released were Amy Brown Lyman as First Counselor, Kate M. Barker as Second Counselor, and Julia A. F. Lund as Secretary-Treasurer. 

Amy Brown Lyman appointed President of the General Board of the Relief Society, with Marcia Knowlton Howells as First Counselor, Donna Durrant Sorenson as Second Counselor, and Vera White Pohlman as General Secretary-Treasurer. 

May Anderson has been honorably released as Superintendent of the General Board of the Primary Association. Also honorably released were Isabelle S. Ross as First Assistant Superintendent, Edith H. Lam as Second Assistant Superintendent, and Mary R. Jack as Secretary and Treasurer. 

May Green Hinckley appointed Superintendent of the General Board of the Primary Association, with Adele Cannon Howells as First Assistant Superintendent, Janet Murdoch Thompson as Second Assistant Superintendent, and Beth Paxman as Secretary and Treasurer. 

Special Appointments : 

Tracy Y. Cannon, appointed as Chairman of the General Music Committee to succeed Apostle Melvin J. Ballard, and LeRoy J. Robertson appointed to succeed Brother Cannon as Second Assistant. George D. Pyper, First Assistant, and N. Lorenzo Mitchell, Secretary, were retained. 

New Stakes Organized : 

A new Stake to be known as Inglewood Stake was organized November 19th. It comprises five Wards and one Independent Branch: Redondo and Torrance Wards taken from Long Beach Stake; Inglewopd, Mar Vista, and Santa Monica Wards and El Segundo Branch taken from Hollywood Stake. 

A new Stake to be known as Emigration Stake was organized March 10th by a division of the Ensign Stake, and consists of the Eleventh, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Twenty-first, Twenty-seventh and University Wards. The Ensign Stake now consists of the North Eighteenth, South Eighteenth, Twentieth and Ensign Wards. 

A new Stake to be known as Riverside Stake was organized March 24th by a division of the Salt Lake Stake, and consists of the Fifteenth, Sixteenth, Twenty-eighth, Twenty-ninth, Thirty-fourth, and Center Wards. The Salt Lake Stake retains the Fourteenth, Seventeenth, Nineteenth, Twenty-second, Twenty-third, Twenty-fourth and Capitol Hill Wards. 

Stake Name Changed : 

The old Pasadena Stake is now known as San Fernando Stake. Los Angeles Stake was formerly known as Hollywood Stake. South Los Angeles Stake was formerly known as Los Angeles Stake. 

Stake Presidents Appointed : 

' William S. Erekson appointed President of fhe Cottonwood Stake to succeed President Samuel E. Bringhurst. 

Alfred E. Rohner appointed President of the newly organized Inglewood Stake. 

Alma Sonne appointed President of the Cache Stake to succeed President Joseph E. Cardon. 

George L. Scott appointed President of the Portland Stake to succeed President Monte Lafayette Bean. 

Harold S. Snow appointed President of the St. George Stake to succeed President William O. Bentley. 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 First Day 

President Colen H. Sweeten released as President of Curlew Stake 

Willard Ellis Bay appointed President of the Garfield Stake to succeed President Milton Twitchell. 

Edwin Sorensen appointed President of the North Sevier Stake to succeed President Heber C. Williams. 

Irvin L. Warnock appointed President of the Sevi«r Stake to succeed President W. Eugene Poulson. 

C. Douglas Barnes appointed President of the Long Beach Stake to succeed President John W. Jones. 

Royle S. Papworth appointed President of the Star Valley Stake to succeed President Oarence Gardner. 

George A. Christensen appointed President of the newly organized Emigration Stake. 

John B. Matheson appointed President of the newly organized Riverside Stake. 

Stake Disorganised : 

Curlew Stake was disorganized February 11th artd Wards transferred to other Stakes as follows : Arbon Ward to Pocatello Stake; Holbrook Ward to Malad Stake; Park Valley, Rosette, Snowville and Stone Wards to Bear River Stake. 

Other Ward Transferred : 

Hollywood Ward, Los Angeles Stake, transferred from San Fernando Stake. 

W ard Name Changed : 

Central Ward, South Sevier Stake was formerly known as Inverury Ward. 

New Wards Organized : 

Cedar 4th W ard, Parowan Stake, created by a division of Cedar 3rd Ward. 

Mount Ogden Ward Mount Ogden Stake, created by a division of Ogden 12th and Ogden 17th Wards. 

Kaysville 1st Ward, North Davis Stake and Kaysville 2nd Ward, North Davis Stake created Iby a division of the former Kaysville Ward. 

Garfield East Ward, Oquirrh Stake and Garfield West Ward, Oquirrh Stake created by a division of the former Garfield Ward. 

Maxwell Park Ward, Oakland Stake created by a division of the Dimond and Elmhurst Wards. 

North Las Vegas Ward, Moapa Stake created by a division of the Las Vegas Ward. 

Independent Branches Made Wards: 

Caldwell Ward, Nampa Stake was formerly Independent Branch of same Stake. 

Monrovia Ward, Pasadena Stake was formerly Independent Branch of that Stake. 

New Independent Branches : 

Highland Park Branch, North Idaho Falls Stake, was formerly Dependent Branch of Idaho Falls 4th Ward. 

Ophir Branch, Tooele Stake has been reorganized; inactive since 1927. 

Las Cruces Branch, Mount Graham Stake, was formerly Dependent Branch of El Paso Ward. 

Rockport Branch, Summit Stake, was formerly dependent on Wanship Ward. 

Ward Disorganised: 

Corning Ward, Gridley Stake disorganized and transferred to California Mission; to function as Sunday School in the Shasta District. 

Branches Disorganised : 

Grays Harbor Branch, Seattle Stake transferred back to Northwestern States Mission. 

Raymond Branch, Seattle Stake transferred back to Northwestern States Mission. 

Those Who Have Passed Away : 

Harold G. Reynolds, L. D. S. Mission Secretary and Church Transportation Agent since 1906, also Bishop of Twenty-first Ward for 15 years, and former member of Deseret Sunday School Union General Board. 

James G. McDonald, Presiding Elder at Brighton for many years, also civic and industrial leader. 

Ephraim P. Ellison, director of Beneficial Life Insurance Company, President of Layton Sugar Company, and for many years Counselor in the North Davis Stake Presidency. 

Sarah E. Stewart, noted educational and civic leader and Church Auxiliary worker, widow of William M. Stewart, founder and first dean of the School of Education at the University of Utah. 

Florence Neslen Evans, widow of the late John A. Evans, and mother of Richard L. Evans of the First Council of Seventy. 

Lorenzo Argyle, believed to be the last member of the first pioneer handcart company to come to Utah (the Ellsworth Company); was Bishop of the Lake Shore Ward for thirty-four years. 

Elizabeth Turner Cain Crismon, former member of the General Board of the L. D. S. National Woman's Relief Society under President Emmeline B. Wells. 

Marion A. Condie, First Counselor in Blaine Stake Presidency. 

Bishop James Johnson, Nampa Second Ward, Nampa Stake. 

Bishop Henry Jones, St. Johns Ward, Malad Stake. 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

REPORT OF THE CHURCH AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Elder Harold H. Bennett read the Report of the Church Auditing Committee as follows : 

The First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 47 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Brethren: 

We have examined the financial report of the Church for the year 1939. The records are accurately kept, and the accounting is modern and adequate. 

The Church budget is in balance, and the Church is entirely free of debt. 

Yours respectfully, (Signed) 

Orval W. Adams Albert E. Bowen George S. Spencer H. H. Bennett Auditing Commitee. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters : I humbly pray that the time that I may stand before you may be filled with words that may be of help, counsel, and encouragement. 

SIGNIFICANT FEATURES OF ANNUAL REPORT 

There are two or three things that perhaps might be specially mentioned in connection with our annual report. 

During the year 1939 we spent $50,000 more for missionary work than we spent in 1938. Part of that was undoubtedly due to the transportation back to the United States of the missionaries who were in Europe, of which I shall say more a little later. 

While our records cannot be regarded as accurate, nevertheless it does appear that during the year 1939, from January 1st to December 31st, we took off from the Welfare system some 1,800 people. It furthermore appears that we had 2,500 fewer unemployed on December 31st, 1939, than on the same date in 1938. 

As you will have noticed from the reports, there have been three new Stakes organized, nineteen new wards, and forty-five new Branches. 

The birth rate has increased six-tenths of one per cent; the death rate has decreased three-tenths of one per cent; the marriage rate remains the same. 

While, as indicated by the report, the Church as a whole has not yet  the goal of one dollar per person for Fast offerings, nevertheless we made in 1939 a decided advance in the number of Fast-offering-payers as well as in the amount paid. There were 66,631 more payers of Fast offerings in 1939 than in 1938. Moreover, the voluntary Fast offerings increased in 1939 by $95,513.00. Our commodity offerings decreased, however by $27,333.00. The estimated value of clothing, bedding, canned fruits, vegetables, fuel and labor increased over 1938 by $36,125.00. 

As Brother Bennett has told you, we have balanced our budget. The following will give you some idea of the larger items and the percentage of expenditure to which the tithing is devoted: 

The Ward and Stake expenses are 16.6%, of the whole budget; the Church Schools 16.2%; Missionary work 15.3%; Church buildings erected, 20.7%; Welfare, 9.6%; and the General Authorities and the maintenance of the General offices of the Church, 6.3%. 

When we urge tithing, brothers and sisters, it is obviously not for selfish reasons; it is that we may serve our Church needs better. Without tithing we should be extremely helpless in the things which we regard as and which the Lord has declared to be vital. 

CHURCH INCOME DEPENDENT UPON FAITH AND PROSPERITY 

We have felt that it was important that the Church should live within its income, not only for itself as a Church, but for an example to the community, the state, the nation, and to the individual members themselves. 

Such a course of the Church involves problems which are not incident to civil administration, which is primarily dependent upon taxes that can be accurately forecast, except for income and other like special taxes which are in the nature of extra or surplus revenues. Therefore there are in governmental activities few occasions when an unbalanced budget — that is, when more is spent than is taken in — is not created by some deliberate act. 

With the Church the matter is wholly different. Over the last four years approximately 87%of the total Church income has been the tithing. This being a purely voluntary contribution, its amount cannot be accurately forecast. Its volume depends wholly upon the faithfulness of the people. Thus, where the governmental agencies have relative certainty in income, the Church has uncertainty. 

Furthermore, governmental agencies, knowing their fixed income, can plan their expenditures with certainty, they can so fix their expenditures as to fall within their income. The Church, not knowing its income, cannot so definitely fix its outgo as certainly to come within its revenue. Its only guide on these matters is to be spelled out from the experiences of the past. 

Again, while income taxes and analogous governmental taxes — state, county, and municipal — depend upon the prosperity of the people, yet the great bulk of the taxes levied by such governmental agencies are on real and personal properties under terms which are fixed by the taxing power and rarely vary with the prosperity of the people. These taxes are paid whether your business or farms pay or do not pay. 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

On the other hand, the Church income depends wholly upon the prosperity of the people. If crops are short, if prices are low, if business is poor, the Church revenues suffer proportionately, for it is the annual income that is tithed. 

So not only your faithfulness is involved, but granting you full faithfulness, there is still the uncertainty of weather, crops, business, and other elements that no one can forecast. 

TITHING A TRUST FUND 

These things are pointed out so that no one can be under the delusion that the Church has a pile of gold to which it may go for any amount of money that it wishes. The only money the Church has is what has been saved out of the tithing you have given it in the past and the tithing you are now giving it, and approximately 87% of the total annual income, as I have already stated, comes from you from year to year. 

We, the Authorities of the Church must therefore be extremely careful as to our commitments, else we shall find ourselves, as we have occasionally in the past, spending more than our income. 

When you Bishops and Presidents of Stakes, and Mission Presidents, and Temple Presidents, and Auxiliary Officers and School-men, and Welfare agencies, and people in distress, come to the Presiding Bishopric and meet a "No" and then come to the Presidency and get a louder "No," please do not believe that we are unfeeling or unsympathetic, or harsh, or cruel, or lack understanding or appreciation, or love for our brethren. We are merely trying to administer the Lord's money, not our money, not your money, as wisely and justly as the Lord gives us wisdom to exercise. We are not infallible in our judgment, and we err, but our constant prayer is that the Lord will guide us in our decisions, and we are trying so to live that our minds will be open to His inspiration. 

CHURCH FREE FROM DEBT 

Perhaps I may say here that the Church itself, (I am not now speaking of Wards and Stakes) does not owe a dollar in the world to any person or to any institution. All its property is free from encumbrance of any sort; its credit was never higher. There are idle and silly rumors running about to the contrary, but, brothers and sisters, I am stating to you the sober facts. 

The First Presidency will do all in their power to keep the Church in this condition. 

So much for our Church finances, which, while far from being the most important element in the Church, are nevertheless a very important factor in our organization if we are to carry forth the work we have begun and which the Lord has revealed He expects us to do. Indeed, we cannot do this work without your contributions. The work is, in the full sense, in your hands. 

The First Presidency would like to urge every member of the Church to follow the example set by the Church and to live within his income. 

Anyone who lives beyond his income is inviting disaster. Borrowed money is not income. Borrowing on capital account, within your reasonable capacity to pay, may be sound, depending upon circumstances. But borrowing to live on is unsound, whether it be an outright loan or installment buying. We urge the members to be frugal, thrifty, industrious, temperate, saving, and to live righteously. 

THE WELFARE PROGRAM 

Now, a few words about the Welfare work. The great wisdom of our leaders, past and present, up to the beginning of the World depression, is nowhere better shown than in their continued policy of having the Church live within its income and of putting a little aside each year for a rainy day. If they had not done this, but instead had used up year by year all the tithing you paid in, we would have entered this depression with no assets but our current income, with no reserves, with a diminished revenue, and with no course open to us but drastically to reduce our regular vital activities in order to extend help to the needy. But as it was, we were able to increase the Church proportion in our building program, so as to help the needy unemployed. We were able for a couple of years to spend more than our revenue so as to carry on our Welfare work, and yet to leave ourselves completely solvent and with unimpaired credit against a day of greater need. This was done without borrowing a dollar. 

I say to you again, the Church does not owe a dollar to any person, firm or institution in the world beyond the regular current monthly bills, which are settled at the end of each month; it has no mortgage on any of its property. 

The report already read shows the amount expended on Welfare work by the Church during the last calendar year. But thousands of dollars of produce has been raised and distributed of which we have no accurate account. 

In addition, there has been the neighbor to neighbor help — a very considerable sum — and Priesthood quorum and other activities of which we have no accurate record. 

May I pause here and say that I hope that every member attending Conference will take occasion to go down to the Bishop's Storehouse and visit that wonderful exhibit. Do this between meetings, and before meetings, and after meetings. You will get a thrill there such as you have rarely experienced, where each Stake's work is portrayed by an exhibition of the actual products which they have produced. Do not fail, brothers and sisters, and particularly you who are engaged in Welfare work, to visit and inspect that wonderful exhibition. I told the brethren this morning that this work continuing to grow, one of these days they would be forced to attempt to secure the State Fair buildings down near the river, to give their exhibit in. 

Furthermore, the reports which you have heard read from time to time in this Conference regarding Welfare expenditures, cover only what has been actually given out to the people. No account has heretofore been taken of the physical assets — fixed assets, real estate, personal property — which have been devoted to the Welfare work, — part of the funds coming 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

from you brethren and sisters out in the regions, part of it coming from the general funds of the Church. But during the four years in which the Welfare program has been functioning, we have accumulated approximately a half million dollars of physical assets, buildings, and equipment, and these are all employed in the Welfare work. 

WHEAT TO BE STORED 

We are now building, as you know, a large grain elevator which will store approximately 300,000 bushels of grain. We did have in storage approximately 190,000 bushels of wheat, which we are now replacing. In that connection I would like to read you just a part of a letter dated August 26th, 1918, signed by the First Presidency under Joseph F. Smith, by the Presiding Bishopric under C. W. Nibley, and by the Relief Society under Emmeline B. Wells, concerning the re-investing of the Relief Society Wheat Fund. 

After calling attention to the sale of the wheat to the Government at that time, the letter closes with these two paragraphs : 

The money received for the wheat the government has taken must be kept in the banks and draw interest. In no case should it be loaned out or used for any purposes whatsoever other than the purchase of wheat, as it is a sacred trust fund which can be used only for the purpose for which it is donated. 

When the time comes to again invest this money in the purchase of wheat you will be advised of it by the Presiding Bishopric and the General Board of Relief Society. 

We are, my brethren and sisters, in accordance with that determination which was then made, re-investing the wheat money back into wheat, and we aim to keep it re-invested in that way as a part of the Church Welfare Plan. This move has the whole-hearted and complete approval of the Relief Society sisters to whom as a matter of fact the fund belongs. 

WORK YET TO BE DONE 

I shall not take time to tell you of the various activities of the Welfare Program, but I would like to say that I am firmly convinced that we are now sufficiently organized and have now enough experience, so that if we shall bend our whole energies to it we shall be able to feed, clothe, and house ourselves. I think there is no doubt of that. 

Two other things we still have left to do. One, we must bend our energies towards finding work for those people to do who need assistance. I shall touch on that again in just a moment. Next, if we find labor for them to do we shall then be well on our way towards rehabilitating them in their spiritual and civic lives. This is the second and in a sense, the most important work we have to do. 

Lastly, I wish to urge upon you Welfare workers, you Presidents of Stakes, you Bishops, Presidents of Branches, local Relief Societies and all other agencies, that you do not wait to be told from headquarters about every detail of what you should do. You know the local problem better than we do. Meet the problem which arises in your various places in ac with its needs. Regimentation is a threatening blight upon all Church activities. 

ECONOMY IN ERECTION OF BUILDINGS 

One of the greatest problems of the Church is providing the necessary buildings for carrying on our numerous and exacting activities. 

We have a tendency I think to make our buildings just a little bit too elaborate and too ornate. 

There is an ever-present necessity, which comes with increasing frequency, to subdivide Wards and Stakes. Not unusually the new Ward or new Stake wants a little better home than the one they are giving up. This is like a young man marrying and expecting the new home for himself and bride to be better than the one that each of them left. This is fine provided the new groom can make the grade by himself; otherwise not. 

Where the old Ward home is elaborate and ample, arrangements should be made for joint occupancy by the parent Ward and the new Ward. We are trying this out in several places and find it a workable and suitable plan, provided the people practice the Christian virtues of unselfishness, patience, charity, give and take — particularly give. 

Our constantly increasing needs, increasing by greater proportion than our revenues, make this sort of arrangement year by year more important and necessary. 

Amusement halls should be made to serve as large units as possible. While in sparsely settled communities, Ward amusement halls may be frequently desirable, in more thickly settled areas effort should be made to have for the young people larger association than a Ward provides. 

Speaking of a new Ward and a new meeting house for it, I should like publicly to commend the example just set by the Tremonton First and Second Wards in erecting a building for the new Ward. Other Wards of the Church have followed a similar plan. The old Ward — Tremonton First — said to the new Ward : "We will pay half of the cost to the Ward of its new meeting house, and the new Ward can pay the other half." Accordingly, the old Ward raised $12,000 to help build the new home for their old friends and associates, and the Bishop of the old Ward and his people report feeling better about this effort than about anything else the Ward has ever done. I commend this example to all dividing Wards. 

BEAUTIFI CATION PLAN APPROVED 

I would like to approve of the plan that lies close to Bishop Ashton's heart, that of beautifying our towns, our meeting houses, our homes. There is much to be done; but just paint by itself is a wonderful beautifier. There is an old ranch saying that "Fat is a pretty color." Paint is fat for barns, fences, and homes. 

I have already spoken of the problem of supplying labor to those who need assistance. Bishops, get the Welfare man some paint. Let him paint his own house; fix up his own fence; plant some trees in his own 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday , April 5 First Day 

yard, or some grass; clean up his yard. If you will do this, half your work of human repair is done, and the hardest half, too. 

Paint your meeting houses, your town hall, repair your sidewalks, keep your park or public grounds looking neat, keep up your fences. 

AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS TO HELP THE HOMES 

The call of these troubled times comes most insistently to the ears of the officers of the Auxiliary associations. They are reconsidering their whole field with a view to see what may be done by them to meet the needs of the times. They are undertaking more clearly to define their fields of activity, to cut out duplications, and overlapping — to eliminate the increasing waste in effort, time, and funds. 

One of their chief concerns will be the easing of the burdens on the Bishops and Presidents of Stakes, a relieving of the people from as much financial burden as possible, a cutting down of general excess activities, and helping the home to assume its normal functions in shaping the lives of the young. For when all is said and done that can be said or done, if the home is not sound, the bulk of the youth will fall into forbidden paths. The problem here is not primarily the children, but the parents who have been encouraged — unwittingly encouraged, if we be charitable — to turn over the training of the youth to the schools, the Auxiliaries, and other instrumentalities. This plan will never succeed. Fathers and mothers must know that they are responsible for the existence of their children, and having assumed that responsibility, they cannot in the eyes of God shirk, or shift, or ignore the responsibility of rightly training them, except they shall bring themselves under condemnation. 

One of the principal, if not the main, purpose of the Auxiliaries must be to help the parents to help their children, and this can be effectively worked out through the home. 

CHURCH EDUCATION 

We are trying the experiment in education of studying the Gospel by a semi-scientific method. We are floundering a bit, not yet have we got our true bearings. So far as I know, no other Church is attempting to do just what we are trying. In some churches members are told not to trouble themselves about doctrines, but to do what their leaders tell them. The Latter-day Saints are required by divine command to learn all they can about the Gospel. 

Critics — higher and lower — are applying scientific methods to the study of Religion, with somewhat disastrous results to many sectarian dogmas. But we are applying the system to the Gospel plan of life and salvation as revealed in the latter days. We could surely not survive this experiment except we had the truth. 

But we are going forward, and generally speaking the faith of our young people is increasing. Wherever this is not true, it is largely the fault of the instruction given. Earnest effort is being made to make sure that sectarianism does not become a part of our educational instruction,  that the Gospel truths are taught in their simplicity. Those in charge of our educational system are strenuously striving to this end. 

We could not justify spending the tithing of the poor, the widow's mite,- — and the great bulk of our tithing is of this sort, — for any other kind of Church doctrine education, than that which taught the Gospel and its restoration in its greatest simplicity, unmixed with any man-made views. 

WITHDRAWAL OF EUROPEAN MISSIONARIES 

I would like to say just a few words about the withdrawal of the missionaries from Europe. On August 24, 1939, it becoming increasingly apparent that our missionaries were not welcome either in the belligerent . or neutral countries of western Europe, the European Mission Presidents were requested to send to America all missionaries, except a very few who would remain temporarily to man the various Mission headquarters. 

We were blessed in having in Europe at the time Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and Sister Smith to counsel with the various Mission Presidents and take general direction of the situation. There were in our Missions at the time, including the wives and children of the Presidents, 697 persons, of whom 61 1 were young men and 63 young women missionaries, the other 23 were Mission Presidents, their wives and children. 

The first missionary group from Europe landed in New York September 7, and the last group, accompanied by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, and Sister Smith, landed on November 6th, 1939. 

These returning missionaries were received by President Frank Evans and Sister Evans at the Eastern States Mission headquarters in New York. The missionaries returned in 23 ships, each of which had to be met and the missionaries transported to their temporary quarters. The heavy baggage handled exceeded 1,500 pieces; there were more than 10,000 letters and other mailed parcels. Each of these 674 missionaries had to be housed and cared for. Many landed without funds, and funds had to be advanced to them — some 146 small loans were made, all repaid except one small item. The money received from parents had to be distributed, there were telegrams and cablegrams to handle, and office supplies to furnish and numerous other acts of helpfulness. 

Furthermore, as the bulk of these missionaries had not filled a full term mission they had to be reassigned upon arrival to new fields of labor. President John H. Taylor of the First Council of Seventy was sent to New York to direct this work. Of the 674 missionaries, 414 Elders and 32 lady missionaries were reassigned, the rest were released. 

President and Sister Evans had charge also of getting these 446 reassigned missionaries off to their new fields of labor, and the 228 released off to their homes. 

The total cost of this service by President Evans, in handling all these missionaries and Mission Presidents and families — a total of 697 persons — was only $2,271.47, or $3.26 per person, for landing, housing, feeding, and transportation from ships to headquarters and from headquarters to train. 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 First Day 

President Taylor assisted President Evans in all of this work. This is truly a great work. The whole group was moved from the disturbed areas in Europe to the United States, and thence either to their new fields of labor or to their homes, without one accident or one case of sickness other than one chronic illness. The entire group Was evacuated from Europe in three months, at a time when tens of thousands of Americans were besieging the ticket offices of the great steamship companies for passage, and the Elders had no reservations. Every time a group was ready to embark there was available the necessary space, even though efforts to reserve space a few hours before had failed. 

The European Mission Presidents were directed to place their Missions in the hands of the local brethren. When this was done they were also directed to return home. The first left on December 1, 1939, and the last landed in New York on March 4, 1940. 

During the European tour of President Grant three years ago the Saints were time and time again urged to appreciate and assume their full responsibilities as Church members and bearers of the Priesthood. They were urged to cease placing so much reliance upon the Elders. The present situation gives point to that counsel. 

Truly the blessings of the Lord attended this great enterprise. 

RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

For our purposes today we may say that the Priesthood is the authority of God bestowed upon men to represent Him in certain relationships between and among men and between men and God. This is an awesome responsibility. It imposes certain obligations upon the Priesthood bearers as between themselves, and also as between them and the members at large, and between them and Deity. 

Quorum membership is something more than a name. The Lord has made it abundantly clear by repeated commandments that upon the Priesthood in its organized form, and not merely upon individuals bearing it, rests the responsibility of instructing, encouraging, and admonishing the people. The Lord has designated specifically the duties of the Priesthood in this regard, grade by grade. He has given no authority to the Priesthood to relieve itself of this responsibility, of instructing, encouraging, and admonishing, by delegating to someone else this duty, individually or by class. The Lord will therefore hold the Priesthood as such responsible for a due and proper instruction of Church membership in the way of life and salvation. 

The Priesthood must not either forget or shirk this great responsibility. The Church may provide aids and helps through Auxiliary organiations, schools, and otherwise for the doing of this work, but the Church cannot and does not seek or aim to relieve the Priesthood from the obligations of this divine command, nor to authorize it to shirk it or dodge it. You bearers of the Priesthood, bend your backs, and take on this Godplaced burden. The Almighty expects, indeed commands this. Your failure to do so will bring woe to the people, and condemnation upon yourselves. WORLD CONDITIONS 

We may return to our Heavenly Father our devout thanks that His spirit of peace yet broods over this land, and that war has not to this point cursed us with its woes and miseries. 

I should like to incorporate by reference all that I said last October about the war, its causes and its iniquities. 

THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH 

I should like to say a word to the women of the Church, the "first aid" to the Priesthood in their trials and tribulations. I marvel that our wives are willing to live with us, with all of our grumblings, failings, and shortcomings. 

From the beginning the women of the Christian church have shown their surpassing faith and devotion. Only one Apostle stood near the Cross while the Christ was crucified, but Mary, the mother, was there, and Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's children, and the women that followed Him from Galilee. It was Mary Magdalene who was first at the tomb when the Sabbath had ended, and to her Christ vouchsafed the first view to mortals of His resurrected body. 

From that time until now woman has comforted and nursed the Church. She has borne more than half the burdens, she has made more than half the sacrifices, she has suffered the most of the heartaches and sorrows. 

In the modern Church hers has been the abiding, unquestioning faith, the pure knowledge, that has enheartened the Priesthood and kept it going forward against all odds. Her loving trust, her loyal devotion were the faithful anchor that held when storms were fiercest. 

For all this we are more grateful than we can say. We humbly ask the Lord to help you sisters in the future as in the past. We Priesthood need your courage, your steadfastness, your faith, your knowledge, your testimony, to cheer us on, to keep us in the way. 

Sisters of the Church, the chastity of the youth of the Church is largely in your hands. You must enthrone virtue in its sovereign place; you must bring back modesty, must let the beauty of chaste blushes still adorn your cheeks. 

Mothers in Israel, teach your sons to honor and revere, to protect to the last, pure womanhood; teach your daughters that their most priceless jewel is a clean, undefiled body; teach both sons and daughters that chastity is worth more than life itself. These are the duties which the Priesthood looks to you primarily to carry to, and to maintain in, that cradle of all virtues, — the righteous home. We Priesthood shall help as best our natures permit, but the burden for that task is now and always has been, in the greatest part, yours. Unless you shall do this, the whole world will sink into a welter of sin and corruption. May God help you in your task! 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Dag 

TO THE YOUTH OF CHURCH 

May I say again to the youth of the Church, and first to you daughters : That man or youth who demands without marriage as the price of his favor or love the enjoyment of your body, has in fact nothing but sorrow and degradation to give you in return; and next, to you sons : That woman who offers to you her body outside wedlock, invites you to a feast that brings disease and corruption that will pollute you until death. And any man or woman who demands as the price of his favor or friendship a surrender of any of your righteous standards of living, is offering to you nothing worth buying. What it brings to you is false as Evil itself. 

I say all this in soberness, and in such solemnity as I command, knowing as I know that I live that I speak the truth. 

THE ORGANIZATIONS COMMENDED 

I want to thank all of the organizations of the Church for their great help in carrying on the work of the Church. Perhaps I ought not to say help, perhaps I ought to say for carrying the work on, for we brethren here at the top would be powerless if it were not for the sterling faithfulness of you brethren and sisters. I know that the great bulk are trying to live righteously and to do right, and I know that the Lord will bless them in their efforts. 

LOYALTY BRINGS BLESSINGS 

The Lord is pleased with your loyalty to those in authority, in Ward, Stake, and Church. The work cannot go on growing without this loyalty, and this loyalty is not to be thought of as loyalty to the individuals, but as loyalty to the work, to the office, to the authority which the individual represents. It is loyalty to the Priesthood of Almighty God. The individual himself is submerged in the divine authority he possesses. David sought forgiveness for raising his hand against the Lord's anointed, even though the anointed one sought David's life. This is the true principle of loyalty applied in almost the last extremity. 

From Cain until now, failure to follow God's authority has brought only condemnation. Aaron, Miriam, Korah and his followers, the whole camp of Israel suffered when they complained or rebelled against Moses. Likewise through the whole human history of God's dealings with men. 

From the earliest days of this Church, malcontents, apostates, "soreheads," have railed out with slander, falsehood, derision, against those whom God called to lead the people. They so treated the Prophet, and Brother Brigham, and to a lesser degree, every President who has followed. But the Lord has always prospered the Church as it followed their leadership. The detractors have gone down to the oblivion they deserved. So it will always be. The Prophet of the Lord has stood above and beyond the carpings of those unrighteous critics. He has always lived, as our leader lives today, in the kindly light of the Lord's approval, the recipient of the Lord's choicest blessings, manifested openly to those who will but look. 

May the Lord continue His Spirit to be with us at all times. May He be with us during the remainder of this Conference; particularly may He bless and restore President Grant to complete health and strength, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An Anthem, "My Soul is Athirst for God," (Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen), was sung by the Brigham Young University Chorus. Soloist : Edward Sandgren. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity I have to be present with you this morning. The statesmanlike expression of the growth of the Church, of the progress of every activity of the Church, and the faith of the people, as expressed by President Clark and those who have spoken, has impressed me and affected me very greatly. I appreciate the fact that this work is progressing effectively and under the influence of the Holy Spirit the Lord is blessing His people and enabling them to accomplish the work which is before them. 

I regret with you very greatly the fact that President Grant is unable to be present with us this morning; yet I rejoice in great measure that his health is improving; that he is on the road to recovery; and that the blessings of God are with him. 

I rejoice in the mission of peace which is manifest among the Latterday Saints and among many other people, and in all that has been said regarding this important quality and characteristic. I was impressed with the testimony and prayer of Brother George T. Hyde, imploring the Lord for peace and the way to overcome conditions which prevail throughout the world today, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere. 

WARS AND RUMORS OF WAR 

The ways of God are the ways of peace. Yet, in spite of His efforts to promote peace on earth, it is still a fact that among many millions of people, particularly in the Eastern Hemisphere, wars and rumors of war are largely prevalent. Threats of war are heard almost constantly in the other half of the world. In this western continent the larger part of the peoples are in the enjoyment of peace. We are grateful for the fact that, for a period at least, the Western Hemisphere has not, to a large extent, in any way been embroiled in all the turmoil, which will lead we know not where. 

There are those, who, both here at home, and particularly abroad, would like to see this great nation become involved in these struggles abroad. So far, fortunately, the majority of the people of the United States, and, to a very considerable extent, the people of other western nations, have been able to keep their heads and their common sense, and to follow the wise and ancient counsels of the Father of our country, to 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 First Dag 

beware of entangling alliances with the foreign nations of the old world, and not to ally ourselves for war with any of these countries. 

The Latter-day Saints believe firmly in peace. We consider that wars are largely foolish and unnecessary, and that the present warring conditions are entirely without justification or necessity. With the present measure of intelligence among men, if those engaged in strife, were free from selfishness, greed and ambition, peace would prevail. The Prince of Peace came on earth in His mortal life nearly two thousand years ago, but due to the hatred and prejudices among men He was unable to carry out His peaceful desires fully and, as He himself stated, He "came not to send peace on earth, but a sword." (Matt. 10:34) During the twenty centuries that have elapsed since His coming, there have been wars and rumors of wars prevailing largely. As His mortal ministry was about to be finished, He said to his disciples : 

These things I have spoken unto you that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. 

QUOTATION FROM BRITISH THINKER 

Recently, I noticed an article in the Contemporary Review written by a prominent British ecclesiast regarding the present war conditions, and discussing the question of universal peace. The statement is entitled, "Ruling and Overruling." I quote a few brief extracts therefrom as follows: 

The war raises again the grave problem of the relationship of God to the world, and of His activities in the affairs of men. Many are asking — Why did not God intervene to prevent this dread calamity, to spare mankind this tremendous ordeal? Is God inactive in His universe, and His very existence problematic? If not, what is the method in which His sovereignty is expressed, and what is the end it seeks to achieve? Surely, peace in its essential meaning demands catholicity, the commonwealth of mankind, and the community of a truly human fellowship. Is the structure of human society at present sufficiently strong and righteous to rear and sustain this weighty and glorious edifice? Obviously, it is not. Should not the war, therefore, be regarded as, in part, the Divine judgment upon us? If so, mercy is at its heart." 

FREE AGENCY GIVEN TO MEN 

As indicated by the writer of this article, many people raise the question as to why God did not intervene to prevent the great calamity that has come upon the earth and to spare mankind this tremendous ordeal. In my judgment the questions asked and the issues raised do not agree with the fundamental principles under which the Almighty operates, and by which He accomplishes His purposes. Men and women, who inhabit this earth, inherently enjoy the right of free agency, or the right of choice, in their actions. Though God does earnestly desire and strive for the acceptance of His purposes by mankind, He will not exert compulsory means to bring to pass His designs. As the Lord declared to Cain when the latter was angered with his brother Abel : 

If thou doest well, thou shalt be accepted. And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door, and Satan desireth to have thee. (Writings of Moses.) 

Though many men under the influence of justice and righteousness are led toward peace and good will, those who are influenced by selfishness and personal ambition will act contrary thereto. The Prophet Nephi declares : 

Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself. (II Nephi 2:27.) 

Every individual has the right of choice. And just as everyone has the right of free agency, so everyone will be held accountable for his or her choices. For all have the intelligence, and must render an accounting of their actions. This is clearly portrayed in the Pearl of Great Price, writings of Moses, Chapter 4, Verses 1 to 4, as follows : 

That Satan, whom thou hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the beginning, and he came before me, saying — Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor. 

But, behold, my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved, and Chosen from the beginning, said unto me — Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever. 

Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down; 

And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice. 

These statements make clear the fact that, because of the domination of men, in bringing about war, the Lord did not intervene, even though He has steadfastly sought to win mankind to peace and union and righteousness. As already stated, due to the agency of mankind to make their choices as to their ways of life, they will necessarily have to render an accounting of their acts in this life. As was revealed to the Apostle John, (Rev. 20:12) regarding the accountability of all mankind for their acts: 

And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. 

JOY COMES THROUGH SERVING GOD 

The relationship of God to the world, and His interest in the affairs of men, is greatly misunderstood by many of the people of the various nations. They conclude, apparently, that He is actuated by arbitrary 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 5 First Day 

or dictatorial attitudes, instead of being the embodiment of justice and righteousness, love and mercy, particularly toward those who seek to know and strive to do His will. He is love. He desires greatly the progress and happiness of mankind. He realizes that the greatest peace and joy come to men who seek to harmonize their wishes with His will: "Men are that they might have joy," and joy comes to those who undertake to keep His commandments. But, if mankind choose to follow the influence of the adversary, to be guided by domineering or dictatorial leaders, with the accompanying destructive results, they must take the unfortunate consequences. 

THE SOVEREIGNTY OF GOD 

The question — "Is God inactive in His universe, and His very existence problematic ? If not, what is the method in which His sovereignty is expressed, and what is the end it seeks to achieve?" — indicates a lack of faith in and understanding of the great personages who constitute the matchless governing and supreme power over all things, by whom all things were created, whether visible or invisible, whether in heaven, on earth, in the earth, under the earth or throughout the immensity of space. The work and the glory of God is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. Respecting the method in which His sovereignty is expressed and the end it seeks to achieve, the Lord has revealed the following: 

Hearken, O ye people, and open your hearts and give ear from afar; and listen, you that call yourselves the people of the Lord, and hear the word of the Lord and His will concerning you. 

Yea, verily, I say, hear the word of Him, whose anger is kindled against the wicked and rebellious, 

Who willeth to take even them whom He will take, and preserveth in life them whom He will preserve; 

Who buildeth up at His own will and pleasure; and destroyeth when He pleases; and is able to cast the soul down to hell. 

Behold, I, the Lord, utter my voice, and it shall be obeyed. 

Wherefore, verily I say, let the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious fear and tremble; let the unbelieving hold their lips, for the day of wrath shall come upon them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall know that I am God. 

The sovereignty of God, as expressed herein, is in perfect accord with all that God has revealed in the Scriptures on this subject. 

In the revelations of the Apostle John (Rev. 4:11) the Elders, representing the Church declare : 

Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. 

God's sovereignty is absolute, but the exaltation and happiness of His children are His glory. His absolutism is that of a loving Father who knows of no greater happiness than the promotion of the welfare of His family. How sovereignty in God can be exercised upon free agents may be difficult to explain, but the yielding of obedience fully does not  with free agency. There is no inconsistency in the doctrine of God's sovereignty and men's freedom. 

THE GOSPEL BRINGS PEACE 

Peace on earth depends upon the harmonizing of men's hearts and the cultivation of good will, justice and righteousness. It involves the overcoming of selfishness, unfairness and mistrust among mankind. There have been many failures throughout the world in the endeavors to maintain peace. Yet the effort toward the increase of good will and kindliness is so much worthwhile and is of such great moment to the welfare of the human race that it justifies continuous effort in every direction. It is especially incumbent on the Latter-day Saints, who are disciples of the Prince of Peace, and are seeking to live in harmony with His established Gospel, which is the way to peace. The Lord has revealed again in these latter days the charge to His followers to — '"Renounce war, and proclaim, peace". To endeavor in every proper way, through example and influence, to promote peace everywhere, that the way may be prepared so that "nations shall not lift up the sword against nations" but be prepared for the coming of the reign of the Lord, that peace and good will toward men shall prevail everywhere. This, we are confident, will eventually occur. 

I pray our Heavenly Father that His blessings may attend all of us in all of our actions, that we may endeavor constantly to live the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for that is the way to peace and prosperity, and I ask it in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HUGH B. BROWN 

Former President of the British Mission 

Sometimes it is better to go "over the top" without notice, than to sit in awful expectation of the zero hour. Humbly I pray for guidance and help. 

I bring to you, my brothers and sisters, greetings from the Saints of the British Mission. They are attempting to carry on under very trying circumstances. Men and women have assumed responsibilities of leadership, and in all the branches and districts an effort is being made to maintain the organizations of the Church and to carry on under the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The spirit of the British Saints is admirable indeed. The attitude of the British people commands respect and admiration. They are taking a stand in defense of democracy, are fighting a war which was not of their choosing but which I am sure they will prosecute until the agressor nations change their policy and decide to live at peace with their neighbors and respect the rights of individuals, of groups, of races and nationalities. 

We who remained a few months after the war was declared have some little appreciation of the seriousness of the situation as it affects our people there. While we are assembled here in a great Conference of the Church, in a peaceful land, surrounded with comparative plenty, 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 5 First Day 

enjoying the comforts and in many instances luxuries of life, let us not be unmindful of the conditions that obtain in those European countries which are at war. May we remember them, not only in our prayers to our Heavenly Father, but I suggest that those of us who are acquainted, as many of us are through our sons and daughters who have labored there, with members of the Church in those countries, that we write them occasionally, encouraging them to carry on. 

Your sons and daughters who have been laboring there have given a good account of themselves. We who were laboring with them found real joy and satisfaction in attempting to help them to get a vision of the great missionary work of the Church. The spirit of the Missions of the Church is the spirit of selfless service. I am sure that the reason so many of your sons and daughters, upon returning home, declare that the time spent in the mission field was the most enjoyable of their lives, is that  they have found, while there, that there is more joy in giving than in getting. 

Sometimes, when they first arrive, they wonder just what they are going to get out of their mission, and as long as they are thus disturbed they are not very effective. Very soon after arriving, however, most of them begin to look around them for ways whereby they may serve their fellow men, and when they are impressed by this spirit they begin to unfold and to develop, under the light of the spirit of the Gospel of Christ, and they become effective. 

It is regrettable that in some instances, upon returning home, they find difficulty in making the adjustment that is necessary where they find it incumbent upon them to spend part, at least, of their time in establishing themselves economically. I trust that as time goes on we may find ways and means of meeting this situation. 

I trust that the Lord will help us to serve Him and keep His commandments, and show our love for Him by our willingness to serve our fellow men at home, when so much of our time is necessarily given to so-called worldly matters. I hope the time may come when the spirit of the Mission may dominate the Wards and the Stakes at home, even more than it does today. I trust that we may catch the vision of the work which was undertaken and so effectively completed by the Master Himself; that we may come to see in others the good that is there to be found : that we may emulate His example, and put out of our hearts envy and contention and jealousy and strife; that we may become sympathetic, one with another; that we may realize that real religion is service; that we must convert conviction into action. 

I trust that we, as members of the Church of Christ, may be able so to live the Gospel that others, seeing our works, may be attracted to it and receive of the blessings which are in store for those who will observe it. 

I read this morning, before leaving home, a work which I should like to read to you, indicative of the thinking of some of the leaders in other lands today. 

Religion, in the past, has always spent a large proportion of its force on doings that were apart from the real business of life, on sacrificing, on endless prayers, on traveling to Mecca, Jerusalem or Rome, on kissing sacred stones, bathing in sacred rivers, climbing sacred stairs, and a thousand things that had at best only an indirect bearing on the practical social relations between men and their fellows. 

I thought of this paragraph as President Clark was giving us his masterful address, and as I listened to the reports that were read here. I think there is no group in the world which is giving so unselfishly for the uplift of the human family as is the Qiurch of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. There is less show and pomp and ceremony, but it seems to me that we are attempting to harness the great spiritual power of the Church to the problems of human suffering and human need. For these things humbly I thank God. 

I should like to bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, upon returning again from the mission field, that God has blessed me with a testimony of the truth. I thank Him humbly for that, as it is the prized possession of my life. I bear witness that the Prophet Joseph Smith had a vision, that he saw and talked with God. I know this from the very core of my heart, and I thank Him for that knowledge. 

I bear witness that they who have succeeded him were likewise so inspired and led; that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God. It was my privilege to travel with him some two years ago in Europe. I wish you could have been present in Heidelburg when, as we were passing through the station, where we could not stop, a group of faithful German Latter-day Saints, standing on the platform, as he put his head out of the car window, sang in a language we could not understand, but with a spirit that I have seldom witnessed, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." Today I echo that sentiment, and say to you that throughout the world faithful Latter-day Saints esteem him and his associates as such. 

I bear witness to the truth, and bring to you from those nations this message : Carry on, regardless of the difficulties that may confront you. God made of one blood all nations of men, and there is no room in the heart of a Latter-day Saint for hate. 

Let us then, remember them today in those countries, and let us plead with God our Father to bring speedily the end to war. May we, as we enjoy the peaceful surroundings of our great land, be not unmindful of the fact that they are our brothers and sisters, and that He is interested in them. Let us love one another. Let us emulate His example, for He exposed each individual to the X-ray of His penetrating vision, and revealed to him his hidden possibilities, not his defects. Let us keep that in mind as we think of these warring nations, and expel from our hearts anything of hate, and in love serve our fellow men. I pray God that He will help us so to do, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Brigham Young University Chorus sang an anthem, "Grant Us Peace, O Lord," (Evan Stephens). GENERAL CONFERENCE PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, I would like to urge all of you to drive carefully. Let us see if it be not possible to go through one General Conference without an automobile accident. 

Elder Albert Choules, President of the Teton Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


