Morning
08 10 1932

The Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 8, at 10 o'clock. 

President Anthony W. Ivins announced that the congregation would sing the hymn, "O ye mountains high." 

After the singing of the hymn by the large assembly, which nearly filled the great tabernacle and galleries, Elder Joseph Bennett, Patriarch, Salt Lake Stake, offered the invocation. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Do what is right." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of \the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

We appreciate your attendance, my brethren and sisters and friends, at this conference. We welcome you. We thank you for your presence and feel that we need your faith and your help in considering the great questions which confront us as a people at this particular time. We are grateful for the beautiful weather that the Lord has given us for the holding of our conference. 

We regret the absence of President jGrant and of Elder Ballard, both of whom have recently undergone more or less serious operations, but we understand that through the blessing of the Lord they are both well on toward recovery. We trust that the prayers of the Saints will foe continued in their behalf and that the mercy of the Lord will be extended unto them, that they may soon be fully recovered. 

one way Of relieving distress 

I think perhaps some of the people have been asking the question : What is going to be said or done, during the conference, to relieve the distressing condition of the people in this time of (financial depression. Some references to these conditions have already been made and some important advice and counsel have been given. 

I should like to contribute something toward the solution of this great question : What can be done to help ? | I remember that in President Ivins' talk in the first session of this conference, yesterday morning, he reported an increase in the work being accomplished in the temples, and X was reminded of a conversation which I had with a brother a few days ago, as I met (him on the street. He is a man about my age, whom I have known since we were boys together. He is living here in Salt Lake and is a hard-working man. He .volunteered to say that at the last conference we were reminded that there were a great many people out of employment; that the temples could accommodate many  people than were attending" the ordinance sessions there; that members of the Church who had employment, and Swho had work to be done in the temples, would do well to employ some of these faithful, unemployed members of the Church to work for them in the temple. He said that he felt that that instruction was given for him, and he began expending about $5.00 a month from his meager earnings, and up to the present time had spent about $75.00 along' that line. 

As President Ivins 'was mentioning yesterday the increase in attendance at the temples, I wondered to what extent that advice given six months ago had affected the Latter-day Saints, as it had this one good brother to whom I refer, and to what extent that action on the part of the Saints is responsible for the increase of work being done. 

For your information, in order to be more definite as to the increase of temple work, I will say that during the first six months of this year the endowment work performed in the Salt Lake Temple exceeded that of the same period last year by 22,956 endowments. The increase in number of baptisms performed ( for the same period was 20,330. I am sure this will be a real astonishment to many of the Latter-day Saints, especially those who are not themselves active in accomplishing this work. 

The advice given six months |ago is just as applicable today as it was then, and I hope that we will in this way try to alleviate the distress of some of our brethren and sisters, hy employing them to do some of this kind of work (for us. That is one way of helping both the living and the dead and lis pure religion. 

THROUGH FAILURE TO OBSERVE COUNSEL 

There are different classes of misfortune that have come to our . people in what we call the financial depression. There is a class of people who depend upon others for employment. They have been in the habit of living up to their income or a little beyond. They are now thrown out of employment because of this condition of depression and are stranded and penniless, many of these not having homes of their own. 

We have been counseled and advised by the Authorities of this Church, from the beginning, . that we should try to live within our means and lay jup something for a rainy day, a time of sickness or other emergencies that might arise. Had this advice and counsel been heeded to the full by the members of the Church, much of the distress of today would have been avoided. 

There is another class of people who, a few years ago, were prospering, having great demand, at good* prices, for their products, and they bought more land in order to make more money, perhaps to buy more land. At any rate, many of our brethren have been hired to the purchase of farms and ranches and stock that they were not prepared to pay for. In order to make what they would call a good purchase, many of them have mortgaged their home and; the farm, which was until that time unencumbered and yielding them good return, in order to raise the money with which to make the first payment on additional lands or cattle. The times did not continue as they had been. The products were not bringing the prices fthat they were formerly bringing. In some instances there was a scarcity of water and a shortage of crops, and many of these people were placed at their Jwits' ends to know how to meet these obligations, where their home and farm were mortgaged and the additional farm or stock was also mortgaged. Some have struggled on and have gone to the limit of their resources in an effort to make these payments, and ,then finally have found that they were not able to meet their obligations, and have lost their home, their farm, and the annexed property. 

That represents a class, and they are numerous among us as Latterday Saints. This condition could have been avoided had the advice and counsel of the Authorities of this Church, whom we sustain by our vote as prophets, seers and revelators, been heeded. They have counseled and advised that we do not run into debt; that we avoid Speculation with borrowed money. We can now see the wisdom of that counsel and that advice. 1 

There is another class of people who, thinking to get rich quick, have speculated in stocks, in oil fields, in picture films, in dream mines, and many other fake .stocks and enterprises which they bave been advised against, and this to their sorrow. 

The Lord has said : "Whether it be by my own mouth or by the mouth of my servants, it is the same." These men are upheld, by our vote, as prophets of God, and as such we would do well to follow their advice and counsel. Had we done so as a people much lof the distress we see about us would have been averted. 

FROM A SMALL BEGINNING 

The Lord, in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph, known as the 64th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, says this: 

"Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great iwork. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great." 

Daniel's interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream, as the Lord gave it to him, was that in the last days — that expression is used — in the days of certain kings also should the God of heaven set up a kingdom that should never be thrown down or be given to another people. It was likened iimto a stone cut out of the mountain without hands, that should roll forth until it should fill the whole earth. 

This Church and the Gospel constitute Mormonism, the biggest thing in this world, yet ,it had a very small beginning. We read in the Acts of the Apostles, where Peter, in addressing those Jews who were. I suppose, responsible for the killing of the Savior, said : 

"Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; 

"And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you: "Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began." 

Everything pertaining to this Church and the Gospel is a restoration. 

FASTING AND OFFERINGS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED 

I desire to call your attention, 'brethren and sisters, to the tithes and the fast offerings. Fasting and offerings have been associated closely always. I will read to you a few words from Isaiah on this subject. He goes on to tell that the people's fasting was not acceptable and tells why. Then he says : 

"Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? 

"Is it not to deal thy |bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that; thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh? 

"Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy reward. 

"Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shaft cry, and he shall say, Here I am." 

The offerings, according to Isaiah, are naturally a part of the fast, and help to make the fast acceptable to the Lord. We ought to get that fixed in our minds. Malachi associates the offerings with the tithes as follows (Malachi, third chapter) : 

"For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. 

"Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances, -and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall we return? 

"Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. 

"Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. 

"Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, land pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." 

FASTING AND OFFERINGS ESTABLISHED 

Tithes, offerings and fasting — a restoration in these days. What does it mean? In the early rise of this Church there was established, as a restoration, this principle of fasting and giving offerings for the poor. One day each month was set apart. The members of the Church were asked to abstain from eating two meals of the three which they are accustomed to having, and to give the value of what they would save by the fast, for the support of the poor. If we bad observed this fully and faithfully, brethren and sisters, there would have been ample in the Church, from that fund alone, to take care of all who are in need of assistance. 

IF STRICTLY OBSERVED 

Let us just see for a moment. The population of this Church is in the neighborhood of 700,000; we will say 600,000. If all of the members of the Church had observed fully and faithfully this advice and counsel from the beginning see what ,it would mean. Estimating the average value of a meal at fifteen cents, two meals a day, thirty cents; for 600,000 people, $180,000.00 a month. Think of it! Or $2,160,000.00 per year! We have not always been as populous as we are now, but had we observed that one obligation, all the poor would have been taken care of and there would have been an accumulating surplus for a time of emergency such as we are having today. It is a little thing out of which great things would come if we were doing our part. The Lord has planned it all right; the failure is on our part. 

AN OBLIGATION UPON ALL 

So let us now, brethren and sisters, from this time forth observe the fast and the offerings. I realize (that in many of the wards and stakes there are but very few who are in need of help. In fact, a bulletin issued from the Presiding Bishop's office on the 30th of June, this year, gives the information that seventy-five of the one hundred and four stakes are maintaining their poor from the offerings. That is very commendable, but in many of those stakes -it requires but little to do this. 

Instructions have gone out from the Presiding Bishop's office endorsed by the First Presidency, asking the bishops in wards where the offerings are not needed for the poor, jto forward those offerings to the Presiding Bishop's office. I suppose that in many of the wards where there are very few if any poor, the people have ifelt that they did not need to give their offerings, perhaps they have not understood the plan, that a surplus of the ward offerings should be sent to the Presiding Bishop's office for distribution among those members of the Church who are in need. I am disposed not to find fault with the people on that account. Perhaps the bishops have not realized the full significance of this advice and have not stressed ^mong their people the importance of paying their offerings. The bishops ought to be more persistent in teaching the people, and the people more particular in observing this instruction. 

The Presiding Bishopric and the Presidency of the Church have instructed bishops that where the offerings are not sufficient to take care of the poor they are at liberty to make requisition upon the Presiding Bishopric for the privilege of using a part of the tithing for this purpose. It will no doubt surprise you, brethren and sisters, when I tell you that last year, according to their reports, $224,556.38 was drawn from the tithes of the Church for charity purposes. Is it important then that we observe our fast and our offerings, which would have obviated any calling upon the tithing fund for help ? 

IN REGARD TO TITHING 

It was reported here by President Ivins yesterday that the Church is out!of debt. That doesn't mean that there is no emergency and that we can let up on the payment of our tithes, brethren and sisters. The tithes are dropping off because of general adverse financial conditions  the poverty of [the people. We do not ask those who have been and are full tithepayers, to pay more than a tenth of their interest and income. When they have done that they have done their full duty, so far as the tithing is concerned. But we do ask them to continue to pay their tithing as heretofore; and those who have only paid part tithing, to pay their tithing in full; and those who have paid no tithing at all, to repent and pay their tithes to the Lord. If we .obtain an exaltation in the kingdom of God we must observe and keep all the laws of God, and that includes ithe law of the tithe. 

DOERS OF THE WORD 

There are too many of us, I fear, who are of the class that the Apostle James had in mind when he said : 

"But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." 

I feel, (brethren and sisters, that we as a people have need of being impressed with the necessity of doing as well as we know, perhaps more than of being taught what we ought to do. We are a well-taught people and fas a rule if we would do as well as we know all would be well with Zion. 

This is a great and glorious work. , The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph : "I am about to Ibring forth a great and a marvelous work." It is great. It is marvelous. It is a wonder. And yet, brethren and sisters, it would be very much more marvelous and very jmuch more wonderful if we were living according to the standards of the Church and of the Gospel, and the teachings rthat are given us by the leaders of this Church. . In doing this we would glorify the names of our Father and his Son, our Redeemer. 

There is, then, much that we can do to help to alleviate the distress and suffering that are among the people today. God has graciously made provision in his Church for every condition that might arise. It is for us to carry out his purposes according to his jplanning; then would the wisdom of the wise men perish, and the understanding of their prudent men be hid, [in the light of the accomplishment of this, God's work. 

May he help us to do our part faithfully and well, t pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

DR. FRANKLIN S. HARRIS 

President of Brigham Young University 

I do not think it would be possible for anyone to be more surprised than I am this morning upon being called to address you. I have enjoyed very much the meetings of this conference; I always enjoy these meetings. For, something like twenty-nine years, the period that I have been accessible to the conferences of the Church, I have never missed one if I have been in the state, and it seems to me that each of these conferences has its own peculiarities, its own type of advice, counsel and admonition. I should not like to be without the inspiration that comes to me by attending these meetings. 

In these days, when everything of the past is being brought up for review, our religious activities, our Church, and everything else, come in for consideration. Recently in the East, I read something that had been written by some minister in which he said that the old people of the Church were incurably "Mormon," but that the young people showed some hope of being alienated in their affections 'for the Church, and that there was hope that in time these young people would withdraw and become Christians. This set me to thinking, and since it is my work to be with the young people of the Church I believe I am prepared to speak on this subject with some authority. At the University I come daily in contact with about fifteen hundred of them from all parts of the Church. It is also my privilege [to travel throughout the Church and meet young people. 

I am prepared to refute, in the most emphatic terms, any allegation that the young people of the Church are not loyal to it, to its authorities, and to its teachings. Of course there are not one hundred per cent of the young people who continue to adhere to the Church. There are not i one hundred per cent of Americans who continue to be loyal to the government of the United States. There is no cause that has one hundred per cent support. But it is my firm conviction that there has never been a time, in the history of the Church, when the young people were so firmly rooted in the fundamental principles of the Gospel as today. 

Almost daily young people come to my office and tell me of their devotion to the Church, of their growing conviction of the truth of its doctrines, of their determination to spend their lives in its service and in advocating the doctrines for which the Church stands. There are those, of course, who have their periods of doubt, and I do not blame them for their doubts, because after all the knowledge of another person cannot save an individual. It is necessary for a person to think the thing out for himself. He must have doubts and misgivings in order that those doubts and misgivings may be overcome and that he may get a philosophy of his own. Consequently I never worry if a young man or young woman expresses some doubt and wants to think the thing out for himself. I know that this type of real thinking is a thing that will eventually bring them back to a loyalty to the Church and an understanding of its principles. 

The thing that I do object to is the lack of interest. This it seems to me is the most dangerous thing we can have, and if I see a person, particularly a young person, who says he has no interest in religion, then I have misgivings. 

I want to bear my testimony to you that the Gospel of Jesus Christ contains those principles that are satisfying to. any thinking man or woman. I have no apology to offer for it. I believe that some of our people make a mistake by being somewhat apologetic for the Church,  its history, or its doctrines; but as far as I am concerned, I have no apologies whatever to offer for it. 

It has been my privilege to see, more than most men, the peoples of the world, to study their philosophies, to observe their systems in practical operation and to know the hearts of the people; and the more I study the rest of the world the more I love Mormonism. Not that I have anything against any people; I know of no people with whom I have come in contact for whom I do not have honor and whose point of view I do not respect; but knowing these other conditions I have greater love for Mormonism, for its leadership, for its doctrines, for its institutions, for what it can do for man here and hereafter. 

So when I come in contact with the young people I tell them to go about in their excursions seeking for truth. I say: Look it all over; investigate it all; because I am not at all afraid of the results. I hope that we, as a people, do seek everywhere for truth. W!e have no monopoly on the truth. Theoretically we take it all from whatever source it comes. Other people have truth, and I believe that we should seek it far and wide, and adopt it wherever we find it. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the young people of the Church are entirely worthy of the confidence of their parents. I think they are the best young people the Church has ever had at any time, notwithstanding there are differences of opinion on this point. I believe the young people are the most temperate, the most moral, the most intellectual that the young people have ever been at any time in the history of the Church. I bear testimony to you that with the passing of each generation we shall have more loyalty to the Church, we shall have more consolidation and a stronger Church. 

I fervently pray that I may be worthy to be among the humble workers of the Church, that I may be able to set a proper example, and that I may assist in advancing this great cause. I ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Herbert R. Bluke, assisted by the congregation, sang the hymn, "Galilee." 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMANOf the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

LAWLESSNESS, DISRESPECT FOR LAW AND ANARCHY 

Wlhile many of you may know that all my life I have been a Prohibitionist, that I stand firmly for the 18th Amendment, for its retention in the Constitution of the United States, and for the Volstead Act and for its enforcement, and while I have made a public announcement that if in our two great National parties men cannot be found for office who live in accordance with the laws of our country and who are in favor of having our laws enforced, I stand ready to join a third or fourth or any other party that favors enforcement, nevertheless, I feel as if it would be unwise and perhaps improper for me in the heat of the present great National campaign to make an extended argument in favor of Prohibition or the 18th Amendment since on these subjects honest, law-abiding, high-minded citizens have such greatly diversified views. 

NOT GOOD FOR MAN 

Speaking as I am to this great conference of Latter-day Saints, however, I cannot resist the temptation to quote these few words from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you * * * I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom," a portion of which reads, "Strong drinks * * * are not good for man." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89.) 

ALCOHOL A NARCOTIC 

Nor can I resist the temptation to add that the 18th Amendment came and in my opinion it and Prohibition also will finally prevail, because in this scientific age it has been demonstrated that alcohol is not a desirable food nor is it in any sense a stimulant, as was formerly believed. Science tells us it is a poison, it is a narcotic. It compels human nerves to tell falsehoods. It makes men think they are doingmore work when scientific measures show that they are actually doing less. It makes the poor man think he is rich, it makes the sick man think he is well. When the masses of the people are so educated that they know and understand the truth about alcohol as they now know that the earth is round and that vaccination is effective, then alcohol should be and I expect it will be avoided and will be prohibited with the same vigor and unanimity that the use of morphine is prohibited. The wise, the good, the ambitious, the educated people of the world will be too much interested in efficiency to have their own and their children's chances of success reduced by the use of this poison, this narcotic — alcohol. 

LOYALTY TO .EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT 

If I were making an appeal to you on this occasion in the interest of Prohibition and the 18th Amendment I would draw your attention to the resolution passed last June by the Mutual Improvement workers of the Church, when, in their annual convention 10,000 strong and representing 125,000 workers, they declared their loyalty to the 18th Amendment and to our Prohibition laws; also pledged their support to officers and candidates for office who respect these laws, who live in accordance with them and who strive for their enforcement. I would draw attention too to the statement on this subject by the General Boards of the Mutuals as it appeared in the September Era. It says : 

GIVING UP FOOD AND CLOTHING FOR DRINK 

"The M. I. A. has always stood and will continue to stand for the non-use of liquor. We believe and teach that it is not good for man. Alcohol strikes at  very foundation of human progress. The M. I. A. helped to secure Prohibition and regards it as the most successful means yet tried or devised by this or any other nation for dealing with the liquor traffic. Laws are rarely one hundred per cent successful. Since the observance and enforcement of this legislation would mean that the laborers of our country would buy food, clothing, shelter and education for their families with the money that might otherwise be spent for drink, the M. I. A. stands strongly against repeal and strongly for the enforcement of our liquor laws. The ground already gained, which has cost so much in time, effort and money ought not to be lost, it ought not to be surrendered. Liquor has always been and it will continue forever to be the intimate ally of crime. Fighting the one is the surest way of decreasing the other. Let us struggle on and on and on. Since this enemy of the happiness, prosperity and success of mankind can never be completely eliminated, good citizens will always have it to fight." — General Boards Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations. 

"we are at war!" 

But the subject upon which I desire to speak is lawlessness, disrespect for law and anarchy. 

The condition of our country with respect to lawlessness and anarchy is such that John J. Pershing says, "We are at war!" that the conditions confronting the United States today are more serious than those we faced in France. (American Magazine, June, 1932, p. 15.) 

THE LAW BREAKER OF TODAY 

The law breaker of twenty years ago was a cringing, shabby, repulsive creature who shyly attempted to hide himself in alley ways and other dark places. But conditions have changed. The law breaker of today is wearing fine clothes, flashy jewelry, he owns and drives high-powered speed boats and high-powered motor cars; his pockets are bulging with money. These are the racketeers, the gangsters, the bootleggers and kidnapers, who, equipped even with machine guns, have such power, influence and financial strength that they are actually threatening the very life of our government; they are undermining the foundation of our republic. Surely the citizens of the nation should be alarmed, they should be aroused when the very existence of our government is in peril. 

THE DRINKER IS RESPONSIBLE 

There are those who assert that Prohibition is responsible for this alarming condition. I deny it. It is not the law nor is it the bootlegger, but it is the buyer of liquor, the purchaser of drink, it's the one who furnishes the money that is responsible. Without the buyer, without the purchaser of alcoholic liquor, there would be no bootlegger, there would be no drinking, there would be no drunkenness. 

GUILTY PUBLIC OFFICIALS 

If we have weak, dishonest or criminally guilty public officials, perhaps the blame should be placed at their door. 

The statement has been made and it has been broadly circulated that the people of Utah actually elected and sent into our state legislature men who were and are themselves law breakers. You all know of course that the Prohibition law in Utah is a rigid one. In our state he who has liquor in his home or even in his hand or otherwise in his possession is a law breaker. Do you, do I, do we all realize the seriousness of selecting and electing as our legislators those who themselves are breakers of this or any other law? 

BUYING VOTES WITH LIQUOR 

Can you imagine the people of Utah sending to the legislature men whose votes could be bought with a flask of liquor? I appeal to you with all the earnestness that I possess not to elect any of this sort to the legislature of the state of Utah or any other state on the 8th day of November next. 

What a reflection upon the state of Utah to have a lobbyist drop and break a bottle of booze on the floor of our legislative halls! Imagine, if you can, how many of the votes cast by our legislators, by those whom you and I elected, were bought and paid for with illegal and unlawful liquor. 

FUNCTIONS WHERE LAW IS BROKEN 

For many years I have sent a personal questionnaire to those for whom I have had opportunity to vote asking candidates for public office to advise me confidentially or otherwise whether or not they live in accordance with the law, whether they favor the enforcement of the law, and in addition I have urged them if elected to join me in a resolution not to participate in any function, social or otherwise, where the law is broken. 

VOTE ONLY FOR THOSE WHO RESPECT THE LAW 

I appeal to you in this serious hour, when "we are at war," when the conditions confronting us are more serious than those we faced in France, to cast your ballots for those candidates only who are law abiding, who have real respect for the law and who want it enforced. If the people of the country generally will vote for law breakers, if they will elect such men to public office, then with certainty will government of the people, by the people and for the people vanish from the earth. 

REFLECTION ON STATE 

How serious is it to be an intentional, a premeditated, a flagrant and defiant breaker of any law? While for the average citizen to be such a law breaker is serious, for a legislator of the state of Utah to be thus guilty is unpardonable, it is a serious reflection upon the good name of the voters of this state. 

GOD HAVE MERCY ON US 

What strength, what value will there be in any law, even in that law which protects us in our property rights, if we degenerate to such  degree that the law breaker has to be arrested by a man who is equally guilty of breaking the law; that when he who is guilty is brought before the bar, that bar which is supposed to be a bar of justice, he has as his prosecutor a district, a city or a county attorney who is himself as guilty as the one he is to prosecute? What an unfortunate condition will prevail if we reach such a situation that the individuals who constitute the jury are as guilty of law breaking as is the man whose guilt they are expected to discover. And then finally, if in addition to. all of this, the judge or the justice who occupies the exalted place upon the bench does not himself have respect enough for the law to live in accordance with its provisions, God have mercy on us, for when this condition prevails government of the people, referred to by Abraham Lincoln, will surely be perishing from the earth. 

STAND FOR AMERICA 

I appeal to you now, during this heated political contest, regardless of party, partisanship or politics to stand for America; to stand for the Constitution of the United States; to cast your vote only for those who have the character, the manhood, the stamina to live the law; vote only for those who when they take that sacred, that solemn oath of office which says that they will support, obey and defend the Constitution of the United States will have the honor, the integrity, and enough of the genuine spirit of America to live in accordance with that pledge. I appeal to you to vote only for those who really live in accordance with our laws and who, if elected, will do their best to have the law enforced. 

BY THE BLOOD OF THE REVOLUTION 

Brethren and sisters, citizens of America, I ask you to imagine yourselves standing by the Lincoln monument in Springfield, Illinois; I ask you to imagine again that your feet are on the sacred soil where stands that glorious American shrine, the Lincoln Memorial; and imagine again that you are looking into the face of him who has been called our greatest American — Abraham Lincoln — and then listen to these, his words: 

"Let every American swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others." * * * "Bad laws," said he, "if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible; still, while they continue in force, they should lie religiously observed." 

"help me, o father!" 

That wise philosopher, that great American, Benjamin Franklin, offered this appealing prayer: 

"That I may be loyal to my prince and faithful to my country, careful for its good, valiant in its defense and obedient to its laws, help me, O Father!" 

SUSTAINING THE LAW 

"We [members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints] believe * * * in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." (12th Article of Faith.) Listen to the words recently sent forth by the First Presidency of the Church and the Council of the Twelve: 

"* * * We do not hesitate to give the emphatic counsel that it is the unqualified duty of every citizen * * * loyally to support the 18th Amendment and the laws of Congress in relation thereto."— Improvement Era, Sept., 1932. 

I STAND WITH LEADERS 

I -stand with Lincoln and Franklin, with the Church and with the General Authorities for the enforcement of the law. I appeal to you and to all the people of the nation to come to the support of the Constitution of the United States, I appeal to you to stand with me when I say, "God helping me, I will not knowingly cast my vote for any candidate for any office unless I have reasonable assurance that he lives in accordance with the law, that if elected he will live in accordance with the sacred oath of office he will be required to take, and that he will do his best to see that all our laws are respected and that the people live in accordance with them." 

HIGH-CLASS CITIZENSHIP 

If ever the United States of America needed, if ever our country's conditions demanded, high-class citizenship, it is now, in this year of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and thirty-two. I trust, I pray this need, this demand of the country for loyalty, for statesmanship, and for devotion to law and order will not be in vain. 

YOUTH SPEAKS 

This is an age, or perhaps it would be more accurate to say, this is the age of young men and young women. This is a time in which "Youth Speaks." If you desire to feel the pulse, if you desire to know the heart throbs of at least one of the young people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, read in the Era, the organ of our young peoples' Improvement Association, for the month of October, an article written by George Albert Smith, Jr. Here is one of our Mutual Improvement workers who is but a boy fresh from college. I mention him as typical of the youth of the Church. As I speak he is on his way to Harvard to do work as a graduate student. He writes upon the subject, "Are You a Wet Dry or a Dry Dry?" 

DETERMINED YOUNG MANHOOD 

In every sentence you will feel the strength, the determination of his strong, youthful character, his noble manhood.  You will feel the deep and determined resolution which throbs in his breast. Like this excellent young man the great majority of the young people of the Church are struggling to live in accordance with the highest Christian ideals, to follow in the footsteps and to follow the example of those pioneers, great and glorious, who laid so well the foundations of this marvelous intermountain commonwealth. You will find in the hearts  the young folks of the Church an ambition so to live today that they may be worthy of their noble pioneer ancestors of yesterday. 

FAITH IN ALMIGHTY GtOD 

In this serious crisis when "we are at war," when the conditions we are facing are more serious than those we faced in France, .let us have faith in Almighty God as did Washington when he went upon his knees at Valley Forge. With that faith which makes nothing impossible, let us sing : "Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just, And this be our motto : 'In God is our trust!' " And again, let us sing on, "Our fathers' (God, to Thee, Author of liberty, to Thee we sing; Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light; Protect us by Thy might, Great God, our King." 

May that God, our King, in whom we trust as did our fathers, not forsake us, not forsake our Church, or our beloved country, I humbly pray. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the 'First Council of Seventy 

I wish that I might bring to your minds on this day the divine truth that Christ our Lord is the most pure source of strength and comfort and peace that you can have. Many of you, my brethren and sisters, are passing through very sore trials. These days |are humbling isome of us to the very |dust, for disappointments have come, and the daily lives of piany of us |are filled with bitterness and sorrow. These are days of depression and ofttimes tragedy. It iseems that the world has gone far afield from its true end. We are (conscious of a discord, not in the Creator's plan : A discord brought about by the faltering, weak, blundering of all men. Living in the World O'f material things, and able by the gift of free-will to work out our destiny, we have by that free-will gone far astray. We were rnade in (the image of God; we were made a little less than the iangels. < Yet strange is it not that the great gift which the Creator has bestowed upon jhis children should be the means whereby we should miss our destiny. 

We have become (children of fear. We are afraid to live, for we have grown sick of our failures and frailties. This America pf ours has gone mad with luxury, with indulgences, and bodily comfort, with an overwhelming external hurry and a tumult of distraction. We have become an unchecked, self-exultant people. The children of God have forgotten God. This is our trouble. The passion for rebellion, for destruction is mixed up with the eager longing to make Sthe world over. True, our churches are filled, but it is rather for social than religious purposes. I wonder how many pf us feel that the priest or minister of God is given the keys of heaven with the power to bind and to loose. I sometimes even wonder how many of uA — and ll am speaking of all mankind — really know the love of a true and living God. 

When God placed man in the Garden /of! Eden, and man was shown his destiny, the Creator planted within his soul ( the power to look up and to find his |Maker through the power of faith. This gave man a splendor pf spirit, which is the greatest power of all; because only by the spirit can absolute truth be known. This gift of faith places man in an enviable position for the exercise of his (mental powers. Throughout all the ages, man lhas felt the still (small voice of the Almighty in his daily life. Our Jives must needs be deeply penetrated with ,a 'sense of the infinite God; and this infinite, true, and living God can only be known by our approach to him in the humility of our powers. . We must again learn to .worship and (to glorify. 

The truth of all the (gifts of God to man can be known only as we have faith in God, fthe Father. Throughout the [history of Jthe race, heaven has been ibreaking in 'from time to time upon the affairs of men, and who knows but jwhat we are nearer the center of spiritual reality and life, than we (have dreamed of. 

Two thousand years ago, the greatest event in the history of mankind happened. I refer to the birth of Christ, our Redeemer. I want to read you the (story as ,it was written by St. Luke, the evangelist. It is truly a piece of literary art. 

"And, it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed. * * * 

"And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. 

"And Joseph also went up from iGalilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, "which is called Bethlehem; (because he was of the house and lineage of David:) 

"To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being (great with child. 

"And so it was, that while they were (there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. 

"And she brought forth her firstborn son, (and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn. 

"And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock toy night. 

"And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them : and they (were sore afraid. 

"And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings pf great joy, which shall be to all people.  

"For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ, the Lord. 

"And this shall be a sign unto jyou; Ye shall find the habe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying ,in a manger. 

"And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 

"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." 

I read you these .words of the noble prophet of old, because they show how God's love gave to the world Him, who "is the way, the truth, and the life." It is Ithe message that our 'Father is guiding us, moulding us, (helping us, saving us. In these days of Isore trial, Christ our Lord is our Guide and our Savior. This is the (thing that jis giving us a glad confidence that all things are working together for good. So when the darkness comes, let us remember that the might brings out the stars as sorrows show us the truth; and the insight that comes through pain  disappointment may jbe the insight into Ithe value of what we are. So is aiot this word of the Lord "Fear not" a beautiful message? 

We think God has forgotten us, but he is still watching over us each and every one. We are like little children wandering through a forest. ' The [Constant drudgery of enervating work, the pressure of present sorrow and pain, and the weight of (responsibility too heavy to bear; all these things distort our vision (at times, and behind (all these tragedies, we pee fear and failure. Fears that harass our courage along the pathway of life, until we become as children, lost in the dark. Who knows but what our trials are the circumstances that may make us find our way home and back to (God ? I want to tell you a story. I call it "Night and Shadows." 

"Once upon a time, a little girl wandered (through a dense forest on her way home. It was very dark. She was frightened and began to cry. The tears rolled down her face, as she timidly crept (along. Suddenly an elf appeared before her. 'Are you frightened' asked the elf. 'Yes, I'm scared,' answered the little girl, glad to show her fear,;'Ain't you?' 

" 'Not a bit,' answered the elf. 

" 'Well then you don't see the ghosts and (goblins running around the trees, and the funny looking eyes up there in the (branches, and the bats and ugly things flying through the air, and (the scary noises, can't you hear them?' 

"And the elf said : 'I don't blame you for being scared, I'd be scared too if I saw all those ugly things. You ,see that when little girls have tears in their eyes, they can't see things as they really are.' 

" 'Just let [the tears dry in your eyes, and then we shall take a good look at these ghosts and goblins, and (ugly things. See those terrible eyes in the branches of the trees? Why they are just the (stars trying ,to light up your pathway so rthat you can find your way home; and the big moon is trying to help them. And those big things aren't ghosts, they are just |the shadows of the trees. And iwhat you thought were ugly bats and ugly things are just the leaves falling on your pathway, making the path soft ifor your (tired feet.; And the noises. Why, that's the wind blowing through the branches, and the trees are trying to sing a song to make you happy as you go along'." 

Our (trials will make us reach out into a truer and fuller life. We will think of him who when in the garden jof Gethsemane, ielt the solitude of human life; and then it was that he calmly said: "And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me." 

One time in Israel's history, the prophet Isaiah exclaimed : "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. 

"Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned : for she hath received of the JLord's hand double for all her .sins. i 

"The voice lof him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway! for our JGod. 

"Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall toe made low : and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain : 

"And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall sec it together: for the mouth of the Lord (hath spoken 'it." 

It is faith in God that gives us the light, and with faith we niay know the (truth as we approach our Maker. Faith lis the source of knowledge, of ,truth, and the Gospel of our Lord can only be known through faith. The ancient prophet Moroni wrote in his closing hours these words which should be written on the tablets of our hearts : "And when jye shall receive these things, I would exjhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and )if ye shall ,ask with .a sincere heart, with real intent, having (faith in Christ, he will manifest the -truth ,of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

"'And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may (know the truth of all things." 

So in ithese days <of sorrow, of trial, of discouragement let us have faith; .the faith of true sons of God. Then I believe all 'will be well. "We shall live by [faith." One time the noted .philosopher Santayana of Harvard University wrote : 

O world, thou choosest not the better (part. 

It is not wisdom to be only wise, And on the inward vision close the eyes; 

But it is wisdom to believe the heart. Columbus found a world and had no ichart. 

Save one that Faith deciphered in the skies; To trust the soul's invincible surmise 

Was Jail his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine 

That lights the pathway but one |step ahead Across a void of mystery land dread. 

Bid then the tender light of faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led 

Unto the thinking of the thought divine. 

It is religion, the love of God and neighbor, which gives life a meaning; knowledge cannot do it. 

"Let me, if you please, speak of my own experience," says a great world scholar, "as one who for thirty years has taken an earnest interest in these things. Pure knowledge is a [glorious thing, pnd woe to the man (who holds it .light or blunts his sense for it! I But to the question, Whence, whither, and to ,what purpose ? It gives an answer today as [little as 'it did two ,or three (thousand years ago. It does, indeed, instruct us in (facts; it detects inconsistencies; it links phenomena; it corrects the deceptions of sense and |idea. But where and how the curve of the world and the curve!of our own life begin — that curve )of which it shows us only a (section — and whither this curve (leads, knowledge does not tell MS. But if with ia steady will ,we affirm the forces and the standards which on the summits of our [inner life shine out as our highest jgood, nay, as our real self; if we lare earnest and Courageous enough to accept 'them as the great reality and direct our lives by them; and if iwe then look at the course of mankind's history, /follow its upward development, and search, in 'strenuous and patient service, for the communion of (minds in it, we ^hall not faint in weariness and despair, but become '.certain of God, of the God whom Jesus Christ called his Father, and who lis also lour Father." 

So be ye comforted; God lives, and he is extending this loving hand to us. Will we respond with hearts full of faith? May the Lord our 'God bless us all. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, if I were to call your attention to that which has more deeply impressed me than anything else pertinent in the world today, it would be the declaration of the scriptures that "To know Thee, the only true and living God is life eternal." That knowl is the first great need of the world. And next, the declaration of our Savior that the first and great commandment is to "Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. * * * And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 

But what has very, very deeply impressed me is the succeeding declaration, that "On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." 

If I am right I can think of nothing that develops more the fulfilment of those declarations than being a missionary. The testimony of all who go upon missions with a sincere desire, as they do, to serve the Lord, is that they have never enjoyed themselves more than on their missions. In such service there is a spiritual development and a growth that is invaluable, especially to the young. 

I am pleased to say that in the Eastern States Mission our missionaries enjoy, at the present time, exceptional health, and that their labors are resulting in unusual progress. With less than half the missionaries that we have had in times past our baptisms are almost equal in number to what they have heretofore been. If there are those who have resources that they could use, without too great sacrifice, to aid those who are on missions — some of whom are returning because of lack of finances — and to contribute to others who may go upon missions — if they fail to use those resources they are missing an opportunity, for the money will do double the service, apparently, that it has heretofore done. 

The world is in confusion. One preacher says that it is standing on its head. Great philosophers are saying that the civilization of this age is upon the precipice of destruction and that unless great changes take place in our social and industrial organizations it will go over the precipice and into destruction, and we will again have the Dark Ages. President Butler of Columbia University has made this declaration recently. Mr. H. G. Wells, the historian, philosopher and scientist, has made the same declaration, and so also have others. 

This is a mechanical age, in which the gifts of the creative power of God, as has been declared by another great scientist, so far exceed the wisdsom and the knowledge and the power of man to utilize them that it can hardly be determined whether they are an advantage or a disadvantage. 

It is my belief that without greater love of God and of fellow -men our civilization is threatened. We are our brother's keeper. That great law which has governed society so long, the survival of the fittest, does not fit in with the age in which we live. The general level of intelligence is such among mankind that poverty and distress in the midst of abundance and superabundance cannot continue to exist as they do. Hundreds of thousands, I believe millions, are today, in this land of plenty and abundance, suffering from undernourishment. Honest workers, men who are sincere in their desire to provide for themselves and those dependent upon them, are unable to obtain the necessities of life when they abound so greatly, when the plea is now being made that we should not produce so much. What is the result of this? It is commonly said in New York City and in the great industrial centers of the East, that men who have been receiving salaries of five, ten, fifteen and twenty thousand dollars, are now beggars, and why ? It is because there has been a failure to know God and to obey his laws and to love their neighbors. They have spent that which they have received. 

Whatever may be the hope of return of prosperity, of improvement in the business condition of the world, there is today in the great industrial centers of the East an increasing number of those who are dependent upon charity because their resources are being exhausted. 

What great organization in the world is doing something to intensify and increase the love of God, the knowledge of God, the real belief in an actual God and Father and Creator, and the love of brother? I have said unhesitatingly, wherever I have gone, that there are no people who are developing those qualities like the Latter-day Saints. That is exhibited in the declarations that we have heard from this stand during this conference, of the contributions that have been made to charity through the fast fund donation. There is nothing more beautiful in society, in any of the organizations of the world, to relieve distress, than is found in that thought. 

The tithing, the missionary system, the work in our temples — all are developing a love of fellow-men, a love of God and a nearness to him such, in my opinion, as can be found among no other people. Imperfect as we may be, the groundwork, the foundation is laid, upon which we merely need to build, to erect a social structure that will relieve poverty, that will increase the happiness of man, and that will bring us nearer to that system which the Savior attempted to establish and did establish when he was upon the earth, where there were no rich and no poor; and that which he again revealed in this age to the Prophet Joseph Smith in what we call the United Order. 

I can well remember the contest that was going on during my boyhood days to establish the eight-hour labor day system. Men then worked seventy hours a week, no Saturday afternoons off. That fight has been won. And to be brief, today we have in our own great country leaders of industry that are coming to accept not only the eight-hour day, with Saturday afternoon off, but a five-day week with Saturday off. 

As I say, with the mechanical devices that are making it possible to satisfy the demands of mankind with less labor, we are approaching the time when there will be more of a (Utopian system in the world than it has ever seen before. Impracticable as may be, in the minds of most people, the thought of the establishment of what we have called the "United Order," and little as I feel myself prepared for it — certainly no more than others — yet I believe we are coming to it. We are being driven to it. These institutions that have been established — the fast day contribution, the tithing, the marvelous work of our Relief Society women — are only leading up to it and preparing us for it. 

I rejoice when I am able to say in the world that a hundred per  of that which is contributed to charity by our people goes to charity. I know of no other organization that can make that claim. It is true there is a vast amount of charitable work done gratuitously, but there is no permanent institution established that I know anything about in which there is such a system. 

May the Lord bless this great work in which we are engaged, and fit and prepare us for the great events which I believe are pending in the world, and which are in progress — revolutionary changes, changes all over the world. I have no sympathy with the anti-Christian socialism of Russia, or of Europe, but the time is coming when the Latterday Saints will have impressed upon them more and more, and we will see more clearly, the beauties of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as it has been revealed in these the last days, and will sense the responsibility that is upon us. May we realize it. 

I want to appeal again to those who have the means to enable them to assist missionaries who are leaving their fields of labor because of their parents' inability to keep them there, that you contribute to the limit, for it is a marvelous work. I have met since I have been here a number of our young people who have returned from their missions. They repeat to me again and again the joy that they have in the work they did, and the blessings that they were enjoying while they were on their missions. They wish that they could go back, and would do so if it were possible. 

May this work grow and prosper, especially the missionary work in which I am especially interested. It provides joy and happiness and a satisfaction that I have never experienced in any other work. It enables me to forget self, more than anything else I know of. It cultivates the love of God. It brings us nearer to God. It gives us a clearer comprehension and a deeper conviction of his reality and existence. Those of you who are failing to assist your children on missions and to assist others who are willing to contribute their time are failing in the performance of your duty. 

May God help us, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The hymn. "Guide us, O thou Great Jehovah," was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Harvey Sessions, Patriarch, Cache Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 