Afternoon
07 10 1932

The second session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock p. m., Friday, October 7. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Now let us rejoice," after which Patriarch William H. Richards of the Malad Stake offered the opening prayer. 

The hymn, "How firm a foundation," was sung by the congregation. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT jSMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

As )I look into iyour (faces this afternoon I think I fully sense the responsibility that rests upon me, and I sincerely pray that the Lord will bless me that the words I utter may be |those (that he would have me speak. 



22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

GRATEFUL FOR BLESSINGS 

I do not know when I have felt happier >or more grateful for the blessings of life than ,1 jdo ,today. There are so many things for which we have reason to thank our Heavenly Father, this temple block with its unusually fine "buildings and beautiful flowers and shrubbery beingonly one. When I realize that our people came from a land rich agriculturally, made their way across the great plains after being driven from their comfortable homes in Illinois, and came into this then desertwaste to build up /the Church to the glory of .God; and as I observe how he has transformed the desert, I know that I for one have much to be grateful for. 

DEVOTION AND SACRIFICE OF THE PIONEERS 

Recently we traveled four hundred miles over a portion of the old pioneer trail, and stood |at the side of one grave containing bodies of fifteen of the members of ,this Church who gave their all for the cause and passed on to their reward, and hundreds of Others lie in unmarked graves. 

I have been on that trail over which barefoot, hungry and weary, in the cold of winter and the heat of summer, thousands of our people wended their way into this valley, buoyed up with the hope that they could here worship God according to the dictates of their consciences. Today when I think of this marvelous land in which (we live, this worldfamed temple block, this edifice that has been dedicated to the worship of our Father in heaven, jit seems to me that we who are here ought to examine ourselves and check on our lives and see whether or not we are living up to our privileges and are worthy of that which the Lord has given us. He has said : 

"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Fa'ther which is in heaven." 

It was in order that we might know what his will is towards his children that he gave Joseph Smith, .the boy prophet, the latter-day revelation which .^resulted in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Then some of the very stalwarts of the earth were pricked in their hearts with a desire to know the truth, and the missionaries of the Church sought them among the nations, and the pilgrimage (to this western world began. The community comforts that we enjoy here are the result of their faith and devotion. 

RESPECT FOR THE NAME OF DEITY 

It is worth our while sometimes to just check over what the Lord said to the children of Israel through Moses when they were in the wilderness. I note that among the things he commanded them was this : 

"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain : for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that take'th his name in vain." I hope that the members of this Church who have had the Ten Commandments and all the glorious truths of the Old Testament and the New Testament placed before them for their understanding, and have been instructed in our day by latter-day revelation — I hope, I say, that not any of these would be so thoughtless that they would take lightly upon their lips the sacred name ,of our Father in heaven. 

THE SABBATH DAY 

He also said: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." That seems such a little thing for!us to do in return for the blessings that we enjoy. But to forget that it is the Lord's day, as some of us appear to do, is ungrateful. He has set apart one day in .seven, not to make it a burden, 'but to bring joy into our lives and cause that our homes may be the gathering place of the family, that parents and children may assemble around the family hearth increasing our love for one another. And if we do what our Heavenly Father would have us do we will go to his holy house upon the Sabbath day and there partake of the sacrament in remembrance of the sacrifice that was made for us by the Redeemer of mankind. 1 

Honor, the Sabbath day and keep it holy, Latter-day Saints, and it will bring to you great joy and our Heavenly Father will bestow upon you the blessings that result from obedience to his advice and counsel. 

"HONOR THY FATHER AND THY MOTHER" 

He says further, "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may he long ,upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." It seems to me that it ought not to be necessary to say anything of that kind to 'a. people like you who are sitting in this house today. Surely we honor our fathers and our mothers. Surely this people, above all other people in the earth, should jbe grateful for father and mother. Perhaps we know more than other people what it means to be blessed to come through a lineage, in this latter day, that has accepted the Gospel of our Lord and conformed their lives to its teachings. It is comforting to think of father and mother. Honor father .and mother! Surely that is a privilege. It is one of the joys of my life when I feel that I have done something that will bring comfort to my father and mother. I felt that way when they were here and now that they have passed to the great beyond I would like to so order my life (that honor twill come to their names and;that when I meet them they will be glad to welcome me home. 

I think that (the Latter-day Saints should be stressing these admonitions of our Heavenly Father, teaching our children by example as well as precept that it is a privilege to honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, that it is a real blessing to honor our fathers and mothers, that in /this day when the world is so depressed — in a day when people are tempted to do things that perhaps they would not do under other circumstances! — it is wise for us to- remember what the Lord has said and to read these Ten Commandments. I will not read them all, but I shall refer to one or two others. THE SACREDNESS OF .HUMAN LIFE 

"Thou shalt not kill." Many people in the world;do not seem to realize what a terrible crime it is to take human life. When they become angry, for justifiable reasons ^as they think, ,they do not hesitate to destroy human life. Sometimes a life is taken in order that money or property may be seized. And yet there /is no crime that a human being can commit that will so far |alienate him from the blessings of eternal life in the celestial kingdom as murder. No other crime is equal to it. I think that it is our privilege in this Church,to teach our children, while in their tender years and while they are growing up, the enormity of the crime of taking human life. I feel that our Heavenly Father would justify this people if we would stress, if I maybe permitted to use that term, in our homes and in pur chapels the sacredness of human life, and the seriousness and importance of living, and cause these boys and girls who are growing up to understand how terrible it would be to commit the awful crime of murder, so that they would not be tempted under any condition so to do. 

PURITY OF LIFE 

"Thou shalt not commit adultery." In our day it does seem to me that the people of the world have gone far astray. There are many who stand in high places who have forgotten the sacredness of pure living and who are forfeiting the opportunity God gave to them to increase their power for happiness in life and to give joy to others. They have surrendered their virtue in order to satisfy their passions, with the result that they cut themselves off from the companionship of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father and follow the tempter who seeks to destroy them. 

Latter-day. Saints, teach your children to Observe the moral law. wSurround them as by the arms of your love, that .they may have no desire whatsoever to partake of the temptations .to evil that surround them on every hand. I want,to say to you that there is something more for us to do than l to send them to Sabbath School, to Primary, to Mutual, and these other Organizations in the Church. It is important that we as their fathers and mothers shall teach them and 'not only teach them but train them in the pathway of our Heavenly Father, that they may understand the importance and seriousness of the things that confront them in life. 

What a privilege it is for parents to sit down in their own homes, surrounded by a family of Ipure boys and girls given to them by our Heavenly Father, their spirits begotten by our Father in Heaven! What a joy it is to have them mingle together partaking of the blessings of our Heavenly Father and rejoicing in the companionship of his Spirit, and to have them so trained in their younger days that while developing to maturity they have maintained the purity of their lives! 

PITFALLS OF THE ADVERSARY 

My brethren and sisters, I plead with you that with more earnest, with more thoughtfulness, more patience than ever before, you safeguard the rising generation from the pitfalls that the adversary has -laid for their feet. Many of our picture shows, radio programs, magazines, books, etc., are unfit for respectable communities, and unless we neutralize the influence of these things by wholesome teaching and environment, bringing to the youth the benefits derived from knowing the lives of good men and women, teaching them the virtues of the prophets and the meaning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, some of those whom we love may slip away from us, and when it is too late ,we will realize that we have been sleeping on our privileges. 

Let us (teach our children to be pure in their lives, to be upright. Teach your boys to safeguard the virtue of their sisters and their girl companions. Teach your daughters to safeguard the virtue of the boys they associate with by restraining them from taking too many liberties in this, day when so many liberties are considered proper. 

I am talking to you, and through you I hope I am talking to those with whom you contact. It is not only our mission, to teach the ,Gospel of Jesus Christ and live it, but it is our mission to .send into the world our 'sons and daughters as they are called upon from time to time to labor in the ministry of the Church. As they go they Jshould have been .so trained that they would be adamant against the ,temptations of the adversary; they should.- be as pure and (virtuous and righteous in their lives as it is possible to be, and then the influence of their very presence will be felt by those with whom they contact. The Spirit of God will not dwell in unclean tabernacles, but his Spirit will dwell with those who keep themselves clean and sweet. 

Therefore, let us major, if we may use that term, in rearing our boys and girls under the 'influence of the 'Spirit 'of God, that the adversary will have no power to lead them astray. 

"THOU SHALT NOT STEAL" 

"Thou shalt not steal," is another of the commandments. It is astonishing how many men and women who have always lived good lives will yield to temptation to take that which does not belong to them. For the 'past few years we have been passing through a change. There 3eems to have been a letting down in the matter of honesty. Our Heavenly Father knew that we would need this commandment when he gave /it. It was not given just to be written into the scriptures and then laid upon the shelf. It was given to be iproclaimed upon the housetops, if need be. It was written that the Elders might go among the people and call their attention to the sorrow and distress that would follow the taking of that which does not belong to them, when they do it without permission. 

"Thou shalt not steal." This commandment was given to ancient Israel and punishment was;meted out to those in that day who were dishonest. It is binding upon us today and I want to say to you that the punishment that is meted out ,to those who are dishonest in our day, when they are apprehended and haled before the courts of the land and punished for their crimes, is insignificant when compared with the spiritual punishment that befalls ,us when we transgress the law of honesty and violate that commandment of God. 

THE REPUTATION OF OTHERS 

"Thou shalt pot bear false witness against thy neighbor." Within the last few days I had brought to my attention what appeared to me to be a serious violation of this law. A great and good man who has sacrified much in the world to bless mankind, and has been helpful to many people, had his character assailed and his name was bandied around upon lips of individuals unworthy to be his companions. They did it to gain selfish advantage. They whispered falsehoods about him hoping to injure his reputation and in some way benefit themselves. Of course in due time they must atone for their injustice and be humiliated for they cannot escape retribution. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor" is in the same category as the other commandments our Heavenly Father has given to the children of men. I hope thatinot any of the members of this Church would stoop to injure the reputation of any soul because they had some object to gain. I hope that we would not accept lightly a reproach or unkind word from one individual about another and pass it on in the community to the detriment and harm of a good man or a good woman, or to the detriment of a bad man or a bad woman, if it be not true. I think that this community ought to be setting an example. T think that the Elders of this Church ought to honor their place among the people, and when there is a disposition to criticize, find fault and malign and misrepresent those who are seeking to do good in the world, not remain silent and be cowardly, because it does seem to me that is what it amounts to sometimes, but in the courage and majesty of the spirit of our Heavenly Father we should restrain in a way 'that will bring to their senses those who go about viciously misrepresenting their fellows. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." During the upheaval we are passing through, when there is so much uncertainty ''about the future there is great need for every good man and woman to hold as a precious gift the reputation of our fellows. We should cultivate a feeling and desire to bless and benefit our kind. It should be my privilege to restrain those with whom I may associate from speaking evil of others.; I believe that when the Lord gave this commandment to ancient Israel he expected those of us who understand it to assist in making it effective and in restraining ,as far as possible the untruths that might be scattered abroad from time to time about those who 'are our associates. 

THAT WHICH IS THY NEIGHBOR'S 

The Lord says further, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's." 

In other words, our .Heavenly Father has given us this law. W e have a right to appreciate and enjoy to the full the things that come into our hands as a result of our own efforts. We have a perfect right to enjoy to the full these things that come to us in a temporal way, but just the moment that we begin to desire that which belongs to somebody else, just the moment we begin to look about to see how we might obtain that which is not our own and become covetous of 'that which belongs to our neighbors, just so soon do we forfeit the spirit of our Heavenly Father, and we have gone into the devil's territory and are in his power. 

KEEPING IN THE LORD'S TERRITORY 

A good man who was a counselor to President Brigham Young said upon one occasion, "There is a line of demarcation well defined. On one side of the line is the Lord's territory, and on ,the other side of the line is the devil's territory. If you will stay on the Lord's side of the line the devil cannot come over there to tempt you or to annoy or distress you. If you go onto the devil's side of the line just one inch you are in his territory, you are in his power, and he .will seek to draw you just as far from that line of demarcation, that division line, as he can, knowing that if he can keep you in his territory he has you in his power." 

Those who disobey these Ten Commandments of our Heavenly Father, no matter in how .small a degree it may be, have gone into the devil's territory, and it is time that we as members of this Church, living in this day and age of the world, should understand that. No man can do that which is ,wrong and stay on the Lord's side of the line. No man can violate the Word of Wisdom and be on the Lord's side of the line. Wle choose where ,we will be. God has given us our agency. He will not take it from us, and if I do that which is wrong and get into the devil's territory, I do it because I have the will and power to do it. I cannot blame ,anybody else, and if I determine to keep the commandments of God and live as I ought to live and istay on the Lord's side of the line I do it because I ought to do it, and I will receive my blessing for it. , It will not be the result of what somebody lelse may do. 

FOR THE PROTECTION OF OUR FATHER'S CHILDREN 

Therefore, living in this day when there are so many temptations, the Word of Wisdom ought to be stressed among the people of this Church. Our Heavenly Father, knowing the calamities that would come upon the earth, knowing the evils and designs that would exist in the hearts of conspiring men, gave to us the Word of Wisdom by revelation and warned us and forewarned us of what would come to pass. It does seem that every attempt of the adversary has been made to neutralize the advice of tour Heavenly Father. I hope there are no members of this Church, who have been honored with the priesthood, who would in any way weaken the power of God to bless his children by seeking to place temptation in their way, or who would think it an insignificant thing to try to break down the barriers God has raised for the protection of his children. I hope that as men and women, with the knowledge that has been bestowed upon us, we will resist day by day with such power as we have the right to resist, every attempt of evil to break down and destroy the morals, the character and the virtue of our people, and the sons and daughters of God wherever they may be. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation to those who believe and who obey its precepts. We have been better taught than the world. We cannot make the excuses of the world if we fail. How grateful I feel that I am this day in the midst of a group of men and women who desire first of all to honor God and keep his commandments. 

SERVANTS OF THE LORD 

I sincerely regret that our beloved President is absent from us because of illness, that Brother Ballard and Brother McMurrin are not with us for the same reason. Brother Widtsoe is in Europe in the line of his duty. The other General Authorities are all present. All these men are servants of the Lord and I can sustain them with all my heart. 

TO TEACH THE PEOPLE 

I am thankful to be associated with an organization that has provided so well for the teaching of its people. Only last night I attended a meeting of one of the finest groups of women that may be found in all the world — the National Relief Society of this great Church — and what power they possess to carry forward their department of the work of our Heavenly Father. Then we have Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Associations, Primaries, educational institutions and genealogical societies. All these our Heavenly Father has given us to bring us to a knowledge of the truth, and oh, how wise we are to desire to know the truth, and to live up to the teachings of the truth when once they come into our lives. 

THE ATTITUDE OF THE EVIL DOER 

This day from the depths of my soul I thank my Heavenly Father for my membership in his Church. I thank him for the warning that has come to me through the revelations that have been given to this Church, and among them I am reminded of a portion of the 28th chapter of II Nephi, indicating the attitude of the evil doer, which I read as follows : 

"And there shall also be many which shall say : Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify lin committing a little sin." 

Think of that — the suggestion that a little sin will be justified. Yet in the very first revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, that which is known as the Preface, we find these words: 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." 

Yet there are those who would say that because it is a little sin our Heavenly Father does not care. Continuing the .quotation from IT Nephi : 

"Yea, lie a little, take the advantage of pne because of his words." 

Think of what that means, the whisperings of ,the adversary to lie a little. Whether it be a lie intended to effect a religious organization, a business organization, a political organization, or an individual, the lie will brand the one who tells it, and sooner or later he will have to account for the wrong he .has committed. 

''Yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; ^nd if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved, in the kingdom of God." 

That is what the adversary of righteousness is saying to the children of men. That is what Lucifer who goes .about defiling the people is breathing into their souls. That is the kind of doctrine that is being disseminated in the world by some of those who ought to be the leaders of morality and also of righteousness. But to you, my brethren and sisters, the obligation has been given that you must refute such things as these when you know of them. 

We read further: 

"Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this manner, false and vain and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark." 

THE CUNNING OF THE ADVERSARY 

And then further : 

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away irito carnal security, that they will say : All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and itelleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them : I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance. 

"Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized, therewith must stand before the throne of God, and be judged ,according to their works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them, even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment." 

That is the word of a prophet of the Lord, spoken hundreds of years ago of what would exist in the world, and I bear you my witness today, my brethren and sisters, that that is a condition that does exist in the .world in the day and age in which we live. And as your brother, I plead with you that in the dignity of your membership in the great Church of the Lamb of God you resist the insidious temptations of the adversary and that in your homes and elsewhere you teach and exemplify virtue and righteousness. See that the teachings of the Lord are so disseminated that every ,soul that comes within your portals will enjoy the blessing that is the result of the companionship of the Holy Spirit. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

I know .this is God's work. I know the adversary is awake; his end is drawing near and he is putting forth every effort in every conceivable way to blind the eyes of the children of men. Therefore, ,watchmen upon the towers of Zion, see to it that you do not shirk your responsibility. See to it that you do not turn aside from the opportunities that our Heavenly Father has placed in your way to be helpful. Let us go forward loving our fellows always desiring their uplift and blessing, carrying the Gospel message in such a way that the adversary shall have no power to stay it. And then in the end, when life is completed and we stand in the presence of our Father in heaven, may, we because of the work we have accomplished and our devotion to our Father's children, receive from him that glorious welcome home, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy ''Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish." 

We have just listened to a splendid discourse on the gospel of repentance by Brother George Albert Smith. The whole world must repent or they shall perish. It is of universal application. It applies to you, and to me, and 'to every living soul. 

"Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish." 

That is sometimes referred to as the law of carnal commandments — the law of the Lord with reference (to our moral lives. It is the law by which we can liberate ourselves from the bondage of sin. It must however be supplemented by that higher law, the law of grace, the law of the Lord Jesus 'Christ. In the law it is written: "Thou shalt not commit adultery." In that higher law it is written that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. We must watch and pray, and eliminate from our beings these elements of sin with which humanity is afflicted. 

If there be any man who thinketh himself .without sin he deceiveth himself and the (truth is not in him. A Pharisee came to the Lord at one jtime and paid : "Good Master, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?" The answer came from the Lord : "Whycallest thou me good?" 

This universal law of practicing repentance from sin is a principle of progress, (of eliminating (sin and sanctifying our hearts from all . Let no one think that he has no further need of this saving principle of repentance from sin. ] i 

The great difficulty with which our missionaries meet in the world is the feeling that (people have that "you do not need to come and preach repentance to us, we are already Christians." It is the right principle of life to practice faith in God and repentance from sin as a means of progress. We need it. Every day we have occasion to apply these principles to our individual lives. They [have to do with everything that we have anything to do with. Every business transaction, every political scheme, every transaction of our lives, ievery amusement and everything that we engage in. We have need to apply these principles, for the simple ^reason that there is a right way and a wrong way to do everything, and jit is incumbent upon us to eschew the things that are evil, and that is an obligation jthat has rested upon mankind from the very day that our first parents partook of the tree of knowledge of good and evil and our minds were awakened to a sense of what is right and wrong. 

As this young man, the Pharisee to whom I have alluded, persisted in his question as to what good thing he should do in [order to obtain eternal life, the (Savior replied by quoting the 'commandments as Brother George Albert Smith has quoted them here today. He said — this Pharisee — "All these things have I kept from my youth up; what lack I yet?" And Jesus said unto him: "If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give Jo the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come and follow me." 

That was the word — the higher law applied as well. The Savior did not do away with that lesser law, the law of carnal commandments; those commandments are still in vogue and apply [to every creature. But those who comply with the higher law live above the law of carnal commandments, with jail the penalties attached. The principle of love supercedes the other : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength; and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. These constitute the law and the prophets." 

What man 'will jdo ian injury to his neighbor, steal his property, take his life, or desire his wife? Not one who loves his neighbor as he loves himself, or if he loves God with all his heart. 

So, my brethren and sisters, we who have entered into covenant with the Lord and received that higher law; let |us live above the law of carnal commandments and render obedience, not in fear of the penalties which are attached, (but out of (the love of God and the love of our fellowmen, which will sanctify and purify our hearts from all unrighteousness. Let us not think that we are (good enough just as we are, for we can go on /to perfection |by the application of these saving principles;which God has revealed, and it is his desire that his people should sanctify themselves from all unrighteousness. Hence this great work with which we are identified; hence the sending of our missionaries to preach the Gospel to the people throughout the world; hence the organizations of the Church in the stakes and wards of Zion; hence our auxiliary organizations, all having for their purpose the sanctifying of our hearts from all unrighteousness. 

There is la condition in the world that needs to 'be corrected. What is that condition? The Prophet Isaiah said a long time ago, many thousands of years ago : 

"The earth is defiled under the inhabitants thereof, because they have transgressed the law, changed the ordinances, and broken the everlasting covenant." 

What is that everlasting covenant? It is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Its ordinances have been changed, the covenant has been broken and the world lhas corrupted and defiled the earth upon which we live; but the Lord desires that it shall be sanctified from all unrighteousness, as we read in the Doctrine and Covenants where it says in the 88th section thereof : 

"And the spirit and the body are the soul of man. 

"And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. 

"And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things, in wnose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it." 

Why? Because they are humble, because they are meek and teachable. They will listen jto the glad tidings of great joy and be brought to repentance. But the proud and the haughty will not. This earth is to be inherited and inhabited by the poor and meek of the earth that are willing to do the will of the Father. 

"Therefore, it [this earth upon which we live] must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory." 

The destiny of this earth is to be sanctified from all unrighteousness. It is ito receive as we believe its paradisiacal glory. It is to be celestialized and the habitation of beings who are sanctified from all unrighteousness. That is the work of the ministry, for the purpose of sanctifying the hearts of the children of men, that this earth upon which we dwell may he sanctified. This earth that has been defiled under the inhabitants thereof must be sanctified from all unrighteousness in order that it may be prepared for its celestial glory. That is what is to come. 

But .will ithey all accept that? No. Then what will become of those who receive not this Gospel and do not sanctify themselves from all unrighteousness by the application of these principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that new and everlasting covenant? What will become of them?! They shall be swept off from the face of the earth, for the .time is coming when sin and Sniquity shall be banished from the earth and when righteousness shall prevail and predominate and cover the earth even las the waters cover the mighty deep. 

May we be numbered among those who have sanctified themselves from all unrighteousness by obedience to these principles that have within them the power of God unto salvation, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "If with all your hearts," was sung by Elder Hyrum Christiansen. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

President of Liberty Stake 

My heart is beating fast with nervous anxiety. I have been coming to this tabernacle a long time but this is the first time in my life that I have ever spoken in a general conference. 

No person ever enters this historic building without a feeling of solemnity. Standing here I am admonished of my own limitations, of my own weaknesses. It would be arrogant for pie to assume the role of an instructor. 

When I came this afternoon I observed for a short ,time the men who came in and took their places in the section assigned to Presidents of stakes. The brother who sat next to me said: "We have both lived to see one generation of men go and another rise to responsibility." That is true. I very well remember the first time my father brought me to conference with him. I remember the men who used to come to conference in his day — John R. Murdock of Beaver, Canute Peterson of Sanpete, William Paxman of Juab, Abram O. Smoot of Utah, Angus M. Cannon of Salt Lake, and men of that type. 

In those days there were few stakes. I remember those men well. All of that generation has passed and a new generation is here. They were interesting men, men of heroic mould, of great faith, of pronounced individualism, rugged men, but men of fine extraction. Many of them knew very little of what is symbolized by the three R's but they were educated. They were great men, made great by their experience, by the faith which warmed their hearts. They have gone and so have many of their problems. 

I remember in my father's home we did not even have an electric light when I lived with him. There was no plumbing in the house. We had stoves and cedar wood. I never heard a telephone in that house. He never saw an automobile, never went to a moving picture show; he never heard the roar of an airplane or listened to the magic of the radio. 

I suppose if my father were permitted to return and survey just for an hour the agencies that are at our command — could see what we enjoy, I think he would say to me: "My boy you are living in the millennium." But we are not. We are not living in the millennium but the progress that has been made is tremendous. All of these wonderful things are commonplace to us now. The first time I heard the human voice over the air I thought the wonder and marvel of it could never become commonplace, but it has. 

The other morning I went into a farmer's house. The radio was turned on and I heard Lord Gainsborough speaking from London upon "International Peace," and I heard it with clearness. If I were to say to my father: "You can get in an airplane at your home in Fillmore and be at conference in Salt Lake in an hour," he would think it impossible. His life was simple. He wrote very few checks and consequently he never had an overdraft. (Laughter.) He had to answer comparatively few questions. When I (went to stake priesthood meeting they talked about roads and canals — things of that kind. We do not do that now. That was perfectly legitimate in that day. These men carried lover into the details of their daily life their religion. It was the thing that animated them, that inspired them, that permeated all they did. They were men of great faith. Very many of them knew the Prophet Joseph. They stood close to Brigham Young. There was never in their minds the shadow of a doubt. 

It is true that we live in larger houses and wear better clothes and eat finer food. But I need not tell you, my brethren and sisters, that if we ever forsake the plain and puritanic virtues to which they were committed our day will be a brief one. The machinery which my father used on his farm is largely obsolete. The furniture which he had would not bring much in a second-hand store, |but his religious practices are not obsolete. If they ever become so among those who bear his name I am certain there will be the element of travesty in it. These men were made great by their faith, and that same faith applied to this day will make their children great. 

I cannot think that Mormonism is all in the past, its achievements are not all in the past tense. The present tense requires its application. 

I remember some of the stories that I heard in those days — this is typical. In the settlement of Spanish Fork the original settlers were given a small piece of land, perhaps five acres each. ' Two young men from Scotland came there — brothers. One remained in Spanish Fork, the other moved away. The man who remained was given his allotment of land and, inspired by this possession, he worked with a zeal that made him forget all his troubles. He never knew when the sun went down, he knew that every stroke of his arm would bring something to him and to his household. As a result of his thrift he was able to get five acres more. One day the bishop said to him: "Here is William, he hasn't any land 'and you have ten acres." William was a shiftless sort of man. The bishop said to this Scotch brother: "I want you to give him five acres of your land." To appreciate this trial of faith please bear in mind his nationality. (Laughter.) He said to the bishop : "Well, I will think it over." He did. On a fine fall day like this he was plowing in the field. He had thought it over carefully. He said : "Whoa!" and the horses stopped. Standing there he said: "Joseph Smith was a prophet; Mormonism is true; let them have the land." 

Here is another one: A man had gone on a mission and left his wife and children poorly provided for. One bight when all of the flour had been used one of the children before going to bed prayed that the Lord would open the way so that they could have more flour. The mother listened to it and thought about it and got the inspiration. No sooner had the children gone to bed than (this woman discovered among her scanty belongings a little yarn and she went busily to work knitting. Finally she had a small pair of stockings knitted. In the morning she said to the boy : "Take these stockings and this bread pan over to our neighbor and see if he won't give you some flour in return for the stockings." The boy did so-and came back with the pan filled with flour. 

I like that kind of faith. That is Ifaith hacked by works. They had to couple their faith with works in those days. Roads were not built just by saying prayers. 

I remember one time while traveling in the southern part of the state I saw a man with a thin, frail team of horses attached to a loaded wagon. He was sitting down at the base of a hill and was figuring on something. I said to him : "Lee, what are you doing ?" He replied : "I am trying to figure myself over that hill." Besides figuring it took muscle and energy to get over the hill. 

A man in Idaho told me this story. I like this also. He said: "You know we used to ford the Snake River here, and when it was high it was dangerous. Your uncle and another man had to cross the river. They had a light wagon and a small team and when they got in the middle of the stream it looked as if the thing would capsize, and one of them ( said, 'I want to pray.' The other man said, 'I prayed before I got into this stream. You get into the back of this wagon and hold the bedding in and keep this box balanced, and when you get on the other side then you can offer your gratitude." I like that quality of faith also. 

My brethren and sisters, 1 love the faith of my father. I am grateful to all the powers that have made possible the privileges and opportunities that seem to have come unasked to me. When I review jmy own insignificant life I cannot help thanking that if there is a modicum of patriotism in my blood I owe to this cause the best I have got. It meant much to my father, it has meant much to me. 'God help me to be true to it. I have never been on a (mission. Many of you brethren have been on missions; but I cannot help thinking that the most effective way of preaching Mormonism is to 'live it at home. Mormonism, like everything else, must be measured by its fruits, and whether we will or not the lives of the plain men and women all down the line must be the gauge by which its power and efficacy will be measured. The way to preach Mormonism is first to live it and to build up within one's self a victorious and triumphant personality. Somehow when a man is grappling with his own weaknesses, when he garnishes and sweeps his own soul he gathers strength, an indefinable strength that comes from no other source. You never saw a Latter-day jSaint who was vitalized by the spirit of the Almighty who was afraid. 

I have this ion my desk so that every morning when I come to my office I can see it, this statement of the Savior recorded in the fifth chapter of Mark — five simple words: "Be not afraid, only believe." If every Latter-day Saint will cherish those words we can easily weather every storm and rise triumphantly over every circumstance. All we need is the faith of our fathers burning within our own souls and we will carry on. 

God bless the men and women who are here who represent the faith and leadership of this great Church. The Almighty must have confidence in you or he never would have called you to this high place. May his spirit sustain, inspire and bless you to constant and heroic endeavor in defense of this cause, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Brethren and sisters : Some months ago I attended a conference in one of the stakes of the Church at which a returned missionary, in making a report of his missionary labors, said the greatest handicap to the progress of the work in the district where he last labored was the "Mormons" who lived there. Of course this statement seemed strange until he hurriedly explained that certain people who had been reared in the Church, but later departed from its teachings, moved into the district and lived so offensively from the standpoint of good morals and righteous conduct that others, seeing the evil deeds of these socalled "Mormons," were turned against anything "Mormon." 

The young missionary went on in his address to stress the value of right living by professed believers as a means of helping the spread of the work of the Lord. 

TEACHING BY EXAMPLE 

Of course he was right in his statement that we may teach more effectively "by example than by precept." We remember the words of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount when he said, "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." And as we read in the First Epistle of Peter (2:12) "Having your conversation honest among the gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evil doers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation." 

Undoubtedly Peter had in mind, when he wrote these words, the teachings of his Master when he said, "By their fruits ye shall know them." Possibly the gentiles among whom the returned Elder worked may also have remembered these words of Jesus and were applying his measuring stick to the so-called "Mormons" in their midst. 

But I need not argue the point. To call it to your attention is wholly sufficient. Perhaps there is nowhere a people who accept more literally than we do the doctrine taught by John the Revelator "that they were judged [in the resurrection] every man according to his works." This doctrine is one of our fundamentals. 

NOT GOOD LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

But I sometimes wonder if we are not inclined to forget it just as we are subject to forget so many other things. We occasionally sec persons who appear to be devout, sincere believers, who profess to be Latter-day Saints, who have read and can quote much scripture and yet who, judged by their fruits, fall far short of a good Christian standard. They are slow "to do unto others as they would have others do unto them." They are not generous, they are not honest. Their word is not as good as their bond. They are not loyal to their professed . Their lives, in a measure at least, are only a sham and a hypocrisy. Now, of course, such people are not good Latter-day Saints. 

PEOPLE WHO CAN PAY BUT WILL NOT 

I sometimes think that a dishonest person should not be fellowshipped in the Church until he repents. A person who can and will not pay his bills, for example, cannot be accepted of God, and therefore cannot have the companionship of the Holy Spirit. I am led to say this because, if we are rightly informed, there are people among us "who can pay but will not." They are taking advantage of the situation that makes it impossible for many honest people to pay their debts and because these cannot, the others conceal their own conditions and will not. I hasten to say, however, that I believe the faults of which I complain are by no means general. That they do exist all too frequently, however, all experienced people will testify. Ask doctors, dentists, and other professional people in Salt Lake City. They have had experiences that try their faith in the honor of many so-called "good people." Dishonesty is one of the sins of which those who are guilty are called to repent. 

THE WORD OF A "MORMON" 

Some of you, perhaps, have heard President Grant relate the story of a manufacturer in the Middle Wfest who rode up to a street meeting that our missionaries were holding in a city of Indiana and gave the crowd an oral character certificate of the Latter-day Saints. This was many years ago. He told the meeting that the word of a "Mormon" was as good as his bond, that his company had done many thousands of dollars' worth of business with the "Mormons" and had never lost a dollar. It would be extremely creditable to our people if such a statement could be truthfully made of us today by all who do business with us. But I have no hesitancy in saying that real Latter-day Saints have as much financial honor today as they ever had. They accept as truth the declaration of one of Shakespeare's characters that : 

"Mine honour is my life; both grow in one: Take honour from me, and my life is done." , 

Any man who fails in honor fails to the same degree in being a Latter-day Saint. His life is not as a light set upon a hill that attracts others to works of righteousness. 

But let every person realize, however lowly or unimportant he may feel himself to be, still he is not without influence for good or for ill. He is accountable to God for his influence. He is called upon to be "honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous," and to do good to all men. No one in the Church, no matter what his condition, is exempt from living these requirements. No one in the Church, therefore, is exempt from living the "golden rule." OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS CITIZENS 

Now there is another article of our faith, the 12th, to which I desire to call your attention. 

"We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." 

In the light of this declaration every real Latter-day Saint is a good citizen. He is loyal to civil authority, an observer of law, a supporter of those who make and enforce the law. But this is not all. Good citizenship requires something more of a person than to be loyal to authority and to be law-abiding. 

We are living under democratic forms of government. This puts certain responsibilities upon the shoulders of the citizens, upon those who enjoy the privileges of the franchise. The voters elect the officers, those who make, interpret, and execute the laws. The government will, therefore, be good or bad depending on the character, wisdom, ability and efficiency of its officers. To have a good government we must have good officers, and to have good officers the voters must do their duty. They must enter politics, that is, take an active part in all those forms, processes and functions needful to elect and stand by and support good officers. 

The government cannot be left to professional politicians to elect themselves and to rule in their selfish interests. If this were done the people would suffer from unjust laws, unjustly and oppressively administered. Experience abundantly testifies to this truth. 

KNOW THE TRUTH AND FOLLOW IT  

Now, if a citizen is to do well his part in securing good government he must be well informed on public questions and problems. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that man cannot be saved in ignorance and that the glory of God is intelligence. These are fundamental doctrines with us. Hence to please our Father in heaven, we must continually strive for wisdom, knowledge, intelligence — we must keep growing in God-like attributes. 

Can we vote intelligently and wisely unless we are informed on the questions and candidates at issue ? But does not good citizenship require us to vote in this manner? I think so. We then should make a careful study of these questions, study them open-mindedly and as fully and deeply as circumstances will permit. To do this we must not be bound by a spirit of partisanship. Principles and policies should guide us rather than self-seeking politicians. We should follow the truth rather than deceptive propaganda. 

But how shall we know the truth? Learn all the facts pertaining to the case, interpret them fairly, justly, truthfully, and with a sincere desire to be wise and to act for the best good of all, at least for the majority. Then we shall not be far from the truth. Good citizenship requires that we shall not be carried away from a safe anchorage by misleading propaganda, fostered by selfish interests. 

MISLEADING PROPAGANDA 

Let me illustrate : During the past several months and particularly in the Chicago conventions in June of the national political parties the liquor question occupied a prominent place. As I see it, this was the result of an intensive campaign for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. And for a number of years this campaign has been gathering strength until today it has attained mighty proportions. That it has acquired the character of misleading propaganda I must believe. Do you ask for my reasons for so believing? I will give you a few of them. 

One evening last May when I was passing through Butte, Montana, I read in an evening paper that the head of the Montana division of the women's organization for national prohibition reform "appealed to the women of Montana to join and support the organization in its efforts to restore law and order, to safeguard the homes and family ties in the nation through prohibition repeal. * * * The direct objects of this women's organization," the state leader announced, "are the closing up of speak-easies, the abolition of gin mills and roadhouses; putting the bootlegger out of business, taking the profits out of crime, and the restoration of respect for law." 

All of them are perfectly worthy objectives and undoubtedly all good people will stand for them. But behold the means by which it is proposed to attain them! Did you ever hear of anything more deceptive ? Yet many accept this propaganda, convinced that the objectives and the means are as logically connected as are cause and effect in the natural world. Of course this particular propaganda takes account of two facts. First, that people in general are very forgetful, and second, that millions of voters in America had not yet reached the legal voting age when national prohibition went into effect. From observation and personal experience they know little or nothing of the old saloon days and the almost intolerable evils, linked with, and attendant upon, the liquor traffic. And people are forgetful, very forgetful. Many of the older people now favoring the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment seem to have forgotten the old conditions, and knowing that conditions today relative to liquor drinking are not so good as they ought to be, appear to be ready to "jump from the frying pan into the fire" as a result of the repeal propaganda. 

Among other things it is said that repeal will bring back prosperity, reduce crime, stop racketeering and do many other very desirable things. Experienced, as well as informed, people all know that repeal will make all these matters worse, much worse, instead of better. But in times like these any propaganda that promises relief from present ills appears to many as does a straw to a drowning man — a safe support or a secure anchorage. Hence the condition of the times produces the very atmosphere in which wild propaganda of various kinds flourish. 

MOTIVATED BY SELFISHNESS 

Let me give another illustration of the tendency of the times, that of more and more people to climb on the financial back of the government or of some other supporting organization. That relief is, and has been, absolutely necessary in thousands and millions of cases we have no reason to doubt. But in some cases, we must believe that demands for relief, at least to the extent it has been demanded, were unjust or contained elements of unfairness or selfishness. The Federal treasury has been the destination of countless raids inspired by selfish motives. And right now are we sure that selfishness does not motivate, in part at least, the amount of help that is being requested of the Federal treasury? But these are loans, you say, and surely no one will borrow more money than he really needs. Well, the relief extended by the Federal government last winter through the Red Cross was not a loan. Did selfishness inspire any individual requests for this aid? 

We all know that many people are in trouble at the present time because they borrowed, or at least borrowed more than was really necessary. Are some people trying to borrow Federal money today with secret suspicions or hopes that the loans will never be repaid? Are motives for borrowing wholly good? 

Brethren and sisters, for many years Latter-day Saints have been warned from this very pulpit against going into debt, and if they were in debt they were advised to get out of debt as soon as possible. May it not be that many of us are now suffering because we neglected this divinely inspired advice? Shall any Latter-day Saint continue the practice of borrowing unless, indeed, it is really necessary? 

SEEKING GOVERNMENT HELP 

But to return to our point — that of seeking help from the government, whether it be a local or national government. This search, of course, takes many forms. That governments in times like these (and in certain cases at all times) ought to give the help needful to keep people from suffering for the necessities of life, I do not question at all but think it entirely proper. I said there are many raids upon public treasuries. Do you believe this? If so, what are you going to do about it? We cry "reduce expenditures, cut down taxes." Yes, we are all in favor of doing these very things except when it appears that doing them will adversely affect us. Then we face about. "Do it to the other fellows but not to us," seems to be our attitude. Many illustrations might be given but time will not permit me to do it. You can all name them yourselves. 

"Soak the rich" is a popular cry, appealing to the unthinking multitudes who seldom stop to analyze it from the standpoint of right and wrong and to reason out what the consequences of such a policy would be. I refer to this cry as another propaganda that a good citizen and certainly a Latter-day Saint should carefully examine before accepting or having anything to do with it. 

LIVE BLAMELESSLY BEFORE THE LORD 

In these brief moments I refer to a few only of the propagandas  which the country is being flooded; and I do this for the purpose of urging all with whom I may have influence to live blamelessly before the Lord. To do this requires, I believe, that we shall be true and loyal to our respective governments, as well as to the Church of Christ, of which we are members. Membership in each organization carries duties and obligations. And to discharge these satisfactorily for our best good and for the best good of our fellow men and acceptably to God must we not be clear-headed, thoughtful, studious, well-informed, fair, just, unselfish, and have a love for God as well as for man in our hearts? 

NOT THROUGH THE WISDOM OF MEN 

We are living in critical times. If there was ever a period during my life when we needed to pray I think it is now. Who is wise among us? Is it not written that "the wisdom of their wise men shall perish?" Of what people and of what period of time did Isaiah make this prophecy ? There is none wise among us except as the Lord shall inspire him. It shall not be the wisdom of men that will bring back peace and prosperity to this nation but the righteousness of the people following the lead of men whom the Lord will graciously inspire. All you who hear these words please do not forget them. And so read again and again I beg of you, the message that God gave to this people and to the peoples of the world through his servants, the Presidency of this Church, in their Christmas Greetings, published in the Deseret News, Dec. 19, 1931. 

To all who hear my voice and to whom these words shall come, may I send an appeal that you will try to be loyal and true to your government and live righteously before the Lord. May our Heavenly Father help us to do these things, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I bring you greetings from the Saints and missionaries in the Central States Mission, who are loyal to the Church and who are working, I think, as faithfully as could be expected. I am sure, my brethren and' sisters, that the work of the Lord is growing and though these times are trying the hearts of men and women both in the field and at home, I am positive that there is an increased faith found among the youth of Zion. 

I have had an opportunity to measure in a way the standards of the Latter-day Saints as I find them expressed through their boys and girls whom they send into the mission field. I am sure that faith is increasing and that the younger men who come out now, and the young women also, have a firm testimony of the Gospel. It is true that this testimony has to be developed, but when it is developed it becomes a power within them. It is inspiring to be associated with them. Only today, by way of example^and I think I can mention it with freedom — I talked to a young woman whose sweetheart is in the mission field. When he first came into the field he had a severe trial, that of losing his mother. He felt as if he must go home. Later, he was tempted more than ever to return, because he was fearful of losing his sweetheart. She, however, wrote him that if he came home on her account it would be of no avail, for she would not want to receive him. 

To me that is another testimony to the faith and integrity of the youth of our people. That the Lord is blessing them, is manifested continually by the boys and girls who fill places in the field as missionaries. 

We do not know just how much we are accomplishing in our work, but I bear witness that there is faith in the hearts of the children of men who have joined this Church in the mission field, and they are diligently performing their duty. Many of them are taking the place of missionaries in these times when we are not able to get the help we need, and in a way it is a blessing in disguise, for many men and women who ordinarily would not be found doing missionary work are active now in the preaching of the Gospel, in the holding of cottage meetings, in the holding of sacrament meetings, and in visiting branches of the Church in different parts of the mission. Where missionaries formerly had to do it the local people now are taking the responsibility of carrying on that part of the work, and as a result we find an increased faith and growth and a development such as we have never seen before. I am sure, my brethren and sisters and friends, we need have no fears if we do our part. I am just as sure as that I am alive that if I do my part the Lord will do his. I know that the responsibility of carrying this Gospel to the world depends upon the Latter-day Saints, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve and those who are associated with them. 

We have important work to do. Every man who has a position in this Church has his work to do, and I think that the Lord fills him with a desire, if he will seek for that desire, and gives him the inspiration, the wisdom, the vigor and the power to carry on the work. The Lord's purposes will not fail. I am not fearful in the least about it. I have never known, in all the years I have been in the mission field, a weakness in the Church of Jesus Christ; neither have I ever seen successfully assailed, either by word or pen, one of the principles of the Gospel which have been restored through the revelations of Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith. 

So the work of the Lord is positively established in the world. I take great pleasure in bearing my testimony to you that I know that this is the work of God. If I had time this afternoon I could tell you why I know it to be true. My brethren and sisters, if we will do our part, if we will fit ourselves, if we will be as clay in the potter's hands in carrying out the wishes of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, I have no fear. We cannot do anything without his help. It is his work, it is not ours. It is his Father's work. That is the testimony he bore when  was on the earth: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

That same challenge is in the world today. The Lord has established his Church in the earth in this day and brought the people unto this land to build up his kingdom and the great plan that he formulated in the beginning. He has to do it through his sons and his daughters under the direction of our Savior, Jesus Christ, and it could not be done in any other way. 

I know that the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ is placed in the men who hold the power of presidency today; I know that Heber J. Grant is at the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by divine appointment. I know that he was ordained to that calling as Joseph the Prophet was before him. If you will read the thirteenth chapter of Alma, third verse, you will find the authority for it. I know that the men he has selected to be associated with him in the Quorum of the Twelve, are men of God, and that in their hands the Lord has left his work. They conduct the affairs of the Church under the direction of the Lord Jesus Christ, and this work will be found growing stronger every day. 

May the Lord help us to sustain it by sustaining ourselves, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye /Saints." Patriarch Israel Call of the South Davis Stake closed the meeting with prayer. 


