Afternoon
08 10 1932

The congregation sang the hymn, "Our mountain home so dear." 

Patriarch Charles R. Jones, of the Summit Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The hymn, "O say, what is truth?" was sung by the congregation. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I have greatly enjoyed each session of this conference. The inspirational addresses given have buoyed us up and will aid us in determining upon definite lines of action during the next six months, in which the Church can be most benefited by united effort. To one of these fields of needed activity, I wish to direct your attention for a few minutes. 

OUR GREATEST OBLIGATION 

An eminent statesman in the United States once wrote: 

"If we work upon marble it will perish; if upon brass, time will efface it. If we rear temples they will crumble into dust. But if we work upon immortal minds, imbue them with principles with a just fear of God and love of fellow men, we engrave upon those tablets that which time cannot efface and which will endure through all eternity." 

That thought, impressively expressed, gives an idea of the theme I should like to stress this afternoon. We are deeply perturbed, in these clays, about great social questions. The best minds of the nation are now struggling with problems associated with one of the greatest financial crises that have ever swept this nation and the world. Important as this is, and other social and political questions, I believe that the profoundest problem which this country faces, indeed the greatest obligation upon th'e government today, national, state and local, is to determine how best to guide, protect, and educate properly, childhood and youth. This may seem commonplace to many of you, so commonplace that you will wonder why I take up the time of so important an assembly to speak of it. 

ATTITUDE OF THE NATION'S PRESIDENT 

Tie that as it may, I believe all agencies interested in child welfare could cooperate in this great work to the great good of our state and nation. There are phases of this problem which affect the happiness and peace of mind of every father and mother in the land. The question  child health and guidance goes to the very root of our national life. No less an authority than the President of the United States, has aptly said : 

"These questions are a complicated problem, requiring much learning and much action, and we need have great concern over this matter. Let no one believe that these are questions which should not stir a nation, that they are below the dignity of statesmen or governments. ' If we could have but one generation of properly born, trained, educated and healthy children, a thousand other problems of government would vanish. We would assure ourselves of healthier minds in more vigorous bodies, to direct the energies of our nation to yet greater heights of achievement." 

IN THE REALM OF DELINQUENCY 

In calling your attention to this important problem I have not in mind especially the tens of thousands of lads in quorum activity nor the one hundred thousand boys and girls enrolled in Primary in the Church nor the hundred thousand more young people engaged in Mutual Improvement work, or the two hundred and sixty thousand enrolled in Sunday School. Rather I have in mind the tens of thousands who are not enrolled in these quorums and associations, and also the boys and girls who are not affiliated even with church membership. I shall eliminate many of those, and ask you to consider this afternoon only that group who have crossed the border-line and entered the realm of delinquency — I shall not say criminality. 

Neither have I in mind merely the church as an agency to guide these children and youth, but all agencies in the state which are engaged either directly or indirectly in winning back this group of boys and girls who are causing us great concern. In the realm of indifference and delinquency are the causes of mothers' heartbreaks, of fathers' chagrin, hunfiliation and sorrow. Comparatively speaking, there are not many in that realm, but I am wondering if all agencies are cooperating sufficiently to reduce to a minimum the number of boys who have crossed the border-line. i 

There were 5,705 cases of delinquency before the Juvenile Court during the year 1929-1930, and about as many cases of dependency and neglect. For the year beginning July 1st, 1931, and ending June 30th, 1932, there have come before that court in the Third Judicial District a total of 843 cases — 627 boys, 216 girls, between the ages of ten and eighteen years. 

COOPERATIVE EFFORT NEEDED 

The Utah Council on Child Health and Protection is at the present time carrying forward a plan to establish an organization in each county in this state for the purpose of aiding childhood and youth. Nearly half the counties have that organization now. These county officers may have access to the reports of the Utah White House Conference dealing with the relation of the churches, Boy Scouts, Four H Clubs, and other agencies concerned in the welfare of childhood and youth. I hope that all men and women associated with these groups, will join us in the appeal for more cooperative effort in behalf of handling the problem of youth. In the report referred to I find this : 

"For every case of delinquency there is somewhere a contributing factor to such delinquency. The delinquent acts are but surface symptoms of deeper stresses and difficulties reaching far into the social life of the community, and back into the earlier home and school life of the child. The community owes a debt of protection to children that it does not owe to adults. Guardians of the child have a duty to set such examples of honesty, sincerity and courage as will challenge the child's emulation, and in these patterns of character and good citizenship lies the cure of juvenile delinquency, rather than in the powers of the court." 

It is estimated that about one-twelfth of a child's time is spent in school, approximately one-third, or four-twelfths, spent in sleep. Varying amounts above the four-twelfths are spent daily in the home. Let us say roughly that about sixty per cent of the child's time, during the eighteen years that we are considering now, is spent in the home, in sleep, and in school. That leaves forty per cent of a child's life to be spent outside of these influences. I ask you guardians of the home what you are doing to direct the efforts of childhood during that forty per cent of his life in which he is left alone to be really himself. 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS 

The agencies that are affecting the child you well know. First comes the home. Upon fathers and mothers the Lord placed one of the greatest responsibilities that can come to human beings. Hear again what he says : 

"Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the Living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when they are eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." 

I believe that parents generally are doing this, yet I am convinced that there is still much opportunity for improvement in this regard. I am not thinking of the set hours in which you sit down to teach these doctrines to your children, but of the example fathers and mothers give to their children as regards to the faith that is dear to your hearts. Your example will teach these principles, more effectively than what you say. Out of our homes come the future leaders of the government. If our homes were all they should be, the nation would be safe. 

But too many homes are broken. Statistics tell us that "The so-called broken home appears in about one-third of all the delinquency cases which come before the juvenile courts throughout the country." However, in this state (Utah) out of the 5,705 cases of delinquency before the juvenile courts, 4,043 children were residing with both parents in their own homes. Such a report should challenge our best thought. 

If in this state the majority of delinquents come from homes that are unbroken, I appeal to parents to think more seriously of the revelation found in the sixty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, part of which I have just read to you. 

THE SCHOOL A RESPONSIBLE FACTOR 

Next to the home the school is the responsible factor in child training. We have in the state forty school districts, with a school population of approximately 150,000. In 1929 fourteen districts had persons specially appointed to deal with attendance and school coordination problems. Of these fourteen only seven districts had the services of one or more persons on full time, and were serving about sixty-five per cent of the school children of the state. Thirty-five percent, in round numbers, are without such service. 

THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHURCH 

Next in importance — in some respects I place it chief in importance — is the influence of the church. Of four thousand boys under the age of twenty-one who appeared before Judge Lewis L. Faucett of the State Supreme Court of New York, only three had belonged to a Sunday School. I saw in the public press of this city the other day the report that of 6,642 cases tried directly or indirectly over a period of several years by Judge Nielsen of the Juvenile Court only two per cent or 133, had attended Sunday School. 

We might give at length ample proof of religious training as a safeguard in the community and as a preventative of delinquency. 

There are three fundamental steps to take if we would win back these boys and girls. The first is to become acquainted with them, to know them. I was delighted yesterday by the reports given before the Aaronic Priesthood conference, which gave the number of young boys who had been brought into activity, who two years ago were inactive. 

You all know that in 1931 the Church put forth an effort, under the auspices of the Sunday School, to account for every boy and girl who should be enrolled. In one year's effort 18,000 who previously had not been enrolled were brought into the fold. 

REACHING THE WAYWARD 

Today I heard a report from a man who is interested in the 4-H clubs, to the effect that in one county, in two districts, every girl between the ages of twelve and twenty is enrolled in one or more organizations interested in girls' welfare. I cite these examples merely to show that the boys and girls who step over the border-line may be successfully reached. They are not all bad boys and girls. They are erring young people who need our help. 

That brings me to the second step, the power of personality. You are not going to bring back erring youth unless you first let them know that you are interested in them. Let them feel your heart touch. Only the warm heart can kindle warmth in another. Wayward boys and girls are sometimes suspicious of people around them. Others get the idea that they are not wanted. The kind hand or the loving arm, removes suspicion and awakens confidence. Your own experience bears ample evidence of the value of personal companionship. 

The third essential is activity. We shall never accomplish the great object that is before us, in relation to childhood, until we realize that every boy and girl must have something to do. Generally speaking every child should be occupied in either sleeping, eating, working, studying or playing. Supervised play during the forty per cent of his active life outside home and school is a very important factor. 

COOPERATION NEEDED 

Now, let me just say a word further about the various groups that are interested in this work. I quote again from the Utah White House Conference report : "The work of both the Boy and the Girl Scout is well known. The program is definite, constructive, and very much worth while. Closer cooperation between Scouts and schools is urged. 

"Service clubs have done and are doing some work looking to the betterment of boys and girls, but not in the amount and quality which might be done. 

"The forest service is ready to do its part in the movement under consideration. It has provided mountain recreation centers, and is anxious to cooperate with the schools in teaching boys and girls how to use the forest areas to a greater degree. 

"A splendid attitude is manifested by the newspapers of the state. They are ready and anxious to cooperate with the schools and any other agency in promoting the welfare of our children. They have done much in this respect by fostering wholesome activities, providing suitable reading matter, and encouraging, through publications, the commendable work of others. 

"Evidently the most pressing need which has manifested itself to your sub-committee has to do with the bringing about of better cooperation between the public and private schools of the state and the various organizations mentioned." 

The need of coordinating these and other agencies in their efforts to better childhood is apparent to every thinking person. The situation calls for a State Welfare Department, the special duty of which will be to employ the most modern methods of dealing with the problems of training youth and particularly to center attention upon the preventions of delinquency and other social ills. 

As a summary of the message I have tried to convey to you, I quote the following lines : 

"He stood at the crossroads all alone, 

The sunrise in his face; He had no thought for the world unknown, 

He was set for a manly race. But the road stretched east and the road stretched west, 

And the boy knew not which road was best. So he strolled on the road that led him down, 

And he lost the race and the victor's crown, He was caught at last in an angry snare, 

Because no one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. 

"Another day at the self-same place, 

A boy with high hopes stood; He, too, was set for a manly race, 

He, too, was seeking the things that were good. But one was there who the roads did know, 

And that one showed him which way to go; So he turned from the road that would lead him down, 

And he won the race and the victor's crown, He walks today the highway fair, 

Because one stood at the crossroads there, To show him the better road." 

God inspire us all to make the Church of God effective in saving the youth of the land, in instilling in their hearts faith in God, in his Son, and in the restoration of the Gospel, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

President of the 'California Mission 

This is a very great privilege and a very grave responsibility. I will be happy if the Lord shall inspire me with his Holy Spirit and enable me to speak that which he would have me say. I believe in the spirit of inspiration. In this mature period of my life I have long since learned, in this Church, that if I am left alone I am weak indeed; but not if inspired and in the cause of truth. There is no power that can overcome the man who is inspired of the Lord and who speaks in defense of righteousness. 

I come with a cheering report from the California Mission. No man could live in California a winter and a summer and not feel led to speak well of that great country, as well as of her people. The California Mission includes most of Galifornia, most of Arizona, and most of Nevada, and represents millions of choice people. Our place in that mission seems to be firmly taken. Our numbers there increase steadily. Our stability seems to be assured. The happiness of the people is continuous. I find a satisfaction among them that is very gratifying. Thousands, many thousands. I think possibly forty thousand people, members of the Church, are in that locality; perhaps more than that; many of them in organized stakes. The mission proper, outside the boundaries of these stakes, includes about twelve thousand people, among them some of the choicest in the world. 

The presidents of those sixty-three branches, with their counselors and the heads of the auxiliary organizations, include men and women who know the truth and live it, who love the Lord and love his children, and are respected by all men. 

from the point of good works and improvement, measured upon every line that we measure in this Church of Jesus Christ, things are favorable. The righteousness of the people is increasing. They may be worried; many of them, being wage-earners, are left on reduced wages and shortened hours that they are permitted to labor, and many of them only have occasional opportunities to labor to earn their living.. Financially I should say that perhaps they were never worse off. Spiritually I should say that I think they were never more prosperous. From point of health I bring you good report. 

Now, relative to the missionary work, I could easily call for help, and know that it would be a hard matter to receive it. I think I have made a report that the missionary force there has dropped from the high point at one time when men and women commissioned of the Lord went from place to place over that great area, lifting their warning voices, when we had as high as two hundred and twenty-one. Today it will sound serious to you when I shall make the report that there are but twenty-five full-time Elders and eleven sisters in that field. 

If we had to look after the work of all of that great group of people and try to do the work that was formerly done by missionaries that were sent out from Zion, you will understand readily that we would be in a very helpless condition. But we have fortunately not been left to suffer as these figures would indicate. We have called for help from among the many down there who know the truth as you and I know the truth, and who live it as faithfully as we have ever dared to live it or ever could live it; who hold the same priesthood, have the same love of God in their hearts, the same love of his children, and a courage that is built up by being out in a world that offers resistance — I say among that group, when we called for help, the response was wonderful. One hundred and six Elders and thirty sisters have been appointed, and the service they are rendering is marvelous in its result. They stand upon the streets as fearlessly, as boldly, as your sons and your daughters have done in days gone by, and testify of the restored Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. In their homes, as they go to and come from their work, at the bench, or wherever they labor, they manifest righteousness before all men. Their lives are eloquent sermons. Wjhen they appear at the door of a house and introduce themselves as commissioned servants of the Lord Jesus Christ, it may be at the home of a neighbor who works side by side with them; and whenever that is the case the door opens, the Elder enters, he offers his message, invites the members of that household unto the Lord Jesus Christ, and testifies to them of this great work. So the efficiency of that great mission and the results of the labors of the missionaries in that mission indicate that the work has not slackened but that it moves on. 

Never have I had greater joy in all my life, in all the Church work that I have ever done. It has seemed to me that the greatest joy comes in the proclamation of the Gospel. That early experience of my younger manhood days, in far-off Holland, three years of service, has always been one of the bright spots of my life. That same love and joy was renewed a few years hence when I was permitted to labor under the kindly direction of President Callis in the Southern States Mission. And now, out in the California Mission, that comes back with the same gratifying, satisfying, blessed results. 

I bear testimony to you of these young men with whom I am  to labor, clean in attire, clean in body, honest in heart, qualified in intelligence and in learning and in understanding of the truths of the Gospel. With these fundamental requisites, lighted up by the inspiration of the Almighty, they go forth with hearts aglow, and their testimony is burning. To be associated with them, to feel the spirit of their young manhood, and the strength of their faith, stirs my soul to the very depths. The Saints love them, I love them, and I tell you we are one. The Lord loves them and he magnifies them. Their influence is holy wherever they go. They love these truths. They fear no man. They have a courage that never surrenders. They, I tell you, are the very salt of the earth. 

It is very impressive to see these young men, in the strength of their manhood, and these young women, when the day comes that you can tender unto them an honorable release — to see them as they stand and know that this relationship is being broken in part, and hardly know what they shall meet when they reach home — and they break down and say : "May the Lord grant that I may retain forever this spirit that leads me not only to love God my Father, but to love his children and seek their salvation and their welfare." It brings them home qualified to carry responsibility. My prayer is that they shall be used, that in this high point of qualification to serve they shall never rest, but that they shall go on with this service forever and forever. 

I leave my testimony with you of the joy that I have in declaring that which I do know. I tell you that there is no joy that equals the joy of having that which you know the world needs, and offering it unto them as the power that will lead them out of their troubles, settle all the doubts in their hearts, and lead them on to salvation. This is the glorious work that we are proclaiming, and it is for the world, for the salvation of the world, and God leads it to victory. That is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Bessie Morley sang a sacred solo, "To every heart." 

ELDER HUGH B. BROWN 

President of the Granite Stake 

In harmony with the song which has just been so impressively sung, may I refer to the words of the poet Cooper, taken from that sacred hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way:" 

Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, 

But trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence 

He hides a smiling face. 

His purposes will ripen fast, 

Unfolding every hour : The bud may have a bitter taste, 

But sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err, 

And scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter, 

And he shall make it plain. 

I should like to read two verses from the book of Joel : 

"Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand; 

"A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains : a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like, peither shall be any more after it, even to the years of many generations." 

For four years and more 1914 to 1918 — the greatest of world wars raged on the European and Asiatic frontiers, to which the continents of America and Africa contributed their full share. Twenty million of the physically finest men of the nations were among the casualties. Then came so-called peace. But during the fourteen years that have ensued we have had some twenty wars and the distracted, nerve-racked, panic-stricken world has witnessed the most disturbing period of alleged national and international harmony ever known. 

Perhaps never in history have the leaders of nations been more earnest in their desires for lasting peace, but never before have men been so much concerned about the future. They see in coming events dangers to our civilization. May I refer briefly to what some of them have said? The Prince of Wales, speaking to the young people of the British Empire, this year, at Albert Hall, in London, said : 

"We have before us today a world sick with fearful doubts, weary with repeated disappointments, a world of troubled nations, whose vital need is courageous faith. It is an era of potential plenty, when confidence should be supreme, yet we see in almost every land wide-spread distress and perplexity." 

In their call to prayer at the opening of the year, the Moderators of the Churches of Scotland wrote to their people : 

"The complicated problems and haunting uncertainties which loom ahead in 1932 cause stout hearts to quake and quail." 

Dr. Widtsoe, writing from Europe in April of this year, said : 

"The distress that covers these European lands has never been more serious in written history. There will have to be some tremendous readjustments before peace and prosperity will rule these lands again." 

Frank H. Simonds, the noted international writer : 

"No one in Europe, holding responsible office, is blind to the fact that the whole continent is sinking into an almost indescribable state of economic and financial prostration." 

W. T. Ellis : 

"Mankind is befuddled and bewildered, and even cloudy today, because it has lost the landmarks of faith, and the sense of a Supreme Being and 

ELDER * flUGH B. BROWN 73 

His eternal law. We have got Ito get down to the everlasting verities of life. That means that the world must hear with new distinctness and understanding, 'thus saith the Lord*," 

I refer to these expressed opinions of well informed men not to emphasize the seriousness of the situation but that the challenge of it might be recognized. Surely the duty of the church today is first to call attention to existing conditions; and secondly, if possible, point the way out. 

The Christian Advocate, a Methodist paper, makes this statement : 

"The Church of Jesus Christ is under a heavy responsibility, in these times, to lead the masses out of economic bondage in which they suffer. That is its commission, as truly as it was the high calling of Moses to free the serfs of Egypt from their industrial slavery. The economic motive, which is the motive of finding a chance to live, is the weightiest consideration in the midst of the millions. Already we clearly see the set of the tide. He is blind who does not see it. He is worse than blind who will not." 

World leaders are directing their attention to the vital need of religion. One says : 

"The world in its misery and impotence awaits that redemption and relief which religion only can give." 

Professor Ladd of Yale says : 

"The call of the world of men today, which is most insistent and intense, if not most loud and clamorous, is for a rehabilitation of religious faith." 

One of our scientists detects the dawn of what he calls "scientific spirituality" and he says : 

"Happily there is dawning upon our age a scientific spirituality, a new type of mind, that studies the truths of faith with the care, caution and candor of science, keeping the warmth and glow and power of faith." 

Another recognizes the value of religion in these words : 

"While I rejoice in the .advance of science, I deplore the desuetude of regular religious services, with their encouragement of worship and prayer, for the good reason that personal experience and the study of history convince me that this absence of the religious habit leads to an ugly chaos in private and public morals and to ja subtle lowering of the sense of beauty." 

And further we read : 

"What great deliverance could come to the unnumbered thousands suffering from hidden complexes, exaggerated inferiority, inward conflicts, fear, phobias and anxieties, all leading to ineffectiveness and unhappiness, if religion were to harness its incomparable dynamic to the fine tools of personal and analytical psychology." 

We were reminded yesterday by President Hinckley of some of the characteristics of our fathers. How they met and overcame their difficulties and obstacles. We were told they were men of courage and resourcefulness, men whose religion was a dominant factor in every decision; men who understood something of the dynamic of religion as mentioned by our modern writers. Our fathers recognized the value of spiritual leadership and the course of their intensely practical lives was determined by it. They had faith in. God and with that faith courageously met their problems and hopefully faced the future. 

This challenge of our background issues directly to the young men and women of the Church in this crisis. It will not be long until this work will pass to the shoulders of your sons and daughters. It will not be long until these presiding officers, who have borne the brunt of the battle for so many years, will be released and the work will devolve upon the young men and women of the Church. How well are they prepared ? 

I corroborate and should like to emphasize the splendid tribute which /President Harris paid to the young people of the Church. My contacts with them inspire me with the thought that this is truly the work of God, and that he is raising up an army of young men and young women to carry it forward. /We recently called upon them in one of the stakes to respond to the great duty of helping their less fortunate brothers and sisters. Their faith in the Church was manifested by their hearty response and willing sacrifice causing us to feel that the older members need not fear for its future. These young people, with the help of God, will carry on. They have not forgotten the promises of the Lord, made through the same prophet Joel, from whom we read this afternoon. Later in the same chapter he says : 

"And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and none else : and my people shall never be ashamed. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions." 

For years we have been teaching our theology, and successfully teaching it to the world. We must now make practical application of our religion; must again refer to and apply in our daily lives the words of the Master as recorded in holy writ. May I read some of them : 

"Love one another." 

"By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples." 

"By love, serve one another, for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." 

"When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." 

"All things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them." 

"Bear one another's burden, and so fulfil the law of Christ." "Above all things, clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity as with a mantle." 

"Remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support, that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken." 

"Inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me." 

"Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard." 

It seems to me that the application of the principles of the Gospel 

ELDER HUGH B. BROWN 75 

of Jesus Christ is the most important task before us today. As I listened to Elder McKay this afternoon, telling us of the millions of young people outside the churches whose hearts are not being touched by religious instruction, I thought, this Church must furnish leadership for the world, must show the way out of this serious economic situation by .calling attention to the message of Jesus and by applying the principles taught by him. 

The young people of the Church have asked, What is the Church doing to lead the way out? And the answer has been given in this conference that from the time of its organization doctrines have been taught, advice and admonition have been given, which, if followed, would most definitely meet the need of the hour. The leadership is here if we have the courage and faith to follow it. I am sure the young people of the Church have such faith. I feel that they will respond to the call that is now made of them. I believe that they will do, as the Apostle Paul advised when he said : 

"Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. 

"Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. 

"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in Jiigh places. 

"Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. 

"Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. 

"And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; 

"Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. 

"And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God : 

"Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints." 

I testify to the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I testify that I know this is his work. I know he is at the helm. Though there may be troublous times ahead of us, we have the 'absolute assurance of victory. There may be and will be "days of darkness and gloominess" as predicted in the first scripture read, but we know that he whom we serve will see us through. Let us not be content to call attention to the predictions made concerning the calamities which are to befall the nations, but rather emphasize the glorious promises of final victory and peace. 

God grant that we may put on the armour of faith, that through living the Gospel of Jesus Christ we may provide leadership for the world, for I believe it will yet be demanded of us. I pray for his Spirit and blessing upon us, that we may not be afraid, that we may not talk gloom or despondency or discouragement, but we may emulate the lives of our fathers, and with courage and resourcefulness and absolute faith in God go forward to meet the battles and problems of this age. I promise you, my brethren and sisters, that with that faith we will conquer. May it be so, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

We have heard many strong testimonies, many fervent admonitions, much good advice, quotations of numerous scriptures, every one to the point, in this conference. You will agree with me in the thought that it is good for us to be here and to have been here in the earlier sessions. W,hen this conference shall end we are not going away disappointed, but enriched and encouraged, I trust, in the duties that lie immediately before us. 

RELIGION A SUPPORT 

Of late I have found the thought welling up in my mind, even more forcefully and persistently than usual : Of what use to me is my religion under these times of special stress and test ? I take it that even if you had not known before you came here that we are living under times of pressure and strain you would know it by this time, for several speakers have emphasized the fact. If you had not realized that there is something called the depression abroad in the world, you must have found it out by this time, for that also has been mentioned by speaker after speaker. 

The word "depression" has become decidedly trite, but I do not know any other word in the English language that exactly expresses the condition we wish to describe. Now, we must recognize that as an existing condition. It is no mere theory, but a solemn fact. It is not merely a local condition, it is not only nation-wide, but world-wide. 

PRESENT CONDITION FORETOLD 

It may be small comfort to remind you that this thing was definitely foretold. It may perhaps not soften the fact of your financial difficulties to tell you that you have heard of these hard times from the mouths of those whom you sustain as your leaders, utterances made from this stand, and from the pulpits in your several stakes and wards for lo, these many years past. Some of you will know that I, with my brethren, have been very plain in citing to you scriptures, perhaps apologizing in a way for appearing a little pessimistic, yet begging you to understand the predictions as being the nature of optimistic warnings in the way of caution and counsel. 

True, this reminder may not be of any more comfort to you than that to a boy who is writhing in the after effects of eating green apples to be told that he was warned against green apples. 

FAILURE TO UNDERSTAND 

Remember that the Lord said to his disciples in the day of his personal ministry : I tell you these things beforehand, that when they come to pass you may see and understand. 

He knew very well that not many of them would open their ears  their hearts and understand at the time what he said. He told them of the troubles that were about to befall Jerusalem. He told them of the persecutions that were coming upon them, his chosen ones. He told them of the crucifixion that was awaiting himself, and they could not or would not understand but tried to explain away his words as passing remarks incident to the times. Do you not remember how he tried to make them understand that he was speaking in earnest, and that he wanted them to take his words literally? 

On that solemn march of his on the way to Jerusalem and the tomb, traversing the roads slowly, and halting wherever he found people willing to listen to him, he stopped and beckoned his followers to come up, and said to them : Let this thing sink down deep into your ears and hearts — I, the Son of Man, am on my way to Jerusalem to be handed over to wicked men, I am to be crucified and on the third day shall rise again. 

Then he passed on, and they talked among themselves wondering — What in the world does he mean by rising again ? Even after he had risen from the sepulcher there were many who doubted. When the women came from the tomb with the gladsome news some of the disciples treated the story as but an idle tale based on emotional imagination. 

Well, that may be a trait of human nature developed through the centuries, but I trust we can rise above it, and open our eyes and our hearts and come to an understanding of what the Lord has told us, of what he is telling us, for he speaks today in terms that are literal and in the language that we best can understand. 

HUMAN WISDOM MAY BE AT FAULT 

Oh, there are so many tongues spoken among men; the world is a babel; but of the tongues used by the Lord in his communication with men he selects for each occasion the language that they ought to understand. He spoke through the voice of prophecy, year after year, decade after decade, century after century, telling of the wars that would surely come in the last days, warning the people against the conditions that would make those wars certain. But would men hear? On the very eve of the outbreak of the World War there stood in this very pulpit one of the world's greatest thinkers, who declared conditions to be such that there never could be another great war between and among the major powers of the world; that the financial interests of the world were such as to forbid. Then having demonstrated, by the citation of statistics and figures many, that there could not be such a war, he proceeded to demonstrate that if war did break out in spite of all, it could not last more than six weeks; for there was not enough wealth in the world to keep a war going with present-day weapons and under conditions of modern fighting, more than a few weeks. 

I heard him speak, and I had occasion afterward to say to him : "Doctor, you have left out some important factors of your problem." He said: "What are they?" "The words of the prophets; for the war will come. It has been predicted conditionally, and the conditions are such as to make its coming certain." And I heard the refrain of ancient prophecy : "Behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder : for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

BODY, MIND AND SPIRIT 

We recognize that a human being is more than a physical creation. The man who thinks otherwise is behind the times, in the first place, even in the matter of the fads and fashions of changing conjecture. Do you think you are nothing more than a makeup of bones and muscles, of nervous tissue and blood and other anatomical structures of your body ? You are more than that! You know it, and the man who says he is nothing more really feels or fears that he is. He feels that he is something more than that, though he may try to persuade himself otherwise. There is something in this human frame of ours that existed before the body was formed. Some people have called it soul, spirit, mind, and some by names that are less common among us — gnome or devil; but it is there. It is the immortal spirit that existed in the primeval kingdom, in its period of pristine childhood, before ever it came to take its place in this school of mortality, and to assume the student's garb of flesh. 

A man is more than body and mind; he consists of body and mind and spirit, though we may regard the mind as being an attribute of the spirit. [ We know that our educators have risen above the thought that education should deal only with the mind. We have had intellectual giants developed among us who were of small practical use, comparatively speaking, and some of them have proved a detriment and hindrance to the progress of the race. We have had physical giants with the strength of huge animals but with minds dwarfed, and spirits shrunken and shriveled. 

SPIRITUALITY NEGLECTED 

Educators today are recognizing the need of symmetrical training, developing the body and the mind. But that would not be a symmetrical education because aside from the mind, even though the mind be an attribute of the spirit, there is the spirit itself, and the race has not developed spiritually in due proportion. Let the evolutionists show to what extent man has developed spiritually during the last several centuries. And the fact that man has become unsymmetrical in his development is the all-important fact, I take it, lying at the basis of the disturbed conditions in society today. 

AN INSTANCE 

By the way, only yesterday I noticed an item regarding two great structures in the city of London, not very far apart, St. Paul's Cathedral, a triumph of architecture, a monument to the great architect, Sir 

Christopher Wren, and the Bank of England, in the same section of the city. It has been discovered that both those buildings are leaning over, their foundations seem to be sinking, with the possibility of their eventual fall, and capable engineers have been called into consultation. 

I noted that Professor Miles Wlalker, who is the president of the engineering section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, had something to do with the consideration of that problem, and he draws attention to the fact that the cases in point are not the only kinds of displacement to be considered in this world of ours today — -the sinking of great buildings. He suggests that some of our social structures, spiritual structures, if you like, are sinking and coming out of plumb, and there is danger of their collapse. He proposes that the British Government organize an experimental colony to be managed by engineers — remember, he is an engineer and the president of the Engineering Section of the great British Association for the Advancement of Science — a colony to be directed by engineers, to demonstrate how far it is possible to maintain, say one hundred thousand people, with all the best of modern facilities of life, in a state of semi-isolation, separating them from conditions that bring about the "restraints and social errors of modern civilization." 

It is very interesting to note that the recommendation was overwhelmingly rejected and the great man was given to understand that science, in one sense, has already gone ahead too fast, and that the spiritual part of man has not kept up. One of our American newspapers, a leading one, the Philadelphia Public Ledger, makes comment on that in these words : 

"An ancient seer, who knew nothing of modern engineering or of the achievements of science laid down the rule that in a successful society men would do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with their God. 

"Every Utopian experiment has failed because it has not stressed the spiritual side of life with its sense of social obligation and the need of unselfishness. They have ignored the weaknesses of human nature. 

"If Professor 'Walker were dealing with machines, his plan might succeed. Man, however, is not a machine. The experiment in Russia to make a machine out of him is slowly but surely breaking down." 

SUPPORT UNDER ADVERSITY 

"Man, know thyself." Oh, that we may know ourselves and know that we are children of the Eternal One, and that this body is a secondary creation, a later construction, and that it is not the only thing about man, nor the principal thing, for the body will die — though surely it shall be resurrected — but the spirit can not die, and the spirit is really the man. 

Now, what is my religion doing for me under these conditions ? It should be a support. It should show me that notwithstanding these stresses and seemingly unfavorable forces there is purpose and plan in the experiences through which the human race is passing. It should teach me to be more considerate because of the suffering about me, in which perhaps I share, and to be more willing to help. It should teach me to be more tolerant, to be kind, to be kinder than I have been, and not to fight complainingly against the conditions that befall. You know that winter is coming by and by. Will you grumble and complain because of the ice and snow? It has to come, and the wise man will prepare for it. 

LIBERALITY TOWARD OTHERS 

My religion ought to teach me to have greater respect for my fellows, and to realize that this is the day of which the prophets have spoken, when all that can be shaken in the institutions of men shall be shaken. Are they not shaking all about us? Have your banks not shaken and fallen? Have your theories of philosophy not been found faulty? Have the conjectures of scientific men not been reversed, changed, and in some instances shaken to pieces? Only that which has been established by a power greater than man shall endure. 

My religion ought to teach me to regard my fellow as entitled to his views, as well as I am to mine, in matters political as in all else. I believe in men taking part in politics. We have to do so in order to function in government, even as has been said. But I say to you Latter-day Saints if- you, my brother, claim to be a Republican, be a straight, honest one. And if you, my other brother claim to be a Democrat, be a genuine Democrat. I know too many honorable Democrats to believe that all the good is in the Republican party, or the reverse. Some people even say: "Both can not be right." "Oh, is that so? Then if the Republicans are right the Democrats must be wrong." Would the proposition stand analysis? According to that, if the Democrats are good the Republicans are bad, out and out. Well now, I know good people and I know bad people, according to my mode of analysis, in both these parties, and I have been led to say sometimes that I think each is a little worse than — perhaps I should say better than — the other. Do not think because your neighbor does not vote your ticket that he is reprobate and bound for destruction. Do your duty as citizens, as I try to do mine, and do not feel that your neighbor is not entitled to his views. Do not let rancor and hatred find a place in your heart because of political differences. 

VALUE OF OPPOSITION 

Perhaps no greater truth was ever expressed than that revealed through the prophet Lehi : "It must needs be that there is an opposition in all things." As it is we sometimes have trouble in getting any considerable part of our citizens to the polls, and how many do you think would go if we had only one party and one ticket in the field? There must needs be opposition. Let it be honorable opposition. Let differences of opinion be held in honesty. Oh, let us be men, remembering our divine origin, and conducting ourselves accordingly. 

May we go hence encouraged to greater effort, to endure and to meet what comes, in the right spirit, and to serve the Lord our God in our actions, as we profess to do according to the words of our mouths, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that it will be an extreme relief for me to have this over and to sit in peace for the remainder of this conference. I have noticed that everybody who has sat close to me and been called on has felt just about as I have. I trust that the Lord will give me strength to bear to you a true and honest testimony and to say something that may be worth while, to encourage this congregation and to encourage me. 

I need encouragement as much as any single member of this Church, and I thank God that in the past he has come to my rescue when I have most needed his aid. I pray that as the future comes he will never desert me or desert you. 

I have enjoyed very much the words of this conference. I was especially pleased with what Dr. Harris said this morning about the youth of Zion. As Brother Hinckley told you this afternoon, our work as mission presidents brings us into direct contact with your sons and your daughters, and like Dr. Harris, I can bear testimony unto you that they are honest, true, sincere young people, and that the destiny of this work is safe in their hands. I feel it. I am sure of it. Of course it is our obligation to safeguard their growth and development that they may have this faith that is so necessary, that when they go into the world they may go in faith; that their lives may have been pure, so that they may be exemplary and be a light to the world. 

The results of their efforts depend very largely upon the example which they set. It matters not so much what their learning may be. God will give them words when the time comes, if they are faithful, so that they may answer questions and preach sermons that will touch the hearts of the people with whom they come in contact. Not all people are touched by the same thing. Not all people can be approached by the same missionary. So that it takes them all to make a world; it takes them all to make successful campaigns in the mission field. 

Sometimes we have missionaries come to us and we wonder where we will place them and what they will do, only to find, after they have been in the field a short time, that their very humility makes them our most useful instruments. They find people that other more educated, more illustrious, perhaps, missionaries would never touch; and after all, this Gospel is for the meek and the lowly, the humble and the poor; not, of course excepting the rich if they desire its benefits and blessings. 

We have heard of the depression. Wle feel it in the mission field. I have nothing but honor and respect for the fathers and the mothers of our missionaries, who are undergoing the sacrifice, the deprivation that is sometimes necessary to keep their sons and daughters in the mission field. They are heroes, these mothers and fathers. They have faith, and it is that faith that has made it possible for their sons and daughters to go into the field and preach and proselyte as they do. I could give you many illustrations of the sacrifice that has been necessary but that would perhaps be out of place at this time. But the parents are undergoing sacrifice, and I want those whose boys are in our mission field to understand that we appreciate that service to the very fullest and are grateful for it. 

These boys and girls are carrying to the world a testimony of the Gospel. It is the greatest thing in the world. If it could be given to the world so they would all understand it our troubles would soon disappear. That testimony we are trying to give them. 

The scripture has been read here in your hearing today, that eternal life consists in knowing God, the Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ whom he has sent. If we knew God we would serve him, and serving him we would gain eternal life. It is just as sure and certain as that dawn follows darkness. It is upon the testimony of God that we found our work. Christ asked his disciples, after he had lived and labored among them : 

"Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" 

And in all his following there was perhaps only Peter that gave the answer that he desired : 

"Thou are the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

"And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and Mood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. * * * And upon this rock I will build my church." 

What was it that was revealed to Peter? It was the identity of Christ as the Son of God the Father. He had been in their midst his lifetime, and there was none, perhaps, outside of Peter, that reallyrealized and appreciated who he was; and Peter, during most of his association with Christ, had little idea of his real personality. "Upon this rock I will build my church" — upon the testimony that Christ is the Son of God, "I will build my church," is the way I like to interpret that. 

When the time came that Christ's church should be established among the Nephite people, which was far from its native home, Christ himself came down among them and ministered unto them. He showed them his personality, his being, and when he left they had a testimony that Christ was and is the Son of the living God. They passed through many vicissitudes, just as did our brethren on the eastern continent, and the testimony of Christ passed from them. 

The time came when it was necessary again to restore the Gospel to the earth, and the most important and all-embracing thing that happened was a revelation to Joseph Smith of God the Father and Jesus Christ. "Upon this rock will I build my church," upon the testimony of God and Christ, his Son. 

That is the testimony that your sons and daughters are carrying to the world. That, to me, is the most important testimony that we have to give to the world, that Christ and God are real, actual personalities, who have an interest in us and in our well-being. If we will  to that testimony and preach it boldly to the world — we do not have to do it in a manner that will offend, of course, but we must not fear to give that testimony when we go out — I am sure that in the end our purposes will be accomplished, that this work will prevail, that the great and glorious things that have been predicted of it will come to pass. 

May God grant this and carry us through safely, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 


