Afternoon
09 10 1932

The closing session of the Conference was held Sunday, October 9, at 2 o'clock p. m. 

The Tabernacle was again fully occupied and many hundreds of people congregated in the large Assembly Hall on the Tabernacle Grounds, where they listened to the services as they were broadcast by radio from the Tabernacle. 

Sister Lula Christenson and the Choir sang the hymn "O my Father." 

Elder Hyrum M. Taylor, Patriarch, Granite Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The anthem, "Song of the Redeemed," was sung by the Choir. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is the Sabbath. We have met to worship. It is highly appropriate of course, to pursue spiritual themes, yet I feel we need offer no apology when we deal with temporalities. Indeed in our conception of things all temporal affairs have spiritual significance. It runs in my mind to speak of some of these temporalities in the hope that the observations I may make may be constructively helpful to some of my brethren who find themselves in serious predicaments in the economic world. 

SERIOUS EFFECTS OF FINANCIAL WORRY 

I have profound sympathy for the man who is in debt. I know that all honest men prize highly their good name, and I know that they would not willingly lose their reputation for fair and honorable dealing, and for the prompt discharge of their obligations. The man who finds himself in a situation where he cannot now discharge his obligations is subject to great anxiety and worry. Physicians tell me that no small part of the really serious maladies that come to men these days is superinduced by financial worry. The tragedies of money and financial collapse you read in the newspapers. The man who cannot pay his debts cannot sleep nights, not well at least. He is all the time apprehensive and contemplates the complete loss of his property. In his imagination he sees his family thrown upon charity. He recognizes the difficulty of making a new start in the world, and the whole problem presents to him such an array of almost insurmountable difficulties that there are times when he reaches the very verge of despair. Unfortunately the man who is in such state of mind is not rare these days. Debt is prevalent. Few there are who can stand and say they owe no man. 

What are we to do in these perplexing situations ? I want to suggest a few ideas. 

NEVER REPUDIATE 

First, never repudiate. No man can retain his honor, the respect of his fellows and self-esteem who repudiates his obligations. The men of this Church in times past have enjoyed an excellent reputation for honorable dealings. It would be a serious reflection upon the good name of this Church if members in any large numbers, openly or secretly or willfully, repudiated their obligations. I recognize the fact that temptation to repudiate them is sometimes almost overwhelming. Men reason thus : We contracted our debts on dollar wheat or eight dollar beets, on high priced cattle and sheep, when all commodities brought a good price. We are now obliged to pay those same debts without reduction in principal, on thirty cent wheat, on five dollar beets and on other commodity prices that are so staggeringly low as to discourage the producer. But even though that argument may seem specious it is not sound, for a debt is a matter of honor in the last analysis and no man can afford to forsake his honor by repudiating a debt. I grant you that there may be circumstances under which one may be obliged by the very pressure of circumstances to avail himself of the relief that the law affords. I could wish that the law were changed. I understand there is a movement in congress and has been for some years, to change it so that no man will be permitted to take bankruptcy unless in the judgment of a court of equity it is equitable that he should. But until that law is changed, while it remains as it is, while a man may under the law discharge his obligations by going through that procedure I trust that no member of this Church will ever take advantage of it except under the utmost pressure he be forced so to do. SEE CREDITORS AND ARRANGE WITH THEM 

Secondly. While these conditions prevail and it remains impossible to discharge obligations with the resources at hand, another thing that I recommend that every debtor do is to see his creditors. After all, creditors are men, banks are men, and the lending companies at least ought to be impressed with the absolute necessity of making proper adjustments at these times. Many a debtor gets in bad with his creditor because he fails to see him. I know that he is often embarrassed, he would rather stay away. It hurts his pride to confess his financial inability to discharge his obligations. But the best thing he can do for the preservation of his own credit and for the adjustment of his situation is to see his creditor and arrange with him, and if every creditor as well as every debtor enjoyed a sound, merciful, considerate, kind, Christian philosophy there would not be great difficulty in arranging. I know that many creditors themselves are pressed and have felt the necessity of pressing their debtors, but this is a time when all need to be considerate and I have confidence that the intelligent creditor can arrange for extension and if need be for compromise and reduction of obligations. If he is a wise creditor he will even find it is a very prudent thing to reduce the obligation so that the debtor may pay and thus maintain his honor and his self-respect. 

BY PERSEVERING AND CONSISTENT ACTION 

Next, do not wait for your ship to come in. The debtor who is waiting to discharge his obligations until he gets some big returns from some unassured proposition, is going to be a long time discharging his debts. I have no confidence in the ultimate outcome of a man's finances who is everlastingly waiting upon some happy event that will discharge all his debts and put him in the clear. Debts are only worked out by intelligent, persevering, consistent action. And I think that it is folly in these days for men either to hope for a return of those speculative clays which made tremendous paper profits, or for any such great change of affairs as will bring to anyone a large sum of money with which he can meet all the obligations that he may have rather unwisely incurred. Work, consistent application to one's vocation, if he is fortunate enough to have one, or his job, or his farm, or his business, may bring about in the end, although slowly, the desired results. 

BY MAKING NECESSARY ADJUSTMENTS 

When are times going to be better? Who knows? When are prices going to appreciate? Who can tell? How long may we have to raise wheat for thirty or forty cents a bushel? Who knows? Are we going to despair in the carrying forward of our several industries because we have no positive assurance that better prices will prevail? Now, it is an interesting thing these days to note that some businesses succeed and others do not. I think that a careful analysis of the situation will indicate that the man who is able to make his affairs go forward these times is the man who is willing to make the sacrifices, the reductions and the adjustments that are essential to meet our present market. For one I am not persuaded that men cannot do business on a greatly reduced price scale with some advantage to themselves. I hope for better prices; I hope for a speedy return of better conditions. It distresses all of us to see the misery that is caused to the people of the country by these abnormally low prices that now prevail. But I do not know when they are going to be better. I feel that our men should not look upon these prices and these conditions as insurmountable difficulties that prevent the continued operation of their businesses, and ultimately the successful outcome of them. 

EXTRAVAGANCE DEPLORED 

I despise waste, and I think that waste under present conditions is almost criminal — the waste of anything. Extravagance that amounts to waste is likewise indefensible in view of the great needs that present themselves. Sometimes I grow indignant when I see and contemplate the extravagances that are indulged by some of our institutions, both public and private when people are in such great distress and great want. There are extravagances in government that absorb all my own taxes and the taxes of my neighbors. These expenses are useless and unnecessary, some of them legalized it is true, but public service ought to be so alive to the situation that confronts us today that even if extravagance is legalized it should be stopped. A sense of the proprieties and a sense of fairness and justice would prompt such action. 

Our taxes are unbearably high because our incomes are so reduced. It is a tragedy to see the farms and the homes that are being sacrificed because of the inability of their owners to pay the taxes levied on them. Of course we want good government, we want the protection of law, we want all the opportunities that good government affords to us, and I recognize that they have to be paid for, but this is a day when economy must be applied. 

INVESTIGATION BY TAXPAYERS 

I am very sympathetic with the movement that I have heard is in progress wherein the taxpayers constitute themselves committees to investigate our public expenditures. No official of the government who has the right conception of his trust ought, in any sense, to resent an investigation of the administration of his office. I like the idea. I wish citizens everywhere would organize themselves and go to public officials and question them and ascertain whether or not it is not possible to make reductions in the excessive costs for which we are paying bills, for we pay them all. 

LIVING WITHIN OUR MEANS 

We talk constantly about balancing the budget. We are not balancing the budget. Debts are mounting higher in our national adminGENERAL CONFERENCE  and I suppose in our state government as well as in our municipal governments. I recognize the fact that many municipalities are actually embarrassed because they cannot get the means with which to discharge their public obligations. It may be that such strenuous circumstances will be necessary to teach us that publicly as well as privately we have to live within our means, for there is just one way for every institution as well as every individual to get out of its or his debts and that is by spending less than we receive and applying the difference to the liquidation of our liabilities. That is the only way to get out of debt. It is a very simple process, and yet it is a very hard thing to do and requires a tremendous amount of stamina to undertake the job. 

THE NEED OF PRIVATE CHARITY 

Now these things I consider to be imperative for the relief of our distressing financial condition. I recognize that there are many these days to whom the application is very remote because there are some of our brethren and sisters and many people in the world who are without any source of income other than that which comes from charity to supply their needs. Of course the unemployed deserve and I believe that they receive our sincere sympathy, and they need not only our sympathy but our means, and I should like to say to the people here assembled that this is a time when, although the government and other agencies are doing all it seems possible to do . to relieve distress, private charity must still be called upon in large measure to meet the requirements that exist. We cannot lie down and say that the relief funds of the government or our Church are going to take care of the situation. They are not, and we shall still be obliged to strain ourselves to the uttermost in order to supply that which is required. 

MATERIAL ASSISTANCE INDISPENSABLE 

Well, what has all this to do with religion? Why does this kind of talk find place, as I think it does, in such an assembly as this? It is because the man who has the religion of Jesus Christ in his heart cannot stand by and see the suffering of his fellows without being prompted by every emotion which is within him to come to their relief and to give assistance, and it is because the assistance that is so urgently required these days is material assistance. Material assistance is not only necessary for the relief of suffering and distress among the people, but that assistance is indispensable ultimately to the establishment of the great and glorious cause in which we have the honor to be engaged. The Church, fortunately, as President Ivins told us, is out of debt, but the Church needs money. The various facilities that the Church employs for the dissemination of this great work require money, the radio which broadcasts the messages of this conference, which gave us such an unusual thrill this morning, must all be supported by money. Our temples, our chapels, our great missionary cause itself, need money with which they may be prosecuted to a successful conclusion. We 101 't much money, we are poor these days. I agree heartily with those speakers who have preceded me in saying that we need to make up in spiritual fervor, in sacrifice, in renewed enthusiasm, for the want of our depleted resources, but we still need some money for this work. I know what these debts mean to the missionary service. I know there are thousands of homes in this Church who would rejoice to send out a missionary to the depleted ranks of our missionary force if they were not in the bondage of debt. They are mortgaged to their creditors and in consequence they cannot move to accomplish the things that they would like to do. 

I sincerely pray that God in his goodness will inspire every man to do the thing that his circumstances most require, to resist extravagances, to place himself on a careful, saving, economical basis that will ultimately free him ifrom this bondage of debt against which we have always been warned, that the men and the women of the Church may be free to devote their means, to consecrate the products of their lives to this high and holy cause which so commands our attention and our allegiance. God grant that it may be so, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I see in the congregation Dr. Elmer G. Peterson, President of the Agricultural College of Utah, who, for years, has had under his direction, as their tutor, large numbers of the boys and girls of the State. I am going to ask him to come to the stand and address us for a few minutes. 

DR. ELMER G. PETERSON 

President of the Utah State Agricultural College 

I shared with, all of you this morning, my brethren and sisters, an unusual emotion as we witnessed the nation-wide broadcast which emanated ,from this stand. I could not help thinking, as that nothing short of miraculous event transpired, of the very brief period of time which had elapsed since those first' companies of pioneers found their way over the forbidding desert, and through the equally forbidding mountains, to this historic spot now marked by the great edifice in which we meet and the other 'edifices on the Temple block. 

It has been only eighty years or so since those pioneer companies traversed practically half the continent, and I presume even the most visionary of them had little understanding of the tremendous significance of the developments which were taking place. Those developments are nothing short of revolution so far as human affairs are concerned, expressing themselves in a miraculous mastery by men of the forces of nature under the ministrations of science and the arts, and accomplishing also tremendous results of a social and secular character. 

The world, indeed, of which we are a part is now quite a different GENERAL CONFERENCE  from what it was when those first companies found their way here. Of course the miracle is not entirely in these evolvements of science, marvelous as they jare, but' in the fact also, I believe, that from those small beginnings there has arisen a great company of people actively devoted to the development of the truth. 

I happened to be teaching in the state of Oregon at one time when a prominent American leader came through that marvelous state. The people there of course were anxious to show him — it was Woodrow Wilson who was making the trip — the impressive natural resources of the state of Oregon — the fisheries, the great lumbering industry, the commerce, the orchards, mines and ranches; and Mr. Wilson — he was then a candidate for (the Presidency — indicated his great pleasure at seeing these resources. There happened to be in Oregon at that time a man who had attracted national attention because of the reforms which he was seeking to initiate in government and in social affairs. His name was Uren. He was seeking to bring back to the control of the people the great agencies of government and the agencies of service otherwise which in part, lamentably a large part, had departed from their control. Mr. Wilson said he was deeply interested in the forests, fisheries and other resources of Oregon, but he was infinitely more interested in what was, as he Expressed it, under Mr. Uren's hat. In other words he felt the spiritual need as superior to the material in the people's efforts to exalt themselves socially, politically and otherwise. 

Well, II am always impressed as I come to these gatherings of the Church, the like of which probably are not duplicated upon the face of the earth, by the unanimity of sentiment upon the things about which the people here are ithinking, by the powerful organization here for purposes of righteousness, by the positiveness with which the working of good is undertaken, all manifestations of spiritual undertaking. 

There are of course two bases of testimony of any religious work. There is the basis of faith, which is not much to be argued about. It is a matter of possession or non-possession. 1 Such things, for instance, as the reality, the actuality, or otherwise of that great event which transpired in the Sacred Grove. Now a person believes that or he does not believe it, or he is in process of developing a faith in it. But after all, this event and other comparable events such as the miraculous manifestation to Paul on the road to Damascus, the occasion when Moses came down from the mountain and reported the event which resulted in the code known as the Ten Commandments, not replaceable even in this modern complex and learned age by the man-made compilation of laws — these things are matters of faith. However profound our belief may [be in them — and the event in the Sacred Grove takes its place in history with the other events which I have mentioned — they are matters of faith and not subject to the same scientific analysis as are other aspects of religion which are not matters of faith but which are, nevertheless, bases of testimony. Not being subject' to analysis or scientific proof in no sense invalidates these great occurrences. My 

DR. ELMER G. PETERSON 103 

own confidence in them is as complete as though they were phenomena admitting of direct analysis and proof. 

My life has been spent largely in dealing with (young people. As we all know, the greater deductions and generalizations which set themselves up in people's minds, usually as a result of (long periods of time and of experience, are not, frequently, the possession of youth. The young look usually for those things which are called scientific, which might be called rational. Not that these other great manifestations are not rational if we had a deeper knowledge of ithings — indeed, in some ways, disbelief in them is one of the greatest irrationalities even with our present knowledge; yet there are foundations for the development of our own faith that are eminently rational; and I have found that these are reliable things upon which to build (the faith of the young in a religious or in an ethical or social or any other similar way. 

I was once talking with a young member of the Church who had spent some time in study in the East in a professional school; and he remarked while on his way back to take up his "practice in a neighboring state that one of the things the Church would have to do was to get away from the old practice which he associated with what we call temple work, ancient devices and practices which civilization, he said, had long since outgrown. He was asked what, in his judgment, was the most prevailing weakness in the society with which he was so familiar in the place where he had studied, one of Jour large cities. He said he thought that possibly the greatest weakness there as elsewhere in the centers of population was a breakdown, in the relations of the sexes, that promiscuity had succeeded chastity, and that the standards of fidelity in family life that' had been taught to us as an integral part of Christian belief were falling down pitiably in what we call civilization. As our discussion revolved around the question of temple ordinances and the care and sacredness which guard the great relationships of sex, relationships which are the very source and fountain of life itself, it was asked if after all, aside entirely from the spiritual realities which underlie temple work, the safeguarding of these relationships .was not sufficient to justify every expenditure and every energy which goes into this sacred work? 

Here :is a rationality that is clearly obvious, rational of course because it has a deep spiritual significance as a basis. There are many others. 

One of the weaknesses of present government is a breakdown in what we call democracy; and the great peoples of Europe, from whom practically all of this audience have come, are looking about for a substitute, and some of them are trying substitutes by way of dictatorships and what 1 not. They are anxious to find a cure for the weaknesses that have expressed themselves in democratic institutions. Indeed, in the thought of many observers, democracy is on trial. It does not require very extensive analysis to reveal that among the many rationalities of Mormon faith, our own faith, is that which expresses itself in the essential democracy which pervades this great organization. I GENERAL CONFERENCE  if anywhere upon the face of the earth a congregation with greater individual self-respect could be assembled than this congregation here, where the sense of the actuality of brotherhood, which is the essence of democracy, exists in such abundance that there is no doubt in the minds of the humblest, as well as all jothers in this congregation, as to the equality of privilege and opportunity which he shares with every one else in this great social union, and as it applies to our own Church this great priesthood. 

A careful thinker, after living some time in the state teaching in one of our institutions, once asked me why it was that there were no hereditary ruling families developed in the history of the Church; and I expressed the opinion, which I had not very carefully thought out, that one reason for it was that there was such actuality in the brotherhood which existed in the Church that those families instead of tending to intermarry within themselves disseminated their strength throughout the body of the Church. 

Rationality expresses itself in the processes which relate to the Word of Wisdom, sometimes considered a more or less extreme doctrine. One of the dangers of our present civilization is the danger of indulgence, expressing itself in addiction to drugs of a terrible and devastating character, an indulgence that threatens the very virtue of modern society. A person who observes the Word of Wisdom is free from the danger of addiction to drugs. If the preachment called the Word of Wisdom had no other value than to keep at least five, six or seven hundred thousand people free from the withering curse of addiction to the more deadly narcotics and other drugs, that great doctrine would have justified itself. 

Of course these and similar doctrines that could be mentioned are not negative. They are not primarily for the sake of preventing people from doing bad things. Their great virtue consists in the fact that they build up individually and thus socially strength which becomes a powerful weapon for righteousness. These things have appealed to me as I have analyzed the doctrines of the Church which constitute a philosophy, aside from the religion, the spirituality that is in the doctrine, a philosophy so profound that it is beyond the comprehension of the most learned and the most intellectual, a profound formula for the living of clean and wholesome lives, and infinitely more than that of course, a formula by means of which a people united together can preserve and build up those great strengths that hold out the possibility of finding expression in the fulfilment of the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, the exaltation of mankind. 

It would not be proper for me to occupy more time. I rejoice with you in the accomplishments which represent themselves here individually in this audience and in the many, many thousands more who are listening in today, in the social cleanliness which is expressing itself, and in the militant organization which exists here for continuing the battle of truth. 

May God bless us to be worthy of this great fellowship I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY IV. IVINS 105 

A solo, "The blind plowman," was sung by Brother Melvin Watson, who is blind. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

This is the last session, my brethren and sisters, of the conference. I have been reminded of the scripture that [I am about to quote. 

It is now more than 2,000 years ago since the Lord called the Prophet Ezekiel, the son of Buzi, commanding him to go and proclaim his word to the house of Israel. The Israelitish people had departed from faith in the God of their fathers and had turned to the worship of idols. Ezekiel, in obedience to the commandments of the Lord, went out to the people jwho dwelt upon |the river Chebar and abode with them seven days. He was amazed at their wickedness, their idolatry, and he hesitated, reluctant to deliver the message which the Lord had commanded him to take to them. 

EZEKIEL REBUKED 

At the end of that time the Lord rebuked him and said to him : 

"Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel : therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. 

"When I say lunto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall idie in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. 

"Yet if thou warn the wicked, land he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul." 

RESPONSIBILITY OF LEADERSHIP 

I have often read these words of the prophet and have asked myself this question, What is their application to you ? What is the responsibility that you are under in the capacity which you occupy in the Church and in the nation ? The answer has always been the same. It is this, that whatever my profession, whether it be as a citizen of the government to which [I have given allegiance, or a member of the Church with which I am affiliated, it becomes my duty to magnify in my life and to teach others to do so, the ideals f or which my country stands, and the creed which my Church teaches. If I fail in this and lead others away from loyalty to their country or (devotion to the truths of religion, I assume the responsibility of not only being a violator of the laws made for the protection and temporal welfare (of the citizens, but of the law of God which has been given to us for the salvation of our souls. 

This places upon Ime, if I properly understand it, and upon every other person who assumes the responsibility of leadership, whether it be in the Church or state, a tremendous responsibility, a responsibility which J always feel when I stand before a congregation of my brethren and sisters, as I do now, upon occasions of this kind, and I always feel GENERAL CONFERENCE  necessity of dependence upon the Lord and (upon you, my brethren and sisters, for help. 

A [MARVELOUS CHANGE 

This is a congregation of people composed almost exclusively of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly (known to the world as Mormons, i We are here in a buildingknown throughout the world as the Mormon tabernacle. We are listening to an organ the tones of which have become known throughout the world. We are here in an environment of flowers, of trees, with beauty and peace all around us. I remember a time when this Mock of ground on which these buildings stand, where these trees grow, these flowers bloom, was a barren waste. I have played upon this block when there was not a shrub or spear of grass on it. It was a gravelly part of the bed of City Creek. I have seen it grow from that time until now. I knew the men who were the builders of it. We are now in a city which we call Salt Lake, in a state which we call Utah, now one of the 48 states of the confederation which constitutes the United States of America. Only yesterday there was no tabernacle, no flowers, no Salt Lake City, no State of Utah; and going back just a little farther, only yesterday, as time ticks off its moments, and hours, and days, and years, and aeons, there was no government of the United States of America. 

THE MORMON PIONEERS 

What is it that has brought this about ? Why is this great congregation of men and women assembled here this afternoon ? Anglo Saxon men and women as a rule, people whose forefathers many of them laid or assisted in the laying of the foundation upon which our government rests. I knew these men and women as perhaps few men now Jiving knew them. This Mormon Pioneer, I knew his faith, I knew his industry, I knew his integrity, I knew his devotion to the government of which he formed a part, for he believed that it was ia Cod-given government. He knew that it was not alone the doing of men, that had brought him to this forbidding looking country, and yet in its ruggedness and its barrenness grand beyond comprehension. And so he toiled on. When difficulties confronted him he prayed to the Lord for light and strength, and then went out and did the thing that was required of him. Profoundly religious he held in reverential respect the religion of other men. He knew that other people found God in temples built with hands, just as he found him here under the stars where he worshipped in those early days. 

I think of those men, I think of their statesmanship. They were the peers of any of their time, intellectually, educationally, largely men who had come from the New England states of our republic, the descendants of the Pilgrims whom the Lord brought there, and it was He who brought them here. They knew it. 

DESTINY FORETOLD 

I shall not take time to go back and prove to you the truth of Elder Talmage's remarks of yesterday. This country in which we live had been declared by the prophets thousands of years ago to have 'been given by God our Father to the covenant people of Israel. The coming of Columbus was not a thing of chance. The prophets predicted his coming ages ago. He came here under the inspiration, the impulse, unknown perhaps to him, of the Spirit of the Lord, just as we are led to do many things without just knowing the reason why, for the accomplishment of a divine purpose. The establishment in this country of a government to which the oppressed of all nations should come for jrefuge, for freedom. He declared that no kings should ever rule here, centuries before Columbus sailed from the port of Spain. l He told the history of this country, its past, its present, and declared its future destiny, just as definitely as he declared its past history. 

What is that destiny ? It is that this government of ours shall persist; it shall continue; it shall never be thrown down; no enemy that comes against it shall ever triumph — upon this one condition, that the people to whom the Lord has given these bounteous blessings; these miracles which have Jcome to the earth during my lifetime, these people who have grown from an exceedingly small beginning to be the wealthiest, perhaps the most important in influence — I believe I am justified in saying it — that there is in the world — upon condition that they serve the Lord of the land, who is Jesus Christ. 

GOD, THE AUTHOR ,OF IT 

Where much is given much is expected. This land, to God our Father, is a chosen land, dedicated as I have said to the principle of liberty and freedom, not license. 

Our fathers, under His inspiration, gave us the constitution of our country, the bill of rights which defines our privileges and places limitations beyond which we may not go. Liberty, when carried to the extreme, results in license. I want to impress upon this congregation, my brethren and sisters who are here, that the Lord our God has been the author of it all. It was he who led you from your native lands. You people from the green fields and lanes of England, you did not leave your homes because you did not love your native land. You had fought for it, defended it, and were ready to fight for it again. You people from Scotland, you people from Ireland and Wales, from Germany and the islands of the sea, oh if I only had the time to go back and tell you I could show you that the whole story of your lives had been written by the finger of God. 

So we are here; here, thank the Lord, citizens of the best government in the world. We are here, members of the Church of Christ our Lord which has (been restored through the medium of heavenly messengers who had authority to give to men upon earth, the keys of the holy priesthood. What for? For the redemption of the human family. Whether men (believe it or not these things are true, and ultimately they will believe it, and there is no power either in earth or hell that can stay the progress of the Church, unless its people grove recreant to the GENERAL CONFERENCE  that they have entered into with our Father who is in heaven. Just so, there is no power that can wreck the government that God has established in this country unless it be the people themselves, and that I do not expect nor believe can occur. 

BY THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD 

The Lord in his scripture tells us that no one can come to this land unless he be brought or directed by the Spirit of the Lord, and so he has brought this people here. He brought the faith of Ithe devoted Puritans of New England; he brought the patriotism of the Dutch at New York; he brought the gallantry of the cavaliers of Virginia; the light-hearted energy of the French of New Orleans. Just the kind of composite body of men to establish a government that could not be dominated by any particular race or tongue, but made composite, that all men might be welcomed to it, live under and enjoy its privileges. 

ARMY THREATENS 

And so the government has struggled on. From the very beginning the ship of state has been at times upon a stormy sea. With the dismissal of the army after the surrender of Lord Cornwallis at.Yorktown the soldiers were discharged. .There was no money with which to pay them. They were in open;revolt. Generals in the army accused Washington of being the author of all their troubles. They would have made him king and disregarded the confederacy of states which formed the Union. , They threatened to march against the Congress which was in session at Philadelphia, and it became necessary to remove it to Princeton. 

Now let me read something that I want you to hear. While these men were assembled together in secret conclave, Washington unexpectedly walked into the room where they were seated. Fiske says : "Washington suddenly came into the meeting and amidst profound silence broke forth in a most eloquent and profound speech. All were hushed by that majestic presence and those solemn tones. He pleaded for tolerance, for patience, for trust in the newly born government which would in the end pay them that which it owed. They listened, the soldiers listened, hesitated and yielded to the irresistible presence of the man who more than any other had made the establishment of the nation possible." 

I revere this man. To me he has been a man of destiny, a prophet if we have ever had one. I read frequently his last address to the American people. It is a treasure house of wisdom, of prophecy, of political philosophy. 

PERPLEXING SITUATIONS 

Our government is now very much in the condition that it was at that early time. Demands are made upon it which, are exceedingly difficult to comply with. The soldiers of our country are in an uglymood because their requests are not granted. : The resources of the 109  are not sufficient to meet the demands made upon it, notwithstanding the great increase in taxes which has recently been levied. The bulletin boards, while this conference has been in session, have announced that the budget of the government is still (five hundred million dollars short of balance. What is the result going to be ? I do not know; I do not want to assume the responsibility of indicating, but I do know that there are some, things which will help. I do know that Elder Richards this afternon has declared to you in jplain terms some of the things that must be accomplished. There is about ten billions of dollars of gold in the world. Our national debt is twenty billions of dollars. What the debt of other nations of the world is I do not know, I have not taken , the time to determine, but this I do know, that the World war cost about two hundred billions of dollars, and that does not take into consideration the amount which was paid for the restoration of property destroyed, nor does it take into consideration the fact that I believe nearly ten millions of men, if J remember the figures correctly, were either killed or permanently disabled and taken away from the forces which create the industries of the world. So that altogether I calculate that at least two hundred and fifty billions of dollars was the cost of that great war. Will the debt ever be paid ? It never will. That goes without saying. Some part of it may be, I -do not know. No one will deny .the fact that the government at present is confronted with perplexing situations, questions of great import. How they are to be solved men appear not to know, and I do not know. One thing that I do know, is that the American people are capable of solving these problems if the voice of the 'people could be heard. I have faith in the soul of these American people which God has brought to this land. He has said, and I am only repeating his words, that the nation shall persist, that it shall be able to meet any emergency that shall arise if it will only, as I have stated, have faith in the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. 

DISREGARD FOR LAW 

It appears to me that three things are more responsible than all else for our present condition. The first is the unusual disposition upon the part of many of the citizens of our country to disregard the obligation of obedience to civil law. I do not heed to quote these notes that I have here to show you that in the opinion of the best thinkers of our country, chaos hangs over it unless something can be done to restrain crime and the open violation of law which exists in the United States today. Criminals sit upon juries where their own friends are being tried, while business men and others who should be there decline or avoid such service. Murder is committed in the light of day. Murderers and thieves are released from jail or from courts by habeas corpus many times before the prisoner ever reaches the bar of justice. Lawlessness is in every city of the land. Wicked men go out in the darkness at night like animals of prey, here in our own Icity, seeking whom they might devour, preying upon the innocent and unprotected. The officers GENERAL CONFERENCE  the law do the best they can to prevent it. We who are citizens pay too little attention to it and give them too little support. Just as long as prominent men in our nation, bankers, merchants, business men, congressmen and legislators ignore the law themselves, how can they expect that this condition can be overcome ?i Do I exaggerate when I say that men are elected to office who are unworthy, and never should have been chosen? Every man who goes to the Congress of the [United States holds up his hand and covenants with God that he will obey the Constitution of our country, and then frequently he goes right out and violates it. It applies to men who are sent up to our legislature. They enter into that covenant and then disregard it. I know how I should feel if I did a thing of that kind. I would know that I was a perjurer and I would expect to be impeached and sent home where I belonged. Some such method as that will have to be adopted before our house cleaning will be complete. 

DISREGARD FOR RELIGION AND PURSUIT OF WEALTH 

In conclusion, let [me read some quotations that I have made from this man whom we refer to as the father of our country. I said there were three things responsible for this spirit of lawlessness. Another one is the disregard of religion that is gradually but surely manifesting itself among the people. Enough has been said in this conference to satisfy you that this is not an idle statement that I am making. These sheets that I have before me are covered with statistics that corroborate the truth of what I say. The next thing to be avoided is the unbridled and unreasonable pursuit of wealth which has characterized the people of the United States ever since the World war terminated. I expect that we have made more millionaires — Senator Smoot will know whether I .state it correctly or not — I suppose we have made more millionaires in the United States since the war than existed perhaps altogether before (Senator Smoot confirmed this statement). What does that mean? It means that whenever you multiply millionaires tribulation comes to someone, and as this selfish desire for the accumulation of wealth has gone on among certain people and in certain sections other people have become poorer and poorer, until we have at last reached the crisis in which we find ourselves today. 

QUOTES WASHINGTON 

Washington in this address to which I have referred, and I wish every member of the Church would read it — -not only read it but make it a part of the governing rule of his life — says : 

"Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to subvert these great 'pillars of human happiness, these firmest props of the duties of 'men and citizens. The mere politician, equally with the pious man, ought to respect and cherish them. A volume could not trace all their connections with private and public felicity. Let it simply be asked — " and I ask it of you — '"Where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths, which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice? And let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Whatever may toe conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle." 

Another basic principle: "The basis of our political systems is the right of the people to make and alter their constitution or government. But the constitution which at any time exists, till changed by an explicit act of the people, is sacredly obligatory upon all. The very idea of the power and the right of 'the people to establish government presupposes the duty of every individual to obey the established government. 

"All obstructions to the execution of the laws, all combinations and associations, under whatever plausible character, with the real design to direct, control, counteract or awe the regular deliberation and action of the constituted authorities, are destructive of this fundamental principle, and Of fatal tendency. They serve to organize faction, to give it an artificial and extraordinary force; to put, in the place of the delegated will of the nation, the will of a party, often a small but artful and enterprising minority of the community; and, according to the alternate triumphs of different parties, to make the public administration the mirror of ill-concerted and incongruous projects of faction, rather jthan the organ of consistent and (wholesome plans digested by common counsels, and modified by mutual interests." 

RESPONSIBILITY OF CITIZENSHIP 

I am going to ask you this question, and ask it in plainness, because it appears to me to be a vital one, and if jl stand here and express a thought that is wrong, nevertheless believing it to be solemnly right, then I have justified myself as Ezekiel did when he went down to the house of Israel. I am asking myself this question : Is there not some responsibility resting upon the citizenship of the United States because of the indifference they have manifested, particularly during the past decade, in regard to those who are to represent them in the Congress of our nation, the legislatures of our states and the boards of direction in the municipalities of those states and counties ? 

I believe I will say it — I believe that in many instances we have become so accustomed to and so committed to party rule, to arrangements made by professional politicians, regardless of the real voice and desire of the people, that we have felt it our duty to follow them whether they are right or wrong. Just a word of solemn warning : I say to you regardless of party politics, regardless of your past affiliations, in this time of extremity, and it is a time of extremity, see to it that honest men, wise men, capable men are sent to represent you in the organizations of the country, the bodies which formulate our laws and appoint the men who administer them. You know that the constitution , of the United States gives Congress certain privileges and rights. There are certain other sacred privileges and rights that it does not confer upon them and that they should not be permitted to overstep. They formulate and pass the laws which govern our lives, control pur property, proclaim peace or war. The administration of those laws that they pass is limited. The administration goes to the administrative bodies. 

FEARS PATERNAL GOVERNMENT 

I fear this, that under existing conditions we are gradually drifting GENERAL CONFERENCE 

 a paternal government, a government which will so intrench itself that the people will become powerless to disrupt it, in which the lives and liberty of the people at large may be jeopardized. They are pouring millions of dollars in this time of need into sources for the benefit of the people and it is a great benefit and perhaps salvation, but it is going to result in this — I am going to make this statement — that if the present policy is continued it will not be long until the government will be in the banking business, it will be in the farming business, it will be in the cattle and sheep business, for many of these debts will never be paid. That will mean the appointment of innumerable agencies. The government now is overloaded with commissions and agencies, some of them administering the very laws that Congress itself has enacted. Someone else should be administering those laws. If you want to save yourselves from the bondage of debt and political influences which are not of your own choosing I ask you to think of what I have said. 

LEGISLATORS OF EARLY DAYS 

Oh, I remember those old legislative bodies which assembled in Utah. I knew the men that were in them. They were men of faith, men who taught me faith in a living God, that he is the same good heavenly Father that he ever was and will watch over and bless righteous people wherever they are. They taught me obedience to the laws of my country. They taught me patriotism to my country and to this government of which I am speaking; that it was dearer to me than life itself; that it should be defended; that it should be protected, not only from enemies from without, but enemies from within. They are the most dangerous enemies of all. And I have never seen a moment in my life that I did not stand ready to give it that protection. I am ready now, as old as I am, and I always have been, not only to say the thing but to do it. I will not be walked over rough shod by the lawless element that is now seeking to get control of this country. 

GIVES BLESSING 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, keep you in the path of rectitude, keep you true to the Church, to the state and to each other, and some means will come by which we will be able to pay these debts and relieve ourselves. We may be leveled down before that, and I do not know but that would be a good thing. We would all be very much alike. The prophet Isaiah tells us that it shall be "as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of usury to him." And we are nearing that condition now. I do not know who is the worse off today, the banker who is lending money, or the person to whom he lends it. 

God bless you, is my humble prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 



PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. WINS 113 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Elder Joseph Anderson will now present the authorities of the Church. He is the Clerk of the Conference. 

As you know, my brethren and sisters, there are two vacancies in the presiding authorities of the Church — a Counselor to the President and a Presiding Patriarch. Neither of these vacancies will be filled at this conference. I am sure you will agree with me, when you know all of the reasons connected with this, that the right thing has been done in deferring action upon this one matter. 

The General Authorities and Officers and General Auxiliary Officers of the Church were then presented and sustained in their offices and callings by the unanimous vote of the large assembly, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson James E. Talmage 

Reed Smoot Stephen L. Richards 

George Albert Smith Richard R. Lyman 

George F. Richards Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

Joseph Fielding Smith Joseph F. Merrill 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church pf Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ' 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE (SEVENTY 

iBrigham ,H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball' Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph Wl McMurrin Antoine R. Ivins GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS!OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding 'Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Willard Young Stephen L. Richards 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Joseph F. Merrill John A. Widtsoe 

Joseph Fielding Smith Adam S. Bennion Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp Orval W. Adams John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor; David A. Smith, President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Shreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 115 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen /L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert iSmith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edna Harker Thomas, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

The Choir sang "Inflammatus," solo part by Sister Laurinda Brewerton, after which the congregation arose and sang with the Choir the first verse of "God be with you till we meet again." 

Elder Edgar W. Jeffery, Patriarch, Deseret Stake, pronounced the benediction. 

The Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing at all the meetings of the Conference. Edward P. Kimball and Frank Wl Asper played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ. 

Stenographic reports of the discourses were made by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 113 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 41 

Callis, Elder Charles A 92 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 11 

Church growth and activity, 12 — Factors of vital importance tor better conditions, 12 — Higher commodity prices, 13 — Individualism and cooperation, 13 — Individual effort and initiative necessary, 13 — Co-operative action in the Church, 13 — All should use their energies, 14 — The worthy and the unworthy, 14 — Stakes organized for social welfare, 14 — Quantities of supplies gathered, IS — Children of Israel told to go forward, 15 — Application to present conditions, IS — Go forward with courage and faith, 16. 

Brown, Elder Hugh B 71 

Clawson, President Rudger 5 

Purpose in life, 6 — Predictions fulfilled, 6 — The pre-existent state, 6 — Spirits not complete, 7 — Living souls, 7 — Purpose of life, 8 — How to Ibe saved, 8 — The destiny of man, 8 — Must be born again, 9 — Worldly things to pass away, 10 — Immortal things, 10 — The riches  the 'world, 11. 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 21 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 113 

General Auxiliary Officers of the Church -.114 

General Officers of the Church ...114 

Grant, President Heber J.,— Absent account of illness 1 

Grant, President Heber J., — Telegraphic message 3 

Grant, President Heber J., — Telegram 84 

Harris, Dr. Franklin S 49 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 69 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 33 

Ivins, President Anthoniy W 2 

President Grant's illness, 2— Message from the President, 2— Gratitude for improved condition, 3 — Church out of debt, 3 — Progress in the missions, 3 — Religious instruction, 4 — Temple work, 4 — The work of the Lord, 4 — Individual responsibility, 5. 

Ivins, President Anthony W 16 

To relieve distress, 16. 

Ivins, President Anthony- W 21 

Deviation from usual procedure Sunday morning, 21. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Ivins, President Anthony W 101 

Introducing Dr. Elmer G. Peterson, 101. 

Ivins, President Anthony W 105 

Ezekiel rebuked, 105 — Responsibility of leadership, 105 — A marvelous change, 106— The Mormon pioneers, 106— Destiny foretold, 106— God, the author of it, 107 — By the Spirit of the Lord, 108 — Army threatens, 108 — Perplexing situations, 108 — Disregard for law, 109— Disregard for religion and pursuit of wealth, 110 — Quotes Washington, 110 — Responsibility of citizenship, 111 — Fears paternal government, 111 — Legislators of early days, 112 — Gives blessing, 112. 

Ivins, President Anthony W 113 

Vacancies in Presiding Authorities, 113 — Relative to presentation of Authorities, 113. 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 81 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 17 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 51 

Lawlessness, disrespect for law and anarchy, 51 — Not good for man, 52 — Alcohol a narcotic, 52 — Loyalty to Eighteenth Amendment, 52 — Giving up food and clothing for drink, 52 — "We are at War!", 53 — The law breaker of today, 53 — The drinker is responsible, 53 — Guilty public officials, 53 — Buying votes with liquor, 54 — Functions where law is broken, 54 — Vote only for those who respect the law, 54 — Reflection on state, 54 — God have mercy on us, 54 — Stand for America, 55 — By the blood of the Revolution, 55 — "Help me, Father!", 55 — Sustaining the law, 55 — I stand with leaders, 56 — High-class citizenship, 56 — Youth speaks, 56 — Determined young manhood, 56 — Faith in Almighty God, 57. 

McKay, Elder David 64 

Our greatest obligation, 64 — Attitude of the Nation's President, 64 — In the realm of delinquency, 65 — Co-operative effort needed, 65 — The responsibility of parents, 66 — The school, a responsible factor, 67 — The influence of the Church, 67 — Reaching the wayward, 67 — Cooperation needed, 68. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 3,5 

Teaching by example, 36 — Not good Latter-day Saints, 36 — People who can pay but will not, 37 — The word of a "Mormon", 37 — Our responsibility as citizens, 38 — Know the truth and follow it, 38 — Misleading propaganda, 39 — Motivated by selfishness, 39 — Seeking government help, 40 — Live blamlessly before the Lord, 40 — Not through the wisdom of men, 41. 

Moyle, Elder James H 60 

Peterson, Dr. Elmer G 101 

Richards, Elder George F 44 

One way of relieving distress, 44 — Through failure to observe counsel, 45 — From a small beginning, 46 — Fasting and offerings closely associated, 47 — Fasting and offerings established, 47 — If strictly observed, 47 — An obligation upon all, 48 — In 'regard to tithing, 48 — Doers of the word, 49. 119 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 96 

Serious effects of financial worry, 97 — Never repudiate, 97 — See creditors and arrange with them, 98— By persevering' and consistent action, 98 — By making necessary adjustments, 98 — Extravagance deplored, 99 — Investigation by taxpayers, 99 — Living within our means, 99 — The need of private charity, 100 — Material assistance , 100. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 93 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 64 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 44 

Smith, Elder George Albert 21 

Grateful for blessings, 22 — Devotion and sacrifice of the Pioneers, 22 — Respect for the name of Deity, 22 — The Sabbath day, 23— "Honor thy father and thy mother", 23 — The sacredness of human life, 24— Purity of life, 24 — Pitfalls of the adversary, 24— "Thou shalt not steal v , 25 — The reputation of others, 26 — That which is thy neighbor's, 26 — Keeping in the Lord's territory, 27 — For the protection of our Father's children, 27 — Servants of the Lord, 28 — To teach the people, 28 — The attitude of the evil doer, 28 — The cunning of the adversary, 29 — Our responsibility, 30. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 88 

Men's hearts failing them, 88 — Responsibility for the depression, 88 — Have forsaken God, 89— The warning voice, 90 — Fulfilment of prophecies, 90 — The signs of the times, 91 — Before his second coming, 91. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 84 

The saints in Washington, 85 — Testimony through prayer, 85 — The experience of Gandhi, 86— The condition, religiously, 87 — The power of prayer recognized, 87. 

Talmage, Elder James E 76 

Religion a support, 76 — Present condition foretold, 76 — Failure to understand, 76— Human wisdom may be at fault, 77 — Body, mind and spirit, 78 — Spirituality neglected, 78— An instance, 78 — Support under adversity, 79 — Liberality toward others, 80 — Value of opposition, 80. 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 96 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 85 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 30 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 57 

THE FALLING AWAY 

By B. H. ROBERTS 

This new work is a ringing challenge to Christendom and a frank indictment of the multifarious creeds that are an outgrowth of the disintegrated Apostolic Church. It shows most conclusively and brilliantly that all the churches had departed from the true pattern of Christ and lost the authority completely, long before the New Dispensation was ushered in through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. 

Yet the motive of the author is< not to tear down, but rather to build up; had there been no "falling away," the claim of the prophet of the New Dispensation would have been an imposture; if there was a "falling away," however, his claim is credible. It was to establish this fact sharply and conclusively that these radio addresses were given. All who heard Elder Roberts or who will read these published discourses, will agree that be has accomplished the end in a scholarly and convincing manner. 

Though most of the discourses deal with eras of apostasy and centuries of discord, the ultimate message of the book is one of hope and salvation for the world. The three discourses on the Restoration read like the happy outcome of an otherwise tragic story. You feel at the end that the author has performed a necessary but melancholy task, only that he might invest with true meaning the unique claim of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The Appendix of the new work is an answer to Catholic charges that the author had been unfair in his use of evidence and presentation of historic facts. His reply is given with enough zestful detail to leave the reader without a single doubt. 

Price $1.50 

Sunday Night Talks by Radio 

By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE 

In answer to an insistent demand the 1930 series of L. D. S. Radio Addresses given by Dr. James E. Tannage has now been issued in regular book form under the title of "Sunday Night Talks By Radio." It is printed on a good grade of book paper from type especially set for this edition, and durably bound in beautiful marblex cloth. 

This book will make a beautiful as well as practical and useful addition to the library of any member of the Church. It will be especially valuable to missionaries or prospective missionaries. 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

Send your order now to the 

Deseret Book Company 

"The Home of Good Books" 44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 

The Life Story of Brigham Young 

By SUSA YOUNG GATES AND LEAH D. WIDTSOE WITH A FOREWORD BY HONORABLE REED SMOOT 

"This book presents the life story of a New England cabinet-maker, who, well into his thirties, entered upon a career that made him an empirebuilder of the West; the founder of a hundred cities; the governor of one of the territories of the United States; and one of the outstanding figures of the nineteenth century." 

Thus does Senator Smoot begin his enthusiastic foreword to this notable biography. 

A Special Edition. Beautifully and Substantially Bound in Cloth. 

Price $2.50 

DO MEN BELIEVE WHAT THEIR CHURCH PRESCRIBES? 

By RTJLON S. HOWELLS 

A comprehensive yet concise study of leading Christian religions and their fundamental subjects, carefully and painstakingly compiled as a guide for all thinking Christians. 

The book contains 164 pages and a large folded chart. The chart contains the views of ten of the outstanding religious denominations on twenty-three of the outstanding fundamentals of the Christian Doctrines. 

The material for this chart was furnished by officers and ministers of the various churches involved, and is therefore authoritative in all of its statements. 

Price $1.50 

Published and Distributed by the 

Deseret Book Company 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







