Morning
09 10 1932

Sunday morning, October 9. Every seat in the great auditorium and galleries of the Tabernacle was taken, and every available space in the aisles was occupied before ten o'clock. Hundreds of people who were unable to find accommodation in the Tabernacle occupied the large Assembly Hall on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the proceedings as they were broadcast by radio. 

As a prelude to the fifth session of the Conference the following program of choral and organ music was rendered by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ and broadcast by radio from coast to coast over the Columbia Broadcasting System, through Station KSL of Salt Lake City: 

"Arise, O glorious Zion" — Choir. 

"To Thee, O Country" — Chaminade Chorus. 

"Kol Nidre" (traditional Hebrew melody) — Organ. 

"Choral Cluster" (Bach) — Choir. 

"Minuet" (Boellman)— Organ. 

"O be gracious" (from "St. Paul" — Mendelssohn) — Choir. "Pilgrims Chorus" (Tannhauser — Wagner) — Organ. "I praise thee, O Lord" ("St. Paul" — Mendelssohn) — Choir. The Choir was directed by Anthony C. Lund, with Edward P. Kimball at the Organ. Organ solos by Frank W. Asper. 

At the close of the broadcast President Anthony W. Ivins read the following telegram which he had received from President Heber J. Grant : 

"Sincerely trust you have had wonderful Conference, as I know you have. We will participate with you first half hour this morning. Ask Professor Lund to have opening hymn this morning 'An angel from on high,' next 'Let the mountains shout for joy.' Again our love and greetings to the Saints and my blessings upon the people everywhere. I 

Heber J. Grant." 

A duet and chorus, "An angel from on high," was rendered by Charles Martin and Ida Hepworth, and the Tabernacle Choir. 

Elder Wiilliam H. Haigh, Patriarch, Cottonwood Stake, offered the ' opening prayer. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, my heart is full of thanks to my Heavenly Father for this occasion. "What hath God wrought!" came to my mind as T was sitting here upon the stand, knowing that from this remarkable 

ELDER REED SMOOT 85 

building there went to all the world a program that would do honor to any people, for there is no civilized people in the world that could put a more religious, a more fervent program upon the air, praising God the Eternal Father. 

THE SAINTS IN WASHINGTON 

First, I want to extend the greetings of the brethren and sisters and your sons and daughters at Washington to the people of this conference. They no doubt are listening in to the program of this day. I can imagine seeing five or six hundred of them in the hall, listening to every word, and enjoying the remarkable musical exercise that was given here this morning. 

I want to assure the fathers and mothers of the boys and girls that are in Washington that they are as deeply interested in the welfare of the Church and are studying the principles of the Church, as well as if they were living in any community within the state of Utah. I think that the percentage of our young people and people in general in Washington who attend the services is as great if not greater than in any other place in the United States. 

TESTIMONY THROUGH PRAYER 

I thought this morning that I would refer to the question of prayer, for it is so ivital to a man and woman, no matter what position they hold, in order that they may maintain a testimony, if they have one, of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and if they haven't yet that testimony, 1 know of no better way in all the world to receive it than to plead with our Heavenly Father that it may be granted unto them. I know whereof I speak, because it was only through the humiliation of my soul and the prayers ascending to my God, at the request of the mother who gave me birth, that I received a testimony that this is God's work; and every prediction made by the servants of God in any age since it was established upon this earth, shall be fulfilled. 

I often think, my brethren and sisters, of the hymn that we so often sing: 

Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, 

Uttered or unexpressed; The motion of a hidden fire 

That trembles in the breast. 

Prayer is the burden of a sigh, 

The falling of a tear, The upward glancing of an eye, 

When none but God is near. 

Prayer is the simplest form of speech 

That infant lips can try; Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach 

The Majesty on high. 

Prayer is the Christian's vital breath, 

The Christian's native air; His watchword at the gates of death; 

He enters heav'n with prayer. Prayer is the contrite sinner's voice, 

Returning from his ways, While angels in their songs rejoice, 

And cry, Behold, he prays. 

The Saints in prayer appear as one 

In word and deed and mind, While with the Father and the Son 

Their fellowship they find. 

Nor prayer is made on earth alone; 

The Holy Spirit pleads, And Jesus on the Father's throne, 

For sinners intercedes. 

I think the American people, and perhaps the peoples of the great cities of the countries of the world, do not recognize the full benefit that prayer gives to the man or woman or soul that believes in God. 

THE EXPERIENCE OF GANDHI 

I was rather interested, my brethren and sisters, in what may prove to be the last words uttered by Gandhi. He came from far-off India to London, England, to plead with the English government to give his people, as he called them, more liberty, more assistance, and help the people in that far-off land to reach and learn, if possible, the things of God and what he desires in this world. The Indian leader makes this statement: 

"Prayer has saved my life. Without it I should have been a lunatic long ago. I have had my share of the bitterest public and private experiences. They threw me into temporary despair. If I was able to get rid of that despair it was because of prayer. Prayer has been part of my life, as truth has been. Prayer came out of sheer necessity. I found myself in a plight where I could not possibly be happy without prayer. The more my faith in God increased, the more irresistible became the yearnings for iprayer. Life seemed to be dull and vacant without it. I had attended the Christian religious services in South Africa, but they failed to grip me. My Christian friends supplicated God, but I icould not do so. I failed grievously. I started with a disbelief in God and prayer, and until at la late stage in life I did not feel anything like a boy in life. At that stage I felt that as food was indispensable to the body, so was prayer indispensable for the soul.! In fact, food for the body is not so necessary as prayer for the soul, for starvation is often necessary in order to keep the body in health; but there is no such thing as prayer starvation. You cannot possibly have a surfeit of prayer." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, from every word of that strange man it seems to me that the people over whom he has so wonderful a power, the peoples of India, are almost ready to receive the teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every Latter-day Saint knows that it is impossible for a man or a woman to enjoy the Spirit of the living God without supplication to him, asking him to forgive his shortcomings and to assist him in his every-day walk of life. I want to acknowledge at this time that it was that mother of mine who taught me the lesson that it was necessary, if I ever expected to receive the divine blessings of our Heavenly Father, to learn to supplicate him for them; and thank God I have followed it out. 

THE CONDITION, RELIGIOUSLY 

What is the condition of the world today? Let me not say, although I think I know. I mean the condition of the world today as far as religion is concerned, so far as their belief in God is concerned. It is but a few years ago that Brother Widtsoe and |I visited Europe. The day that we were in Stockholm a great convention was held of the Christian church. I was very much interested in a statement that was made by Dr. Law of Brooklyn, and I think perhaps it would be proper for me to read it at this time. It may be enlightening to you, and I hope also to the good peoples of America and the world, for I think there is a great deal of truth in what the doctor said : 

"The Christian church has no message today for a dying world. As a matter of fact, the Christian church is preaching many gospels, and the result is confusion and failure," said the Rev. Dr. Curtis Lee Law of Brooklyn, in addressing the Baptist World Conference at Stockholm. "Denominations are being rent asunder today," he said, "and those who have long been brethren are in warring camps, contending not over non-essentials but also over the very foundation principles of Christianity. If this theological war is fought to a finish," he said, "at least the present generation will perish for lack of vision. 

"Believing in the sincerity and high moral character of these warring theologians," he said, "I beg of them, in the name of Christ and perishing humanity, that they will quietly, lovingly, prayerfully, gather about the table, with God's book before them, and let that settle every disputed question. That book is the ultimate ground for authority." So says the renowned doctor. 

THE POWER OF PRAYER RECOGNIZED 

Our government, in its beginning, recognized the power of prayer, for in the first gathering of Congress, the Senate and the House, prayer was offered before a thing was undertaken in the way of legislation. Among those wonderful men who met at Carpenter Hall on September 5th, 1774, were some of the greatest Americans, men who were perfectly willing to give their lives for their country. They bowed in prayer, and more than half of them knelt when the prayer was being offered. 

The time was, my brethren and sisters, that you could go from one end of the country to the other and there was prayer in almost every home, no matter what denomination the people belonged to. It is just the reverse today. I plead with you, my brethren and sisters, I plead with you today, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, that you shall not forget to appeal to the Father in heaven, through the Master, for guidance every day of your life. America is a Christian nation and the great countries of the world are called Christian nations. Are we so living and are they showing by their acts and by their lives that they believe in the teachings of the Master? 

I believe that every prediction that has been made in relation to the destiny of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed in this age, shall be fulfilled. I am proud, my brethren and sisters, to be one of those who preach the Gospel at least by their lives, and that is a wonderful way to preach it. I thank the mother that gave me birth that she instilled those principles into my very soul. May God's blessings ever be with his people. May his choicest blessings be over the nation, and may I also add, over all the civilized nations of the world, and may they humble themselves and live according to the teachings of the Master; and if it were done — and I might add, it must be done before there shall be peace in the world. 

God bless you all, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, I feel most humble in standing here before this vast congregation and as I reflect upon the great miracle that we have witnessed this jmorning, in the broadcast from this ibuilding, which has gone out over the world. I feel grateful for every blessing that comes to |me and to us, as members of the Church, through the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We believe in peace. We preach peace. I hope we are living (in peace. 

men's hearts failing them 

After listening to the sayings of some of the world's great leaders and thinkers, as their expressions have been presented by some of the speakers at this conference, I am impressed -with the fact that the hearts of men are failing them. I think that is quite evident. We see it in publications in the newspapers and magazines and in the expressions of the people. The hearts of men are failing them. Fear has come upon the people of the earth. 

responsibility for the depression 

One of the brethren yesterday stated that practically every speaker up to that time said something about the depression. I suppose I will not be out of place if I too say something about it. I would like to iplace the blame for it where it belongs. It is so easy for humankind to blame somebody else for their own mistakes, and so easy for us, because of our human nature, to take credit when the thing that is accomplished is something that pleases and benefits. But we never want to shoulder a responsibility for our mistakes that do not please, and so we endeavor to place that kind of responsibility somewhere else and on others. 

When the children of Israel came out of Egypt they were led by Moses as he was directed of the Lord. Constantly they murmured against him when they found themselves confronting difficulties, and wanted to go back to Egypt to their tasks and to their tribulation. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us shoulder our own responsibilities, and not endeavor to place them somewhere else. The responsibility for this depression is partly mine; it is partly yours. It is the fault of the farmer, of the merchant, of the educator, the business man, the professional man — in fact, men in all walks of life. That is where the responsibility belongs. And why? Because of a failure to heed the commandments of God. I say it is partly mine. It is mine insofar as I may have failed to heed the commandments. It is mine wherein I may have failed to follow the counsels that have been given from this pulpit for many years. It is your fault because you too, perhaps, have failed to heed those counsels. It is the fault of the whole world, because they have refused to hear the word of God, to heed the Warnings that have come from him, not only through ancient prophets and apostles but in the words that have been declared from time to time by modern prophets. 

HAVE FORSAKEN GOD 

The world today is full of selfishness, greed, the desire to possess. For many years we have been living extravagantly. Our wants have been supplied — not our needs alone, but our wants — and we have wanted much. Most of us have been able to obtain them, and now a time comes when we find ourselves somewhat curtailed, hedged around about, not having so many privileges, and our desires are not 30 fully granted, and so we begin to complain. But we should get rid of our selfishness and greed, our desire to possess that which is beyond the needs and blessings which are really ours. 

It is time for men to humble themselves, to repent and seek the Lord. I think the general theme of this conference has been that of repentance. I think it is most timely. I have been crying repentance up and down through the stakes of Zion for years. I think it is needed. 

Depression has come because we have forsaken God. Now, I am not speaking of the Latter-day Saints when I say that. I make this saying have general application. The people of this nation, and the people of other nations, have forsaken the Lord. We have violated his laws. We have failed to hearken to his promises. We have not considered ,that we were under obligation to keep his commandments, and the laws of the land as well as the laws of God are not respected. The Sabbath day has become a day of pleasure, a day of boisterous conduct, a day in which the worship of God has departed, and the worship of pleasure has ,taken its place. I am sorry to say that many of the Latter-day Saints are guilty of this. We should repent. 

Now, I am going to speak plainly. I have spoken plainly about this. I think it is a disgrace to our cities and to our state when playgrounds in this city and other cities are dedicated by city officials on the Sabbath day, and this day desecrated by ball games and other amusements. I think it is a disgrace to' the state when the state fair is opened on the Sabbath day. Now, this is not done because of the love of God. It isn't because we have in our hearts the love of him and a desire to keep his commandments that such has taken place. It is because of greed, the love of money, and because we have drifted from the truth, from the spirit of humility, and from those commandments which have been given to us for our eternal guidance. The Lord has spoken. He has spoken in these days and he has spoken in times of old. We should profit by the experiences of others. We ought to profit by the examples that have been set before us in ancient days, but it seems we will not do it. 

THE WARNING VOICE 

Now, we hear occasionally somebody make the statement that tilings are as bad as they could be, that they could not be worse. I want to> tell you they could be worse, a great deal worse. If I read the signs of the times we have not suffered yet as much as we are going to suffer, unless we repent. 

From this stand men have prophesied in the name of the Lord for many decades. President Brigham Young, President John Taylor, President Wilford Woodruff, and others of our leading brethren and presidents of the Church, have raised the warning yoice. They have called attention to these present conditions. The Lord has also prophesied of these things, and they have been mentioned by ancient seers and prophets. We have had ample warning. We have been told of the calamities that are coming. We have been taught how we might avoid them, how we might be protected, if we would only hear the counsels that come to us, heed the testimony of truth. If we fail, we cannot escape. 

FULFILMENT OF PROPHECIES 

I sat in this building at a general conference of the Church many years ago, in the days of President Wilford Woodruff, when he made a statement that I happen to have with me. Let me read it. President Wilford Woodruff was filled with the Spirit of the Lord. This happened on the 4th day of October, in the year 1896. It was not the first time he had mentioned this matter, for he had mentioned it in 1893, and it became a theme in which he was very much interested and to which he gave expression in each, of his discourses, practically, until the time of his death. These are his words : 

"The revelations that are in the Bible, the predictions of the patriarchs and prophets who saw lb}' vision and revelation the last dispensation and fulness of times, plainly tell us what is to come to pass. The 49th chapter of Tsaiah is having its fulfilment. I have often said in my preachings, if the world want to know what is coming to (pass, let them read the revelations of St. John; read of the judgments of God that are going to overtake the world in the last dispensation; read the papers and see what is taking place in our own nation and in the nations of ithe earth, and what does it all mean? It means the commencement of the fulfilment of [what the prophets pf iGod have predicted. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many revelations given through the mouth of the Prophet of God. These revelations will all have their fulfilment, as the Lord lives, and no power can hinder it. In one of the revelations the Lord told Joseph Smith : 

" 'Behold, verily I say unto you, the angels are crying unto the Lord day and night, who are ready and waiting to be sent forth to reap down the fields : 

" 'But the Lord saith unto them. Pluck not up the tares while the blade is yet tender (for verily your faith is weak), lest you destroy the wheat also. 

1 'Therefore let the wheat and the tares grow together until the harvest is fully ripe; then ye shall first gather out the wheat from among the tares, and after the gathering of the (wheat, behold and lo, the tares are bound in bundles, and the field remaineth to be burned,' "I want to bear testimony to this congregation, and to the heavens and the earth, that the day is come ,when those angels are privileged to go forth and commence theirwork. They are laboring in the United States of America; they are laboring among the nations of the earth; and they will continue. We need not marvel or ,wonder at anything that is transpiring in the earth. The world do not comprehend the revelations of God. They did not in the days of the Jews; yet all that the prophets had spoken concerning them came to pass. So in our day these things will come to pass. I heard the Prophet Joseph bear his testimony to these events that would transpire in the earth. * * * We cannot draw a veil over the events that await this generation. No man that is inspired by the Spirit and power of God can close his ears, his eyes, or his lips, to these things. * * * There are many events before us and at our door, and they follow each other in quick succession. No power on earth or under the earth can stay the fulfilment of these things. You can hardly see them with your eyes, hear them with your tears, and feel them with your spirits. And when these strange things take place, no man should 'marvel and wonder at them, because they are in the great program. They have been decreed by Almighty God, and these things are only the beginning of sorrows." 

THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES 

On another occasion President Wilford Woodruff said : 

"What are the signs of the times? Do the Liatter-day Saints comprehend them ? This is a fast age. The Lord is going to cut his work short in righteousness. Read these revelations, for they contain the history of what is going to pass in the earth." 

He then quoted the parable of the Wheat and the Tares, and continued : 

"What is the matter with the world today? What has created this change that we see coming over the world? Why these terrible judgments? What is the meaning of all these mighty events that are taking place? The meaning is, these angels that have been held for many years in the temple of our God have got their liberty to go out and commence their mission and their work in the earth, and they are here today in the earth. I feel bold in saying this to the Latter-day Saints. There is a meaning in these judgments. The word of the Lord cannot fall unfulfilled. If you want to know <what is coming to pass, read the revelations of St. John; J-ead the Book of Mormon and the book of Doctrine and Covenants; and these things are at our doors. What is the matter with this nation? Thousands of men striking, mobs rising up and destroying property, and tribulation prevailing! I want to say that you will all find before you are many years older that Utah is a pretty good place to live in. 

"So far as temporal matters are concerned, we have got to go to work and provide for ourselves. The day will come when, as we have been told, we shall all see the necessity of making our own shoes and clothing and raising our own food, and uniting together to carry out the purposes of the Lord. We will be preserved in the mountains of Israel in the day of God's judgment. I therefore say to you, my brethren (and sisters, prepare for that which is to come." 

BEFORE HIS SECOND COMING 

This time of trouble has not come yet; but it is on the way. I also have here — I cannot take time to read it — a statement from President John Taylor, in which he bears witness to these things, and to the sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that there shall be bloodshed and trouble in this land beyond anything that we have yet seen, because of the wickedness of the people. Do not think that we have reached a condition where things could not be worse. Unless there is repentance they will be worse. And so I cry repentance to this people, to the Latter-day Saints, to the people of this nation, and to the nations of the earth everywhere. 

In conclusion I give you this to think about, from the words of our Lord, written in regard to the times in which we are living, the times preceding his second coming. It is found in the twenty-first chapter of Luke. 

"Heaven and earth shall pass away : but ray words shall not pass away. 

"And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares. 

"For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. 

"Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man." 

This is a good thing for us to think about as members of the Church, and I read this warning to us. May the Lord guide us, and may we repent. May we keep his commandments and walk in holiness, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

The Lord says concerning the missionaries and all those who are engaged in his service : 

"Verily I say, jnen should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them." 

We cannot sufficiently appreciate the tremendous importance of this declaration. What power is in them ? It is the power of the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, by which the missionaries work. "For when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost, the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men." 

The missionaries are fellow servants with angels/ — they are workers together with God and Christ for the salvation of souls. "So nigh is grandeur to our dust, so near is God to man." 

Three or four years ago I received a letter from a man who with his family has written his name high on the roll of Church workers at home and abroad. I quote from his letter : 

"The Southern people are my people. I know them. I am of them. As a family we can never repay the Church for the two weeks labor Elder John K. Lemon performed in our community, in the autumn of 1898. From this small beginning twelve of our family 'became members of the Church — I am referring to imy father's family only — and three of his sons have been honored with approximately ten years of missionary service in the Southern states, i The members who have associated themselves with the Church through their efforts, I have no record of, but in my weak way, and handicapped to a great extent, one hundred and five people have received baptism at my hands. There is no way for me to know the number brought into the Church through the missionary  of my two brothers. The only reason I refer to this is to call your attention to the apparently jendless chain system set in operation through the presentation of Mormonism to one family. The thought never occurred to Elder Lemon that such a body of recruits could be assembled in thirty years, counting those I know to ihave embraced the Gospel directly through my father's and mother's .family. All of the ten children are parents of from two to eleven, and the majority of the children are Latter-day Saints. Elder Lemon went hungry in our community, but thirty years later the brief review above shows that hundreds have been fed the bread of life on account of the seed of truth planted deeply in my father's heart. I wish it were possible to have every young man see, as I do, the far-reaching influence and probable results of one man's labors. 

"I am happy in the knowledge that my father and mother have been able to leave this sphere of existence with a testimony of the truth. , May God bless the missionaries of the South, (that they may find hundreds looking for the Gospel, as Elder Lemon found us." 

"The power is in them." Oh, how these words ring in my ears! They echo in my heart, i They sound like a trumpet. As I associate with those fine young missionaries I have unbounded confidence in them, for the word of the Lord cannot fail. These devoted young men and young women are a credit to their homes, the Church and the nation. The following lines, fwith the substitution of two words, apply to the Church : 

"Mother of men grown strong in giving — 

Honor to him thy lights have Jed : Rich in the toil of thousands living, 

Proud of the deeds of thousands dead. We who have felt thy power and known thee, 

We in whose lives thy lights avail, High, in our hearts enshrined, enthrone thee, 

Mother of men," the Church! 

May God help us in the Sunday School, in all the auxiliary organizations and in Church educational institutions, to develop in the youth this power and light with which God has fortified his disciples, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

The other day, on the sidewalk of one of our streets, I met a brother who was carrying a book, and as we stopped to exchange greetings he told me about it and showed me the title of it. The title was very striking because it awakened reflections and thoughts with which I had been dealing in my own reading for some time. The title which attracted my attention was: "Has Science Discovered God?" I went to the book store to obtain it, and since have read it, and find it to be quite a remarkable hook. The author of it was one named Edward H. Cotton, a Unitarian minister. He is responsible, however, only for the "Introduction" which is quite long. The writer presents himself as editor, rather than author. The Volume is a symposium upon this question, "Has Science Discovered God?" Sixteen famous scientific and philosophical writers make up the symposium. 

Among them is Robert A. Millikan, prominent physicist of California, and prominent in the intellectual thought of the times. His subject is "Christianity and Science." 

Arthur S. Eddington is another contributor, a prominent astronomer at Oxford, England. 

Another writer is Albert Einstein, physicist. "The Meeting Place of Science and Religion" is his subject. This man is perhaps the foremost mathematician of the world at the present time. 

"Religion, Its Persistence and Human Character," is by Julian S. Huxley, biologist, and a descendant of the famous Dr. Thomas H. Huxley of England, of the last generation. 

"The History of Science and Search for God," is by John LangdonDavies, recognized rather as a philosopher than as a scientist; but his great work, "Man and His Universe," during the last two or three years, has attracted wide attention. 

"The Universe a Great Thought," by Sir James Jeans, a scientist and philosopher. He is the author of two recent really great books, "The Universe Around Us," and "The Mysterious Universe." 

Another contributor is Sir Oliver Lodge, one of England's foremost scientists. His subject is "The Scientific Argument for Personal Survival." 

There are a number of others, but perhaps these will give you some idea of the great symposium upon this subject, "Has Science Discovered God?" 

As I read these several contributions to the subject, at the close of each I put to myself the question : Well, has science discovered God ? and I had to give a negative answer to this question. It is only fair to say, however, that the compiler of this work and editor of it really does not claim that science has discovered God, especially in the Christian sense of God. 

But I wanted to go a bit farther than that and not only say that science has not discovered God, but to say also that I doubt if science ever will "discover God." I know how raw, perhaps, that sounds to your ears, and you will credit much of it to assumption. Well, be that as it may, I nevertheless, do not believe that science will discover God. That, as I understand it, is not the work assigned to science. Scientists may do much in confirming from their discoveries the existence and the power and the glory of God; but it will be God who will reveal God; men will not find him "unto perfection" by their searching. It is the work of God to reveal himself and absolutely necessary that he should do so in order that we may have religion at all. 

Not only will science not discover God, but not even religion discovers him. It is not the order of the facts for religion to discover God. The order of the facts is God must reveal God. That is the only means by which God can be discovered to the understanding of men, by God revealing himself, his nature, his attributes, his relations to men,  man's relation to him. That done through the revelation of God, and you have your basis for religion. The basis of man's duty to God, as well as God's relationship to the race of men. 

Science, I am happy to note, after long research is bringing back the conception of the existence of mind in the universe. Sir James Jeans, whose name I before referred to, presents the universe as "God's great thought." An Intelligence is operating within it, destroying the notion that the universe is merely mechanical, which prevailed up to some forty years ago. 

This is splendid to have science working along that line; bringing to light that testimony is worth while. I rejoice in the light and understanding that seems to be coming into the conception of these leading scientists of the world in relation to intelligence, mind, thought, being connected with the universe, whose extent and grandeur and glory are constantly increasing. So far increasing, indeed, that it is held that the universe is outgrowing any possible conception of God being connected with it. 

One man who contributes a very thoughtful and splendid paper to this symposium said : 

"Who that is alive to the questions that can be asked can dare to pretend that science has destroyed 'the splendor of the heavens, or the glory of the universe ? The truth is that nobody has yet been able <to imagine a God splendid enough or glorious enough, aesthetically or ethically, to capture the imagination of man, once it rias become alive to iwhat modern science can show it lying about its feet or hanging over its head." 

So that the splendor and grandeur of the universe, in this man's thought, is that it exalts itself even above any possible conception of God, quite contrary to the conclusions of the inspired psalmist of Israel, who saw that "the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork." So that science, in this man's estimation, leads away from any reasonable conception of God, for such a universe as science has revealed. 

It is not my purpose to prolong remarks along these lines. I merely want to place my hand upon the door of thought and open that door, that I may convey to you once more, as I have tried to do on former occasions, the glory and the mission to which God has dedicated his Church in these last days. I have said that God must reveal God, and indeed he has so revealed himself. He revealed himself to Adam and Xoah and Melchizedek and Abraham and Moses, and in the climax of things, through the Christ, for as St. Paul teaches us, Jesus Christ is the manifestation of God in the flesh. (See I Tim. 3:16.) He gives unbounded testimony to that fact. And in this New Dispensation of the Gospel, lo, God has revealed God, and committed the duty and responsibility to his Church to go forth and make proclamation of that revelation to the world. 

How he has honored this Church of the New Dispensation and the officers and priesthood of it, when he conferred upon them this high mission, to tell the world that God has revealed God, his nature, his 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

personality, in the Father and in the Son and in the Holy Ghost! He has called upon the men of the Church to bear witness of this truth. That is our peculiar position, and our peculiar duty and responsibility — to make proclamation of this great truth, to stand as witnesses for God before the world. 

Now I take my humble position in the line of God's witnesses in this dispensation, and say to you that I am sure of these truths, the truth that God has revealed himself as creating power, world-sustaining power, intelligence-inspiring power, and has revealed the Christ as the Redeemer of the world, through the resurrection of all men from death, and also as the individual Savior of men, through their obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, bringing about the union and fellowship of man with God and sealing it by the witness of the Holy Ghost, a noble personal Spirit, who is dedicated to that service to bring home to men the fact of man's union with God. This testimony I leave with you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo and chorus, "The Recessional," was sung by Sister Jessie Evans and the Choir. 

Elder William H. Gibbs, Patriarch, Ensign Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


