Overflow
09 10 1904



ELDER NEPHI PRATT, 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am very grateful to be accounted worthy to occupy this position in this great assemblage this afternoon. I rise before you, as other Elders do, with much fear and trembling; but I am grateful to the Lord, nevertheless, that I am accounted worthy to be a member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. My spirit will, throughout the endless ages of eternity, continue thankful for the conditions which have surrounded me in mortal life. I thought this morning, while listening to certain remarks of our brethren in this conference, that if I could see my own father and mother again, with the understanding that I have now, I could almost bow down and worship them. I am thankful that my father was a seeker after truth, that he hungered after righteousness, and that he lived in a generation when the Lord had again established His work on the earth with authority and with power. In the souls of my mother and my father were implanted desires that finally led them to receive the Gospel of the Son of God, in its purity. I have sought for many years to correct the frailties of my life, that I might be accounted worthy in the hereafter, when I have laid by mortality, and gone into the spirit world, to associate with the Prophet Joseph Smith, with my father and other Prophets, Priests and kings that have been raised up from this people and saved in the celestial kingdom of our God. Gold and silver, houses and lands, and all that beautifies and enriches the eafrth, and gladdens the heart, all that we call wealth in the earth, Ave ought to consider as dross compared to the excellency of the knowledge and spirit of this work. When the Spirit of the Lord comes upon a man, and he is performing the duties that the Lord has called him to do, he receives the revelations of Jesus Christ, when he goes to the Lord and seeks to know how to fulfill the duties of his high and holy calling. The still small voice will come to a man or to a woman, in the positions they occupy in. the family or in the Priesthood. No person can stand between woman, child, or man and their God in this Church. We are dependent upon the words of no individual, nor the testimony of any person in the world. No man's ability is so great, and never has been, no matter what may be said about the greatness of our leaders, that could ever accomplish what has been done in this generation. No man could have established this work, much less an uninformed boy. This work was established by the Lord. 

In the mission where I am called to labor the Elders are hunting diligently for good souls that will listen to their testimony. These Elders almost cry with joy when they get a few investigators that accord them the privilege of stating the mission God has sent them to perform. We realize the value  the souls of men and women. When we find the door of a house opened to us, and the hearts of the people softened sufficiently that they give us food and shelter, we begin then to pray for that household. We beseech the Lord, in the name of Jesus that has called us into the work of God, to bless that man and his house, and to bless his wife and children, that they may have the testimony that this is the work of God come unto them from God the Eternal Father. Our Elders visit them as often as it is wise to do so. They continue to pray for them and speak upon the principles of truth and righteousness ' as frequently as the spirit that is in the Elders tells them will be proper to do in that house, earnestly desiring to save souls. 

I have thought in my cogitations in the missionary field, many a time, how careless I have been, in the years that are passed, about the soul, of my neighbor, here in Zion. How much did I seek as a teacher in the church, sent around the block, to teach the people, cultivate the garden of the Lord, and save the souls of my brethren? The missionary work I am doing abroad has shown me that my soul was not sufficiently in the work when I was at home. The cares of my family, financial affairs and other things constrained me, so that when I went out among the people I wanted to hurry from family to family, but now the souls of men are precious to me. It seems to me I never will again on the earth be indifferent to the soul of any man, because all are the children of God. 

The Elders in my mission are about 40 in number, all faithful and true, some of them of fine ability. Some of you will wonder at your sons when they return from that mission. If they seem improved to you, if they ccme back converted to the Gospel, >ou may know that they had to resist the powers of evil, and overcome the world. They now appreciate privileges that they had never accepted when they were at home. O you young people in the Church of God, you that are in theological classes in Sunday schools, who study the Gospel, that is contained in the Book of Mormon and the Bible, because you have been exhorted to do so, but sit like dummies upon your seats when asked to answer questions, how shall you face the people of the world when you are sent on missions? If you won't get up where there is a small class all in sympathy with you, because your heart beats and fails you at the time, what shall you do when you go out on the street corner and face a congregation of from one dozen to five hundred, all of whom hope to see you fail, and would not give you God-speed if they could help it? Now, if it almost breaks your heart to practice a little in the Sunday schools and Mutual Improvement associations, if it blanches your cheeks and sets your heart fluttering till you almost faint, that is the place to begin, so that when you go out into the world you won't be humiliated because you did not improve the opportunities that were offered to you at home. 

It is not all pleasantness in the missionary field. Doors are slammed in oui faces by the wicked and indifferent. If they see a long tail coat at the door, they say to their servants, "Shut the door as quick as you can without being impolite." It would surprise you to hear the first discourses of your boys; they fail because they would not do the things that were required of them at home. But they go to the Lord after failure, and cry unto Him, and say, "Father, I knew that I was remiss, I know that I didn't do the things I should have done at home, I see now what I have lost; I am no credit to the Church that thou hast established in the earth, but bear with me, my Father, and have mercy upon me." The young Elder then goes out, and the Lord having mercy upon him, he begins to speak, the power of God falls upon him, and he is lifted above himseli. Sometimes, when a few blessings of this kind fall upon the young man, his head , and he says to himself, Now I can do it, I will preach on the corner, on such and such a principle. He goes there, and, in order that the Lord may teach him that he is nothing, but that the Lord is all in all, the Spirit is withheld from him, and he experiences another failure. He learns then how powerless he is, and says, "I am nothing, but the Lord God is all in all," and confesses his weakness. By and by, when he comes home, you say that it is as though a miracle had been peiformed upon him. Well, you did not see his struggles, you did not see what made him the man that he is. It was the humiliation that he got in the field, and the efforts that he made. If he sticks to the faith, an} don't go back to his old-time habits, I will tell you what he will be in the future: He will be a man that will never again think "I am everything." He will be always ready to say, It is God that accomplishes these things; it was the Lord that did this, and the Lord that did the other; and he will never ascribe the success of this work to the hand of any man. 

God bless the people; bless the fruits of this conference; comfort the servants of God; and may the work of the Lord roll forth in majesty and power greater than it ever has since the beginning. I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. (Acting President Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I desire that you should offer in my behalf a solemn prayer, that the man-fearing spirit that sometimes comes upon the Elders, when appearing before the Saints, may be taken from me a short time, while I report the condition of the mission known as the Northern States. This man-fearing spirit does not bother the Elders as much before an audience in the world as it does before an audience of Latter-day Saints. Here we are conscious that the majority of the audience, if not all, understand the principles of the Gospel as well as we; but when appearing before the world, we 

know that we have something new to tell, we know that we have been sent with the message of life and salvation to declare unto them, and God has blessed us and sent us forth, and we feel if we are humble that we can tell the people something. If the Latterday Saints were not possessed of the Spirit of the Lord, if they did not come seeking the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, they would go from the meetings dissatisfied with that which had been spoken in their hearing. The Latter-day Saints, when they come together, and listen to the principle of faith, or repentance, or baptism, or the Holy Ghost, or any one of the simple principles of the Gospel declared by the Elders, if in possession of the Spirit of God, that spirit manifests unto them that which is satisfying to the soul. I have heard testimonies concerning revelations of God given unto different people in the audience while some humble Elder was speaking concerning the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And that one thing gives me hope in attending meetings, no matter who the speaker is, if my heart is right, God will bless me according to my desires, and I go away built up in faith and strengthened in the testimony of Jesus. I feel in listening to sermons that have been delivered in this conference and the reports of the different missions, that we have heard no new nor startling doctrines, but because of the Spirit that has been with us, many thousands of hearts, I know, will go from this conference feeling that it is good to have assembled together as a body of Latter-day Saints. It is good to have had the privilege of listening to the servants of the Lord, and opening' our hearts and minds to the revelations that God bestows upon the earnest seeker. I rejoice to have the privilege, after 16 months, of again assembling with the Saints, and under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, feast upon the good things of our Father's kingdom. 

Two years ago, nearly, when I was called to go upon a mission, friends reminded me that I had only been  a short time, and that there were other men who were financially better qualified to go than I was. I stated, when Apostle Cowley asked me if I would go upon a mission, that I had been home only a little over four years. He told me he didn't care if I had been home only four weeks, "it is the will of the Lord that you go upon a mission." I was unknowingly trying to prevent the fulfilment of a prophecy that was made that I would go upon a mission again within five years from the time I returned from my first mission. Now I am thankful to my Father in heaven I decided that I would go. The way was opened up whereby I have had the glorious privilege of being again associated with the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are a grand and noble body of men laboring in the Northern states. 

We have in that mission at the present time a few less than 100 Elders, and if those who have been there two years, or near that time, were released we should have less than 75. The mission is so good that we are at least 50 or 75 short of the number that we could use conveniently. When we landed in the mission, I found President Asahel H. Woodruff was devoted to labor, labor, labor. Once while taking lessons in penmanship, my teacher told me he would give me three rules that would make me a good penman if I followed them. Those three rules were: Practice intelligent practice, and intelligent earnest practice. The life of our president, who has been in the Northern States mission for the last two years and a half, has been one of labor, earnest labor, earnest intelligent, diligent labor. He has sought, night and day. to instil that into the hearts of every one of the Elders there, for he realized, and often said to them, that if they would labor earnestly and diligently for the Lord their hearts would be opened and their minds quickened with the revelations cf our Father, and they would be able to speak unto the people. When he has taught the young Elder to labor, and to love the souls of , they have begun to develop and seek diligently to find somebody to preach the Gospel to. This summer, many of our young men have not been satisfied to go upon the streets in company with three or four others, but were ready to avail themselves of every opportunity to preach the Gospel on street corners by themselves; and being alone, in humility have gone before the people and preached night after night. We have several that I could mention in particular who have, this summer, gone as often as 25 times alone upon the streets of Chicago, and proclaimed the Gospel. Last year, with the exception of three or four instances, we had no success upon the streets in the city of Chicago. Thousands of the people received our tracts, and' went on without stopping to hear us. This year, we selected three corners, and appointed two Elders for each to hold meeting there every night that weather permitted. I am pleased to report that, at two of the corners selected, we have a standing congregation of from 40 to 100 people every night, when the weather is favorable. If we fail to come, the people are disappointed. Now the weather is beginning to get cold, we have as many at 25 people who attend our hall meetings, as a result of meetings held on one corner selected early in the spring. 

I rejoice in the work of the Lord, and I rejoice in the testimonies that He has given to the Elders in the Northern states. Most of us are young, and we desire to do the will of the Lord, for we have no other purpose in view while abiding in those cold and barren states, where there are but few of the honest in heart, considering the many millions of people 

I desire to tell one circumstance, my brethren and sisters, that shows there is still faith in the earth. We were favored with a visit, about three weeks ago from Apostle George A. Smith And President Asahel H. Woodruff, and, on the Sabbath day they were there a little girl, who had heard of the power of God that was in the Church, but had never seen an Elder, asked her mother if she could come to meet and be blessed by the Elders, believing that she would be healed. The little girl was 11 years of age, and when she was only about 4 years of age, her father, who was a drunkard, came home and threw her across the room. The result was that one leg was disabled, and for six years she had worn a steel frame around her body, never taking it off, and it had formed hard sores upon her. She came to the meeting and was administered unto according to her request. During the night she heard a voice telling her to take off that frame, and she did so. She then went to her mother's room and said that the Lord had healed her. One of her legs has increased two or three inches in length; it is still a little shorter than the other now, but God healed her through the power of faith. We could tell you many other things the Lord has done for the honest in heart. He has blessed the Elders with the spirit of humility. He has blessed them also with a testimony of the Gospel, and with a love for the souls of their fellow men. 

There is a sect in the Northern States known as the Dowieites, and they are teaching faith in God, and repentance, very vigorously; they are also teaching baptism for the remission of sins. They are practising "the word of wisdom;" and in their city of 10,000 people there is not a place where you can buy liquor, nor tobacco, nor a piece of swine flesh. A number of these people, within the last month or two, have testified in our meetings, and applied for baptism, who were brought to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ through Dowie's preaching. If they have been brought to believe on the name of Jesus Christ through this man, he has done that much good. I believe it is a glorious thing to be born in a Christian country, and be taught to believe in the name of Jesus Christ, no matter what denomination one may belong to, it is that much in favor of leading us to the true church of Christ. We are watching that people, and think it probable that in the course of a few years the honest in heart among them will accept the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. I pray that God will bless us all, that we may open our hearts and desire to know the will of God; that we may gain from the many good things said here that which shall comfort our souls, that we may go away built up in faith, and with love toward our fellow men throughout all the earth. We ought to teach our young men, all of them, to open their hearts, for the young man who cannot pray to his Father in heaven in earnest will never convert a soul in the world. He must love the souls of men, ho must open his heart in prayer, in song, and in earnest speech before he can impress the people that he believes what he is saying. 

May God help us all to be true to the covenants we have made to uphold and sustain the laws of God upon the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the meetings of this conference, and in the testimonies that have been borne as to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I might say that I have teen specially pleased with the reports that have come from the mission fields. It has brought to us the missionary spirit that we all admire so much in our young men when they return to our midst. I also rejoice in the Gospel itself, the principles which have been revealed by our Father in heaven for the salvation of His children; and I feel a deep interest in spreading abroad among the nations of the earth a knowledge of the Gospel that our Father has restored to the earth in the day and age in which we live. 

In the remarks of Brother Asahel Woodruff, in the tabernacle, this morning, he stated that the people, or a great many of them, had ceased to regard the Bible as any particular authority, and in presenting the Gospel it was necessary to show them its philosophy. They are no longer content to accept of a faith because it harmonizes with the revealed word of God, it must  presented to them in a form that will appeal to their reason. In other words, they must have religion presented to them scientifically before they will accept it. 

My brethren and sisters, the Gospel of Jesus Christ is a scientific religion; it is based upon eternal principles of truth, and truth is science. I thought while he was speaking this morning, how natural it is that men and women should be saved through the operations of that only true Gospel, which our Father has revealed; and how natural are the principles that have been revealed to us, and how they appeal to the reason of intelligent men and women. There are many scientific truths stated in the Bible, but none of them any more scientific than this, that "This is Eternal Life to know Thee, the true and living God and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent." It requires only a little reflection to come to the conclusion that it is so in very deed. Every man and woman must recognize the fact that we are surrounded by influences that are abroad in the world. There is one power and influence that is endeavoring to elevate and exalt mankind; it is the Spirit of God that issues forth from His presence, and is bestowed upon all those who diligently seek Him. If we lend a willing ear to the whisperings of the still small voice it will lead us to works of righteousness. 

There is also another influence that is abroad in the land, and everywhere felt among the children of men, that is leading downward, and if we harken to that voice it will lead us to destruction. Have you never felt the power of these influences working upon you? Does it need to be proven to you as individuals that these influences are abroad in the world? Have they not come under your own observation? Every man and woman should say, Yes, I have felt them for myself. On the one hand we listen to the Spirit of God; we hearken to His voice, and it leads us to the doing of those things tJz&t are in harmony with the will of the Father; it causes our hearts to be filled with joy, it teaches us to love our neighbor, to be honest, to be truthful, tao live a godly life and to keep ourselves unspotted from the sins of the world. On the other hand, if we listen to the evil power (which is just as much a reality as the existence of that good power and influence), if we hearken to that, it will lead us to the doing of those things that are evil, it will teach us to cheat our neighbor, to lie and steal, and will lead us down into' the depths of misery; it will lead us into a life of debauchery crime and sin. The reason we find men both good and bad is because these influences are abroad in the world. 

There is another scientific statement recorded in the Scripture, which says: "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth him understanding." The spirit that belongs to us, that gives animation to our bodies, is subject to these influences, and the Spirit of God will give unto us understanding; it will give unto us knowledge; it will bring us unto God. It is also true that the evil spirit will darken our minds, and rob us of the understanding we ought to have. These are realities, my brethren and sisters. We are in the midst of them, for these powers and these influences are operating upon the minds of the children of men. Blessed is he whose soul yearns to be guided and directed by the Spirit of God. Happy is he if he lends a willing ear to the good influence that is trying to purify and save his soul. But unfortunate and unhappy is he who yields to the power and influence of the adversary. 

When Paul was preaching this Gospel of the kingdom in Athens, he found the people in ignorance. They had been worshiping false gods. They had been offering their devotions to Minerva, the goddess of wisdom, and to Neptune, the god of the sea, to Mars, the god of war, and many other false deities whom they were worshiping. But among that people were some who began to yearn after the true and living God. They knew that there was an power. Their own observation had convinced them of that, so they undertook to erect an altar in His honor, and upon that altar they inscribed the words, "To the unknown God." Paul took that inscription for his theme and text, and he said, "Him whom ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you." Later on he admonished them that they should "Seek the Lord if haply they mierht feel after Him and find him, though he be not far distant from every one of us, for in him we live and move and have our being." He proclaimed the existence of the Spirit of God that issued forth from the presence of the Father, and is everywhere to be found. I know that the passage I quoted in the first place is pretty thoroughly understood by the Latterday Saints, that this is eternal life, this is salvation, that we may learn to know the Lord. Then it ought to be in a plan of salvation that is scientific in its nature, that men and women may be brought to the knowledge of God, because that is eternal life. The way to obtain that knowledge, then, is to get the Spirit of God, because no man knoweth the things of God but by the Spirit of God that is in him. Any plan which has for its purpose the bringing of men and women to that knowledge must indeed be founded upon scientific principles. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is peculiarly adapted to the acquisition of that knowledge. Its foundation is laid upon a knowledge of that theme, upon an understanding of that principle. When you see a man or a woman hearken to the still small voice, endeavoring io do right and to learn and lean upon the influence that is uplifting, and which is everywhere inducing men and women to be better, their hearts go out to that power and influence. And what is ii? It is faith in God, the true and living God. Our hearts go out to Him. It is a natural principle that causes us to lean to the good influence, to lend a willing ear and to seek after Him, whom to know is life eternal. Not satisfied with the false gods that are in this world, our hearts yearned for the true and living God. That is faith; a natural principle. 

In order that we may come to a knowledge of God, that the Lord may be pleased to draw nigh unto us, and that we may be qualified to receive an additional outpouring of that Holy Spirit, what are we to do? We must set ourselves in order, forsake our evil ways, and put ourselves in harmony with the Good Spirit that is leading us upward. That is repentance, another natural law, without which we cannot come to a full kno»wledge of God. 

What else do we yearn for? Forgiveness of sin, that we might stand clean before the throne of God, and be qualified to receive additional light which comes from the Spirit of God. Baptism is natural, too. I thank God that He established this ordinance, and put this law in His Church, that we may be washed free from sin, and be prepared to receive His Holy Spirit. 

What else is there in this Gospel that is natural and scientific? Why, the obtaining of this Spirit; and God has instituted an ordinance that it might be conferred upon us by His divine authority, the ordinance of laying on of hands, that we might receive the Spirit of God. These are some of the principles that constitute truly scientific religion. 

Some say, "I am not going to exercise faith; I want to have things proven to me first." You have got to manifest faith in God, or you will give evidence of being on the side of Satan, just as sure as you live. You have got to lend your ear to the Spirit of God, or you will hearken to the spirit of the adversary, who is trying to drag you down. These are the influences that are abroad in the world. They are realities, and you know it, every one of you. You cannot ignore the power of God. The Spirit of God is striving among the children of men, to lift them up and bless those that will hearken. And the spirit of evil is trying to drag you down, striving with you and seeking your destruction, just as sure as you are living here today. Satan has a very evil power, a very evil influence, a very evil name, and his name Is adapted to his character. Did you ever  to analyze it? Let me just point out a few things to you about this evil spirit that is abroad in the world, that I may emphasise the character of the being who is trying to destroy youi souls. We call him the devil. Just imagine his name as being written upon the wall here. It is bad in all its parts: Strike off the d, and it is evil, and that is bad; strike off the e and it is vile; strjke of the v and it is il (ill), and that is bad, too; then strike off the i, and give it a little English accent, and it is hell! And that is just where he will take you, if you listen to his voice. Let us then seek the Spirit of God, and believe In this natural religion which God has* revealed for the savation of the children of men. Amen. 

J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. I feel a good deal, at this time, as the chaplain did in one of the Utah Legislative assemblies when my father put him on oath. Father was a little acquainted with him. They had crossed the plains together, and father knew what a long and tedious prayer he usually offered, so father said, "Will you pray briefly and to the point." Well now, I feel that I will have to talk briefly and to the point. I trust that, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, I may make myself clear, for sometimes on these occasions we go down on record, that is, what we say is placed in print Now I am not fearful to open my' mouth, and endeavor to use the time profitably which the Lord has given me I have lived in this Church long enough to know something about it, and I don't have to go to strangers to ask them anything about this work, and I don't propose to accept their statements, unless they are harmonious with my views. 

I was born in this Church, and I thank God for it. It comprises everything that is good, everything that is pure, everything that is elevating, notwithstanding all that is said against it. 

I can tell my history in a few minutes; if I stood before the bar of God tomorrow, and the Lord asked we what 

I had been doing, I could tell him in a very few words. For 15 years of my life, I was disciplined and instructed by my father, which has been an anchor to my soul. The things I was taught in my childhood (father died when I was 15 years old.) have been the savor of life to my soul; and the Holy Ghost has brought it to my remembrance. For 12 years of my life, after his death, I was as free as the birds that fly in the »ir; there was no restraint further than the counsel from my mother.I took no active part in the Church. I was just as free as non-members of the Church feel that they are free. That is a part of my history I am not making much noise about; I am trying to forget seme things that I did. However, I don't want you to be impressed with the idea that I committed anything criminal, anything that would deprive me of the Spirit of God. But I am sorry, O how sorry, that there was no restraint nor responsibility placed upon me, that 1 was not actively engaged in Church work during those 12 years. But after that, for 24 years past I have been more or less actively engaged in the ministry, and the more I am employed in it the more firmly I believe in the Gospel; and the more I testify that Jesus is the Christ and Joseph Smith is a prophet, the stronger I believe it. 

We must have a knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, or we can not stand. Latter-day Saints who have failed are those who have not obtained a knowledge that Jesus is the Christ; all such are liable to apostatize. I am afraid there will be a lot of apostates, and that worries me. 

You can't live on borrowed light any longer. This Church has passed through many close places, and, as my father said, it will pass through many othei close places before victory and triumph is given to you or given to the Church. I know a good deal more about this Church than the man did, one of those strangers that come in our midst, who went on a hill here recently and stood in an ant bed, and when the ants commenced to bite he commenced to curse  "Mormons." I suppose he thought they were "Mormon" ants, and he held us responsible for them. 

Now there are a lot of people talking about us, and we have a great deal of cheap notoriety, but I am not at all concerned about it. I am not worrying about it; I don't stand with bated breath for fear this Church will be destroyed. This is the work of God; this is the Church of Jesus Christ. There are not devils enough to destroy it, and it can't be destroyed by men. If it could have been destroyed, some who claim to be members in the Church would have destroyed it years ago. I don't care how much harm is committed Dy pretended members of tnis Church, they can't destroy it; they will destroy themselves. I care not how many apostates attempt it, they cannot destroy this Church, 

Now I want to serve notice on all Catholic, Methodist, and Presbyterian churches — I don't suppose they will take my advice; they never have done up to dale, but I would like to continue giving them good advice — I would advise them never to receive a man into their church that had been a Latterday Saint and apostatized from the unurch. Such individuals will never make good Catholics, good Methodists, nor good Presbyterians. They will be agitators, and make a deal of mischief in those churches, because they will be bo restless and unsettled that no one near them will have any peace or rest; ana tney will get to asking a lot of questions. The first thing they will ask is, "Where do you get your authority from?" and that will worry you a little. And they will ask other hard questions, and make trquble and mischief. And then they are no account anyhow, as members of any church. 

You never saw an apostate in your life, that was a Latter-day Saint and did right ud to a certain time ana then apostatised, that has ever settled down and been satisfied in any other church in the world. They are not even satisfied with Spiritualism, notwithstanding they may talk with spirits and get a great amount of information; they wont stay with that sect. 

And, by the way, I would like to serve notice on the Republicans and Democrats that the individuals of whom I have been speaking will never be good Democrats or Republicans either; they will not stay with their party. 

Now I want to serve notice on apostates. I am willing to carry the olive branch in my hand when I associate with the children of men in the world, I have nothing but the kindliest feelings towards them; but when an apostate lifts up his voice against this people, when he makes dastardly charges against the Latter-day Saints he lies, and I have no patience with him. I have breathed this mountain air so long that I feel inclined to discard a little of the Gospel and knock such men down, and repent afterward. I want to say to an apostate, or to any man that has been born and bred in the Church, he is a coward to lift up his "voice against this people. We are a little handful, only about 300,000, with over 100,000 children among the number. If apostates had their way the whole United States would be against us. Persons who have lived in this country and received all that they own from this people, and who lift their voices against us are cowards. Whenever any man or woman wants to leave this Church, they have a right to do so, and it is our duty to treat them right, to extend to them every courtesy and kindness, and be their friend, if they refrain from lying and persecuting us. This is God's work, and just as sure as He lives, and as we breathe and have a being, this work will come off triumphant. There may not be very many of us left, but, let the number be ever so few, it will succeed. 

I want to say in conclusion, the only discipline I have had was by my own father, up to 15 years of age. For 12 years after that time I was under no responsibility, but since then I have been actively engaged in this Church. I have been in business of different kinds; I have been a farmer,  stock raiser, a real estate man, and an implement man, but I never had one of the Apostles, or any one of the Presidency of the Church, interfere or even give me any advice or counsel in all those years of business. The only thing I am sorry for is that I didn't have sense enough to ask advice. I have labored in the ministry for 13 years, and have been one of the First Council of Seventy, and have labored with the Apostles, in close association with them, and none of them have ever offered any suggestions or dictation in any way pertaining to my fi-anchise or political position. I knew Brigham Young almost as well as I knew my father. I knew Daniel H. Wells, a counselor of Brigham Young and associate of my father. I have known all these brethren down toPresident Smith, and can testify that all the counsel and advice I have received from them has been a savor of life unto life. It has been a Godsend to me, and I am grateful that I have been favored because of my association with men of God, who have given me counsel, such counsel that, if I follow it, will bring me back into the presence of my Eternal Father. 

Now, that is my testimony to this congregation. If you have got anything to say in favor of this people, whether you are in the Church or out, say it fearlessly. My father said to one of his grandchildren, who is living in Arizona and didn't take any active part in the Church: "Billy, these are my words to you, don't you ever lift up your' voice against this people." Speaking to me about my father's advice to him, he said, "Golden, I never have, and I thank God for it." I repeat the advice; never speak against the work of God, nor against His people. May the Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. My beloved brethren and sisters, I desire very much that you may assist me by your faith and prayers. I endorse the remarks of my brethren this afternoon, and also the remarks and teach to which we have listened during- this general conference. I rejoice with you in a testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he was led by the spirit and power of inspiration. When he went into a retired place to plead with the Lord for wisdom and understanding, he was the only person we know anything about, in that day and time, that approached God in such faith and humility that the Father responded to him and answered his prayer. "When he had gained knowledge and understanding, through his faith and humility and in answer to prayer, the inspiration of the Lord came upon him, and he was given the prophetic ministry that continued with him through all the remaining portion of his life, and that qualified him to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He was always true to hia calling and ministry. How impressive is the thought expressed in the beautiful words we read or sing in connection with one of our Sunday school hymns, — 

"Oh, what rapture filled his bosom, for he saw the living God." 

And now, my brethren and sisters, hia life's history is before us, an open book that we can read and understand, and we may profit thereby if we desire to do so. All of those chosen by him were not true to him, nor true to the faith. If he had been lacking in the power and spirit of a prophet of God, do you think he would dare to have said to such men as Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon, men of learning of the world, who stood by him and assisted in the organization of the apostolic and other quorums of the Priesthood, "Step aside, you have lost the spirit of your calling and ministry, the Church can no longer fellowship you, and we have no further use for your administrations." This was the course that he felt obliged to take; and the servants of the Lord in all their ministry from that time to the present have arrayed themselves upon the side of right, of truth, and eternal justice, and whether alone or with many to  them, they take that stand. And so they continue today before the eyes of the world, ministers of the Lord. The president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Prophet, Seer and Revelator, to the Church, and his brethren who associate with him are endowed with the same power and the same prophetic ministry. 

I am reminded of a conversation I had with a gentleman recently, while traveling to the north. He was speaking of the Book of Mormon. He said he had read some portions of it. He was a lawyer from the state of Wyoming, and a tolerably well enlightened man, so far as I could judge. He said, "I don't believe that the Prophet found the golden plates, and translated the BooV of Mormon from those plates." "Well," I said, "what is your belief about the matter?" He replied, "I believe that he was inspired to write the Book of Mormon just the same as Matthew, Mark, Luke and John were inspired to write their history of the Lord's mission in the earth." I said, "That is a pretty good thought, and, for a man that does not understand the facts, I think your position might be considered fairly consistent; you are without a knowledge of the truth, however." He thanked me and we*t on his way. 

I read an account of an incident recently, to which I will call your attention, being reminded of it by the remarks of brethren who have preceded me. A physician was seeking his son, who had returned to his home from a foreign land, and they met in the city of New York. The Father took the boy to his home of course, and he said="We will draw a curtain over the wassail of that night," meaning that they spent it in libations to Bacchus, which Brother Wells failed to mention, the god of the wine cup. They wished to draw a curtain over that night, so that we would not know about their revelry. A son of mine recently returned from a mission to the countries of Germany and Switzerland, after an absence of three years. I met him at the depot and welcomed him home. That night we did not have any wine nor strong drink, neither were there cigars passed around. There was no "smoker," as they term it, established, but we got down on our knees before God, jus as many of you have done, and offered up. a prayer of thanksgiving and praise to Almighty God that another of His sons had gone to proclaim the Gospel, gone to foreign lands on a mission of lifs and truth to the nations of the earth, and had come home pure and spotless as when he left his father's house. That is the kind of a celebration we gave. 

This people, of necessity, stand upon a higher plane than the people of the world occupy today, because of the knowledge which God has given unto us, and because of the ministration of Prophets and Apostles, whom we have with us today. We must perforce accentuate the principles of truth in which we believe, and although the majority of mankind do not love us, do not have any fellowship for us, this does not change our position, and does not change our responsibility. We cannot go down to their level. If we could make them see the position we occupy, we might say, "Please pardon us, we cannot come down to your level, but if you will allow us, we will raise you up to the higher plane. Your statesmen may become mightier men, because, if they will keep the commandments of God, they will be filled with greater ability to benefit and bless mankind. We say to your tradesmen, and railroad men, and to all the great moving spirits of the earth, If you will obey the Gospel, the Lord will fit and prepare you better to perform every duty that is laid upon you, as business men of the world, and as statesmen." 

I remember reading in the Pearl of Great Price, and in other revelations of the Lord, how the Lord stood in the midst of the spirits that inhabited the eternal worlds, and it is written, the Lord saw some that were choice, and He said, "These I will make my rulers." And He has made of these choice spirits His rulers of the world. More especially has He sent those spirits in this age and time to inhabit tabernacles and  be numbered among His ministers in this Church and kingdom that He has established on the earth. Among those great spirits were numbered the Prophet Joseph, and those brethren who have followed in the same sacred and prophetic ministry. 

No wonder the Lord said "They are good, and of these I will make my rulers." He has kept His word; and we have among us today some of those choice spirits, and they are ruling and guiding and directing the destinies of this people and the destinies of mankind throughout the earth; for, in spite of opposition to the Church of Jesus Christ and the doctrines that lead to life eternal, the leaven of the Gospel is being felt from one end of Christianity to the other. A few years ago I remember hearing some minister of the Gospel, so styled, preach to his fellow men that hell was full of little infants who had not been baptized, and that all mankind who did not submit to be sprinkled in the church would lose all chances of redemption, and would burn in hell forever. What heresy, what vile principles these are. But the people of the world, sind even the ministers of the gospels that they teach, are now inclined to leave these heresies out of their doctrines, and are preaching today and adopting a better principle, a principle taught by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, when he said, "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." The ministers are beginning to realize the truth of this saying, because the servants of the Lord have accentuated it, and declared that children are innocent until they are eight years of age, and are saved in His kingdom in this condition of innocency, without baptism. 

Consider also the principle of baptism for the dead, that sacred principle that goes beyond the narrow limits of life in this world. I remember President Peery, who was at one time President of the Weber Stake of Zion, said to me: "Brother Young,  I heard the gospel of baptism for the dead set forth by one of the Elders, in my native state, my heart was touched, and I could have bowed down and kissed his feet, because he opened to me a new life, a new world, and I was caught in the gospel net. I can testify too," said he, "from that very moment, the intelligence of the Holy Spirit illuminated my mind, and I learned that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph was His chosen prophet." 

All these glorious principles, my brethren and sisters, are before us, and we are striving to live by them; and although the world does not endorse us, or love us, we must do our whole duty. 

May the Lord bless you, and give you power to be faithful and true unto the end of your days, for He has said truly, "Be faithful unto death, and I will give you a crown of life." Amen. 

The Temple choir sang, "Go ye messengers of glory." 

Benediction by Elder Rodney C. Badger. 


