Morning
06 10 1904



PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

(Opening Address.) 

General prosperity in settlements of the Latt- r-day tSnlnts— Hefererjce to the ir Spiritual Con ition— Organization of the Priesthood and i hi ir duties— Rulir g object if the church the saltation of Mankind. 

I am happy in the privilege that I enjoy of being present at the opening of this, the seventy-fifth semi-annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I am pleased to see the number of brethren and sisters who are present. We realize the difficulty in the way of many of the people attending conference on a weekday like this, as they are compelled to labor; business is in full operation, not only in this city and county, but in every other part of the country, and many are busy attending to secular duties, which makes it difficult for them to leave their homes to attend conference on the week days. 

It is gratifying, however, to see the number who are here today at the opening meeting of our conference, and I congratulate you, my brethren and sis- ' ters, upon being present, and upon the blessings, both temporal and spiritual, that have been poured out upon the people since our last conference. Taken as a whole, the season has been a prosperous one throughout the land, though some localities have suffered more or less. The forepart of our season was seriously injured by drouth, and many people in the southern part of this state and in Arizona, New Mexico, and in old Mexico especially, as also in our colonies in Canada, have suffered seriously because of the protracted drouth that has been upon the land. But the prospect is that the long continued spell of drouth has been broken by copious rains that have descended upon the land, making the fields and the plains and the mountains luxuriant with the growth of herbs and grasses for the sustenance of the flocks and herds of the people, and also for the supply of abundant water for irrigation purposes on their farms. Taking a retrospect of the whole condition, throughout the length and breadth of the land, we feel that it is favorable and that the blessings of the Lord and His merciful hand over all the interests of the people have been visible, and we know that we are indebted greatly to His mercy and kindness for the favors and blessings that have been bestowed upon us. 

1 trust that the spiritual condition of the Latter-day Saints has continued to be as good as the temporal conditions have been, and that we are progressing and growing in the knowledge of the truth and in faithfulness before the Lord in keeping His commandments and His laws as much as He has prospered us temporally; for after all the great desideratum is the faithfulness of the people to the covenants that they have made with the Lord and with each other in righteousness. 

Reflec ting over the condition of the Church at the present time, since I have been sitting here, I have jotted down a few Utile items that I wish to refer to briefly. T find that we have now in the United States, Canada and Mexico 55 organized stakes of Zion. As a matter of course, therefore, there are 55 presiding officers over these various stakes, and 110 counselors to the presidents of stakes. In each of these stakes, is an organized High Council, consisting of 12 High Priests which aggregates 660 High Councilors in the Church today as it is organized, who possess the au of the Holy Priesthood to minister for the salvation of the souls of men, and who sit as judges, with the presidents of stakes and their counselors, in all the affairs of the Church, and who are called upon and are expected to be exemplars before the people, setting before them examples that are worthy of imitation and of emulation — fathers indeed to the people and judges of righteousness in their midst. This, of course, constitutes quite an army of official workers — men who are expected to be instant in season and out of season: men upon whom rests great responsibility; wise counselors, assisting the presidencies of the various stakes to regulate the affairs of their churches and to set in order the houses of the Saints and the stake organizations throughout the Church. 

In connection with the 55 organized stakes of Zion we have in the neighborhood of 20 different organized missions throughout the world, presided over by presidents and counselors, and these missions are supplied with Elders and Seventies that are sent out to preach the Gospel, numbering at the present time in the neighborhood of 1,500 Elders. Of course these Elders are not only traveling throughout the United States, but throughout Europe, in the islands of the sea and in New Zealand and Australia; also in the Holy Land, where nve have an organized mission and Elders are there preaching the Gospel to those people. 

I am informed also that we have 626 'organized wards. Of course, these organizations vary from time to time; that is, they frequently increase, and occasionally a ward is disorganized, being joined with another ward, making two into one. Over these wards there are 626 Bishops presiding, and 1,252 Bishops' counselors, who are a mightypower in the midst of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The officers of these organizations are the officers of the Church who come in Immediate contact with the people and who are in direct intercourse "with them. It is expected that the Bishop of a ward with his counselors will understand the necessities of every member of his ward. Then they have as assistants and helpers a large corps of Elders, and Priests, Teachers and Deacons of the Lesser Priesthood, who render assistance to them in the temporal as well as the spiritual affairs of the Church. It devolves upon the Bishopric of the ward to look after the poor, to minister unto the sick and the afflicted and to see that there is no want nor suffering among the people in these organized divisions of the Church. It is also the duty of these presiding officers in the Church to look after the spiritual welfare of the people, to see that they are living moral, pure and upright lives, that they are faithful in the discharge of their duties as Latter-day Saints, that they are honest in their dealings with one another, and with all the world. It is their business to see that spiritual light exists in their hearts, and that the people under their presidency and direction are living the lives of Saints, as far as it is possible for men and women, in the mortal body, beset by the weaknesses and imperfections of mankind, can be Saints. Great responsibility rests upon these, and we have at work in the Church, in this relation, a vast corps of efficient men who are laboring diligently for the welfare of mankind. And all these labor without salaries. They are not paid officers. It is true that they receive assistance from time to time, as they may need, in a small way, but not one obtains what the world would esteem as a salary, nor can they be called paid officers of the Church. 

We have also in the Church today, I am Informed, 146 quorums of Seventy. These constitute a body of Elders of somewhere in the neighborhood of 10,000 men, whose special duty it is to respond to the call of the Apostles to preach the Gospel, without purse or scrip, to all the nations of the earth. They are minute men. It is expected that they will be ready, whenever they are called, to go out in the world, or to go out to the various organizations of the Church to fulfill missions and to perform such duties as shall be required of them, in order that the work of the Lord and the  of the ministry may be upheld and sustained and carried on in the Church and throughout the world. These councils or quorums of Seventy are not alway full, a full council being 70 Elders. But there are approximately 10,000 Elders who now hold that position in the Church. They are called to an apostolic calling. They are required to be special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is expected of this body of men that they will have burning In their souls the testimony of Jesus Christ, which is the spirit of prophecy; that they will be full of light and of the knowledge of the truth; that they will be enthusiastic in their calling, and in the cause of Zion, and that they will be ready at any moment, when required, to go out into the world, op anywhere throughout the Church and bear testimony of the truth, preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and set examples before the world of purity, love, honesty, uprightness and integrity to the truth. 

In addition to these organizations we have in each stake of Zion an organization called the High Priests' quorum, to which all High Priests of the Church belong, including the presidency and high councilors of the stake, and also the Bishops and their counselors, all the Patriarchs and all others who have been ordained to the office of High Priest in the Church, which office is the office of presidency in the Melchisedek Priesthood, not that every man who holds the office of High Priest is a president. Only he who is called, appointed and set apart to preside among the High Priests holds the presiding authority and office. But it is the duty of these quorums of High Priests to act in their calling; not to sit idly down and be indifferent to the interests of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, nor indifferent to the saving of the souls of men. It is expected that this quorum of Priesthood in the various stakes of Zion will look after all the interests of the stake; that is. that they will look after the moral condition of the people; that they will teach righteousness; that they will see that those who are acting in presiding authority in the stakes of Zion, are upright, honest, pure and humble men, and fit for the positions in which they are called to act. Thus this council of the Priesthood constitutes a council of power and influence in the Church. 

"Then we have the Elders' organizations. A council or quorum of Elders is composed of 96 Elders. There may be a number of councils or quorums of Elders in each stake. I am not prepared to state how many Elders we have in the Church; but they are very numerous. It is the duty of this body of men to be standing ministers at home; to be ready at the call of the presiding officers of the Church and the stakes, to labor in the ministry at home, and to officiate in any calling that may be required of them, whether it be to work in the temples, or to labor in the ministry at home, or whether it be to go out into the world, along with the Seventies, to preach the Gospel to the world. 

"We have a number of Patriarchs in the Church, whose duty it is to bestow blessings upon the heads of those who seek blessings at their hands. They are fathers. They hold the evangelical office in the Church. It is their business and right to bestow blessings upon the people, to make promises unto them in the name of the Lord, as it may be given them by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, to comfort them in the hours of sorrow and trouble, to strengthen their faith by the promises that shall be made to them through the Spirit of Goil, and to be fathers indeed of the people, leading them into all truth. 

"Then we have the Lesser Priesthood, which attends to the different temporal matters of the Church, consisting of Priests, Teachers and Deacons, who labor under the direction of the Bishopric in the various wards in which they dwell, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, the unifying of the people and bringing them up to the standard of righteousness that they should reach in the flesh, according to the light they possess and the ability and talent which the Lord has given them. 

"This, my brethren and sisters, is a  brief outline of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It has been organized by the wisdom of the Almighty, and not by the wisdom of man. It has been organized to accomplish the purposes that the Lord has in view to be accomplished by it. The people are organized that they may be taught righteousness; that they may be faithful before the Lord in keeping the covenants that they have made with Him in righteousness. Among these covenants are that they will cease from sin and from all unrighteousness; that they will work righteousness in their lives; that they will abstain from the use of intoxicants, from the use of strong drinks of every description, from the use of tobacco, from every vile thing, and from extremes in every phase of life; that they will not take the name of God in vain: that they will not bear false witness against their neighbor; that they will seek to love their neighbors as themselves; to carry out the golden rule of the Lord. 'Do unto others as they would that others should do unto them.' These principles are involved in the covenants that the people have made in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and it is expected that these officers and presiding authorities in the Church, whom I have cursorily named, shall see to it that the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will keep these covenants that they have made with the Lord, ami that they will observe these principles and adapt them to their lives and carry them out, that they may be indeed the salt of the earth; not salt that has lost its savor and is good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden under the foot of men, but salt that has its savor and that is wholesome: that the people of God may be a light unto this generation and unto the world; that men may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven; and that notwithstanding enemies, who are filled with the spirit of persecution, and who say all manner of false things against the Latter-day Saints, those who have entered into the covenant of  Gospel will keep the commandments of the Lord, will obey the dictates of the Spirit of the Lord unto them, will work righteousness in the earth, and will go right on in the path that Almighty God has marked out for them to pursue, fulfilling and accomplishing His will and His purposes concerning them in the latter day. It does not make any difference to us what the world says about us, we know what our mission is, and we propose to fulfill that mission by the help of Almighty God, and that mission is to save men from the errors of the world, from darkness, from unbelief in the true and living God and in the redeeming sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ, that men may not fall into infidelity, that they may not abandon the truth nor the paths of righteousness God has marked out for them to walk in. That is our mission. It is to save men from error, from wickedness and from apostatizing from truth and righteousness, and that men might believe in the true and living God, and in Jesus Christ whom he has sent into the world, whom to know is life eternal. Our mission is to save men from the powers of darkness and from the snares and pitfalls of Satan wherein thev are tempted from paths of truth to commit sin, and bring degradation, sorrow and shame upon themselves by transgressing the laws of God and the laws of life. 

"We are not ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which we have received; for we know that it is the power of God unto salvation unto all that believe and receive it in their hearts and live it according to the will and purpose of God. Now, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in these principles. I praise God with all my soul that He has restored the Priesthood. And what is the Priesthood? It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing  from generations that are dead and gone, but authoritv that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God, who have come to the earth in our day and restored the Priesthood to the children of men, by which they may baptize for the remission of sins and lay on hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and by which they can remit sin, with the sanction and blessing of Almighty God. It is the same power and Priesthood that was committed to the disciples of Christ while He was upon the earth; that whatsoever they should bind on earth should be bound in heaven, and whatsoever they should loose on earth should be loosed in heaven, and whomsoever they should bless should be blessed, and if they cursed, in the spirit of righteousness and meekness before God, God would confirm that curse. But men are not called upon to curse mankind; that is not our mission; it is our mission to preach righteousness to them. It is our business to love and to bless men, and to redeem them from the fall and from the wickedness of the world. This is our mission and our special calling. God will curse and will exercise His judgment in those matters. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, and I will repay. We are perfectly willing to leave vengeance in the hands of God and let Him judge between us and our enemies and let Him reward them according to His own wisdom and mercy. 

"Now, may the Lord bless us throughout this conference. I can feel that I am doing injury to my voice in continuing to speak. I have been suffering for the past two or three weeks with a very severe cold, which has greatly affected my voice, and I am only just recovering from it. But I am pleased that I have had the privilege of speaking a few words to you at the opening of this conference. I pray God to bless the people that shall come here, and pour out His spirit upon them, to make their hearts warm up and burn with affection toward Him for His abundant mercies unto them, and with love for one another and for all mankind: for it is our mission to save the world from sin and darkness and to lead all to a knowledge of God and His truth. 

May the Lord help us to consummate the mission He has given unto us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

The Mountain of the Lord's house. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

Object of Missionary Work— Those \vh labor in it niieting With success— liedeuiptiou of the Dead. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very thankful to my Heavenly Father that He has spared my life to assemble once more with you in conference. I hav<" listened with a great deal of pleasure to the remarks that have been made by President Smith. What a vast body of men there is in this Church! and what is their object in life? I understand it to be the salvation of the human family. While President Smith was speaking, I looked around here and I saw a large number of presidents of missions. Our Elders go out into the world, leaving their homes and families, and travel without purse or scrip, and their object is to bring salvation to the honest in heart. These presidents of missions send the Elders from house to house, bearing the message of salvation and the printed word to all who will receive it. In reflecting upon this, I thought how strange it is that these missionaries, going forth as they do with the message of peace, offering the people a book or a tract containing the word of God, should be treated in the way they are. Sometimes the doors are closed in their faces, and the people curtly tell them that they will not receive their books or tracts; and in many cases the Elders are treated with contempt, though this is not always the case. Supposing the minister of any denomination was to present himself at my house and respectfully offer me a book setting forth his religious views. I was wondering if I would slam the door in his face and treat him with . No. I would at least be respectful and say that I did not wish to receive it. You, my brethren, who are abroad in the world, know that you have to meet these conditions; but your object is. as we all know, to promote peace and salvation wherever you go. That is your mission, and I rejoice to know that you are very successful in thai mission, and that many are receiving your message and obeying the Gospel. 

We rejoice that the work of the Lord is growing and increasing, and we testify that its mission will be prospered in the earth. This is the work of the Lord. He is at the helm, and He will certainly take care of it. It is our duty, of course, to do the very best we can, and as the President has said, we should so order our lives as to be above reproach. We should not only preach the Gospel by precept, but we should do so by our acts. Seeing that we are devoting our lives to this cause, let our lives be such that all men who come in contact with us may see our good works. 

In addition to all that has been done in the missionary fields, there are other places where the great work of salvation is being carried on. Thousands and tens of thousands are being added to the Church annually in the temples of the Lord. Those who', during their lifetime, did not have the opportunity that we have had of receiving the Gospel, are now receiving the benefits of salvation. This work is growing and multiplying in the temples, as well as the work abroad. The object of those who work in the temples is also to brins salvation to the fullest extent, both to the living and the dead. Notwithstanding all that may be said in relation to the work in the temple, you know, my brethren and sisters, that when you go to the house of the Lord and receive the ordinances there administered, they are all calculated to make you better men and women, better fathers and mothers; and everything that is done In those houses is for salvation. The testimony of all who go there is that it makes them feel better prepared to bat with life. They become better fathers and mothers, and better citizens of the United States or of any other country. I can testify to this, and thousands that are before me, who have been through the house of the Lord could bear me out in this testimony, if called upon. There is nothing done there in any manner that has a tendency in the least to harm any individual, but everything that is done is for the best good and salvation of the people. 

I rejoice in these things, my brethren and sisters. I am thankful to the Lord that He has given me a testimony of the truth of this Gospel. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that he laid the foundation for this great work. He it was that laid the foundation of all these organizations that we have heard about this morning, and this work will increase and multiply upon the earth. May the Lord help us all to be faithful and true always to the covenants that we have made with the Lord, that we may keep them faithfully and never do anything that would bring His displeasure upon us. God grant it to all of us. Again I express my thanks and praise the name of my Heavenly Father for His continued mercies and goodness unto me, and for extending my life until I am now nearly eighty-three years of age. I thank the Lord for all these blessings, and dedicate myself unto Him with a determination to serve Him as long as I live upon the earth. I ask Him for His blessing upon you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT. ANTHON H. LUND. 

The Char«c1er and Extent of the Priesthood —Beneficial Results of Fast Offer! gs— Uns- ltishness of M sslonaries to the World — Intellectual aud Religious development of the Children. 

While our President was addressing us these words came into my mind: 

"But ye are a chosen generation, a royal Priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness into His marvelous light." 

It occurred to me that the Apostle Peter, in addressing the Saints formerly, looked upon a people who were similarly organized to the Latter-day Saints, and he called them "a chosen generation, a royal Priesthood, an holy nation." Those who contemplate the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be struck with the number who hold the Priesthood. The Priesthood is conferred upon all male members who are worthy to receive it. This is a great blessing which the members of this Church en<joy, and it makes them a peculiar people, a chosen generation, holding the royal Priesthood. There is no priestly caste in our Church. Contrary to the opinion of many, such a thing does not exist with us, unless you will call the whole Church a priestly caste, because all participate in the blessing* pertaining to the Priesthood. 

There are in the Church two Priesthoods — the Aaronic and the Melchisedek. The Aaronic Priesthood is the lesser, an appendage to the higher. It embraces the offices of Deacons, Teachers and Priests. Those 'who hold these offices are called to labor amongst the people, to teach them, to serve them, to watch over them, and to see that there is no hardness of heart or ill feelings among them. We call our young men very early in .life to bear the Priesthood. When they are 12 or IS years old we ordain them Deacons or Teachers, if they are worthy. We givw them something to do in the Lord's house. We call upon them to look after the meeting-houses and to visit the Saints. In some places Deacons look after the widows, and see that they are furnished with fuel, and attend to the chopping of wood for them. Being called to the Priesthood, they feel that these services are honorary ones. They are called on also to collect fast-day offerings from the people, many ot whom may not have ready money to give unto the poor. If they have not the cash they give provisions and other things which they can spare, and which the poor need. In many stakes the Deacons are called upon to perform such duties as these, and this gives them in their youth a love for doing good and for helping the poor. 

Here let me say, in this connection, that in our Church a custom prevails Which I consider a beautiful one. It is this: The Saints are called upon to remember the poor when they fast. They show their reverence for the Lord In fasting, and fit themselves better to approach Him in prayer, showing that they can overcome the strong wants of nature by abstaining from food for one, two, or three meals. Our fast-day comes on the first Sunday in each month; and while the members of the Church deny themselves on that day, they are asked to remember the poor, and to give unto them at least the value of the meals that they refrain from taking. If this be done conscientiously throughout the Church there is no need of any of the poor suffering. We have not a great amount of poor anyhow in our midst outside of the populous centers. In some of the stakes they have none that need support. The people may not be well-to-do, they may not have much of this world's goods, but they are sufficiently blessed not to need any support from others. In Salt Lake and the larger cities, where so many people gather and have to depend on day's labor, we have quite a number to support. Now, I would admonish the Saints living in stakes where they are not called upon to do much towards supporting the poor, that they do not slacken their efforts to collect fast-day donations or to contribute them, for it is a duty laid upon all the members of the Church to remember the poor. The Lord delights in those who remember the poor. And so the beautiful custom has been instituted In our midst of imparting of our substance to the poor, to make the poor glad, on the day that has been set apart as a day of fasting and praye*-. One of the old Church fathers writes that in early days it was the custom among the Christians when they fasted that they took the money they would have had to expend for the meals which they did not partake, of, and gave It  the poor. This same custom has been revived in our Church. I do not suppose, however, that the Prophet Joseph Smith ever read anything of this kind, but he was inspired to institute it in our midst. In looking over what the Saints have done in regard to fast-day donations, I think there is great need of improvement, and that all should be more consciencious in observing the fast-days and remembering the poor. When we do this to honor the Lord and to keep His commandments, we have a claim upon His blessings and He will not forget us. 

As a general thing, the Saints respond cheerfully to all the calls that are made upon them; and in looking back upon our history, one cannot help seeing that they have been called upon to make many sacrifices. But take the men in our midst who have made the greatest sacrifices, and you will generally find the men who have been the most greatly blessed. From the beginning of the Church the Lord has called upon His people to do something. 

Our religion is one in which we are called upon to show our faith by our works. The Latter-day Saints have shown their faith this way. When they are called upon to go out amongst the nations to preach the gospel, they do not ask how much their pay will be. but they at once commence to regulate their affairs so that they can betake themselves to their mission-field and perform the labor required, without any remuneration. They feel that they owe the duty to the world, to warn them of what is coming, to tell them the glorious message "that God Himself has revealed in our day, and to declare unto men that there is an opportunity to enjoy the blessings of the Gospel today as they were enjoyed formerly. Therefore, when they are called upon to go out into the world they almost invariably answer that they will be ready to go at the time appointed. Thus our missionaries go to the different parts of the earth, and you will find them in Europe, in Asia, in Africa, in Australia and New Zea, in the islands of the sea, and on this great continent of ours. Wherever the call is, they go, trusting in the Lord to sustain them, and to give them power to perform their mission. Though they have not studied philosophy and are not learned in the systems of men. they go feeling and knowing that they have the truth, and they are desirous to make every man acquainted with what they have received. This they do not do by being coerced or forced, but by their own free will; and when they return from their missions (which generally last from two to four years or more) they are ready to report that the time spent in their missionary fields has been the happiest period of their lives. When their work is completed they love to return to their homes, because they love their families and relations. They do not go on missions because they like to be away from home, or because they love to ramble around the world, but they go because there is no joy so great as that experienced in devoting oneself entirely to the cause of Christ. And how happy they are to find those who will listen to their words and receive them with honest hearts! They feel then that the Lord is rewarding them for their labors and for the sacrifice they have made in leaving home and loved ones. The preposterous idea has been set forth by our enemies that our Elders are paid so much for every convert they make. How ridiculous this sounds to us here! Nearly every man in our midst has been away upon a mission. He knows what he has received — or rather what he has not received. He has gone with means which he has labored for with his own hands, and has spent the same for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, and all the pay he expects to receive is the inner conviction of having done his duty and filled the call which the Lord has made upon him. He knows that the promises are unto such as are willing to keep the commandementa of the Lord and labor for His cause. I stated that our young men early  the Priesthood. Some are ordained Teachers and Priests and as such go among the families of the Saints to labor in their calling. They are generally accompaniedi by an older person. The families gather around ready to listen to the teachings of these bearers of the Priesthood, and the time they spend in the homes of the Saints is devoted to talk upon the topics pertaining to the kingdom of God and to the duties of the members of the Church. 

Besides the Aaronic Priesthood, we have in our Church the Melchisedek Priesthood. An Elder holds this Priesthood. A Seventy, a High Priest, an Apostle, the President of the Church, all hold the same Priesthood. There are only the two Priesthoods, but there are different offices in the same Priesthood. You heard our President speak this morning concerning the organization of the Church, stakes and wards, and about presidents of stakes and Bishops of wards. All these men holding the Priesthood, have been placed in charge of the flock of Christ, and they are watching over them. As a general thing, they spend all the time they can spare ministering for the good of the people. In most cases they are men of business and under the necessity of providing for their own families, but they take what time they can to look after those the Lord has put in their charge. 

Such are the Priesthoods, and such the offices therein. Then we have the auxiliary organizations in the Church. They are not exactly parts of the Priesthood, but auxiliary thereunto. They are helps in government. We commence with the little children in the Primary association. We call upon good sisters in our midst to take these in hand, and once a week they meet with our little children and teach them concerning right and wrong, and concerning the crucified Savior; they inspire their young hearts with a love of God. and teach them to sing praises unto Him. This organization takes in the smallest of our children. Then when they get to be about 14 years of age they join the Mutual Improvement association. There they meet once a »week and take a course in theology and other necessary branches. The aim of this organization is to build up the young people, to warn them of the pitfalls in the way of the youth, to strengthen them in their resolve to serve God, and to teach them the principles of the Gospel, that they may have a foundation for their faith. After this the young men join the quorums of the Priesthood, and the young women join the Relief societies, which were established by the Prophet Joseph for the good of the people. The sisters of the Relief society do a good work in our midst. We have the societies organized in every ward in Zion and in the branches abroad. They gathmeans for the poor and they look after the sick. In many cases 3 r ou will find the sisters watching night and day at the sick bed. Indeed they are, as the name of the society indicates, persons of another organization not an auxiliary organizations in the Church. 

Before I conclude, I want to speak of another organization not an auxiliary organization of the Priesthood, but an organization pertaining to the Church school system, I mean the religion classes, which we are trying to establish in our midst. This meets opposition, both from without and, I am sorry to say, from within. The object of these classes is to teach our children what they cannot be taught in the district schools, namely, the principles of the Gospel. We do not want in any way to interfere with the rights of oui fellow citizens who do not belong to oui Church. We do not want to force any of this religion class work upon their children. We do believe, however, that an education without a God is a faulty one. We do believe that children should be taught morality and faith in God. But as the laws of the land are, this cannot be done in our district schools. We must keep the public schools free from all theological doctrines. No one need to fear this movement of ours. It is not intended for  amongst those who are not of us. But 'we claim the right to teach our own children what we want them taught. We believe that there is agreat necessity of teaching them morality, principles of sound conduct, faith in God, and doctrines of salvation. The children may be taught the secular branches by the most polished teachers, but if they are not taught morality and faith their education will be deficient and they will not know how to reach the object for which they have corns upon the earth. We like our children to receive a good education and to become mentally strong, and we encourage all the Latter-day Saints to takeadvantage of the district schools, of the high schools and the universities for the branches that are taught there, but we do feel that our children need more than they can get in those institutions, and for that reason we have established religion classes. Now. we have no objections to our friends of other denominations establishing classes and teaching their children the principle* that they believe in. Our Cathollo friends set us a good example in this respect. They will not let their children be neglected in religious instruction. We do not object to others teaching their children so long as they do not teach our children what we do not want them taught. We want our children to receive the kind of instruction that we know to be all-important to them. This is all there is to the religion classes. We are not attempting to mix church and state; we do not want to intrude our religion into the state schools; but *we do claim the right to have our own children taught in the principles that we believe; and for this purpose we gather them together. In places where there are but few, if any, non-"Mormons" we may hire the schoolhouse after the school has been dismissed; but we particularly urge those in charge of the religion classes not to interfere with the children of non-"Mormons." I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, do not underestimate the importance of having your children taught the principles of the 

Gospel in early life. We have church schools established, but as a general thing- the children do not go there until they are out of the grades. Now, from seven to fourteen years of age is the time when the child's mind is plastic, and when you can make lasting impressions upon it. We do not want that time to go by without our doing something for the spiritual growth of the child; we want to teach our young children faith in Christ, and have them well grounded in His doctrines. I see it is time to dismiss the meeting. May the Lord bless you all, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: Lift up the voice in singing. 

Benediction by Elder Collins Hakes, president of Maricopa stake. 


