Afternoon
07 10 1904



ELDER JOSEPH H. GRANT, (President of Davis Stake.) 
I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in having the privilege of reporting the Davis Stake of Zion. I love the people of that stake, because of their faithfulness. We have many good people there, and very few that are bad. There are about 7,000 people in the stake. Most of them are Latter-day Saints, some of them are "Mormons," and some are non-"Mormons." I rejoice to say, however, that many of those who are not Latter-day Saints are among our best citizens. We mingle together, and »we have the sympathy largely of those who are not of us. We are endeavoring, by the help of the Lord, to keep this good feeling; and if those that are older do not feel inclined to accept the Gospel, 

ELDER J. G. 

perchance many of their sons and daughters will do so, in fact, they are doing so. In Davis stake we feel that we must have the hearts of those that live among us in order to get them to join with us, the same as we find in the missions abroad. We rejoice that we have this good feeling and this good class of people living with us. 

The Davis Stake of Zlon was reorganized a couple of weeks ago, with myself and Elders James A. Eldredge and Jesse M. Smith as the presidency of the stake. We feel very weak in taking the places of those that presided over the stake before us, as we realize that some of the best men that ever lived on the earth, among them President Joseph F. Smith himself, have presided over that stake. We feel that nothing but the direction of the Spirit of the Lord can qualify us to t o forth and do anywhere near as well as our predecessors. But we know that the work of God is true. We have proved that in going to Him for help and support He will not desert us, and we rejoice in this. I am thankful for the help that I have in our High Council. It is a strong body of men — men who are willing to work in any capacity, and who labor particularly as home missionaries and as peacemakers in the stake. They have been so successful that for three or four years at a time, there has been no necessity for a High Council trial. There are 18 Patriarchs in the stake. Most of these men are doing a great deal of good in blessing the people, holding cottage meetings, dedicating the home's of the Latter-day Saints, and warming up the hearts of those that have grown cold, as well as teaching the Gospel to those who have not yet accepted it. Our organizations are complete, with strong workers at their head. The Lord is blessing us in our stake, and we rejoice in it. We feel to sustain and hold up the hands of the Prophet of God, with his counselors and the Apostles, who have been called to lead and direct the affairs of the work of the Lord upon the earth, and I pray that this spirit may continue with us. I ask for your faith 

McQUARRIE, 29 

and prayers, that I may be enabled to accomplish what is required of me. I rejoice in my heart that I am able to be here, for I have been in very poor health during the last year. The Lord has blessed me, however, with one ot His great gifts — to have faith in the promises made to me through His servants. I pray that God will continue to bless and to guide us into all truth, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER J. G. McQUARRIE 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

There are times, my brethren and sisters, when we feel that we are separate, single individuals and when we feel to draw down the shades and close the doors of our homes. There are other times when either a common sorrow 01 a common joy gives us the desire to throw up the blinds, to open the dcors, and to invite all our brothers and sisters to look into the light and comfort of our homes. So, too, there are times when we feel a desire to throw our souls open, that our friends and our brothers and sisters may look in and see the warmth, the love and the joy that we feel for them. That is my feeling today. I wish I could throw my soul open to you, that you might see the love and the joy which I have in associating with my brothers and sisters after an absence of six months. It is such a pleasure for us to get back again among the homeguard, and to meet with our friends in Zion. One of the greatest joys that I have had, perhaps the greatest joy that the president of a mission feels is in meeting the mothers and the fathers of the noble sons or daughters that may be laboring under our guidance. Today, as I looked into the eyes of mothers lit up with pride when I told them of the good works and noble deeds of their sons, and watched their eyes fill with tears and their faces quiver with emotion, I thought how grand it is to feel that warm, true, godlike love of a mother. I will not be able to meet all the mothers and fathers of the noble boys that I have the honor to preside over, but I want to say to you that they are all doing you honor where they are laboring, and without an exception, I believe, are giving God the very best that is in them; and that is all anyone can do. 

In mission work, like other labors, there seems to be a kind of ebb and flow. Some seasons we reap a good harvest, while others we do not get very much fruit from our labors. Last year was a very fruitful one. We gathered in the harvest. This year the result? in the Eastern States Mission, so far as baptisms are concerned, are not so encouraging. Still we have had enough success to keep us from being discouraged, and enough opposition to keep us stirred up. During the early part of the season, there was quite a severe storm which seemed to break with rather terrific force over the Eastern States mission, and while it did not shake any of those who were members of the Church, it seemed to blight some tender plants among those who were just commencing to investigate the Gospel, and of course those plants have not borne us any fruit. But we feel encouraged in our labors. Perhaps you have noticed in the papers the account of the re-baptism of John Rigdon, the or.ly surviving son of Sidney Rigdon, who was a counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sixty-six years ago, I believe, John Rigdon was baptized by Hyrum Smith in the Mississippi river, and I think the Prophet Joseph Smith confirmed him a member of the Church. He was a bright, brilliant, promising youth, and I can not help but think of what he might have accomplished, where he might have stood in the councils of the Church, andi how far his influence might have extended, if he had exerted all his energy in trying to establish the principles which God had revealed from heaven, rather than directing his mind toward the weaknesses of men. I feel grateful that the sons and daughters of the first families of the Church are gradually being gathered into the fold again. It is also a striking testimony to me, as it may be to others, when we  such events, because men like Sidney Rigdon knew whether Joseph Smith was a prophet or not. There was no guess work upon their part. Joseph testified that he and Sidney Rigdon saw Jesus Christ in the Kirtland Temple, and he was in a position to absolutely know whether he had witnessed this manifestation, and whether Joseph Smith was a prophet of God or not. And so, when the effort of his life was over, when he was about to pass into eternity, his son approached him and asked him what position he should take in reference to Joseph Smith — whether he was a prophet and whether the Book of Mormon came as he said it did. With tears streaming down his cheeks, Sidney Rigdon testified that the Book of Mormon was true, that Joseph Smith was a pi-ophet of God, and that the world would yet know it. That testimony clung to his son, and, ringing in his ears, made him afraid to die before being reconciled to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Oliver Cowdery was also in a position to know absolutely whether Joseph Smith was a prophet of God or not, and he, too, before he passed away, seemed anxious to come in again at the door and regain his fellowship in the Church. This should be a witness to us, and especially to the young, of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Not only so, but it should be a warning also to the bright sons and daughters of La>tter-day Saints, that they should not waste their energy in looking for and criticising the weaknesses of some frail individuals who may be placed in responsible positions, but that they should rather exert their energies in trying to establish the principles of the Gospel, which have been revealed for the very purpose of strengthening frail humanity. We are all weak, but the Gospel is true, and it will strengthen those who live it. 

I feel not only to report the condition of the Elders who are laboring under my direction, but also some of those who come to study and to gain technical and professional knowledge. I am glad to say that where they have the 

opportunity to attend our meetings the great majority of them are trying to keep in touch with the Saints and with the Church, and in many instances they are reflecting credit upon the people of God and upon the community that is responsible for their training. In every instance where they try to live the Gospel and are not ashamed of the truth, they not only honor their people, but they honor themselves. I was glad to note that in the graduating class of the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Baltimore, where four gold medals were given, two of them went to Utah boys, and one of these was the first medal; and a good minister had the honor of reading out their names and awarding these prizes to our Utah boys. Another instance I will take pleasure in mentioning. In the graduating class from the law school in Washington two years ago, there was one young "Mormon" Elder who had preached the Gospel, and who had fainted on the streets from exhaustion and hunger while he was trying to proclaim these truths to the people. This "Mormon" Elder, who was competing in a. class with the brightest and smartest sons of America, was elected president of his class by acclamation— an honor perhaps that was never given to anyone before in that school. 

I desire, in conclusion, to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel. I testify that all those who will incorporate its principles in their lives and live them will know they are true. The Eastern States mission is in a fairly good condition. "We are constantly growing a little, and some of our members are gathering to Zion. I am proud of all those that I have had the pleasure of meeting since I came here. I pray that the blessings of God may rest upon Zion, upon those who preside in the Church, and upon all the Elders who are laboring abroad, with those who preside over them, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES G. DUFFIN. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I feel very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of meeting  you in this conference. I have felt greatly blessed in listening to the instructions of our brethren and to the reports that have been given, as well as the beautiful testimonies that have been borne of the goodness of our Father in heaven to His children here upon this earth. "We feel blessed in our labors in the Central States mission, That mission embraces the states of Kansas and Missouri, and all of the states south of them to the Gulf of Mexico. The people who reside in those states are, as a rule, broad and liberal, warm hearted, and they accord to our Elders many privileges that are necessary for them to have in order to carry -on the work of the Lord. In the. cities of St. Louis, Kansas, St. Joseph, and many other cities in that mission, the men who have been elected to office accord to our Elders the same privileges that are enjoyed by ministers of other religious denominations; and in some cities, where the ordinances are against street preaching, we have found, in going to the mayor and chief of police, that though it was necessary for them to deny us the privileges we asked for because of these ordinances, they have treated us most courteously. The governors of some of these states whom I have met have excellent ideas of the Latter-day Saints, of whom they speak well, and they admire the courage that this people has manifested in the development of the great arid west. The Elders in that mission travel, as a rule, without purse or scrip, following the revelation of the Lord given through the Prophet Joseph Smith; and it is not a common thing for our Elders to go hungry or thirsty, nor to sleep out of doors, but their wants are supplied by the good people of those states. I want to say too, my brethren and sisters, that all of the ministers who are in that mission are not bitter opponents of the Latter-day Saint Elders. I have met a number of broad-minded, fair men who wear the cloth. They have been at our conferences at some places, and we have given them the privilege of speaking, and they have spoken good words concerning the Mormon people. On one occasion a very prominent minister advised the people to open their doors to Mormon Elders. Now I feel that it is much better for us to look at the good in men, than to always be seeking for something that is not good. I believe it is better to speak of that which is uplifting in our fellows, than of the little weaknesses that we all give way to at times. I am one of those who believe that the world is getting better. I do not believe for one moment that this work which our Father in heaven has established is a failure, and if you could convince me that the world is not getting better, I should be apt to think that the work of the Lord was a failure. I do not mean to say^ but what the wicked are getting more wicked, because I believe that to be true; but in a general way I have x:eached the conclusion, from seven years' experience as a missionary, that the effect of the teachings of the servants of the Lord, the distribution of millions of books and pamphlets treating upon the principles of eternal life, the labors of your sons and daughters in the homes of the people, are all having their effect to plant the principles of truth in the hearts of the people, and to turn mankind unto works of righteousness. More than once in my experience I have had great, strong men come to me and tell me of their past lives, and take counsel from me. I have seen those men break down and cry like children. Then I have followed the course of those men, and though they did not unite themselves with this Church, I have observed that their lives have been purer and better in every way than they were before. In yeavs past, when writers for papers and magazines have described the "Mormon" Elder, they have generally described him as a man with lor.T hair, of uncouth appearance, uneducated, ignorant, and rough in his address. I am pleased to learn that this is changing. A number of papers that I have seen within the last few years have described the "Mormon" Elders as well educated, of pleasing address, bright and intellectual young men. And when 

I have seen these testimonies concerning your boys who so out into the world, I have thought that even the enemies of the work of the Lord have borne witness, though unwittingly, to the power that there is in this Gospel for the uplifting of mankind. 

The headquarters of the Central States mission are in Kansas City. That city is located in Jackson county, Mo. — the land that we have looked forward to all our days as the place which the covenant children of our Father in heaven should redeem; a spot that is sacred to all Latter-day Saints. Let me say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the people of that country are changing very agreeably in their sentiments tcward this work and people. Prominent men of the State of Missouri would welcome the Latter-day Saints if they should go back there today, and in my opinion it will not be a great many years until the work of our Father in heaven will open up in that land and the way be prepared for the building of that beautiful temple and for the redemption of that land, which our Father has said should be redeemed by His people through purchase. In thinking over the preparation that is essential to be made for that great work, I have wondered if we were preparing ourselves individually to do something toward it. What is the preparation that is essential? There is a revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, in Section 105, and in tha-t the Lord gives the information that His children who will engage in that work must learn to live the laws of the celestial kingdom. One of the laws of the celestial kingdom is to be honest and true with our fellows, to be honorable in all our dealings and associations, and to have our hearts devoted to eternal principles. T take it that a man or a woman who is not in that condition, is not very well prepared to assist in the establishment of the eternal principles of righteousness in a part o£ the land where Satan has been determined that the work of God should not be performed. 

I have advised our young men in that mission to give some attention to the temporal conditions that surround them in their missionary labors, to visit the factories and the industrial institutions that are in the way of their travels, to study the farming- interests, and to give attention to the growth of the country generally, so that when they return to their homes they may not only show themselves as strong spiritual characters, but they will also have ideas that can be applied in a temporal way for the benefit of the work of the Lord. Since I have been here on this visit, I have been riding out a little over the country in the Utah Stake of Zion, and I have become more fully convinced than ever that this is an essential part of our work; for on every hand I see opportunities for industrial development that are lying dormart. I see waste upon the farms of the people; I see the fruit going to waste by the thousands of bushels, while we are importing into this State tens o;' thousands of dollars worth of canned goods. On a farm that I arranged for the purchase of the other day, I saw upwards of two thousand bushels of peaches going to waste, and I thought then, if our brethren had united and expended a little means, all that could have been saved, and employment could have been given to many of our young men and women, which would have helped them very materially in securing the means necessary to enabl" them to attend one of our great schools in the State during the coming winter. I cannot help it, brethren and sisters, if my mind runs upon temporal as well as spiritual things, for I believe that both are essential. And so we are striving to direct the minds of our boys in the mission field along these lines, though not by any means neglecting the spiritual things of the kingdom. We advise them to observe, and to study, so that when they come home they may have some ideas that can be applied practically for the good of their brothers and sisters. 

Now, may the Lord bless you. May His spirit be with you forever. I know  this is the work of the Lord. 1 know that Christ is the Savior of the world. I know that Joseph Smith was raised up by our Father in heaven to establish this work upon the earth in the latter da5 r s. This is my testimony to you in the name of Jesus our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

While I speak to you,, my brethren and sisters, I desire the Spirit of the Lord, and I ask that you will assist me by your prayers of faith; for although I know I am in the house of my friends, and that here my kindred dwell, still there is greater fear in addressing you than there would be if I were called upon to speak to the people of the world. I sense the fact that we have a message to convey to them, which is new to them. We oan teach them some of the simple things pertaining to the plan of life and salvation, which our children here have heard from the lips of their fathers and mothers, as well as from the organizations which are helps of government in Israel. Therefore, I desire that you will pray for me so that I may be strengthened by the Spirit of God to speak of those things that will be of interest and of benefit. 

The testimony of my brethren in regard to missionary work is much the same as I would give. I love my associates and companions. I greet the fathers and mothers of the Elders in our mission, and I assure you* that as the Lord gives us strength and life, and keeps us humble, we are striving to uphold the principles that you have inculcated in our minds. For I want to tell you mothers that despite the learning that your sons have received in schools, in religion classes and in the higher institutions of our State, the teachings of the mothers shine out behind it all, just as does the name of the great architect of the mighty tower which Ptolemy Philadelphus erected to his memory. You may remember that this great king had thought to perpetuate his name by erecting what was once one of the wonders of the world, and in order that he should not be forgotten.he ordered that written high upon its face, should be his name; and by the lights at the top of this tower the mariners at sea and in the delta of the Nile were guided at night. His name, however, was inscribed in plaster, and in time it wore away, and the name of Sostratus, the Greek, shone out as the architect and the builder of that great pile. And so in the inner life, and in the labors and the devotion of the Elders in the missionary field, shine out the teachings of the mother. They breathe anew the prayers they have learned at mother's knee; they live for the love of mother. Men have come to me in tears and have told me how in times of trial, when the tempter would have beguiled them, and they would have listened to his voice, and have departed perhaps from the path of rectitude, the face and the prayers of mother have arisen before them and they could not do it. I want you mothers in Israel to know that I feel this way, so far as the teaching? you have given your sons are concerned. 

Speaking of material things, it is not long since that a gentleman called at our office and asked for the president of the mission. When he found who it was it rather astonished him to see such a boy, and he wanted to know if I was sure of the matter. He then proceeded to take off a great muffler and disclosed the uniform of a Catholic priest. He said to me: "Mr. Robinson, I am a Catholic priest, but I have come to the conclusion that no man can live a correct life in celibacy. I am desirous of taking to myself a wife and answering the ends of my creation by raising a family. I know nothing of your religion except that your people are the most successful colonizers in the world; that you are a home-building and a home-loving people; that the system of economics which has prevailed among your people, the plans laid out by your founders in making settlements and bringing the people together, has brought to the smaller hamlets many of the privileges  city life in the way of drama, music and art, and that nausteology or homesickness is hardly known among them. I am desirous to know what opportunity there would be for me to get a home among your Saints." I assured him that he could not expect to gain a living or to build a home among us without effort and labor; that there was no paid ministry with us, and that he could not receive a salary for teaching and preaching, as he was receiving at that time. He replied that this would not deter him from the effort. The crucial point with him, however, was whether we believed that Jesus Christ was the Son of God or not; and When I told him that we most assuredly did, and that we believed what the Scriptures said, that there is no name given under heaven by which mankind can be saved except the name of Jesus Christ, he remarked, "Well, I presume that in a sense we are all sons of God, but I do not believe that Jesus the Christ was any more or less than the son of Joseph." And yet he was a teacher of Christianity! I have been asked three other times in my missionary experience, whether we, as a people, believed in Jesus the Christ — once by a sprig of nobility from England, and twice by other travelers — and my first thought was, how useless it is to work against such lack of understanding upon the part of the people. Then, I thought, why the very fact that they know so little of us and of our belief makes it all the more necessary for us to preach to them the Gospel of Jesus the Christ; to let them know that God has spoken from the heavens; that His Church, with all its gifts and powers, its Priesthood and authority, has been established on the earth for the salvation of men; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; that Prophets and Revelators guide the Church today, and that the destiny of the Church of Christ is assured. For I know, my brethren and sisters, that men of God, men who are led by His Spirit, are at the helm, and that they will guide most successfully this work in the. last days for the uplifting of humanity, until all nations  have heard the sound of the Gospel, and until every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ to the glory of God the Father. I know, not only by what I have seen and read of the fulfillment of prophecy, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, but by direct inspiration and revelation, as every man and woman many know by seeking for it in sincerity and faith. I well remember when, as a raw country boy, I first came into this Tabernacle and heard President Taylor addressing the congregation, and as he did so, he put up his coat collar, rounded up his shoulders, and warned the brethren and sisters that there was a storm coming and for thein to prepare to meet it. He foreshadowed what would take place because of certain conditions, and predicted that our fathers and mothers would suffer, and many of them perhaps would die in exile, while others might be incarcerated in prison and our property confiscated. I put that down as the first utterance of a prophet of God that I had heard. Did I live to see the fulfillment of it? Why, I remember in my own father's family, when on one occasion I went to visit him, as he did not rear me. Tha shades of night were falling, the sun was sinking in the west, and he came to bid me good night. I had thought to spend the night with him in converse, and so I said, "Father, you are not going away, are you?" Said he "My boy, because I will not ignore those whom I have sworn to cherish and love, I must find safety in the caverns and rocks up here above our city," and none of his sons knew where he laid his head at night. And so, I know, from some things that have entered into my life, that God reveals His secrets unto men, and that those who fear Him and keep His commandments need not be in the dark nor have doubts and misgivings. They may know, by the light of eternal truth, that the Gospel is true, and that it will save and exait all men in the presence of God who will obey it. God grant that we may be true to it, that His peace may be in  homes, joy in our hearts, and love towards all men actuate us, that plenty may wait upon our gates, and that, eventually, we may be saved with our loved ones in His presence. This is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. A sacred solo: 

"Hear ye not, O Israel," was sung by Miss Jepperson. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Value of General Conferences— B ernul Nature nf th" Laws cf ihe Go.«pel -Snlvatn n for tue Dead as well as the Living. 

Brethren and sisters, truly the wisdom of heaven was shown by the Lord when He instituted in His Church these general conferences. In many instances those who otherwise would separate never again to meet in this life, greet each other on the Temple block, old acquaintances are renewed, and a feeling of brotherly love and friendship is promoted. How impressive is the thought that this vast concourse of people gathered from all parts of Zion, even from the very uttermost parts thereof, and from some of the missions of the world, are assembled beneath the shades of this roof, having laid aside their daily employment, and the care.3 of the world for a few days, that they might listen to these glorious songs of Zion, that they might wait upon the Lord, and hearken to what He may have to say to them by the mouths of His servants; that they might pause, that they might ponder upon the things of God, and that they might consider the Gospel of salvation. And let me say to you, brethren and sisters, that the heights and the depths of the Gospel are quite beyond our reach. The finite mind is not capable of wholly comprehending the great plan of redemption. We, occasionally, have a glimpse of its power and beauty; but we must learn line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, until we come up to the full stature of a man in Christ Jesus. It cannot be comprehended in a day, or a month, or a year; it is the study of a life-time. We have been taught that our Father in heaven sits enthroned in power, exalted, glorified, in the midst of eternity; and, moreover, that He looks upon His children as though we were in eternity. His dealings with the children of men are made with reference to eternity. Mark these words that occur in one of the revelations, for they are very beautiful, and impressive, yet simple: 

"Wherefore, verily I say unto you, that all things unto me are spiritual; and not at any time, have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. 

"Behold, I gave unto him commandments, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual." 

How grand is the knowledge expressed in this language. We have come to learn that the commandments which God has delivered to His Church partake of His character. He is spiritual, eternal, everlasting, from everlasting to everlasting; hence the commandments which He gives are spiritual, eternal, everlasting. So the Ten Commandments, several of which were repeated by one of the speakers this morning, are appropriate to thf. time in which we live and suited to our condition; but not more so to us than they were to the people in the days of the Savior, and not more so to them than to the children of Israel, to whom the commandments were delivered. They are applicable to the children of men in all ages of the world, because they are eternal, and partake of the very nature of God Himself. 

Take, for example, the principle of faith, which is one of the foundation stones of the Gospel. I say to you that the principle of faith is as firm as the very pillars of heaven. It can not be changed nor modified to suit the opinions of men or of any particular condition of the world. The principle of faith is the same today as it ever was. Adam, in the garden of Eden, must of necessity have exercised the principle of faith, otherwise he could not appear well in the sight of God. 

Without faith it is impossible to please God in any age of the world. This great law of faith is unchangeable. Why? Because God is unchangeable, and it belongs to the everlasting Gospel. 

Consider, for a moment, the great law of repentance. It is binding upon this Church. We must consider it and meet its requirements. It must have ' an influence in our daily lives. God has said that He can not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. Hear it, O Israel! It can not be condoned, it can not be excused, it can not be winked at, because confronting sin is this preat and eternal law of repentance. If we will have absolution, if we will have forgiveness of sin, we must submit to the law and repent. I say — no, I do not say it — it is declared in the Gospel which we have received, that no man or woman can be saved in the kingdom of God except by faith and repentance. Salvation cannot be purchased. It is a free gift of God, and it comes through His Gospel. And in this matter, as in all things, God is no respecter of persons. He who sins in this Church, be it a small or a £reat transgression, must repent. It matters not in whom the sin may be found. In the President of the Church? Yes. In his counselors? Yes. In the Twelve Apostles? Yes. The Presidents of the Stakes, the Bishops of Wards, and the leaders of Zion? Yes. In the lay members of the Church? Yes. It affects the most influential as well as the humblest in the Church. When children come to years of understanding and accountability, must they repent and forsake sin? Yes. Those who do not repent, those who do not yield obedience to this great and immutable law of the Gospel, will go into spiritual darkness and, peradventure, will lose the faith. 

Take the principle of baptism — another great foundation law of the Gospel. Oh! how simple is this ordinance, to some perhaps even foolishness, that a man or woman, by going down into the water and being immersed can have his or her sins washed away. How is this? 

We do not know. We only know that God has so instituted it. It is a part of His plan. It is set forth in the scriptures with great clearness, and you may read it in the revelations, that those who would have their sins remitted must submit to this simple ordinance. By study and reflection, we can see the beauty of the ordinance. We can see that it is typical of death and the resurrection, and that as man goes into the grave and is called forth again out of the grave to a newness of life, to immortality and eternal life, so he goes into the waters of baptism, is buried therein, and comes forth again to a newness of life upon the earth. Being relieved of his sins, he is a new creature, with a new heart, with new prospects, and with bright and glorious hopes before him. 

Then take the ordinance of the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost — an ordinance that is so much neglected and apparently so little understood in the world, and yet so important. The Spirit of truth, the Spirit of light, of wisdom, of intelligence and of knowledge, is conferred by this ordinance, whereby men and women can compherend the things of God; and without the Spirit of God this is impossible. 

Now let me impress upon your minds the fact that it takes just as much to save the! dead as the living, and whatever ordinance is conferred upon th<» living for their salvation in the Kingdom of God must also be conferred upon the dead. Hence these glorious temples which have been erected in our midst, that ordinances may be performed therein for the living and the dead. In this we see again that God is  respecter of persons, and that He is feeling after the dead as well as after the living. We cannot be made perfect without our fathers and mothers and our ancestors, and they cannot bemade perfect without us. Oh, how glorious is the contemplation of the plan of redemption that is so far reaching in its effects! It will discover us; yea, it will find every spirit that has been born into the world. If our great progenitors of this land, or of any other land, shall enter the celestial kingdom, if they shall sit down with the righteous of all ages, they must go in at' the door; for the house of God is a house of order, and there is no other way. Remember that Jesus Christ, the great exemplar, submitted Himself to the ordinances of the Gospel. He demanded baptism of His servant, John. There is the pattern, the example to the world, even to the great men of the world, and if they would come and enjoy with us the blessings and salvation of the Kingdom of God, they must submit, in all humility, as a little child, to these glorious ordinances of the Gospel. We declare it as the servants of the Lord. We testify to the truth of these things. 

May the Lord bless you. May His Spirit abound in the hearts of the peo» pie, and be with us during the continuance of this conference, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation. 

Benediction by Elder Byron Sessions. 

Adjourned until Sunday, at 10 a. m., 