Afternoon
06 10 1904



ELDER DAVID H. CANNON, (President of St. George Temple) 

I feel honored this afternoon in having the opportunity of appearing before this vast assembly to represent the labors performed in the first temple erected in Utah — the St. George Temple. The labor commenced in the St. George Temple on the ninth day of January, 1877, under the direction of our late beloved president, Brigham Young. President Wilford Woodruff was appointed at that time to preside over the temple. For the first few years the work performed in that house of the Lord was very great, many people flocking from the northern settlements to attend to the labor necessary for the redemption of their dead kindred; but as the temples in other parts of the country were finished, the work in the St. George Temple very materially decreased, until we had very few in at, so few in fact that at one time it was thought proper to close the house in consequence of the small amount of ordinance work that was being performed. This was in the time of President Woodruff's presidency over the Church. When it was mooted, President Woodruff made the remark to us that he expected to keep the temple open so that the paople might have the opportunity of entering its sacred precincts and laboring for the redemption of their kindred dead, and if they failed to avail themselves of the opportunity then the responsibility should be upon the people and not upon him; for it was the Lord that nad established the work with which we are identified, and he was satisfied that it would triumph. The work in the St. George Temple has been increasing for the last few months, and I believe there is an awakening among the people in regard to this great duty. Notwithstanding the fact that Elijah did come, in fulfillment of the prediction of Malachi, wherein he said that before the great and dreadful day of the Lord Elijah should come and turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the earth be smitten with a curse — I say, notwithstanding the fact that Elijah has come, and to a very great degree the hearts of the fathers have been turned to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, as manifested in the many genealogical societies that have been established in the earth since that time, be it known unto you, my brethren and sisters, that before the appearance of Elijah in the Kirtland Temple there were very few societies of that character and very little genealogical data that had been compiled in form in order to be made available for the Latter-day Saints; but since that time men have been moved upon, without knowing what power it was, to spend means in collecting genealogical records and publishing them to the world, and the Latter-day Saints have been able to avail themselves of the information thus afforded. The work of the Lord is increasing, and as it increases temple work will increase also. 

I want to bear my testimony to you that this is the work of God with which we have become identified, and it is desfined to accomplish all that is claimed for it. It will roll forth, gathering- strength upon the right hand and upon the left, until every power that is opposed to it is brought into full subjection to the mind and will of our Heavenly Father, and until He will reign upon th^ earth whose right it is to reign — our beloved elder brother, Jesus Christ. I rejoice in this work. It has become a part* of my very nature. I know it is true. I have watched its progress from my earliest recollection. I was with the people as a boy when th?y were driven from Illinois, and I have been with them from that time to this. The knowledge of the work of God has increased in my heart just as daylight increases when the morning dawns upon the earth until the earth is bathed in the refulgence of light. There have been times when the clouds have been lowering, and, to look at things from a natural standpoint, it seemed as if the people of God would be annihilated; but the power of the Almighty has been manifest and they have been delivered. I am just as satisfied that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God as I am that I am standing here before you, and also that President Brigham Young was his successor; that President John Taylor, as the third President of the Church, was 'a prophet of God, inspired to accomplish what he did; that Wilford Woodruff in his turn was clothed upon with the power of Almighty God and was a prophet in the midst of the people; that Lorenzo Snow had prophetic powers, and, as the President of the Church, held the keys of authority upon the earth in his time, and his testimony to the people was the word of God; and our present leader, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet of God. I bear this testimony to you in all solemnity. I testify that this work is destined to triumph and to roll forth until it fills the whole earth. May the blessings of God attend us in  future meetings of the conference that we may have a time of rejoicing while together. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL ROSKELLEY, (Of the Logan Temple.) I take pleasure, my brethren and sisters, in representing the second temple dedicated to the service of God in this inter-mountain region. The Logan Temple was opened in 18S4, and since that time thousands upon thousands of the Latter-day Saints have entered its sacred precincts, receiving blessings at the hands of the servants and handmaidens of God laboring there. The spirit of Elijah has rested upon the labors of God's servants and handmaidens, so much that thousands have received blessings at their hands. Their hearts have been made to rejoice in the holy one of Israel, and they have gone from the house of the Lord feeling that God's presence is resting upon the Temples that have been erected for the administration of ordinances pertaining to the salvation of the living and the redemption of the dead. The Saints have been made glad to know that the welding link between parents and children and husbands and wiv^c has been made manifest in these latter days through the revelations of God to His servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to his legal successors. The labor in the Logan Temple has been continuous since its dedication. We have rejoiced that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us in the work. We have been delighted with the visits of the Presidency of the Church and of the Apostles who have come to us from time to time and given us the benefit of their administrations and counsels. It is astonishing how the work has increased from the time we commenced in 1884. True, the people then had but small records. Few indeed had genealogical records to any extent. But since that time strangers to this work, persons who had scarcely any faith in the resurrection of the dead or in a hereafter, have been inspired of the Lord to compile the history of their t. McAllister, 

 and give data sufficient for the Latter-day Saints to work in the Temples for and in behalf of their kindred dead. Many have hoped and prayed that ways might be opened up to them by which they might receive intelligence pertaining to their ancestors, and I testify before you that in many instances the prayers of such Saints have been answered, and they have received information pertaining to their kindred dead that has simply astonished them. They have come into possession of information that they never dreamed was in existence. The results have been that the work of the Lord in Logan Temple has been carried on to a surprising extent by persons who thought they had no record whatever. I well remember persons talking with President Merrill and telling him they would like to work In the Temple, but they had no record. They simply knew a little concerning their parents and their brothers and sisters, but back of that they could not go. President Merrill advised them to do the work for those they knew about, and God would open the way for them to obtain information pertaining to their grandparents and others. They have done as advised, and the information promised has come to them, and they have come to President Merrill and others testifying that the prediction of Brother Merrill has been fulfilled. In some cases they have received books containing thousands of names of their ancestors. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that this is God's work. I testify tha.t Joseph Smith was an inspired Prophet of God. Those who have succeeded him in the presidency of the Church haA^e also been inspired, and they have brought this work to its present standing. I know that this kingdom will triumph, because God has said so. This work will progress, salvation will be given to the living, if they will obey the laws of God, and redemption shall be brought to the dead, inasmuch as we will attend to the duties and requirements made of us by virtue of the calling whereunto we are called. May 

God add His blessing to us and help us to be ever faithful and true. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN D. T. McALLISTER 

(President of Manti Temple). 

I will try to -make you hear, if possible. It is a good while since I spoke from this stand, and my voice is not so strong as it used to be. It has been used a great deal in the work of the Lord. I was on this ground when we built the tabernacle on the corner of this block where the Assembly Hall now stands. At that time our meeting place was over where the wall now is, in a little, rough house, but the meetings were greatly enjoyed by the Saints. That is fifty-three years ago. I have seen the growth of the people. Today we find a great people in these mountains, comfortably housed, clothed and fed, and enjoying the visits and blessings of the servants of the Lord who preside over us. "We have remembered our leaders and their families, and we pray always that the Lord will bless them, and that their families will be found walking in His ways. It is very nice indeed to have the privilege of meeting in this Tabernacle. I worked with the brethren when the house was built, and a good, sweet spirit was with us. The lumber that came here from the canyon, I measured it; and I also measured the stone work of the masons on the Temple, and reported it to David O. Calder at the President's office. I am sixty years in the Church, the eleventh of the month. I came into these mountains but a boy. I made the acquaintance of the boys that are now men, and some of them great grandfathers like myself. They have striven all that they could to carry out the purposes of the Lord, and some of them, I presume, count from thirty to forty children. We were poor, but the Lord blessed us. We worked. If we had nothing to eat, we asked the Lord to open the way, and He has done so. Today we find beautiful cities and beautiful temples. We commenced our labors here for the dead, I think, in the Endowment House. The first endowments for the living given in Utah were given in the old Council House, which stood on the corner now occupied by the Deseret News building. Since then we have progressed until we find ourselves very comfortably located in the temples that have been erected under the blessing and power of God. 

For the last eleven years I have been in the Manti Temple. I succeeded President Anthon H. Lund. Elder John B. Maiben is my assistant. I was called there by President Woodruff from the St. George Temple, where I presided in his absence, with Elders David H. Cannon and James G. Bleak assisting. What a glorious work has been done in that house of the Lord, and we rejoice that we were privileged to work therein. President Young sent for me and wanted me to go to St. George to assist in the temple. I made everything ready as well as I could and at once proceeded to assume the position. 

The work of the Lord in His house is for His sons and daughters. We have the word of God, and it is published. The way has been revealed for ourselves and our children to walk in. I wonder sometimes that our children who live so near to the house of the Lord should marry outside of it. When we do not marry in His house. we do not marry in His way. If we marry outside of His house, it does for this life; but when we get beyond we have no claim upon each other. Sometimes our children go into by and forbidden paths, leaving the way of the Lord, but the Spirit feels after them, the parents feel after them, and they are brought to a knowledge of the truth, they receive blessings in the house of the Lord, and are numbered with the faithful today. The work for the dead is upon our shoulders. Joseph Smith, before he was assassinated, gave unto us the word of the Lord in relation to the work for the dead, and he quoted some scripture in reference to it. Our fathers and our mothers have been sealed together, the children have been sealed  their parents, and the work has been done for our kindred who passed away without a knowledge of the truth. This is the work that has been spoken of by our brethren, and it is increasing. In three days I sealed to parents over thirteen hundred children, and those that have done this work feel glorious before the Lord. 

I represent now the Manti Temple. This season we have been repairing the roof and the water-pipe. We have beautiful water, and all that we need, not only for temple work, but also to water the grounds. It will require a great deal of means, however, to make that house as beautiful outside as it is in. We have one of the most beautiful temples in the mountains. It is well taken care of, and those who go in feel the Spirit and power of God resting upon them. Our brethren and sisters who were in ill health have come there to be administered to, and we have attended to them, and by the blessing and power of the Lord their sickness has been overcome and they are well today. We get letters sometimes from those who have been blessed of the Lord in this way. It gives me joy to speak of the work in the temple. I must not forget to mention the faithful labors of those workers who have been sent unto us from the stakes of Zion. We release them, and some are sent again to help us. We have never had to stop on account of workei's being absent. 

I thank the Lord that I have lived as Ion? as I have, to see our boys grown up to be men and to become ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ. I love them, and I am satisfied with them, and especially so with our brethren who compose the First Presidency. They are good men, the Lord's men, whom He wanted to lead, guide and direct in the affairs of Zion. Bless you, my brethren who preside; bless you, Saints, in your homes; may you continue to be healthful, peaceful and full of love, and may all things work together for your good, that you may 

ever enjoy the blessings of life and live till your days are fully numbered on the earth. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir rendered a sacred song entitled, "Peace Be Still." 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Material Prosperity of the Nation— Excellent Advice to Latter-day Saints and the People at Large. 

I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with us the remainder of this conference as it has been from the beginning, that the Latter-day Saints gathered here may each and all receive the words of encouragment and instruction which are necessary for their welfare. 

This has been a very remarkable year in the world. As we are all well aware, wars afflict the nations, and serious troubles, complications and accidents fill the world with sorrow. The Latterday Saints, however, have dwelt in peace, and have been remarkably blessed and prospered, though in some sections they have suffered seriously from drouth. On the whole, we have very great reason to rejoice and to thank the Lord, not only the Latter-day Saints, but all the people of this great nation. I believe that when this year shall have closed it will go into history as one of the most fruitful and prosperous that the nation has every enjoyed. The Latter-day Saints have not been prepared to take care of the great blessings that the Lord has bestowed upon ' them in the fruitf ulness of the earth; for a large percentage of our fruits and vegetables have gone to waste, because we have been unable to utilize them. We have not been prepared with factories for the cannine of our fruits and vegetables, and have therefore not been in a position to make the best use of the blessings that have been so generously poured out upon us. It behooves us to make profitable use of the bounteous seasons which the Lord is bestowing upon the people, because they do not always last. The seasons vary greatly, and wisdom would dictate that with the capital which the people of this great state possess in labor and in means we should be pre for the blessings which the Lord pours out upon us. We should establish factories to utilize the raw. material with which the country abounds, and we should be ready and forehanded. Our barns and our granaries should be built, our factories should be established, ready for these fruitful seasons when they come upon us. We ought to take advantage of these fruitful years also to meet all our obligations, as we have been so thoroughly taught by our leaders, so that when the times of stringency and panics come upon us we will be in a condition to endure the strain and not be brought to bankruptcy and ruin. The sugar industry possibly comes nearer meeting the demands of the people than any established in this state; but In other lines of industry, there should be estab lished the necesasry facilities for making proper use of the blessings which the Lord pours out upon us. 

The Latter-day Saints should address themselves to economy and carefulness in their financial affairs. They ought to restrain any inclination to extravagance in every line, and to prepare themselveSj not only with manufactures and other arrangements for utilizing the resources of the country, but also to meet the hard times that come occasionally in the land. Trj.e fruitful seasons are now upon us, and possibly may last for a few more years, and then stringent times 'will come, as certainly, I presume, as they have come in the past. Forewarned, forearmed! Times will change in the future as they have in the past, and we need to be ready for the times as they chang.e The older part of the population have had experience and training, and they should profit thereby; but there are always generations coming up among us that are untrained and inexperienced, and with the idea perhaps that things will always continue as they are. A note of warning has been sounded by our leaders during the years that are past, advising us, as Latter-day Saints, to free ourselves from debt, from mortgages and from obligations that we may not be able to meet. All these contracts should be honorably fulfilled, and we should cease to be the slaves of obligations that bind us down and hamper us in our lives. We want to be men among men, and to have a measure of independence. I have felt it to be the design of the Lord in giving to the people of our beloved state the prosperity that has come to us, that we should prepare ourselves for serious times in the future; for the lean years will follow those of fatness. I would like it if all Israel would listen, and address themselves most earnestly and with every effort in their power to freeing themselves from every obligation to the banks, to their neighbors, to the merchants, to the builders, and to all men that are in business. Clear off all your obligations, and be free. Have a little something in your granaries; havb some credit at the savings banks; and instead of living upon means that belong to your friends, live on your own. Pay for your houses, for your machinery, for your wagons, for your merchandise, for the food you have eaten and for the clothes you have worn out. Do all this, and see the time when you can meet your business man and pay for his wares as you receive them* It is wonderfully comfortable for a man or a woman to be dressed in their own clothing, to live in their own house, and to own everything that they occupy and enjoy, instead of taking care of the means of other people and paying usury. Rather let them be in a shape to receive usury. I believe that it is quite pleasing to the Lord that we should be out of debt. I believe that He requires it of us. I have believed it for many years. I advise and exhort the Latter-day Saints to free themselves from every obligation as soon as they can possibly do so. Though we may have yet a few years of prosperity, they will not be very many, and while the times are propitious you want to free your hands,- and then train yourselves to stay out of debt. Do not allow speculation and the prospect of great fortunes to lead you into the bondage of debt. That is the bondage  is upon some of the Latter-day Saints today. Hence I exhort my brethren throughout Zion to free themselves from all their obligations. I ask my brethren who have wealth, to take measures to make profitable use of the blessings which the Lord bestows upon us. There is profit in the canning of all. our fruits. I am not prepared to say what percentage has been wasted, but in my visits among the settlements I have found the lands upon which orchards stand fairly covered with fruit that has fallen and is rotting. It is astonishing the waste that can be discovered in this land. It is astonishing the amount of canned goods that are brought into this State. It is a reproach to the people of Utah. I remember outfitting for a trip into Arizona from St. George a few years ago, and the canned grapes that we supplied ourselves with were from California, the canned meats were from California, the salmon and other canned articles were from Oregon or some other state. Turkeys, ducks, geese, poultry of all kinds are brought into this state by the carload. It is a reproach to the state. We ought to produce all these things ourselves, and also supply our neighbors. We have done exactly in the sugar business what we ought to do in other lines. Today we make all the sugar that Utah consumes, and we send as much abroad to our neighbors. We keep the money here that pays for our own sugar, and we bring as much more into the state from the sale of s 'gar outside. It has assisted to make ojr state one of the most comfortable and independent states of the west. But it is not enough that we should save on the sugar business. We should be as wise in the handling of our grains, our vegetables and our fruits. They should be taken proper care of so that they may command the market, and be in demand in every direction. We are surrounded by mining camps, and Utah ought to furnish everything they need in an agricultural and industrial line, I want to advise business men, men of finance, to give attention to these mat, that our manufacturies may be increased, so that the materials which are given to us by the fruitfulness of the earth may be profitably used, and we become an independent people in this state. That is what I would like to see in Utah. We have a good country. We live in peace and in harmony; and in addition to all that we can do for ourselves, the hand of the government is reaching out to help us in the irrigation of our country. There is moisture enough in this land, if only properly utilized. The God of heaven has given us rains and snows and fountains of water that are almost abundant. If we would but take care of the resources that He has given to us, the state is well supplied with the necessary water, and I expect to see the time when the bench lands in all our valleys will be producing to their utmost capacity. In our splendid state fair we can see evidences of what has been done this season in the way of dry farming by the experimental stations in this state. It is wonderful the grains that have been produced on the dry lands; and what has been done this year can be done generally, though possibly not always so well, because, as I announced in the beginning, this has been a remarkable year. But we want to see the time when all these lines* of industry and fruitfulness are utilized and controlled by the people of Utah, so that we shall not have to bring flour and grain here from other states as we are doing today. We do not want their grains and vegetables and their poultry to be in demand over ours. We do not want their pork. We do not want their hams, nor their lard. We should produce it here ourselves. 

My brethren and sisters and friends who dwell in the state of Utah, let us join together and utilize the ability, the wisdom and the capital that we have for the prosperity of this great State. I feel that it will be profitable for us to consider these things, and to make as much progress as we can, and not too slowly. It is wonderful what has been accomplished in some directions. The mining industries of the  receive much attention and investment, and we would like to invite capital to enter into other lines of business. We would like the millionaires and those who have become rich .out of the mines of this state, to help also in the establishment of manufactories that will give employment to the people, so that no man can come to the State of Utah, and complain of being out of employment. Such a cry should not be heard among us when the very elements all around are inviting factories and industries of every kind. We want the help of those who have wealth, those who have genius, and those who have business qualities. We would like to have them make Utah the gem of the mountains, the richest and the most inviting state -in the west. We do not object to prosperity— we would like it to beam upon all the people. We would like all to be united and to labor harmoniously together in state affairs, in business affairs, and in the affairs of citizenship generally. We desire peace; we do not want war. Latter-day Saints are a peaceable people. We love peace; we seek peace; we preach it, we teach it, we advise and counsel it, all the time; for this is the work of the Lord that the Latter-day Saints are engaged in. This is the land of Zion— the land of peace— the land of the pure in heart. The pure in heart will be happy; and those who are not pure and are not conscientious in their lives will reap the reward of sorrow. We ask you to repent and to reform in your morals, if there be necessity. We want to reform in our finances, in our societies, in our associations, and in our labors, that everything may be done pleasing to the Lord in this beautiful State, with its lofty mountains, with its plentiful supply of health, and with the blessing and the protection of these United States. Thank the Lord for personal liberty. Thank the Lord for the principles established by our forefathers upon this blessed land of Zion. How grateful we ought to be for this liberty and freedom, and let us make the very best use of it we possibly can. Again I say, relieve yourselves, my brethren, from your financial obligations. Before these fat years have past, make good use of everything that comes within your reach and devote your attention to the meeting of your obligations, so that you may become free men, and then contract no more debts. Keep out of debt, and be a free people, so that you will have means with which to be buried when you die, and a little besides to leave for the widow and the helpless children. Let us have things in a little better condition than we have had them in the past. Avoid bankruptcy and ruin; for a man cannot be comfortable spiritually who is in bondage financially. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, and enable us all to be wise and prudent in our financial affairs as well as in spiritual matters. As we have the great spiritual blessings, and know the way back into the presence of the Father, let us also seek the wisdom that will make us equal to the world in business affairs. May God keep us faithful and humble. May He inspire  hearts of the men who lead us, that they may be equal to the great work that is upon them. The Lord is with us, and will bring us off victorious. I know this as I know that I live. I know that Joseph Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century, was sent of God, and he did his work most faithfully and well; and every one of his successors have been faithful and true to the end. As Jesus set the example for all men, so have His followers, the prophets who have stood at the head of this great people, pet the example for you and me, that we should endure and be faithful and true to God and His cause always, and He will redeem and save us most perfectly and fully. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Singing by the choir and congregation: 

"Our God, we raise to Thee 'ii.? 'fcs for Thy blessings free We here enjoy." 

Benediction by Elder William Budge, president of Bear Lake stake. 