Afternoon
09 10 1904



ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

The Youthful not ashani d of the Gospel— The p« ople pr.ig.essiag— Dcvoiiou of the Leaders of the Cnurch. 

The sensation that one feels in standing before such hosts of Israel for the purpose of addressing them cannot be described — it can only be felt. It is quite overwhelming, I can assure you. I would like to impress upon those present the fact that the acoustic properties of this Tabernacle are wonderful. The building is of renown the world over  these properties. Therefore, you must remember that each whisper, each movement of the body, or the shuffling of the feet of any person in the congregation will be reverberated and' echoed throughout the building; and when these sounds are multiplied, then there is noise and confusion in the whole house. In order for any speaker's voice to carry into all parts of this Tabernacle and penetrate the ears of the congregation, all present must re^ main as quiet as they possibly can. There are probably between ten or twelve thousand people here this afternoon, and I presume all have come for the purpose of worshiping God in spirit and in truth, and with a desire to hear all that may be said by those who shall address you. This is my condition, and I rejoice greatly that so many of the Saints evidently have the same spirit and the same desire to hear the word of the Lord from His servants. It causes me to praise God when I see the Saints so anxious to hear that they willingly stand through a long meeting, if unable to find seats, for the purpose of enjoying the spirit of the conference. 

The statement has been repeated here which was made by some of our friends (?) that there are many of the younger Latter-day Saints who are becoming ashamed of the Gospel. Now, I venture to say that there is not one individual here today who is a member of the Church of all the ten or twelve thousand present, who is ashamed of the Gospel. And if there are any such anywhere, then, of course, we know that they themselves are at fault, that their lives do not conform with the principles of the Gospel, that the Spirit of the Lord has reproved them, and that they are so weak in character that they are unable to repent and reform and place themselves in harmony with the spirit of the Gospel. 

My labors have been among the Latter-day Saints, and during the last six months I have visited quite a number of the Stakes of Zion, being in attendance at a Stake conference upon each Sabbath day. consequently I have GENERAL. CONFERENCE.  in that time nearly half of the Stakes of Zion. I can testify to these friends of ours, and to all the Saints, that I found in each of the Stakes I have visited the same anxiety among the members of the Church to attend their Stake conferences as we see maifest here today at the semi-annual conference of the Church. It has been our experience to see all the meeting houses crowded to the doors, and every available space occupied by young and old who were desirous to hear what might be said. I am convinced that there is a general improvement all along the line among the people. We are not at a standstill, neither at home nor abroad. It is quite impossible that the Church of Jesus Christ should ever come to a stand still. The fact that one of our mission presidents may from time to time report fewer baptisms than usual is no evidence whatever that the Church is at a standstill. Many are called, but few are chosen. While the baptisms in one mission-field or another may be few, nevertheless the Elders laboring there are actively engaged in bearing their testimonies to thousands and tens of thousands of people, and this is by far the greater part of the mission of the Elders who are in the world declaring the truth. This Gospel shall be preached in all the world as a witness before the end shall come, and if these servants of God are standing on the street corners in the various cities, and traveling along the highways and byways of the villages and towns, raising their voices in proclamation of the truth, as well as bearing testimony in the homes of the people. I say to you that the work of God is going on rapidly in the earth, and we are speeding toward the ultimate consummation of all God's purposes concerning this great work of the latterday. The Saints have every reason to be wonderfully encouraged. Faith is increasing. Faithfulness to duty and in keeping Ihe commanlrrents of God and in listening to the counsels of the authorities of the Church is becoming  and more apparent, and rapid advancement and progress on the path of righteousness is certainly manifest to any individual who will pause for a moment and acquaint himself with the conditions that exist among the Latter-day Saints. 

We have in our midst as leaders, men of God, men of fried integrity, men of pure devotion, who live among us wholly that they may do the will of the Lord, and that they may bear the burden which has been laid upon them of being preachers of righteousness and exemplars among the people. They are performing their duty as the Lord gives them light. The saints are becoming better and stronger day by day. The power of God is being manifest among us more and more as time rolls on. We ought to be encouraged in these men whom the Lord hath called to lead us in these days, as we have been encouraged in the men who have held these leading positions since the restoration of the Gospel in our age. If you will take the trouble to read their history and to study their lives, and then compare their lives and conduct with the lives and conduct of the ancient Prophets and Apostles, you will find that the comparison will be to the disadvantage of the Prophets and Apostles who lived in former days, if disadvantage may be found at all. The idea that the Prophets of old were anything more than men is a mistake. Many people look upon them as being something supernatural, nevertheless they were menmen, as Paul expresses it, of like passions unto ourselves. The Lord took them, and clothed them with His Spirit and power, and while in the main they served God and performed the mission that He gave them, yet they sometimes made mistakes. I presume it would be considered blasphemy by those who are not of us, to compare the latter-day leaders of the Church with the former-day leaders of the Church. But I look upon the Prophet Joseph Smith as the equal of any Prophet that has ever lived. I look upon him as being as highly favored  God as any man ever was. I look upon him as a man who accomplished as successfully the great mission the Lord gave him to perform, as any other man ever accomplished a mission in the world. I look upon President Brigham Young, the successor of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as being as great a leader among men as ever led men in the history of the world. He was as great as was Moses, and performed as great a work; for he performed successfully all that God called upon him to do. Furthermore, in all his life, he never showed the weaknesses that Moses showed while leading the children of Israel. We might go on, if time would permit, and consider the patriarchs. Some of the patriarchs were mentioned this morning, and I want to say to you that J look upon the Patriarch Joseph Smith, father of the Prophet Joseph, as being as great a patriarch, as highly favored of God, as sincere, as devoted, and as pure in his life as either of the Patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and besides, he never resorted to the sharp practice in his dealings with his fellow men that characterized some of these other patriarchs in their dealings. Let us consider the missionary work that has been done by this Church. Paul the Apostle is looked upon as being the greatest missionary of primitive times. While he traveled a great deal in the world as it was then known, — which, when compared with the world as known today, was small indeed, — compared with his labors the labors of many of the servants of God of latter-days who have carried the Gospel to Great Britain and to Scandinavia, and in the United States and the isles of the sea who have traversed many more miles than Paul ever did, have preached the Gospel to many thousands more people than Paul ever did, have led the way to the conversion of tens of thousands more people than Paul ever did, and who laid their lives down for the cause as Paul did. I would not disparage his work, but merely draw your attention to the  that these men of latter-days have worked as hard, as sincerely, and have accomplished as much as did they of old, and the power of God has been made manifest with them to just as great an extent as was ever manifest to Paul or any of his fellow apostles. I look upon the Presidencies of the Church who have succeeded -the Prophet Joseph Smith as being the equal of Peter, James and John. While Peter, James and John were as good perhaps as men could be, nevertheless men who have lived in this day and who do live are as good as they were. I believe, however, our men of today have had a little advantage over those men of old, as they live in a dispensation of greater fullness of the Gospel. They ought to be good men, and they are good men. They are what they ought to be; and you, my brethren and sisters, will only do right in sustaining and upholding them, in praying for them in your homes, and in doing all in your power to raise them in the eyes of the Latter-day Saints and in the eyes of all the world, as men of God, endowed by Him to perform the work of the Gospel in the latter days. 

The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters: I testify to you that the words of testimony which have been borne by the servants of God here during this conference' have been inspired of the Lord, and they are true. Like them, I am thankful to say that I know this is the work of the Lord, and that it will go on and triumph; that it cannot be stopped, neither will it ever stand still, until the righteousness of God shall prevail and the Kingdom of God be es«tablished in its fullness. God grant that you may have the same testimony,"'as I am convinced the great majority of those present have. And is it not a grand thing? Is it not a light to our feet? Will it not ever guide us onward and upward until we merit and receive ralvation in the Kingdom of God? May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints in all the world, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER GEORGE A. SMITH. 

Operations of the Spirit of truth -No need to be Ashamed of "Utah and the Mormons." 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that during the few moments I stand before you I may be inspired by our heavenly Father to give utterance to those words of instruction or admonition that He would have me give you, occupying the position that I do. I have enjoyed the testimonies that have been borne. It has been meat and drink to me to mingle with my brothers and sisters in this semi-annual conference and to partake of the Spirit of the Father that has characterized the meetings. I sense the responsibility that rests upon the presiding authorities of the Church, when I look into the eager, upturned faces of the thousands assembled in this building and realize that you are but representatives of tens of thousands, yea, of hundreds of thousands, desirous of knowing the mind and will of our Father. We realize that the words uttered from this pulpit by those who are designated to speak to you are carried home to many who are unable, by reason of circumstances over which they have no control, to assemble with us. I have enjoyed more than I can tell the testimonies of our brethren, that wherever they have gone the Spirit of our Father has been there in abundance. It is a strength to me to know that the brethren in California find the influence of the Lord there; that from the Eastern States comes the testimony that the s^me Spirit is there also; that the testimony of the president of the Southern States mission is that our heavenly Father pours out His blessings upon them there, and that from every Stake of Zion, and from every mission field which has been represented here, the same good word comes, that they have received the benediction of the Almighty upon their labors. 

When I heard one of the brethren make the statement that one of our sisters (and I desire to emphasize that  was a sister, though not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints) had said that the young and rising generation were ashamed of Utah and the "Mormons," I felt constrained to ask the question, And for what reason? Even allowing that it were possible to find within the borders of this great state, son or daughter of the patriotic, noble men and women, who have reared this commonwealth, who is ashamed of the labors performed by those whom our Father has honored —I say, granting that some such may be found; for what are they ashamed? Is it because in early days men and women imbued with a desire to worship God according to the dictates of their consciences bade farewell to father, mother, and loved ones, denied themselves home comforts and the blessings of social life, and turned their faces westward into this great wilderness, to take up their abode with the wild beasts and the still more savage redman? Is it because the spirit that characterized Israel when Moses led them out of bondage filled the hearts of the early pioneers to this western land? Is it because men and women, imbued with a testimony of the divinity of this work felt that they could leave the comforts they had enjoyed from childhood and partake of the privation of pioneer life, and that they could afford to accept the reproach of parents and loved ones in many cases, and have their names cast out as evil, in order that they might worship their heavenly Father in spirit and in truth? Is it because these brave men and women, struggling with privation and want, marked their pathway across the great plains by the bloody prints of their lacerated feet, in the frozen snow, or because when they came down out of the canyon to the east of us, looked on the valley of the Great Salt Lake, and saw the sun's rays scintillating upon the western sea and the barren soil of the desert cracked open in great seams under the burning heat of summer, and they said, "We are outcasts from the place which should have been our home, but God being our helper.  will rear a commonwealth here, and raise sons and daughters that shall give glory to His name?" Is it because where not one blade of grass grew before, there are luxuriant fields of green today? Is it because where only the shadscab, sagebrush and greasewood covered the land, that today we have beautiful farms and gardens, the sustenance of thousands of our Father's happy children? Is it because the men and women whose lives have been dedicated to the service of our Father have passed away with their faith still strong, and have left their dying testimony with their sons and daughters that they know this is the work of the Master? Is it because tne wilderness has been made to blossom as the rose? Is it because the proportion of convicts and those who disobey the law of the land is less in Utah than in any other place in the wide world? Is it because the proportion of children in the schools is greater to the number of inhabitants than in any other state or territory of our great Union? Is it because there are more boys and girls who can stand upon their feet in the presence of a congregation, and bear their testimony to the divinity of the work of our Father than can be found among any like number of people anywhere else? Is it because there is a greater amount of virtue, kindness, and loving, tender care manifest in the homes of the Latter-day Saints than can be found in most places on our Father's footstool? Is it because today we are considered a peculiar people? Is it because we believe that Jesus is the Christ? Is it because we believe the Old and New Testament to be the revealed word of our Heavenly Father? Is it because boys and girls who go from these grand mountains to the colleges of the east, almost without exception, return covered with honor? Is it because of the success they have attained in their ministry? Is it because we have from fifteen hundred to two thousand men who have left their fathers and mothers, their wives and children, have turned their backs upon the comforts of this life, and gone  into the world to testify that Jesus was indeed the Christ, and to depend for their daily bread upon the kindness of the people? Is it because these sons and, in some cases, these daughters have the courage, in face of the opposition of the world, to testify that they know that Jesus is the Christ and that the Gospel He has given to the earth is the power of God unto salvation? Is it because all over our broad land there are happy homes, and sons and daughters who have been reared to respect and honor the great ones of our nation, and the men our Father has raised up to guide the destinies of His people in the day and age in which we live? I say, is it for these things that anyone should be ashamed of Utah? No place upon our Father's footstool will you go today where you will find more patriotic, home-loving, God-fearing people in proportion to the inhabitants than you will find among the valleys of these everlasting hills. We have been taught to honor our fathers and our mothers. We have been taught to keep the commandments given by the creator to Moses on Mount Sinai. We have been taught to uphold the government of the great country in which we live. And Utah's sons have already brought honor and glory to this state by their valor and patriotism in the Philippines. We have been taught that the Constitution of the United States was inspired of Almighty God, and that it is the duty of every boy and every girl of "Mormon" birth to uphold and- sustain it, if need be, with life itself. We have been taught that this great country of America is th»* promised land, and that here our Father has given an opportunity for His children to worship Him according to the dictates of their consciences. We have been taught to love our enemies, and to pray for those who despitefully use us and speak evil of us. We have been taught that it is our mission in the world to preach Christ and Him crucified, and to teach the same Gospel that He gave to the world when He ministered among the children of men. I say, instead of being ashamed of Utah and "Mormonism," any boy or girl who will examine the splendid record of the people of this State will be grateful for it, and they will be able to hold up their heads and say, "I am proud of the country whence I came," and I do not believe there are many who would be recreant. I do not believe, with fathers and mothers such as I see before me today, that their children would give voice to such a sentiment as that, but I do believe that with a knowledge of the character of the teachings of the Church of ♦Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints, one could not have such a feeling. And I take it for granted that the sentiment so expressed was a wish that was father to the thought. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to be numbered with you. Our Father has given us a great mission among the children of men. And while our brothers and sisters of other faiths are doing, in most cases, what they believe to be right and proper, the Creator has given us a special calling, and He has admonished us to perform that duty with kindness, love and charity. When you are reviled, do not revile again. When others speak evil of you, pity them, and pray for them. Remember the example of the Divine Master, who, when suspended upon the cruel tree, said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." The efforts of your missionary sons and daughters who are scattered in the world today are characterized by that spirit. They are finding the honest in heart wherever they go. The Gospel is being preached to the poor, as the Master said it would be, and hundreds and thousands of His children have been brought to understand the teachings that have been given to the earth in the day and age In which we live. After we have performed our part by preaching the gospel to the children of men, if we have done it painstakingly and carefully and been exemplary our duty has been done, and the result is in the hands of the Master. "Paul may plant, and Apollos may water, but it is God that givoth the increase.' No matter how gift we may be, or how choice our language, it is the Spirit of our Father that reaches the heart and brings conviction of the divinity of this work. 

I am one of the sons who is proud of Utah, whose ancestors have given to this land examples of noble manhood and womanhood, whose lives have been dedicated to the blessing of their fellow creatures. I rejoice in my lineage and in that I am considered worthy to be one, even of the humblest in Israel. I pray that the Spirit of the Redeemer may burn in our hearts, that our children may never prove recreant to the great opportunity our Father has given them, but day by day, as they give evidence in their lives of the purity of their home teachings and chastity of their natures, the beauty of the Gospel will be more appreciated by our fellow men. Oh! that we might be able to give mankind an understanding of our feelings, that they might realize that we do not desire to curtail their opportunities, but that they might feel that our hearts reach out to them in love and kindness, not with any desire to hurt. Our mission in the world is to save souls, to bless them, and to place them in a condition that they may go back into the presence of our Father, crowned with glory, immortality and eternal life. If they do not understand it in this world, we have the witness from our Father that they will understand it in the life to come. Let us day by day so minister in the flesh that men seeing our good works, may glorify our Father which is in heaven, that when our life shall go out it may be said of us that the world is better for our having lived in it. Let the kindness, joy and peace that characterizes our efforts be a blessing to our Father's children wherever it may be our privilege to roam, so that when we go to the other side it may be said to us by Him who rules and reigns on high, "Well done, good and faithful servant." I testify to you that this is the work of our Father, and it will roll forth until He comes again in the clouds of heaven, when He shall direct whose right It is to rule and reign. Then those who  not understood this work will understand it, and, thanks be to the testimony that we have received, they may yet have an opportunity to partake of the blessings our Father has in store for His children. 

That the influence of this conference may be disseminated throughout Israel and the world, and that the Spirit of love and peace may be with all our Father's children, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER C. W. PENROSE. 

Praise for the Worthy— The voice of the true Snepherd— Terms of Mission work— Righteousness the strength of the Saints— Their Special Mission— Testimony of the TruthTreatment of Enemies. 

My brethren and sisters, as this building is overflowing at this time with the sons and daughters of the Lord anxious to hear His word and to worship before Him in the beauty of holiness, so my soul today is overflowing with gratitude to our Heavenly Father and with joy and thanksgiving that I have the privilege of assembling with this vast congregation to take part in the exercises of this conference. I have no language to express the feelings that well up in my heart today. When I look upon this congregation of Latter-day Saints and realize how many they represent in the various parts of the Church, in this and other lands, I am led to exclaim like one when the electric telegraph was first thoroughly understood and utilized, "What hath God wrought!" This is the work of God, it is true, the Lord has had to call to His aid on earth many of His sons and daughters to assist in the establishment of the latter-day kingdom, and that He now has on Mount Zion many who will be saviors of men. Yet the kingdom is the Lord's, the work is His, and to Him be the praise and the glory. However, I would not detract in the least from the praise that is due to the faithful laborers in this cause. I can join heartily in our popular hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah: Jesus anointed that prophet and seer." It is right to give words of praise and to recognize the labors of the faithful servants of God  have lived for the truth and died in its defense, and also to express our faith in the men who have succeeded the Prophet as the leaders of Israel in the latter days. And I do not believe that any man who ever stood at the head of the Church had more of the love, faith, confidence, prayers and support of the Latter-day Saints than our present leader, President Joseph F. Smith, who is of the blood of the prophets, as well as being imbued with the spirit of his calling. I believe that' the Latter-day Saints have full confidence in him as the leader of the Church, and his Counselors, and in the men who are associated intimately with him in carrying on this great latter-day work. 

I have enjoyed every meeting of this conference. I have watched carefully the remarks that have been made by those who have spoken, and I can bear testimony to their truth, and in them I recognize the voice of the Lord. When Jesus was on earth He declared Himself to be "the good shepherd," and He said: "My sheep hear my voice, and they follow me; and a stranger they will not follow, because they know not the voice of a stranger." I hope that the sheep of Israel who are here today, and those whom they represent, are able to distinguish between the voice of the good shepherd and the voice of the stranger, and that they will never be led aside from the path in which they should walk, but that they will keep their eye upon the prize of the mark of their high calling in Christ Jesus, and press forward on the strait and the narrow way that leadeth unto eternal lives, and that they will not be turned to the right_hand nor to the left by the voice of the stranger. We have heard from several of our brethren. The tones of their voices, their complexions, their stature, their physical development, their intellectual powers, are all different; but the one voice has been heard through this conference, and that is the voice of the Lord, the voice of the good shepherd, through His agents whom He has appointed to carry on His work in these latter times. That voice has found an echo in my heart. I rejoice in it and praise the Lord. When I look back upon my past life and labors in this Church and behold what I do today, I say in my soul, Blessed and praised be the name of the Lord! 

While our brethren were talking this morning in regard to the terms and times of missionary labor, I thought of my first missionary labors in the old world. More than fifty-three years ago I was called to go out, as a boy, to lift up my voice and proclaim the truth of the everlasting Gospel; for God had planted that truth in my soul and had given me a witness that this is His work. The Spirit of the Lord had borne testimony to my spirit that God had in very deed, in the last days, commenced the work spoken of by all the holy prophets since the world began, and that Joseph Smith, whom he had raised up, was indeed a prophet of the ilving God. I went out and labored as a missionary in different parts of Great Britain, and the Lord was with me, and His power was upon me. I did not think about laboring for a year, or two years, or three years, but to labor until I was released; and my labors went on from year to year until I had been in the ministry incessantly for over ten yea'rs before I was privileged to be released and come here to the mountains to rejoice with the saints in the blessings of the gospel of peace. When I was sent on a mission again to the old world, I was gone three years and a half, and there was a talk about my staying another year. When I went again, I did not stay there quite a year. So there is no particular term for a mission. The brethren and sisters should not feel that the presidents of missions are under obligations to release their sons or their daughters when two years have elapsed from the time they leave home. 

The missionaries in the world are imbued with this spirit that I have been talking about, and they bear with them the same voice. It has what we call the proper "ring" to it. We could  describe it exactly in words, but there is something about the preaching of the gospel by the Elders of Israel, something about the testimony that is borne by the servants and handmaidens of the Lord, something about their praying, their singing, their harmony, their melody, the glorious music which comes from them, whether by choirs or by single voices — something inexplicable, there is a tone and a ring to it that enters into our souls, and there is something within us that harmonizes with it. It is the voice of the Good Shepheard, Jesus of Nazareth, the Savior of the world, who has come in these last days, in company with the Eternal Father, to establish the kingdom and work of the latter times. His voice has been heard in reality; His voice is ringing in the testimony of His servants, and the spirit which He brought with Him from on high is here in His Church, and it will remain and abide and continue. The power, the light, and the glory thereof will go forth to the uttermost parts of the earth, and the honest and upright in heart will be attracted thereby, and when they hear the sound of the gospel there will be something within them that will correspond to it, and thev will embrace it. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has brought us into these mountain heights. What for? That we may organize perfectly according to the pattern which He has revealed. The first meeting of this conference brought forth a clear exposition of the order of the Church. When President Smith was declaring it I reioiced exceedingly in knowing that it was an evidence that God laid the foundation of this work, and that the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is something beyond human wisdom. It was the power of God by which this organization was given to mankind, and if we will onW carry out the designs of the Lord, it will go forth steadily to victory. No weapon that is formed against it  prevail, no obstacle placed in its way will retard its progress. But we are expected to do our part in this great organization that God has set up, that it may accomplish the work for which it is designed. The Lord has promised to us that if we will do His will and keep His commandments He will fight our battles. We are not called upon to use carnal weapons; we are called upon to clothe ourselves with the armor of salvation, to carry the sword of truth, to labor as the soldiers of Christ, not with carnal weapons or with the power of this world, bvt with light and truth and with the power of the Almighty, with which He will encircle us and by which we will overcome. 

I want to say to my young friends here today that their strength and the strength of this work will be in their virtue, in their honesty, in their upright course of conduct in this life. The gospel that we have received is a gospel of libertv. but not of licence. There is nobody in bondage in this church. We are at perfect liberty to do that which we desire to do, so far as we have power. But we are not permitted, if we are saints of the living God, to go into corruption and wickedness and into the evils of this world. True, we have the power, but the Lord has given us commandments concerning these things, and He expects us to be a righteous people. Not but what we are subject to the frailties of humanity and to the ills of mortal flesh; but we are called out of the world to be the saints of the living God, and the Lord has said in the latter days, as in times of old, "Be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord." The Lord expects the young men of Israel to be pure and virtuous in their conduct, just as much as he requires it of the daughters of Israel. Let that be understood. In the world, if a woman goes wrong she falls almost to rise no more; but the man can steep himself in wickedness and corruption and fall into vice and folly, and he can be welcomed into . That is not according to the gospel of Christ. It is not according to what people call "Mormonism." The Lord expects men to be pure as well as women, and He has brought us into these mountains that we may raise up a holy generation, a peculiar people, a nation of priests, who will afterwards, some time in eternity, be kings as well as priests, ruling and reigning in the house of Israel forever. As I have said, the strength of this people is in their comparative purity, in their righteousness, in their sincerity. They are not a set of hypocrites. 

The servants of God do not preach for hire; they do not divine for money; but they labor for the good of mankind, and they have in their hearts a desire for the salvation of the souls of men. For this our Elders go out into the world; for this the servants of God labor at home; and I know as I know that I live that the men who stand at the head of affairs here are honorable, upright, virtuous, kind-hearted, loving men, and that their sole desire is to build up the kingdom in righteousness and to bless the people by disseminating light and truth, giving counsel that is' wise and wholesome, correcting evils when they find them, and watching carefully over the interests of the Saints of God. Now, my brethren and sisters, we will sustain them by our faith and prayers and by carrying out their counsels. This kingdom is sure to prevail; there is no question about that; and if you and I want to prevail with it we must live according to the principles that the Lord has revealed for our guidance. We must be His Saints in very deed. We must keep His commandments, purify our lives, and live as Saints, not merely in meeting and in our public gatherings, but in the home, on the farm, in the workshop. Wherever we are we must remember that we are called of God to be Saints; that He has called us out of the world for this special work. As we have been told in this conference, we have a mission to perform, and it is not simply to gather around us the good things of this world. That is all right as far as it goes. No matter how much we can get on righteous principles, the .Lord is pleased with us, and some day He will make this people the richest in temporal things of all the peoples of the earth. But we have been called with this special mission, to carry the Gospel of Christ to every nation, kindred, tongue and people; and if we cannot go out ourselves, we can send our sons and daughters and sustain those that can go. We can also help those that are gathered home. When they come into our midst, look after them; see that they are not allowed to fall into the ways of the stranger, or to be led astray by those who would seek to deceive them; but guide their footsteps in the path of peace. 

While we live we have this mission to perforin, and when we depart hence and go beyond the veil, we will be just the same people, — having merely dropped off the outer covering of the flesh — and our labors will be continued there. The Gospel will not only be preached to every creature on the earth, but to every son and daughter of Adam who has dwelt in the flesh and passed away into the other world without hearing the truth. For God's tender mercies are "over all His works," and we are all His children, and He loves us and desires our salvation. But He knows that that cannot be accomplished unless we walk in the ways of salvation, and an opportunity to receive His word will be given to every soul that has breathed the breath of life in the body, either here on earth or in the regions beyond. I rejoice in the knowledge of this great truth — only one out of many truths that have been brought forth through the ministration of the latter-day Prophet. I rejoice in the knowledge that the Gospel of peace will come to every creature. 

1 bear you my testimony that I know as I know that I live, and have known it for over fifty-four years, that this is the work of God. I bear testimony before the heavens and the earth that God in the last days has established the work spoken of by the ancient prophets;  the truth has been revealed in its purity; that it will go on until the fullness thereof has been made known from the heavens; that the spirit of revelation from on high has been poured out; that the holy Priesthood, held by men of old, has been restored in the latter days, and that it is here now and will never be taken again from the earth. When God commenced this work, as He stated. He sent the authority and power of the holy apostleship "for the last days and for the last time," and He will not take it away again nor give it to another people. This is His work, His Church, the beginning of His Kingdom on the earth, and it will go forth to victory. Zion is being built up in the way that the Lord has appointed, and the work of salvation is going on for the living and for the dead. The Lord said we were not to be afraid of our enemies, and we are not to be ashamed of His work, for He will take care of it. I rejoice before the Lord that I am in Zion. I am reminded of the sayings of Isaiah the Prophet concerning the Zion of the latter days: "Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people; but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of they rising. Lift up thine eyes round about; and see: all they gather themselves together, they come to thee; thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side." 

Every word spoken by the Prophets of old and' by the Prophets of latter times concerning this great work wiil be fulfilled. I know it will prevail. It cannot be overcome. I echo the sentiments of my brethren and say: Treat our friends who appear to be our enemies with kindness, with charity and with brotherly love. Let us not get angry with them. Sometimes that spirit naturally arises in our hearts, and we feel it is all very well to say, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do;" but how about those who do  what they do? How about those who willfully, intentionally and maliciously malign our brethren, distort the truth, and seek to bring trouble and injury upon the Latter-day Saints? What about them? Just leave them in the hands of the Lord, and do not allow irritation to arise in your breasts for that is what they desire, but let us in patience possess our souls, as Christ commanded. In the tribulations of the latter days, when all men should speak evil concerning His people; when they should revile them and persecute them, and say all manner of evil against them falsely, for His name's sake; "rejoice," said He, "and he exceeding glad, for so persecuted they the Prophets which were before you," and "in patience possess ye your souls." 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us continue in this good work. Let us be proud of the things that God has given unto us, proud of our homes, proud of our State, proud of our glorious country, and of the Constitution of the United States, which God inspired His servants to bring forth, to establish liberty, that every soul might have an opportunity of worshiping God according to the dictates of his conscience, and that perfect liberty might prevail throughout this loved land. Let us rejoice in these things, and thank and praise the name of the Lord, and show our gratitude to Him by walking in the straight way, turning neither to the right nor to the left, but pressing onward, that we may receive the crown of eternal lives in the presence of our Father. May God help us individually to conquer and overcome, that we may sit down with Him in His kingdom, as Christ overcame and sat down upon the Father's throne. Peace and the blessings of God abide with all Israel, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir then sang an anthem, "God of Israel hear our prayer," with borthers Robinson and Phillips and sisters Edward and Cooper as soloists, the disciple whom Jesus loved — came 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 

If from a distance you look upon the dial of a clock, you may know that the  are moving, but you cannot see them move. You may look upon the grass, upon the trees, and upon other fcrms of vegetation, and you may know that the grass and the trees and the other vegetation are growing; but you cannot see the minute additions made to them by which they grow. And so it is in relation to a work of the character of this work in which we are engaged, and which the world calls Morrronism— a work that has grown to its present proportions little by little; whose doctrines have developed precept by precept, here a little and there a little, line upon line. Its growth has been so gradual, the development of its doctrines so slow, that men, looking upon it casually, or from a distance may not possiblj- be able to discern its growth. After the lapse of time, however, we may see that the hand upon the dial has moved some distance; that the grass has increased several inches, and that the trees have grown several feet taller and several inches larger in diameter. So also, by looking upon "Mormonism" after the -lapse of considerable time, I think we may gather very much of encouragement from the amount of growth discernable in it. 

If you count thel sending of the prophet of this last dispensation to the earth as the beginning of God's great latter da3 r work, we shall have nearly a, century in which to consider its growth; for on the twenty-third of next December it will lack but one year of being a century since the Prophet Joseph Smith was born. At about fifteen, you remember, in response to his beautiful faith in God, he received his first great revelation, in which he beheld the Father and the Son as they communicated to him the great truth that they were about to begin a great and marvelous work in the earth that should prepare the way for the glorious coming of the Son of God in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, to reign with his Saints in the earth not or.ly as Lord of lords, but also as King of kings. A few years later the knowledge was revealed of the American volume of scripture — the Book of Morrnon— an abridged history of the ancient irhabitants of thi~ western world, and containing- an account of the hand dealings of God with them. "While it was in course of translation, John the Baptist, a resurrected man, an angel of God, came to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as was most fitting, to instruct them in the matter of repentance and baptism. I say as was most fitting with reference to John's coming and instruction because the information these men, Joseph and Oliver, were seeking was about baptism; and who among all the heavenly hosts was so competent to tt ach men on that subject as he who by way of pre-eminence in his earth career was called the Baptist — John, the Baptizer. Upon them, that is upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, he conferred what is known to us as the lesser Priesthood, and gave them the great promise that this Priesthood should never again be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi should offer an offering in righteousness to the Lord. He promised them also that soon still higher authority would be given them. Tn fulfillment of that promise three great Apostles of the Christian dispensation — Peter, James, and John, the disciple whom Jesus loved — came and conferred upon the heads of these men, Joseph and Oliver, the holy Apostleship, the High Priesthood, by virtue of which they were authorized to organize the Church of Christ once more in the earth, and preach the Gospel in all the world. "Under the keys of this authority and power, on the sixth day of April, 1S30, they organized the Church with six members, in the humble log home of the Whitmers, in Fayette, Seneca county, New York. Shortly afterwards they began to extend their ministry in the surrounding neighborhoods, baptising the people and confirming them members of the Church. 

Side by side with this early development of the work of God, there was also developed a spirit of opposition and persecution against it. Wherever the work spread, the spirit of opposition accompanied it. But notwith the efforts of the) adversary, it prospered and grew; for there was the germ of life in the seeds planted by the hand of God and His angels. 

In a short time the Zion of God, or the center place for the Zion of God upon this American continent, was pointed out and dedicated unto the Lord. The land of America was declared to be, not the new world, but the old— the land where Adam, the Ancient of Days, dwelt, and where the smoke of his burnt sacrifices to God rose from the altar which he reared in the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman; located in the northern part of th,e State of Missouri. The further declaration was also made that that was the place to which finally the Ancient of Days would return, and nations should be assembled, and our father Adam, not bowed and bent with age, but in the full vigor of an immortal manhood, would gather together the hosts of his posterity, and would come there to bless them, while the heavens would open and one like unto the Son of God should come, and there should be given unto him a kingdom, and power, and the dominion of the earth, and the Saints should possess the kingdom forever and forever. (See Daniel, vii.) 

These were a few of the things revealed in the early history of this Church. These were the foundation stones upon which your faith and my faith today is resting. This was the beginning of the great building whose Builder and Maker is God — the structure the world may see rising ever higher and higher before the world's gaze. 

After a time other great truths were unfolded. Moses came and conferred upon the Prophet the keys of the gathering of Israel; Elias who lived in the days of Abraham, came and conferred upon him the keys of the sealing power; Elijah also came — Elijah of whom it was decreed that before the great, and dreadful day of the Lord should come, he should be sent to earth to perform a mission, the effect of which would be to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers  the children, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse at Messiah's coming: and from thence comes the great principle which makes us understand the meaning of that term, "the everlasting gospel" — one that endures not alone in time, but in eternity; one whose saving power is not limited to the brief span of mortal life as known to us, but a gospel that shall endure as long as the ages endure, carrying with it, too, all those great powers that make for the salvation of the children of men. 

And so step by step, step by step, line upon line, precept upon precept, these principles have been revealed, and they have been operating, and have brought to pass that which men may see this day. This is th* dispensation of the fullness of times, and we see running into it, as mighty streame rush into the ocean, all the former dispensations, putting us in touch with them, putting them in touch with us; and we see that God has had but on ' great purpose in view from the beginning, and that has been the salvation of His children. And now has come the final day, the final dispensation, when truth and light and righteousness must flood the earth. 

This work in which we are engaged is not a mere skirmish with error. It is not a battle of the outposts. It is not an occasion where a more or less brilliant mind has seized upon and developed some fragments or truth, and made them honorable for a moment in the eyes of men, but soon to be lost sight of — to be forgotten with the death of him who advocated them. Our work is not a mere guerilla warfare taken up against error and sin, and against the spiritual bondage of mankind. It is God's heavenly army of peace and of righteousness in the earth with all its companies battalions and divisions properly organized. Its movements remind one of the marching of the old Roman legions. It is God's spiritual kingdom, which is going to remain and prevail in the earth. And I love to think that when the nations shall assemble in the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and when the Ancient of Days  sit in honor and glory, when the Son of Man shall come in the clouds of heaven, accompanied by His Saints, there shall be one among them who afore time was known to this generation, the Prophet Joseph Smith. He will be there, glorious among the mighty ones; honored among the Gods. In the very land where he was driven to and fro by his enemies there shall he triumph, there shall he stand a prince among his people, a prophet among the anointed of God, and the nations shall sing, as we sing now: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah; 

Jesus anointed "that Prophet and Seer." 

Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Hail to the Prophet .ascended to heaven; 

Traitors and tyrants now fight him in vain; 

Mingling with Gods he can plan for his brethren; 

Death cannot conquer that hero again. 

This great work of ours — and of God's — for it is both His and ours — this work is the truth. And will it win? Why of course it will win. "For truth is truth, since God is God. and truth at the last must win. To doubt it were disloyalty; to falter would be sin." 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

The General Authorities of the Church were presented to the conference, by President Smith, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and R^velator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as president of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant. John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Matthias F. Cowley, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith and Charles W. Penrose. 

John Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the presiding Fatriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First seven presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Christian D. Fjeldste-d. Brig-ham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin. 

William B. Preston, as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and general Church recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Orson F. Whitney, A. Milton Musser and Brigham H. Roberts, assistant historians. 

As members of the General Church board of education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Joseph M. Tanner, John R. Winder and Charles W. Penrose. 

Arthur Winter, secretary and treasurer. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

RELIEF SOCIETY. 

General Officers— Bathsheba W. B. Smith, general president, Annie Taylor Hyde, first counselor; Ida Smoot Dusenberry, second counselor; Emmeline B. Wells, general secretary; Clarissa Smith Williams, general treasurer. 

Members Board of Directors, or General Board— Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon, M. Isabella Home, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Martha A. Cannon, Emma S. Woodruff, Julia L. Smith, Ernily S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipn, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Phebe Young Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Mer Home. Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jennings, Margaret A. Caine. 

Missionaries — Harriet A. T. Badger, Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary A. C. Lambert, Mary T. Smith, Rebecca E. Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Harriet B. Harker, Friscilla Smith. 

Superintendent of Relief Society Nurses — Emma A. Empey. 

Instructor — Dr. Margaret C. Roberts. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; George Reynolds, first assistant general superintendent; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant general superintendent. 

Members of the Board — Joseph F. Smith, George Reynolds, Joseph M. Tanner, Joseph W. Summerhays, Devi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, George Teasdale, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John W. Taylor, L. John Nuttall, James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund, John R. Winder. James E. Talmage, George M. Cannon. Horace Cummings, Josiah Burrows, YV. A. Morton. 

George D. Pyper, general secretary; George Reynolds, general treasurer; William A. Morton, business manager. 

Y. M. M. I. A. 

General Officers — Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; Heber J. Grant, B. H. Roberts, assistants; Thomas Hull, secretary and treasurer; Evan Stephens, music director; Horace S. Ensign, asst. music director. 

Aids — Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Matthias F. Cowley. J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy. Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor. Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Briant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Henry S. Tanner, Hyrum M. Smith, William B. Dougall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., O. C. 

Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Philip S. Maycock, Benjamin. Goddard, George 

A. Smith. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Officers — Elmina S. Taylor, president; Maria Y. Dougall, first counselor; Martha H. Tingey, second counselor; Ann M. Cannon, secretary; Agnes Campbell, assistant secretary; Mae T. Nystrom, treasurer. 

Aids— Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington. Agnes Campbell, Lillie 1". Freeze, Susa Young Gates, Minnie J. Snow, May B. Talmage, Joan Campbell, Emma N. Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Alice K. Smith, Elizabeth C. McCune, Ruth M. Fox, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle Neff, Nellie C. Taylor, Emily C, Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace. 

Alice Tuddenham, music director; Mattie Read, organist; Lizzie Thomas, assistant organist. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS. 

Members of the General Board — Louie 

B. Felt, president; Lillie T. Freeze, first counselor; Josephine R. West, second counselor; May .Anderson, secretary and treasurer; Olive D. Christensen, assistant secretary; Vera I. Felt, recording secretary; Margaret Hull, chorister; Norma Fenton, organist. 

Aids to the General Board — Aurelia S. Rogers, L. L. Greene Richards, Isabelle S. Ross, Camilla C. Cobb, Euphemia I. Burnham, Eliza Slade Bennion, Edna L. Smith, Josephine G. Smith, Ida B. Smith, Clara W. Beebe, Minnie Loveland Snow, Edna Harker, Lilian L. Maeser, Grace Folland, Allie Howarth, Annie N. Wallace. 

RELIGION CLASS BOARD. 

Anthon H. Lund, general superintendent: Rudger Clawson, first assistant; Joseph M. Tanner, second assistant; L. John Nuttall, general secretary. 

John M. Mills, Henry Peterson, Horace Cummings, Joseph W. Summerhays, Matthias F. Cowley, Hyrum M. Smith, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Louis A. Kelsch, John H. Evans. 

Board of Examiners of Church Schools— Joseph M. Tanner, Benj. Cluff, Jr., George H. Brimhall, Joshua H. Paul, James H. Linford. 

Joseph M. Tanner, general superintendent of Church schools. 

Evan Stephens as director of the Tabernacle choir; Geo. C. Smith, secretary; Sidney Phillips, treasurer; J. J. McClellan, organist, and all the members of the Tabernacle choir. 

The vote to sustain was affirmative throughout. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

It gives me pleasure to announce that, so far as my eye could detect, the voting has been unanimous in favor of sustaining the officers whose names have been presented before the conference. I now only need to express the hope that we will sustain by our faith and prayers, by our good works and words, and by our confidence and love, all these men and, women who are called tc officiate in these responsible positions in the Church, as we have sustained them this day by the lifting-up of our bands. 

May God help us to be united and strong for in union there is strength, and our strength will be made more and more manifest among men in proportion as we manifest our union and our love one for another, and for the children of men, and especially for the cause of Zion. God bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God bless good and honest men everywhere. May the blessing of peace rest upon our great nation. May the favor of the Lord accompany our people throughout the length and breadth of our broad land, and upon the islands or' the seas, where the benefits of our glorious government are being extended for the uplifting of the heathen ana for the civilization of nations which have for ages dwelt in barbarism and ignorance. May God bless those who bless our nation and our people, and may the mercies of our Heavenly Father be extended unto our enemies and those who would overthrow us and wipe us out of existence if it were in their power. May they repent that He may forgive them, open their eyes and soften their hearts, that they may foresee the pits into which they are hastening, and that they may turn away from their sins in time to receive the clemency and mercy of our all-forgiving Father, and be saved at last in His Kingdom. These are my prayers and my earnest desires in behalf of the people of God and of all the peoples of the earth, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER. 

It will be remembered that at our last conference a resolution was passed providing for a memorial to the martyred Prophet and Patriarch. The plans have been prepared and are now in the  of the trustee-in-trust, and the work will soon be commenced. We expect to have it completed and ready for dedication on the anniversary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Dec. 23, 1905. 

The choir sang the anthem "Hosannah!" 

Benediction was pronounced by John Smith, presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The conference adjourned for six months. 
